Document of
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Report No: 22154
IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
(41760; 41761)
ON A
LOAN
IN THE AMOUNT OF US$350 MILLION EQUIVALENT
(US$280,000 + DEM 117.5 MILLION)
TO
ROMANIA
FOR AN
AGRICULTURAL SECTOR ADJUSTMENT LOAN
June 29, 2001
ECSSD
EUROPE AND CENTRAL ASIA
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of their
I official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
(Exchange Rate Effective 6/29/2001)
Currency Unit = Leu
I Leu = US$ 0.0000343
US$ 1 = ROL 29,160
FISCAL YEAR
January 1-  -December 31
ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS
ANPA  - National Agricultural Products Company
ARIP - Agriculture Reform Implementation Project in
Turkey
ASAL - Agriculture Sector Adjustment Loan
CAS - Country Assistance Strategy
COM  - Council of Ministers
ECA  - Europe and Central Asia Region
ECSSD  - Environmentally and Socially Sustainable
_ Development Unit
EPC  - Effective Protection Coefficient
EU  - European Union
FESAL  - Financial Enterprise Sector Adjustment Loan
GOR  - Government of Romania
ICR  - Implementation Completion Report
IMF - International Monetary Fund
LSP - Letter of Sector Policy
MOAF - Ministry of Agriculture and Food
NPC  - Nominal Protection Coefficient
PSAL - Private Sector Adjustment Loan
PSR  - Project Supervision Report
QAG  - Quality Assurance Group
SAPARD  - Special Assessment Program for Agriculture and
Rural Development
SGR    Strategic Grain Reserves
SOF - State Ownership Fund
SPAL - Social Protection Loan
WTO  - World Trade Organisation
Vice President:   Johannes F. Linn
Country Director:   Andrew N. Vorkink
Sector Director-   Kevin M. Cleaver
I                   ~~~~~~~Task Team Leader:   Henry F. Gordon



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
ROMANIA: Agricultural Structural Adjustment Loan (ASAL)
Implementation Completion Report
CONTENTS
Page No.
1. Project Data                                                                         1
2. Principal Performance Ratings                                                        1
3. Assessment of Development Objective and Design, and of Quality at Entry              2
4. Achievement of Objective and Outputs                                                 7
5. Major Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcome                                  15
6. Sustainability                                                                      16
7. Bank and Borrower Performance                                                       17
8. Lessons Learned                                                                    23
9. Partner Comments                                                                   23
10. Additional Information                                                            27
Annex 1. Key Performance Indicators/Log Frame Matrix                                  28
Annex 2. Project Costs and Financing                                                  30
Annex 3. Economic Costs and Benefits                                                  31
Annex 4. Bank Inputs                                                                  32
Annex 5. Ratings for Achievement of Objectives/Outputs of Components                  34
Annex 6. Ratings of Bank and Borrower Performance                                     35
Annex 7. List of Supporting Documents                                                 36
Annex 8. Beneficiary Survey Results                                                   37
Annex 9. Stakeholder Workshop Results                                                 39
Annex 10. List of Attendees at Stakeholder Workshop                                   45
Annex 11. Results of Evaluation Questionnaire sent to Counterparts in Previous        47
Government
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the
performance of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without
World Bank authorization.






Project ID: P008795                                         Project Name: ROMANIA AGRICULTURE
SECTOR ADJUSTMENT LOAN
Team Leader: Henry F. Gordon                                TL Unit: ECSSD
ICR Type: Intensive Learning Model (ILM) of ICR             Report Date: June 29, 2001
1. Project Data
Name: ROMANIA AGRICULTURE SECTOR                       L/C/ITF Nmber: 41760; 41761
ADJUSTMENT LOAN
Country/Department: ROMANIA                                                 Region: Europe and Central
Asia Region
Sector/subsector: AA - Agriculture Adjustment
KEY DATES
Original            Revised/Actual
PCD:  01/14/97                                  Effective:                     08/29/97
Appraisal:  04/17/97                                    MTR.:
Approval:  06/03/97                                  Closing:  12/31/2000
Borrower/lmplementing Agency:  GOVERNMENT OF ROMANIA/MIN. OF AG/FOOD; GOVERNMENT OF
ROMANIA/MfNFIN; GOVERNMENT OF ROMANIA/MIN. OF REF;
GOVERNMENT OF ROMANIA/SOF; GOVERNMENT OF ROMANIA/MIN
IND/COMM.
Other Partners:
STAFF                 Current                                     At Appraisal
Vice President:       Johannes F. Linn                            Johannes F. Linn
Coutntry Manager:     Andrew N. Vorkink                           Director: Kenneth G. Lay
Sector Manager:       Laura Tuck                                  Division Chief: Michele de Nevers
Team Leader at ICR.   Henry Gordon                                Task Manager: Farid Dhanji
ICR Primary Author:   Henry Gordon
2. Principal Performance Ratings
(HS=Highly Satisfactory, S=Satisfactory, U=Unsatisfactory, HL=Highly Likely, L=Likely, UN=Unlikely, HUN=Highly
Unlikely, HU=Highly Unsatisfactory, H=High, SU=Substantial, M=Modest, N=Negligible)
Outcome: U
Sustainabilitv: UN
Institutional Developmenzt Impact: M
Bank Performance: U
Borrower Perjbrnmance: U
QAG (if available)         ICR
Quality at Entry: S                        S
Project at Risk at Any Tinme: Yes
Note concerning Ofitconmes: tile global rating of U ('Unsatisfimctory) reflects a
pattern of mixed perfirmnance, with1 somne comnponents performiniiig satisfiatorily
and others unsatisfizctorily.  The inore accurate description for the ratiig is



Marginally Unsatisf  ctory " rather than "Unsatisfactory, " however the PDS
systent does not allow this option. The global ratinig is based on separate ratings
for thie six project components plus a niacroeconomnic indicator.
3. Assessment of Development Objective and Design, and of Quality at Entry
3.1 Original Objective.
Context for Project Design. The Agriculture Sector Adjustment Loan (ASAL) supported the first broad
and meaningful reform of Romania's agricultural sector in the transition period. ASAL objectives and
design should be viewed in the context of economic developments in the years leading up to 1997. After a
decline in real agricultural value added in 1991 and 1992, the sector made an erratic recovery from 1992 to
1995. This mirrored performance in the overall economy, and was less the result of structural change than
good weather, along with resumed subsidization of loss-making enterprises in the economy (including
particularly the agriculture sector) through directed lending and inflationary finance. In 1996, sector value
added began to fall, as inflationary pressures and deteriorating loan portfolios in the banking sector built up
to the point where a general economic collapse, similar to that which occurred in neighboring Bulgaria in
late 1996 was likely, unless dramatic action was taken. In the November 1996 elections, a coalition of
parties was elected on a platform of accelerated economic reform that sought to effectively address these
problems.
ASAL was thus negotiated in an atmosphere of intense macroeconomic pressure and high expectations for
reform, in which rapid and comprehensive economic reform was seen as necessary in order to avoid short
term destabilization, and to establish the basis for long term growth. Loan design was influenced by this
general atmosphere, in which there was perceived to be great opportunity for meaningful reform with a new
government partner. As this was an untested relationship, great risks were seen as well. ASAL was
complemented by two other extensive reform efforts being implemented concurrently. The first was a
macroeconomic reform program under an International Monetary Fund (IMF) Standby Agreement, the
second a set of enterprise and financial sector reforms undertaken through the World Bank Finance and
Enterprise Sector Adjustment Loan (FESAL). A third operation, a World Bank Social Protection
Adjustment Loan (SPAL), helped to protect low-income groups and others from the short-term costs
associated with economy-wide reforms.
The design of ASAL was of course also heavily influenced by the preparation process for the loan, and the
policy dialogue that accompanied it. Preparation started as early 1994 when the Bank commissioned a
large number of background papers on the agricultural economy, mostly undertaken by international
experts. These provided an solid base of information on the sector, and were subsequently published.
However, discussions on agricultural reform languished, and the government continued to intervene with a
heavy hand. It was only in early 1996, ten months before general elections, that preparation activities
restarted, in anticipation that a reformist government might be elected. The process began with the training
and mentoring of local analysts by Bank staff. This was followed by preparation of a number of policy
papers by each analyst. The papers documented existing policies in the areas of trade, pricing, subsidies,
land markets, rural finance, and privatization, and analyzed the efficiency losses and distributional effects
arising from these policies. The papers were presented and discussed in workshops of government decision
makers, private sector operators, farmers' representatives, and others. They provided crucial background
to subsequent work by a team of international consultants and Bank staff, who operationalized the analysis
and used it to prepare specific reformn proposals. Members of the ASAL unit worked closely with these
consultants, gaining additional on-the-job training. By the time the new government was elected in
November, 1996, the outstanding issues were analyzed and a concrete set of reform priorities and proposals
were established. Members of the ASAL unit continued to assist ASAL preparation up to Board, helping
- 2 -



to monitor implementation and the effects of first tranche policies. Some members later became advisors
in the new government.
The pre-1997 policy regime analyzed by the ASAL Unit was state dominated and highly distorted. The
most prominent features were: (i) continued operation of state farms on the 20% of arable land that had
not been restituted (this was the best arable land in the country,) with state farns producing a substantial
share of the marketed surplus for cereals; (ii) pervasive state influence in procurement, storage and
processing functions; (iii) a large number of non-transparent price, budgetary, credit and trade
interventions that influenced incentives at all levels of the food marketing chain, from producers to
consumers; (iv) a weak legal and organizational foundation for private market development (e.g. for
warehouse receipts, grades and standards, producer marketing associations, land transactions, credit
cooperatives).
ASAL Objectives. The ASAL was meant to address the inefficiencies of the previous policy regime while
reducing the adverse macroeconomic impact of agricultural policies. The loan's objectives - as expressed
in the government's Letter of Sector Policy (LSP) and summarized in subsequent supervision reports -
were broad and ambitious, covering a wide range of activities in the sector This was in line with the
government's stated aim of establishing a market economy through rapid and comprehensive economic
reform. Although the ASAL was indeed comprehensive, there was some selectivity. It was decided, for
example, to exclude certain reforms such as privatization of Banca Agricola, and privatization of state
fertilizer and pesticide producers and of some food industry enterprises. These would have overloaded the
operation beyond what was considered feasible, and it was expected that these privatizations would
ultimately be picked up by subsequent Bank operations (e.g. Private Sector Adjustment Loan (PSAL), as
they eventually were. For each ASAL component, the objectives were as follows:
i. Incentives Reform: sustained and credible reform of agricultural incentives;
2. Agricultural and Rural Finance: support for creation of a competitive financial network serving
agriculture and the rural sector;
3. Land Market: development of a competitive land market, including land sales and leasing;
4. Cereals Market: development of an active private cereals market, with assurance of reasonable levels
of domestic food security;
5. Privatization, Liquidation and Restructuring: reduction in the state's role in production through
privatization of state-owned enterprises in agriculture;
6. Role of the Ministry of Agriculture and Food (MOAF): revision of the role of the MOAF to one
consistent with a market oriented agriculture.
These objectives responded to the stated development priorities of the government and of the Country
Assistance Strategy. They were, and still are, extremely important for the agricultural sector. With
hindsight, however, it is clear that assumptions about overall political support for a fast two-tranche reform
were optimistic. The commitment required from the MOAF and the State Ownership Fund to implement
reforms was greater than they could muster, given the pressures from interest groups to stall or reverse
reforms - which increased over time - and the lack of resolve on the part of implementing bodies and the
government as a whole to resist these. Because implementation was slow in the second phase of reforms,
particularly in the area of privatization, the tangible benefits of reform were slow to materialize. Benefits
were also limited by lack of complementary investments and technical assistance required to build market
institutions (some of these were conditions required under the loan and were only implemented very late in
the day).
-3 -



Maintenance of the macroeconomic program. An additional condition involved maintenance of
adequate macroeconomic policies, interpreted as the existence of a Fund program. This is a standard
condition in the loan agreement for sector adjustment operations, and turned out to be quite important for
ASAL. It was the primary reason for cancellation of the (restructured) third tranche in December, 2000.
The ASAL sought to support the macro program in two ways: first, through implementation of sector
reforms that would reduce the fiscal and quasi-fiscal burden of the agriculture sector, and second, through
the macroeconomic impact of quick disbursing foreign exchange. The accompanying table shows that
ASAL resources were quite large in relation to other adjustment assistance provided during the four years it
was in effect. Overall, it represented about 20% of total adjustment resources during this period (it should
be noted that these are resources committed; actual disbursements were somewhat less). Thus, evaluation
of the operation must take into account macro as well as sector outcomes.
Adjustment assistance
to Romania 1997-2000 (S million)
FESAL             280
SPAL               50
PSAL              300
ASAL              350
Fund SBA 1        301
Fund SBA 2        400
EU                100
Total          1,781
Protection of poor consumers and vulnerable groups. At the outset of the reform process in early 1997,
the new government expressed concem about impact of simultaneous macroeconomic and agriculture
sector reforms on poor consumers and vulnerable groups. These issues were expected to be addressed in a
SPAL, which was aimed specifically at protecting low income groups. The ASAL team also worked with
the govemment on the design of a temporary bread subsidy. In addition, the team discussed improvements
in the farmers' pension scheme, which the government subsequently implemented.
Bread price subsidy
The government was concerned that ending consumer price controls on bread (which applied to 50% to
70% of sales) would dramatically increase prices and hurt the poor. After examination of several options
with the ASAL team, the government decided to compensate for expected bread price increases with a
direct income compensation scheme based on the expected price rise. This approach was seen as
administratively feasible, and better targeted and lower cost than other options
On February 17, 1997, food prices were liberalized. The average price of bread increased by 80% in
March compared with February, against consumer inflation of 31%. The program of bread compensation
was implemented between April and September 1997, providing a monthly cash subsidies to specific
groups (employees, pensioners, unemployed, farmers) which varied baed on existing targeting criteria for
each group.
A paper commissioned for the ASAL Implementation Completion Report (ICR) (Tesliuc, 2001) concluded
that the bread subsidy was a weakly pro-poor transfer, with poorer population groups (lowest deciles)
receiving less than their share in population, but more than their share in consumption. This occurred
-4-



because the subsidy used existing targeting mechanisms to identify the poor, and the safety net prevailing at
that time missed many poor households. In addition, the implicit poverty lines used by the compensation
scheme were very generous, so many non-poor received benefits.
Other factors should also be considered in evaluating the scheme, to reflect the realities faced by
decision-makers at the time the program was implemented. First, there was considerable uncertainty about
the future level of inflation and the size of the bread price increase that would follow liberalization. The
authorities preferred to err on the high side in their poverty line estimate (allowing more leakage), rather
than on the low side (risking lower coverage). Second, political economy considerations were very
important in the decision-making process. The bread price compensation measure can be seen as having
purchased social and political stability at a moment when the social costs of policy change, for almost all
households, were high.
Farmers 'pensions
During the 1 990s, pensions were frequently adjusted for inflation, but the purchasing power of the
pensioners eroded significantly. Thus, at the time macroeconomic and agriculture sector reforms were
being considered in early 1997, the Government increased the minimum agricultural pension. The scheme
was subsequently indexed fully to consumer price inflation. In 1998, the ICR for the SPAL noted that "as
a result of these measures, the number of agricultural pensioners with pension below the ceiling of 50,000
Romanian Leu (ROL) per month decreased from 1.3 million to I million by March 97. The significant
increase in the lower levels of agricultural pensions, plus the regular adjustments against inflation, led to a
stabilization of their real purchasing power at a higher level." In addition, a paper prepared for the ASAL
ICR estimated the program's impact on poverty incidence and severity. Using simulation measures, the
overall assessment of the measure's impact on poor farmers was positive.
3.2 Revised Objective:
not applicable
3.3 Original Components:
The loan was a quick disbursing adjustment loan providing balance of payments support to the budget in
two tranches totaling $350 million. The components were closely linked to the objectives outlined above.
The design of components was based heavily on analyses undertaken during preparation that documented
the negative effects of the pre-1997 policy regime. These were quantified during preparation and
extensively discussed with government and the private sector. They included:
*   large allocative distortions at all levels of agricultural marketing chains and net taxation of the
agriculture sector, as shown in generally low nominal protection coefficients (NPCs) and
effective protection coefficients (EPCs);
*   deteriorating financial, economic and technical performance by state farms, and massive
delinquency of state agricultural enterprises on state credit lines. These were sufficiently large
to threaten the viability of the financial system (particularly through Banca Agricola) and
contribute significantly to macroeconomic instability (this macroeconomic impact was
documented in a paper calculating the fiscal and quasi fiscal burden of agriculture);
*   creation of a large agriculture-related bureaucracy centered in the MOAF, the main purpose of
which was to administer controls, subsidies and directed credit to state enterprises, with
Romania's approximately 3.6 million small farmers virtually excluded from access. There
- 5-



was, in addition, widespread suspicion of corruption in the allocation of subsidies; and
* halting improvement in private sector performance - where it had been allowed to operate - but
with high costs and inefficiencies that were due to, among other factors: high risk (partly
policy-induced), and weak support for public goods necessary for market development (for
instance, establishment of a warehouse receipts system, and of agricultural grades and
standards). Romania's 3.6 million small, semi-subsistence farms had limited access to
commercial market outlets due in part to the existence of very thin and high cost private
markets.
The specific conditions of the loan consequently included a mix of liberalization and privatization
measures, combined with legislative initiatives aimed at supporting market development as the new
incentives environment took hold. The govemment committed to implementation of the following reform
measures, which are summarized here and elaborated in more detail in the ASAL policy matrix:
1. Incentives Reform: an end to all price controls and so-called premia (price supports to farmers
delivered through state intermediaries); a reduction in average and maximum import tariffs and an end
to quantitative restrictions on exports; and a reduction in subsidies along with improvements in their
allocation to make them less distorting (e.g., redirection of input and commodity subsidies to a general
input voucher subsidy targeted to small farmers);
2. Agricultural and Rural Finance: cessation of Central Bank refinancing of agriculture, with all
subsidies transparently placed on budget; reduced levels of directed credit provided on a temporary
basis, with improved allocation mechanisms aimed at reducing distortions; revision of credit
cooperatives law; and an improved collateral framework;
3. Land Market: legislative changes to reduce hindrances in land sale and leasing, and to allow private
claimants to repossess legitimately claimed land lying under state farms;
4. Cereals Market: reduction in State Grain Reserves levels and improvement in management of SGR
stock rotations to reduce market impact; establishment of an adequate legal framework for warehouse
receipts along with a program to establish inter-professional associations in agricultural marketing
chains;
5. Privatization, Liquidation and Restructuring: privatization or initiation of liquidation for most
agro-industrial companies (this covered all pig, poultry and seed companies, most agricultural service
firms, and a majority of grain storage companies) and initiation of state farms privatization;
6. Role of the Ministry of Agriculture and Food: reorganization of the MOAF; initiation of
agricultural grades and standards system; implementation of action plan on rural development Special
Assessment Program for Agriculture and Rural Development (SAPARD).
Most conditions in Components 1 - 3 were to be implemented before disbursement of first tranche ($200
million), while the bulk of measures in Components 4 - 6 were scheduled to be implemented before the
second tranche ($150 million).
3.4 Revised Coomponenits:
Not applicable
3.5 Qualitv at Entry:
Quality at entry was rated Satisfactory by a 1997 Quality Assurance Group (QAG) review. The
evaluation concluded that the operation was based on good sector work involving collaboration with
govemment and stakeholders. Objectives and outputs (the latter defined as the actual policy conditions)
were clearly focused and dealt with critical issues. Mention was made of the strong effort in maintaining a
social safety net. Readiness for implementation was considered adequate, with all legislative approvals
- 6 -



received and first tranche conditions met on time.
The overall evaluation was of a good, high quality project at approval, but it was noted that the potential
high returns were accompanied by high risk. At the time of the review - several months after Board - it
was observed that some of the risks were materializing, especially with respect to the macroeconomic
program. The review concluded with the statement that "in hindsight, a one tranche operation supported
by an agreed program of further adjustment would have been a more prudent approach given the high
macroeconomic risks..."
Finally, the ASAL was consistent with the Country Assistance Strategy (CAS) approved by the Bank
Board on May 9, 1997. It provided specific support for the CAS agricultural and rural development
objective of raising efficiency and competitiveness in agriculture.
4. Achievement of Objective and Outputs
4.1 Ouitcome/achievement of objective:
Overall achievement of ASAL objectives, which are defined in Section 3. 1, above, is judged to be
Unsatisfactory. The justification for ratings on individual components is given below, followed by a table
that provides a basis for an overall judgement of outcomes.
1.    Incentives Reform. Evaluation of the incentives component is extremely important to the
evaluation of ASAL outcomes because of its large weight in the refonn program, and its direct link to other
components (cereals marketing, MOAF role, privatization). This component is also the most difficult to
evaluate because progress was mixed. While real change has occurred in the incentives regime since 1996,
the year immediately preceding the ASAL, both threatened and actual backtracking occurred after release
on first tranche, in the areas of of pricing policy, subsidies and trade. This section surveys incentives
regime outcomes up to the time of the ICR mission, which took place in April-May, 2001.
The objective for the component was "sustained and credible" reform of the incentives regime. On first
sight, it may appear that this aim has been achieved. Since 1996, the overall policy environment for prices,
trade and subsidies has moved away from the pre-1997 approach. Specifically, price controls no longer
exist, import tariff levels and dispersion have been greatly reduced, and overall subsidy allocations on the
MOAF budget are significantly lower in real terms. In addition, the legal basis for comprehensive controls
and subsidies, law 83, has not been reintroduced.
Nonetheless, over the last four years, both threatened and actual violations of ASAL incentives agreements
have occurred repeatedly, and they have increased in their scope and frequency (see Table below for a
chronological list). In addition, the number of actual - versus threatened - violations has increased over
time. The table below documents these patterns from 1997 to the present. It can be seen that in 1997 and
1998, several actual violations occurred. However, these were relatively shortlived, and limited in scope.
The most disturbing event during this period was the preparation of a Governing program that threatened
new price, trade, subsidy and credit interventions in agriculture that clearly violated ASAL commitments.
However, the agricultural policies were not implemented - possibly for budgetary reasons - and for this
reason did not seem to pose a major threat to achievement of ASAL objectives.
In 1999, similar initiatives, somewhat larger in scope emerged. In that year, 15 ordinances supporting a
wholesale rollback of first tranche reforms, including comprehensive price and trade interventions, were
prepared. In several meetings with the Minister of Agriculture, the Bank pointed out that the ordinances
represented a serious breach of ASAL commitments. The Minister gave verbal assurances to the ASAL
- 7 -



team and the Resident Representative that the ordinances would not be presented to the Council of
Ministers (COM) without first undertaking a thorough review in collaboration with the Bank. The 15
measures were nonetheless presented to the COM by the MOAF, and approved, in mid-summer of 1999.
A major break with the GOR over ASAL was only avoided by a direct request to the Prime Minister that
the ordinances be rescinded. The ordinances were rescinded by the end of the summer.
The ordinances issue reinforced the impression, first given in 1998 when the Governing Program was
introduced, that once the ASAL was finally disbursed, the incentives reforms would be weakened or
reversed. Such threats were repeated on a more limited scale in early 2000 (as documented in a March
2000 Aide-memoire). These included an elaborate "tractors-for-grain" scheme that would have
reintroduced direct state intervention in grain markets, a serious violation of ASAL incentives and cereals
market conditions.
This ICR concludes that repeated threats of policy rollbacks have over time had an effect on ASAL
outcomes that has hindered their achievement. It has done this by undermining private sector expectations
that reforrns will continue and has thereby contributed to the pattem of weak market development
documented in analytical papers prepared for this ICR (it should be added that delay in privatization is
another important factor).
However, real backtracking also occurred from 1999 onward, and has increased over time. In 1999 the
most notable case was the use of phytosanitary controls to limit grain exports. In late 2000, actual
violations multiplied, including imposition of wheat and milk premia (a form of price support), diesel
vouchers, market interventions by the Strategic Grain Reserves, as well as modification of the general input
voucher scheme in a way inconsistent with ASAL. In 2001, serious problems in the incentives regime
continue, and show surprising degree of continuity with policies of the previous regime.
ASAL Agricultural Incentives Regime: actual and threatened violations of commitments
Violation                 When Arose          Actual Violation, or   Comment
Threatened
1. Price controls for edible   Aug./Sept. 1997  Actual               Violated ASAL matrix provisions vs.
oil                                                                  price controls. Controls were imposed
in August and revoked in subsequent
month
2. Temporary tariff       December, 1997      Actual                 Violated ASAL matrix. In effect for
exemptions for pork                                                  December only
3. Agricultural policy    Spring 1998         Threatened             Proposed extensive new price and
provisions of Governing                                              subsidy interventions and increased
Program                                                              directed credit, all in violation of policy
matrix and LSP.
4. 15 Ordinances         June 1999            Passed, but rescinded  Comprehensive rollback of first tranche
before implementation    commitments on price intervention,
commodity support, subsidies, directed
credit.
-8 -



5. Diesel vouchers scheme    Fall 1999           Actual                  The scheme was inconsistent with the
general input vouchers approach laid
out in the matrix and LSP
6. Phytosanitary controls  Fall 1999             Actual                  Violated policy matrix commitments
used to restrict grain                                                   and only ended after the export season
exports                                                                  was over.
7. Input vouchers          Spring 2000           Actual                  The year 2000 input voucher scheme
targeted producers rather than
landholders, without limiting to the
number of vouchers claimed by a single
beneficiary. This significantly changed
the voucher scheme agreed to under the
ASAL. The shift was premature in the
absence of a minimally effective
targeting mechanism that could be
administered in a non-discretionary,
transparent and equitable manner.
8. Tractors-for-grain      Spring 2000           Threatened              The ordinances would have established
ordinances                                                               a state organization to market
agricultural machinery which went
against the objectives of the ASAL
agro-industrial enterprise privatization
program. Acceptance by the company
of payments in grain (which it must
then store or dispose of on the market)
violated ASAL commitments to remove
the state from direct intervention in
input and grain marketing. This scheme
was abandoned.
9. Release of substantial  Spring 2000           Actual                  Such releases violated LSP
quantities of State Grain                                                commitments to use the National
Reserves to milling sector                                               Administration of State (Grain)
on concessional terms to                                                 Reserves for emergency situations only,
stabilize the market                                                     and not for market stabilization. The
first time that these occurred in 1999,
the issue was raised with the Minister of
Agriculture, who indicated that the -
MOAF would refrain from these actions
in the future. In March 2000, an
Aide-memoire warned against the
possible repeat of this scheme. The-
scheme was eventually implemented in
year 2000, and this only came to light
in the ASAL ICR mission of 2001,
when the team requested and received
from Parliament a copy of a report on
the state reserves which confirmed
substantial releases in year 2000.



10. Wheat and milk premia   Fall 2000            Actual                  These premia were threatened in spring
(price subsidy per ton);                                                 2000; a March 2000 Aide-memoire
warned against their implementation.
The implementation of the scheme was
delayed until after release of ASAL
second tranche. State farms were
eligible for this scheme, goes against
past understandings on subsidy
eligibility, which excluded state
enterprises.
11. Temporary zero import   Fall 2000            Actual                  This scheme, which violates ASAL first
duty for maize                                                           tranche commitments, was threatened
in spring 2000 and here too, the March
2000 Aide-memoire warned against
implementation, which was delayed
until after release of ASAL second
tranche.
12. Diesel voucher scheme    Fall 2000           Actual                  This scheme was threatened in spring
2000 but implementation was delayed
until after release of ASAL second
tranche. In a letter sent to the Bank on
June 15, 2000, the Prime Minister
supported the Bank's opposition to
diesel vouchers, confirming their
violation of principles agreed with the
Bank and outlined in a letter from the
Minister of Agriculture and Food to the
Bank on December 10, 1999.
13. Wheat storage subsidy  Fall 2000             Threatened              The experience with storage subsidies
in 1997 and 1998 showed them to be
poorly targeted and ineffective in
increasing off-farm storage. In
discussions with the Minister of
Agriculture on Sept. 2-3 1999, in
Washington, the Minister of
Agriculture agreed to stop using them.
Post ASAL Policy
Problems (2001)
I million ROL per hectare    Spring 2001         Actual                  Problems include lack of a ceiling on
farm subsidy scheme                                                       transfers per beneficiary; inadequate-
targeting; and eligibility of state farms
SGR releases to stabilize  Spring 2001           Actual                   Continuation of SGR market
market                                                                    stabilization policies pursued in 1999
and 2000
- 10-



Subsidy on agricultural  Spring 2001          Actual                 Subsidy discriminates vs. machinery
machinery                                                           imports (also contravenes WTO
commitments); scheme lacks adequate
targeting mechanisms and is subject to
abuse.
In sum, while significant incentives reforms did occur over the course of ASAL, many of the changes were
not credible, their sustainability is in doubt, and they have been undermined each year by some degree of
backtracking, which has increased over time. These problems have continued in 2001 under the new
administration. The papers presented at the ICR workshop, which include an overview of sector incomes
and productivity, as well as a detailed examination of cereals sector performance, show a pattern of poor
market development, and weak sector productivity to which this incentives backtracking has surely
contributed. The rating on Outcomes for the incentives component is therefore Unsatisfactory.
2.     Agricultural and Rural Finance. ASAL reforms to end Central Bank financing of agriculture and
improve allocation mechanisms were met in the first tranche, and generally maintained. The level of
MOAF budgeted funds for directed credit and interest subsidies declined substantially in real terms, from
$109 million in 1997 to $11 million in 2000. Their share in total subsidies fell from 20% to 3% over the
period. While it took considerable time to fulfill credit cooperatives conditions, which aimed at improving
the regulatory framework for credit cooperatives, these were ultimately met. ASAL conditions thus did
support creation of a more competitive private financial network, although clearly additional support was
needed, including establishment of an adequate secured transactions law and movables registry, which has
occurred under a follow-up Rural Finance project. The outcome rating is Satisfactory.
3.     Land Market. Conditions aimed at removing legal obstacles to land sale and leasing were fulfilled
in first tranche. A survey commissioned by the Bank in 1999 (Prosterman and Duncan) showed a marked
increase in land transactions (particularly leasing), with respondents engaged in transactions drawing a
clear link between ASAL-supported legal changes - which were well known to them- and a more active
land market. The rating is Satisfactory.
4.     Cereals Market. Objectives in the cereals component were technically difficult, and ambitious: the
development of an active cereals market. Although the minimum conditions requiring establishment of an
adequate legislative framework for warehouse receipts, grain grading and inter-professional associations
were met, progress came only after very long delays. The cereals market is clearly operating well below
potential, in part due to these delays, as well as delays in privatization, which hindered establishment of a
competitive grain storage system. The rating is Unsatisfactory.
5.     Privatization, Liquidation and Restructuring. The ASAL objective of a reduced state role in
production and agro-industry was finally met after long delays. The delays severely limited the impact of
what incentives changes had occurred earlier in the ASAL. Despite the delays, the substantial reduction in
state ownership which is the objective of this component has been achieved, and is not likely to be reversed.
The rating is Satisfactory.
6.     Role of the Ministry of Agriculture and Food. The Ministry is still preoccupied with allocating
subsidies that benefit politically influential, favored groups. It has not defined a clear role for itself that
supports market-oriented agriculture. The rating is Unsatisfactory.
7.     Macroeconomic program. The ASAL was ultimately closed in December 2000 with an
- 11 -



undisbursed balance, due to lack of a Fund program, and lack of assurance that such a program would be
forthcoming under the new government (at the time of the ICR mission, a program had still not been agreed
and was not in sight).
Macroeconomic performance during the four years of ASAL implementation was poor, with persistent high
inflation ranging from 40% to 60% per year, and frequent failure to meet agreed budget deficit targets.
This outcome must be weighed against the more favorable macro effects arising from implementation of
some ASAL policies. The first and perhaps most important of these was the elimination of Central Bank
refinancing of agriculture and placement of all subsidies on budget. The second was the substantial
reduction that occurred from 1997 to 2001 in the dollar value (i.e. approximately real value) of
discretionary subsidies to agriculture. Third, trade tariff reductions were associated with an increase in
import tariff collections. Tariff revenues in the three years preceding the ASAL averaged $143 million per
year, while post reform revenues averaged $203 million (source: Duties Directorate, Ministry of Finance.)
Finally, privatization of state enterprises undoubtedly had a positive fiscal, and quasi fiscal impact. The
team was unfortunately unable to obtain data that would have allowed this to be substantiated.
Overall, the macro outcome must be rated Unsatisfactory, because of the weak overall performance on
macroeconomic stabilization. The importance attached to this is reflected in the Unsatisfactory rating for
Implementation Progress given in the December 2000 Project Supervision Report (PSR), due to absence of
a Fund program, with no program is sight.
The above outcome ratings are quantified on a scale of 1 (Highly Unsatisfactory) to 4 (Highly Satisfactory)
in the table below. An overall weighted sum is computed to support the general assessment of ASAL
outcomes as Unsatisfactory. Because the weighted sum of 2.43 is below the mid-point between a
Satisfactory (3) and Unsatisfactory (2) rating, but above a rating of 2, it could more accurately be
described as "Marginally Unsatisfactory."
The weights given are admittedly somewhat arbitrary - this approach was adopted, however, in order to
make assumptions clear. As a first approximation, a total weight was given to first tranche reforms
(components 1-3) commensurate with the value of first tranche ($200 million) in relation to the total
operation ($350 million). This proportion was then divided among the three components according to the
team's view of their relative importance. A similar exercise was undertaken for components 4 - 6, which
were mainly second tranche conditions. A separate weight of .10 was given to macro outcomes, which is
somewhat below the share of ASAL resources in total adjustment finance provided by all donors over the
period 1997-2000. The resulting calculations give the highest weights to incentives reforms (.33) and
privatization (.29).
Table 1: Outcome Ratings
Component          Rating   Weight   Rating times weight
1. Incentives        2        0.33            0.66
2. Finance           3        0.07            0.21
3. Land Market       3        0.07            0.21
4. Cereals Market    2        0.07            0.14
5. Privatization     3        0.29            0.87
6. MOAF role         2        0.07            0.14
7. Macro             2        0.10            0.20
Total                         1.00            2.43
Outcome rating scale:
I = Highly Unsatisfactory; 2 Unsatisfactory; 3 = Satisfactory; 4 = Highly Satisfactory
- 12-



4.2 Outpujts by components:
Outputs are viewed here as lower level objectives that contribute to project outcomes, which are higher
level objectives. This relationship is similar to that in the objectives hierarchy of a project logframe. Here
outputs are the main conditions of the loan as outlined in Section 3.3. As mentioned, the overall rating for
outputs is Satisfactory. This judgement is substantiated with an assessment for each component:
1.    Incentives Reform. The current policy regime looks different from that in 1996 when pervasive
price and trade controls existed, along with large, untargeted subsidies. At the time Law 83 gave broad
sanction to government price and subsidy interventions. Under ASAL, this law was rescinded, (worldwide)
import tariffs progressively fell to more moderate levels. The current incentives regime is more open with
respect to both domestic and foreign trade. Policy dialogue in the past few years, while often difficult, has
resulted in clearer specification of subsidy objectives, and existing schemes have been modified to reduce
their distortionary effects. This was a direct outcome of the ASAL policy dialogue.
However, the previous section has documented increased backtracking on ASAL incentives
reforms, which the ICR mission confirmed has continued into year 2001. Problems have continued with
certain types of price interventions (premia, SGR (Strategic Grain Reserve) sales) and problems in the
trade regime (export restrictions, temporary import duty exemptions).
The rating is "Marginally Satisfactory."
2.    Agricultural and Rural Finance. Conditions requiring the placement of all directed credit on
budget, improvement in allocation mechanisms for directed credit, and modification of the credit
cooperatives law were all met or substantially met. The rating is Satisfactory
3.     Land Market. Conditions removing legal hindrances on land leasing and sale were implemented
on time, before the first tranche. The rating is Satisfactory.
4.     Cereals Market. A number of conditions were met: the Government of Romania (GOR) took over
losses of the state marketing agency National Agricultural Products Company (ANPA) so that its assets
could be privatized; and a legal framework for warehouse receipts and inter-professional associations was
ultimately put in place. In 1999, a violation was detected of the GOR's Letter of Sector Policy
commitment to refrain from using the State Grain reserves "to stabilize the domestic price of wheat, or
force higher or lower prices on the domestic market." The GOR was informed of this in a letter from the
Country Director to the Minister of Agriculture dated June 26, 1999, and the transactions subsequently
stopped. These commitments proved exceedingly difficult to monitor, due in part to the absence of
routinely collected grain price data in Romania. Based on information provided in a report recently
commissioned by Parliament, and provided to the ASAL team during the ICR mission, the team has been
informed that similar transactions in fact took place in 2000. In addition, they continue in 2001, and SGR
levels have evidently now increased above levels agreed under the ASAL. The rating is Unsatisfactory.
5.     Privatization, Liquidation and Restructuring. ASAL targets for agro-industrial privatization
were substantially delayed but ultimately met in full. While the original closing date of the loan was
December, 1998, the conditions were only fulfilled by the end of 1999, or about 18 months later than the
original target date for completion. State farms privatization conditions were also delayed, but were
completed in December, 2000. There is little likelihood of reversal. The rating is Satisfactory
6.     Role of the Ministry of Agriculture and Food. The conditions for reorganization of the MOAF
- 13 -



were formally met, along with preparation of a rural development plan necessary to secure EU/SAPARD
rural development funds. The rating is Satisfactory.
7.     Macroeconomic program. The logic of this rating is similar to that in the previous section, giving
a rating of Unsatisfactory.
Table 2: Output Ratings
Component          Rating   Weight   Rating times weight
I Incentives        2.5       0.33           0.825
2 Finance            3        0.07            0.21
3 Land Market        3        0.07            0.21
4 Cereals Market     2        0.07            0.14
5 Privatization      3        0.29            0.87
6 MOAF role          3        0.07            0.21
7. Macro             2        0.10            0.20
Total                         1.00            2.67
Output rating scale:
I = Highly Unsatisfactory; 2 = Unsatisfactory; 3 = Satisfactory; 4 = Highly Satisfactory
As in the case of assessment of outcomes, the output ratings are quantified on a scale of 1 to 4,
with a weighted sum computed for the overall score. The overall score for outputs is 2.67. This
is rated "Marginally Satisfactory."
4.3 Net Present Value/Econontic r ate of return:
Not applicable
4.4 Finantcial rate of return:
Not applicable
4.5 Institutional levelopment inpact:
The project's institutional development impact was mixed. The most significant positive impact was the
development of a cadre of young analysts trained in policy analysis techniques under the ASAL Unit. Their
skills were put to use in the preparation process, and a number of these analysts later served as advisors in
the coalition government.
The ASAL sought a changed role for the MOAF under Component 6, but only limited progress was made
in restructuring the Ministry in such a way as to make it a more effective supporter of a market-oriented
agriculture sector. The change in mindset that was necessary for the MOAF to assume this new role did not
occur. The ministry remained wedded to a politically driven subsidy agenda, reluctant to devote resources
to provision of public goods that would enhance the benefits of liberalization and privatization.
The MOAF was also expected to play a more effective role in monitoring the development of the
agricultural economy, and anticipating the impact on it of policies and extemal events. While the MOAF
has some good technical staff, it lacks the ability to carry out solid economic analysis, and has an
exceedingly poor information base for evaluating sector and commodity market policies and performance
(producer market prices are not routinely monitored, and data on private sector input use are almost
nonexistent). The MOAF pledged to devote resources to completion of an agricultural census in 1998, but
did not carry this out.
- 14 -



This lack of change in the MOAF role remains an important constraint to further progress in sector
adjustment. On balance, the institutional development impact is judged to be modest.
5. Major Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcome
5.1 Factors outside the control of goi ernment or implementing agency.
Factors outside the government's control had a very substantial impact on project implementation and
outcomes. The most prominent of these was the prolonged drop in prices for agricultural commodities.
Depressed world prices and markets for agricultural commodities. Prices for many of Romania's
traditional grain and livestock exports remained extremely low during the period of ASAL implementation.
These trends, which significantly lowered farm profitability, were exacerbated by the collapse of export
markets in Russia beginning with the 1998 crisis. An infusion of Westem (EU and US) food aid into
Russian markets reduced Romanian export prospects even further. This slowed ASAL implementation,
because poor external market conditions provided added arguments for special support to enterprises slated
for privatization, thereby slowing the process. This was the case with the enormous pig complex,
COMTIM, which had depended heavily on exports to Russia. These events also hindered achievement of
ASAL outcomes. Low prices added to a sense that reform was not producing short term gains in
profitability for agriculture nor was real adjustment and restructuring occurring.
5.2 Factors generally subject to government control:
Decline in economy-wide growth. GDP contracted every year from 1997 to 1999, only turning positive in
2000. While GDP growth is only partly under government control, it is clear that GOR problems in
implementing structural reforms, particularly privatization of banks and industrial enterprises, and in
maintaining the macroeconomic program, were a significant factor in the growth decline. The fall in GDP
negatively affected domestic demand for agricultural products, which already suffered reduced
opportunities for external trade described above.
Highly overvalued real exchange rate up to 1999. Analyses of agriculture sector incentives showed that of
all factors affecting agricultural incentives in the period 1997-1999, an overvalued exchange rate was the
most significant. The consensus view was that the exchange rate was overvalued by 25%, amounting to a
large tax on the highly tradable agriculture sector. Fortunately, Central Bank policy changed in 1999 and
led to a steady depreciation in the real exchange rate. A short analysis of the effects of the depreciation on
producer prices for wheat from the 1998 harvest to the 1999 harvest indicated that much of the effect of the
depreciation was, as hoped for, carried through to producers. Unfortunately the beneficial effects of
depreciation were eroded by low world prices (mentioned above) and constraints on exports to Russia.
Lack of cohesion within the party coalition and the MOAF. Political fragmentation within government
severely hindered implementation. Lack of political cohesion reduced the ability of the MOAF and
government to take consistent policy positions and to resist pressures from interest groups - mainly state
enterprises but also incereasingly private sector rent seekers - that opposed reforms. The privatization
program was particularly affected. State farms privatization was significantly delayed, in part, because a
second land restitution (a precondition for state farms privatization,) was bitterly disputed within the
coalition. This almost precipitated its breakup in 1998/99. Lack of cohesion also reduced the ability of the
MOAF to resist demands of special interests for commodity and input subsidies.
5.3 Factors generally subject to imwplementing agency control:
The main implementing agencies were the MOAF and the State Ownership Fund (SOF). The latter was
responsible for all privatizations until the later stages part of the ASAL program, when responsibility for
- 15-



state farms privatization shifted to the MOAF. Factors under the control of these bodies substantially
affected project implementation.
Maintenance of incentives reforms (subsidies. pricing. trade). MOAF implementation of reforms in the
first phase, from February to June, 1997, was very good,, despite facing stiff resistance from affected
special interests (e.g. state pig farms). The ASAL could have been cancelled and the policy dialogue
resumed under different terms. Yet whenever cancellation loomed, the GOR pledged renewed support to
the program and reversed the backtracking measures. Such actions were typically followed after several
months by renewed backtracking, which prevailed until cancellation was imminent..
Pace of privatization process. particularly for agro-industrv firms. The pace of agro-industry privatization
was largely under the control of the SOF. The performance of SOF in the first half of 1997, before first
tranche release, was good, and resulted in privatization of a small group of pig and poultry fanns. SOF's
performance faltered severely after June, 1997, when it found itself under intense political pressures to
impose privatization conditions, such as unrealistically high valuations, that slowed the process. It is often
argued that the SOF operated under a restrictive legal regime (the privatization law) that hindered its ability
to meet ASAL targets. While such restrictions existed, they slowed the privatization process but did not
prevent it. In any case, modification of the privatization law was under the control of the Ministry of
Privatization, of which SOF was a part.
To summarize, privatization and trade tariff reductions were only implemented, and policy backtracking
was only reversed, after several threats of cancellation. There was a repeated pattem of delayed
implementation, followed by a pull-back from the brink of cancellation with quick privatizations and/or
reversal of backtracking on incentives policies at the eleventh hour.
5.4 Costs and financing:
ASAL first tranche ($200 million) disbursed on schedule after successful completion of Phase 1 reforms.
Significant delays occurred in the disbursement of second tranche funds ($1 50 million) and ultimately only
a portion of this ($100 million) was disbursed. The President's Report estimated the time from Board to
completion of conditions to be one year, from June 3, 1997 to June 3, 1998, with a closing date of
December 31, 1998. Because of delays in completing second phase reforms, these dates were passed
without disbursement, and a number of extensions occurred to allow their completion. In June 2000 the
operation was restructured into three tranches, with a new second tranche of $100 million disbursed at that
time to reflected fulfillment of agro-enterprise privatization conditions, and another $50 million held back
in a new third tranche, pending satisfactory completion of state farms privatization conditions. In
December 31, 2000 the loan was closed without disbursement of third tranche funds, due primarily to lack
of a macroeconomic program.
6. Sustainability
6.1 Rationale for sustainability rating:
From the remarks in the previous section, it should be clear that, although ASAL was ultimately fully
implemented, the slow pace of implementation and frequent backtracking (both threatened and actual) raise
doubts about the sustainability of some incentives reforms and the likelihood of completing reforms in some
areas such as state farms privatization. Table 3 rates the sustainability of each component, with the ratings
quantified on a scale of I (Highly Unlikely) to 4 (Highly Likely). As with the assessment of outcomes and
outputs, a weighted sum is computed for the overall score. The same component weights are used as in
other calculations.
- 16 -



The conclusion is that overall sustainability is Unlikely - the weighted sum of 2.10 falls closer to a score of
2 (Unlikely) than 3 (Likely). Despite the fact that the reforms in the privatization, land and fnance
components are expected to be sustained, Unlikely ratings are given for changes in the MOAF's role,
cereals market measures, and the macro program, while the sustainability of incentives reforms is rated
Highly Unlikely.
Table 3: Sustainability Ratings
Component             Rating       Weight  Rating times weight
1. Incentives           1           0.33            0.33
2. Finance              3           0.07            0.21
3 Land Market           3           0.07            0.21
4 Cereals Market        2           0.07            0.14
5 Privatization         3           0.29            0.87
6 MOAF role             2           0.07            0.14
7 Macro                 2           0.10            0.20
Total                                1.00           2.10
Sustainability rating scale:
I = Highly Unlikely; 2 = Unlikely; 3 = Likely; 4= Highly Likely
6.2 Transition arrangement to regular operations:
This ICR provided the ASAL team with an opportunity to engage the new government, which took power
in December, 2000, with a review of the past four years' policy experience. It is hoped that this will
provide a foundation for future policy dialogue.
The ICR workshop was followed by a meeting at the MOAF with representatives of the MOAF, Ministry
of Finance (MOF), Ministry of Trade, and other counterparts in the new government (see list of
participants in Annex 10, Table 2). This meeting reviewed the findings of the ICR workshop, and
discussed key issues for the coming year and opportunities for dialogue. An important function of the
meetings was to explain to the new government what ASAL actually was, since many in the government
were in the opposition during the previous four years and are not familiar with the specific provisions of
ASAL.
The priority issues discussed were, first, the need to complete state farms privatization; and second, the
design of a new 1 million lei per hectare subsidy scheme, which accounts for a major portion of the
discretionary funds on the MOAF's 2001 budget. It was decided that these issues and possibly other issues
will be discussed periodically through the end of the calendar year, when the Country Unit will make a
decision as to whether reform progress is sufficient to put Romania in a lending high case, or a low case.
The discussions on agricultural policy and subsequent GOR actions will provide important input to this
process.
7. Bank and Borrower Performance
Bank
7. 1 Lending:
Preparation. The ASAL preparation process benefited from substantial high quality analytical input, as
confirmed by a QAG review, and documented in the extensive list of papers annexed to the President's
Report. These included the completion of a farm survey in 1996 (co-financed by the EU), which provided
the first solid evidence of small farm structure and performance in Romania. The survey provided key
input to project design as well as a baseline from which to measure future progress (a follow up to this
- 17 -



survey carried out for the ICR is summarized in Annex 8).
As part of preparation, local researchers were trained in applied policy analysis techniques by Bank staff.
Background papers were prepared by both international and local consultants, with papers by the latter
discussed in a stakeholder's workshop that included government staff, the private sector, researchers, and
others. The results were widely disseminated.
The loan was consistent with the government's economic strategy as formulated in early 1997, and was
broadly consistent with the CAS (dated May, 1997) which included the ASAL in the Agriculture and Rural
Development section of the matrix. ASAL preparation was also closely coordinated with an IMF Standby
Facility and two other Bank operations, the Financial and Enterprise Sector Adjustment Loan (FESAL),
which covered industrial sector and banking privatizaton) and the SPAL.
Appraisal. The new government that took power in early 1997 expressed the desire for a rapid move to a
market economy. As the relationship with the new government was untested, the ASAL team's assessment
at appraisal of the GOR's comrnmitment to agricultural reform was largely based on the willingness and
ability of government to implement first tranche reforms, which were scheduled to be completed before
June, 1997. These reforns were fully completed on schedule, and thus the commitment of the GOR and
the chief implementing agencies (the MOAF and SOF) were judged to be strong. It is worth noting that
this first phase of reforms piloted some difficult privatizations (pig and poultry units,) which were
successfully completed. This showed in advance of the anticipated second phase reforms - which were
largely concerned with privatization - that the GOR had the capacity to undertake such reforms when it had
the will. The team did recognize the risks likely to be encountered during the second phase, and
characterized these (accurately) in the first project supervision report as "political opposition to reform
from entrenched interest groups."
The project design was not, in retrospect, adequate to deal with those risks. As mentioned previously, the
multi-tranche design proved problematic - it would have been preferable to consider two successive single
tranche loans rather than one, or some alternative to adjustment lending (for the second phase) to achieve
the desired privatizations. Bank Lending performance (preparation and appraisal) is overall rated as
Satisfactory.
7.2 Supervision:
The ASAL was intensively supervised by a core team largely based in Bucharest (lonita, Tesliuc, Luca),
with leadership from the Deputy Resident Representative (Dhanji), who served as ASAL Team Leader up
to mid-1998. In July 1998 the deputy team leader (Gordon), based in Washington, assumed the TL
position. The current Resident Representative (Alahdad) substantially improved communications with key
decision makers concerned with ASAL, after his arrival in mid-1999. The Sector Manager (Tuck) and the
Country Director (Vorkink) also played an active role in pressing decision-makers for action on key
measures outlined during supervision missions. During 1999, an especially turbulent year for ASAL
implementation, their interventions (letters, phone calls, meetings in Bucharest and Washington) provided
critical support to the supervision team. Without the strenuous combined efforts of this team the
privatization of large pig units (spring, 1999) and rollback of 15 ordinances contravening ASAL (summer,
fall) would not have occurred.
The ASAL team gave significant attention to the development impact of reformns from 1997 to 2000.
Periodic studies of reform impact were undertaken, including two sample surveys evaluating the impact of
the voucher scheme, an assessment of the impact of changes in land laws on land market transactions;
analysis of the pass-through impact of real exchange depreciation on producer prices for grain; and field
- 18 -



surveys of privatized grain companies.
Concerning routine supervision performance, the ASAL team was proactive in identifying implementation
problems early, evaluating their causes (lack of political will, technical difficulties,) discussing them with
Government, and outlining key follow-up actions that were required in order to address them. The team's
PSR performance ratings and comments identified the underlying causes of poor performance, and mission
reports gave concrete guidance on what specific actions could be taken to put the operation back on track
or improve performance.
The first substantial implementation problems were identified during a December, 1997 supervision
mission, six months after Board. The PSR noted that "ASAL implementation has slowed to the point
where, although overall progress can still be rated satisfactory, conditions allowing release of second
tranche in June, 1998 are in doubt." The chief problems included lack of progress in implementing a
second land restitution, which was a necessary condition for implementation of state farms privatization;
delays in privatization of cereals companies; and delays in implementing a second round of agricultural
tariff reductions. The underlying cause of the implementation problems for both privatizations was
identified as political rather than technical. The PSR noted "deepening fractures within the ruling coalition,
which have intensified since November, when a vote of no-confidence in the government's reform policies
was voted down in Parliament. Implementation of an ambitious agricultural reform program has thus been
undermined by the coalition's difficulties."
Land restitution legislation was thus directly blocked by political divisions in the coalition, while these
divisions were increasingly exploited by key interest groups (such as state cereals company managers) to
prevent reform implementation. The step required to unblock the privatization progress for many of the
cereals companies was the simple act of gazetting an already approved Government Decision that would
have transferred the inherited debt of the state marketing agency (ANPA) to the state budget. This would
have allowed the transfer of the assets of ANPA's successor grain storage companies to the SOF.
Privatization could have then proceeded for these companies, which were in high demand by private sector
buyers. The key actions necessary to move forward on these privatizations were pointed out in discussions
between the Team Leader and the MOAF in Bucharest, and in an Aide-Memoire and the PSR. As in most
subsequent Aide-Memoires, the team also prepared detailed proposals for follow-up steps necessary to
fully meet key conditions.
On the next supervision mission, in mid-1998, it became clear that the operation was in serious trouble. No
progress had been made in resolving any of the above problems, and new ones emerged in the slowdown of
pig and poultry firrn privatization, and a new govemment policy program that threatened first tranche
incentives reforms. Given this continued lack of progress, and the fact that ASAL second tranche
conditions were scheduled to have been completed by June, 1998, the team rated ASAL performance as
Unsatisfactory and noted in the Aide-Memoire that: ". . .without a strong renewal of Government support
for the program, along with clear evidence of substantial implementation progress, the loan is likely to
lapse. The mission can envisage two possible courses of action regarding the future of the ASAL. If the
Government views its agricultural strategy as fundamentally at odds with the ASAL, cancellation of the
operation is the most appropriate response. This will reduce the burden of commitment fees on
Government. Alternatively, if the Government wishes to support ASAL reforms, we strongly urge that it
reaffirm its commitments and demonstrate this through substantial implementation progress by the end of
September." The mission attached a letter to Minister of Finance Daniel Daianu underlining the
seriousness of the situation and annexed a set of intermediate implementation targets to be achieved by the
end of September.
By the next supervision mission at the end of 1998, public dissatisfaction with government economic
- 19-



management had increased in response to two continuous years of economic decline (-6.15 in 1997 and
-5.4% in 1998). Dissension had intensified within the coalition over reform policies. This was the
backdrop for a government reshuffling that occurred just before the arrival of the mission (December 1998)
and included replacement of the Minister of Agriculture and Food Dinu Gavrilescu by loan Avram
Muresan. A new management team was also installed at the SOF. The new government was still
rhetorically committed to reforms, but it remained to be seen whether the new ministers had the political
wherewithal and commitment to implement the agreed policy reforms.
The December 1998 supervision mission was one of the most difficult in the four years of ASAL. Upon
arrival it was clear that interim reform targets set in June had not been met. Much of the discussion
revolved around two areas in which forward progress was seen as possible: agro-enterprise privatization
and trade tariff reductions. In a third area, state farms privatization, legislation for the second land
restitution remained blocked in Parliament and it was uncertain whether it would pass in the foreseeable
future.
Progress in privatization since the previous supervision mission had been minimal (Table 4: note that the
Table reflects performance in the second half of 1998). The main concems were privatization of cereals,
and pig and poultry companies. Even though progress had occurred for pigs and poultry since June, a small
number of very large companies, including COMTIM, remained unprivatized. These accounted for almost
one-half of sector assets.
Table 4: SOF Cumulative Privatisation Achievements and Planned Targets
COMPANIES PRIVA TISED         COMPANIES TO BE PRIVA TISED            ASAL
Enterprise type      Cum.      Cum       Cum.        SOF          SOF         SOF    SECOND
Total as   Total as   Total as  commitment  commitment  commitment  TRANCHE
of June    of Oct.   of Nov.      For   for March   for June 30   TARGETS
15       15        30      Dec. 31          31
(1)      (2) _      3)        (4)          (5)         (6)         (7)
Pigandpoultry          68        80        86          91          101         105         105
Cerealcom (grain        0         1   1 + two    2 + 4 silos        14          20          20
storage)                                 silos
Comcereal (grain        0         6         7          17           30                      30
storage)    ___________
Agricultural service  1,102    1,185    1,412        1,500           -                    1,500
Seeds                   1         2         2   3 + sales of         6                       6
asset shares
Source: SOF
The ASAL mission found itself faced by an entirely new team of decision makers who pledged to fully
comply with ASAL privatization conditions, if only given time. The mission decided to work with the new
team and define a new set of progress targets for the end of December (column 4, table 4) that would
provide sufficient assurance of forward momentum to allow full completion of privatization conditions by
June, 1999 (column 6). This strategy appeared successful, as the conditions were met in June, and the
dialogue reaffirmned the BankJGOR partnership. This progress only occurred with extraordinary efforts on
the part of the entire ASAL team - the Resident Mission Staff and TL, the ResRep and Deputy ResRep,
the Country Director and ECCSD management - to keep the privatizations on track. The State Ownership
Fund ultimately proved itself capable of completing the necessary privatization, but frequent interventions
- 20 -



at the level of the Prime Minister by the Country Director were necessary to avoid derailments.
By mid-year 1999 the privatization conditions were substantially completed, and the only unfulfilled legal
condition related to state farms privatization. The legal obstacles preventing state farms privatization were
not removed until the end of 1999. The MOAF did play a constructive role in supporting state farms
privatization during the year. It was not the MOAF, but factions within the coalition that opposed the
process.
On other major aspects of the program, namely incentives reforms, cereals market conditions, and changes
in the role of the MOAF, however, the MOAF was clearly uncommitted. These problems, which became
clear in mid-1999, are described in detail in Section 4.
ASAL second tranche was not released in December 1999, in part because the state farms condition was
unfulfilled (although, as mentioned above, the key legislative steps had been taken to unblock this process
and move it forward). At the time, a restructuring of the second tranche ($150 million) into two tranches of
$100 million and $50 million was discussed, in order to allow release for conditions met (i.e. privatization,
tariff reductions). Under this proposed arrangement, a third tranche of $50 was to be held back pending
completion of state farms privatization. This restructuring was put into effect in June, 2000 and the ASAL
was given its final extension to December, 2000. By December 2000, the state farms conditions had been
met. However, the third tranche was cancelled due to the absence of a macroeconomic program.
In sum, ASAL cancellation might have been justified in December, 1998, and there was reason to do so
from mid-1999 onward due to compulsive policy backtracking, both threatened and actual. As argued in a
previous section, the repeated threats of backtracking became a real problem impeding attainment of reform
outcomes because they undermined private sector expectations about the permanence of reforms, thereby
limiting positive private sector responses to reforms. This is one factor in the still very weak development
of the private sector in early 2001.
It may be argued that the approach followed during supervision of repeated extensions, along with
restructuring in June 2000, was vindicated because the policy dialogue was continued and the program was
largely completed, with the exception of macroeconomic conditions. However, the poor performance on
project outcomes documented by this ICR gives one pause. This performance was due, in part, to slow
policy implementation and backtracking, which undermined the sustainability of ASAL policies. While
repeated extensions did allow the dialogue to continue, they also pernitted continuation of the back and
forth pattern of policy implementation, and they reinforced the GOR's view - amply revealed in its actions -
that promises to the Bank regarding ASAL need not be kept. These promises were routinely made, in the
form of recommitment to the ASAL framework, and then broken. From mid 1999 onward, there were
additional breaches, including:
- failure to withhold 15 ordinances from the Council of Ministers, as promised in meetings with the Bank;
- failure to keep to commitments to withhold from diesel voucher and SGR interventions in year 2000 (the
commitment to withhold from diesel voucher interventions was made in the letter to the Bank from the
Prime Minister); and
- failure to deliver MOAF subsidies in the form of vouchers in year 2000, as promised in a letter from the
MOAF to the Bank in December, 1999
Some action was necessary on the part of the Bank to restore credibility to the dialogue and to ensure that
agreements would be maintained. The extensions and restructuring were not sufficient. One of two actions
would have been preferable - either earlier cancellation of the loan, or a restructuring that provided much
- 21 -



less than the $100 million actually released in June 2000. The latter would have given positive support for
privatization achievements, while reinforcing the need to maintain first tranche and LSP commitments.
The Bank's supervision effort is judged to be Unsatisfactory.
7.3 Overall Bank performance:
Taking into consideration the experience of preparation, appraisal and supervision, overall Bank
performance is rated Unsatisfactory.
Borrower
7.4 Preparation:
The Borrower gave good input to loan preparation, giving the team access the necessary data, contributing
to description and analysis of the policy regime, attending workshops and commenting on papers. Borrower
performance is rated Satisfactory.
7.5 Government implementation peiformance:
The Prime Minister's office and the Ministry of Finance were a final recourse when ASAL reforms went
off track, as they frequently did. Faced with lack of commitment by the implementing bodies, the Bank
raised these issues at a higher level and requested the response of the Minister of Finance or the Prime
Minister on whether they really wanted the loan. This occurred repeatedly, for example when SOF
implementation of reforms was stalled, as in late 1997, 1998 and early 1999, and when MOAF
backtracked (or threatened to backtrack) on incentives reforms, as happened in 1998, 1999 and 2000. The
GOR's answer was invariably that it wanted the loan. It then had to follow up with the implementing
agencies and ensure compliance with conditions.
On macroeconomic policy, implementation was erratic, as the basic structural problems at the root of
macroeconomic imbalance were only very partially addressed after 1997. This had a direct impact on
ASAL through the reduced demand for agricultural products that resulted from lower growth.
On balance, government implementation performance is judged to be Unsatisfactory.
7.6 Implementing Agency:
First tranche performance by MOAF and the SOF was satisfactory as all conditions - some of which were
extremely difficult both administratively and politically - were fulfilled on time.
Second tranche performance was unsatisfactory due to the slow pace of privatization during 1997 and 1998
(by SOF) and repeated backtracking or threatened backtracking by the MOAF on first tranche incentives
policies and LSP commitments (see Section 4). Although technical staff in the SOF performed admirably
under difficult conditions, decision-makers in SOF and MOAF these bodies would not or could not take the
necessary steps to implement reforms in the face of political opposition. Implementing agency performance
is rated Unsatisfactory.
7.7 Overall Borrower performance:
Overall performance was Unsatisfactory, due to slow privatization progress and policy backtracking. If the
Borrower was uncertain about whether it wanted to support a program perceived to have high political
costs and small benefits, it would have been far preferable to let the loan lapse and start the policy dialogue
anew.
8. Lessons Learned
- 22 -



Successive single tranche operations would have been preferable to one comprehensive two-tranche
operation. Such an approach would have avoided the need for a detailed pre-specification of second
tranche measures. It would have avoided the need for the very difficult decisions required as each new
closure date loomed, on whether partial implementation progress justified extension or cancellation.
Maintenance of reform momentum during the second phase of reforms would then be dependent upon
definition of a general set of reform measures and principles in the first operation, and agreement on a
second follow-up operation in the CAS. The second operation would then have been developed while
learning from implementation experience of the first operation.
Generating early positive results are necessary for political sustainability. This requires early attention
to measures aimed at building supportive laws and organizations that improve market responses to reform.
In many cases, mentalities of line ministries will only move away from an administrative control approach,
and their support for reforms will only be sustained, if they see tangible results in terms of increased market
activity and productivity. Seminars on market economics will not by themselves create market oriented
ministries. The Bank can assist in accelerating market responses to reform by providing timely technical
assistance (possibly within the loan), along with public goods investments, at an early stage of the reform
process. There are different ways that this can be achieved. Several possible options include: (1) a hybrid
loan that includes technical assistance, (2) an investment loan with policy conditions (as in the new
approaches being tested in the Turkey Agriculture Reform Implementation Project (ARIP), or (3)
investment loans closely coordinated with adjustment lending.
Generating early, positive results also requires rapid, efficient implementation. It is clear that if
agricultural reforms (particularly privatization) had been fully implemented earlier in the program, the
synergies between different reform components (incentives reform, privatization) could have been more
fully exploited and the desired market responses and productivity changes would be more advanced that at
present.
The Ministry ofAgriculture and Food saw ASAL as all (political) pain and no gain. Adjustment loans
bring foreign exchange to the Ministry of Finance, but typically bring little in the way of tangible support
to line ministries. This is an age-old problems with Bank sector adjustment operations, but it became
painfully apparent in this case, as MOAF commitment to key elements of the program waned as early as
1998.
The Romania ASAL, at $350 million, was too large. This is the largest agriculture sector adjustment loan
the Bank has yet extended to an Europe & Central Asia (ECA) country. The size of the loan was in fact
increased shortly before Board, from $250 million to $350 million, based on a decision by upper
management during a visit to Bucharest. Although the loan conditions were demanding, the loan was
excessive in relation to the conditions and to the economic importance of the agriculture sector. It induced
a strong effort to obtain tranche release - which became most intense just before the closing date, when
cancellation threatened and last minute measures were taken to implement conditions - without any
compensating increase in genuine commitment to reform through a steady and sustained effort.
9. Partner Comments
(a) Borrower/inmplementing agency:
(a) comments from borrower/implementing agency
(i) This section gives the verbatim comments on the ICR from current counterparts in the MOAF:
- 23 -



Summary regarding the evaluation of the ASAL program
According to the general analysis of the ASAL program, we can appreciate that the reforms
generated by this program were welcome and remain an accomplishment for the Romanian agricultural
sector.
On the background of social-economical-administrative restructuring of the Romanian
Economy, the ASAL program has accelerated the necessary reforms for each component of our
agriculture and has determined major changes in the structure and operating rules of the agricultural
sector in Romania.
Applying the reforms in the price and protection at he border system had some positive effects
on increasing competitive prices of the Romanian agricultural products. But there were also some
cases, when this came into contradiction with the objective of accord with the instruments and
mechanisms of the EU agricultural policy, in the preparation process for joining the EU and the
perspective of the new multilateral trade negotiations with OMC.
The lagging behind in some domains of the economy (like the tertiary sector of the services) has
hindered the turn to the best account of these reforms.
The need for reforming the Romanian agriculture was obvious when the implementation of the
ASAL program had started.
The World Bank had unfortunately taken over the image deficit; caused by reforms especially
by the collapse of the state-owned livestock sector (we must stress that the previous subvention system
became incompatible with the principles of the World Bank). This had a negative impact even on some
businesses, which have been previously financed by the World Bank (credits given to our Government
through "Banca Agricola").
Some returns to previous practices, which are incompatible with the ASAL program, have
given only the impression of unstable reforms, because a tum back to previous situations is out of
question.
The positive effects of the ASAL program will continue to arise and that's why another
evaluation in one year from now on, will highlight this fact better.
All these lead us to appreciate the ASAL outcomes as satisfactory and the persistence of the
reforms as probable.
Regarding the performance of the World Bank and the Ministry for Agriculture, Food and
Forests, this would have been probably higher if local expertise had been used more.
As we also mentioned at the ASAL evaluation seminar, our Ministry for Agriculture, Food and
Forests is interested in continuing the dialog with the World Bank on agricultural policies, on
maintaining the accomplishments of the ASAL program and carrying on what hasn't been yet finished.
The decision of our Ministry to continue the privatisation of the former IAS and the aim to
finish it by the year-end is well known. A detailed action plan has been conceived in this sense and is
- 24 -



applied at present.
The Minister will also discuss in future with the World Bank regarding the subvention of the
agriculture, in order to maintain it under reasonable limits.
On the other hand, our Ministry considers that the ASAL reforms will be consolidated with the
support given by the World Bank to the agriculture, forestry and rural development, through projects
for sustaining services for agriculture, rural financing, rural development, rehabilitation of the irrigation
and for development of the forestry.
Adrian - Aurelian Raducan
Secretary of State
Ministry of Agriculture, Food and Forestry
(ii) This section gives a summary of comments on the ASAL given by counterparts in the previous
govenmment (in MOAF, MOF and SOF). The detailed questionnaire on which this is based (which was
distributed before finalization of the ICR) can be found in Annex 11.
A questionnaire was sent to decision makers from the previous government who had served as counterparts
to the ASAL team. Responses from four key decision makers are summarized here.
1. Contribution of the World Bank ASAL project to the overall economic development of the agricultural
sector
There was a general consensus that the contribution of ASAL was high in regard to: establishment of a
more open trade regime (exports and imports); reduction in the role of the state in agriculture markets;
shifting of subsidies toward direct transfers to beneficiaries versus commodity subsidies; and reduction in
negative impact of agriculture on the macroeconomy. The ASAL contribution was considered to be low
concerning: increase in overall efficiency of the agricultural economy; improvement in the role of the MOA;
and improvement in land market efficiency.
2. Do you believe that the reform program supported by the ASAL could have succeeded without the
World Bank's assistance?
Here, all responded that it was unlikely that the reform program could have succeeded without the Bank's
assistance.
3. Bank performance
The consensus view was that Bank performance was acceptable/good concerning: timeliness and
effectiveness of intervention, support and advice; relevance of World Bank advice; and the period incurred
from project preparation until final approval. Opinion was divided (ranging from poor to good/very good)
regarding: overall project design; efficiency of World Bank supervision; and appraisal procedures.
4. Main constraints to more efficient project implementation?
Respondents from the Ministry of Finance and Ministry of Agriculture gave the following answers
regarding implementation constraints:
- 25 -



MOF: the program was too comprehensive; there were frequent changes of decision makers; monitoring of
implementation was poor because the project was so comprehensive (this appears to be a criticism of GOR
since the MOF respondent rated Bank supervision performance highly).
MOA: there was a need for more decisive steps by Government; there was a need to build more ownership
of reforms at different levels, in advance; GOR should play by the rules of a "win-win" game; legal
framework was inadequate and delayed privatization; there was no political support for reforms; the project
was insulated from the real Romanian reform agenda.
5. What should be done to improve future policy dialogue?
Here, answers were received from MOF, MOA, and the SOF:
MOF: need for better design of projects that are more focused, better targeted and for a shorter period; need
for programns to support absorption of EU funds; need for better coordination with IMF's requirements
related to the sector; there should be no changes in WB team for a project cycle; there is a need for more
seminars with advanced countries in Central Europe.
MOA: need for more building of consensus and ownership among agencies and ministries before
implementation; officials should publicly explain effects of measures to population; nondistortionary and
market oriented policies are required; the family farm should be targeted; privatization must be decisive.
SOF: need for more honesty and transparency; there must be a real desire for reforms as a prerequisite; the
legislative framework for reforms needs to be in place.
6. Please rank the importance of remaining problems in agricultural sector environment in Romania
The final question showed a consensus on that the following problems were a priority: regulations for
starting a new business; small size of farms; lack of farmer skill or capability; high interest rates;
commodity price instability; crime and corruption; difficult access to credit
Problems that were given little importance, or on which there was no consensus were: high tax burden; lack
of access to commodity and input markets by farmers; tax administration.
One respondent from the MOF made a point of adding that lack of agricultural services (e.g. marketing) is
extremely important (this similar to market access, which others considered less irnportant).
(b) Cofinianciers:
not applicable
(c) Other partners (NGOs/private sector):
A participant from one donor agency expressed surprise at the weak agriculture sector performance during
ASAL and asked if it is expected that when one carries out such a reform, the results are small in the first
phase. Did the World Bank expect such results from the very beginning?
Another donor agency representative was optimistic and said he believee it worth continuing support for
this type of activity. He noted that dramatic changes have occurred in the policy area, and emphasized that
of all the ASAL objectives (reform of incentives regime, reduction of state role through privatization,
creation of active land, finance and cereals markets, revision of MOAF role), none are in dispute
- 26 -



any more. He expressed support for support development of the grain warehouse receipts system
for financing purposes.
He continued: "What was discussed at the workshop were the failures of ASAL, that is, the fact
that the full benefit of reforms have not materialized and more must be done to derive these.
From the fact that this was the tone, one can consider ASAL a success. We are not discussing
anymore if it was right or wrong, but what has to be done to achieve the full benefits, and this is
an indicator of success."
The participant from a third donor agency noted ASAL is compatible with the objective of EU
accession, and that structural reforms are needed in order to increase the competitiveness of
Romanian agriculture.
10. Additional Information
- 27 -



Annex 1. Key Performance Indicators/Log Frame Matrix
Outcome I Impact Indicators:
lnltrlai                                Pro  td In lae PSR                      Ac-t-irWL*-g}- D  e- et. .st i E ,E
1. sustained and credible reform of     Satisfactory                            Unsatisfactory
agricultural incentives
2. support for creation of a competitive  Satisfactory                           Satisfactory
financial network serving agriculture and the
rural sector
3. development of a competitive land market, Satisfactory                        Satisfactory
including land sales and leasing
4. development of an active private cereals   Satisfactory                       Unsatisfactory
market, with assurance of reasonable levels
of domestic food security
5. reduction in the state's role in production   Satisfactory                    Satisfactory
through privatization of state-owned
enterprises in agriculture
6. revision of the role of the Ministry of  Unsatisfactory                       Unsatisfactory
Agriculture and Food to one consistent with a
market oriented agriculture
7. macroeconomic policies               Unsatisfactory                           Unsatisfactory
Output Indicators:
Ind ctrMtI                            rjcstInltPSMlj.tEIat
1. end to price controls and price premia;    Unsatisfactory                    Unsatisfactory
reduction in average and maximum import
tariffs and an end to quantitative restrictions
on exports; and a reduction in subsidies
along with improvement in their allocation to
make them less distorting (e.g. redirection of
input and commodity subsidies to a general
input voucher subsidy program targeted to
small farmers
2. cessation of Central Bank refinancing of  Satisfactory                        Satisfactory
agriculture, with remaining subsidies placed
on budget; reduced levels of direction credit
provide on a temporary basis, with improved
allocation mechanisms aimed at reducing
distortions; revision of credit cooperatives
law; and improvement in collateral framework
3. legislatiive changes to reduce hindrances  Satisfactory                       Satisfactory
to land sale and leasing, and to allow private
claimants to repossess legitimately claimed
land lying under state farms
4. reduction in State Grain Reserves levels   Unsatisfactory                     Unsatisfactory
and improvement in management of SGR
stock rotations to reduce market impact;
establishment of an adequate legal
framework for warehouse receipots aiong
with a program to establish inter-professional
associations in agricultural marketing chains
5. privatization or initiation of liquidation for   Satisfactory                 Satisfactory
most agro-industrial companies (covered all
pig, poultry and seed companies, most
agriucultural service firms, and a majority of
grain storage companies) and initiation of
state fanrns privatization
- 28 -



6. reorganization of the MOAF; initiation of   Satisfactory                     Satisfactory
agricultural grades and standards system;
implementabon of an action plan on rural
development (SAPARD)
7. macroeconomic policies               Unsatisfactory                          Unsatsfactory
End of project
- 29 -



Annex 2. Project Costs and Financing
Project Cost by Component (in US$ million equivalent)
Apia.         Esiae           Apria
First Tranche                                        200.00          200.00             100
Second Tranche                                       150.00          100.00              66
Third Tranche                                                         50.00              33
Total Baseline Cost                                  350.00          350.00
Total Project Costs             350.00          350.00
Total Financing Required              350.00          350.00
Project Financing by Tranche (in US$ million equivalent)
First Tranch           200.00                      200.00                      100.0 |
Second Tranche         150.00                       100.00                      66.7|
Third Tranche           0.00                        50.00                       0.0  |         _
- 30 -



Annex 3. Economic Costs and Benefits
not applicable since this was an adjustment operation
-31 -



Annex 4. Bank Inputs
(a) Missions:                  _____r_ - - - __ __
Stage of Project Cycle                  No. of Persons and Specialty             Performance Rating
(e.g. 2 Economists, I FMS, etc.)    Implementation Development
Month/Year    Count            Specialty                      Progress      Objective
Identification/Preparation
December 1994                5   2 economists, I agricultural
economist, I analyst, I country
officer
March 1995                   5   2 economists, 2 agricultural
economists, I rural finance
July 1995                    4   2 economists, I agricultural
economist, I agricultural
marketing
September 1995               1   1 economist
May 1996                     2   2 economists
November 1996                6   2 economists, I agricultral
economist, I finance, 2 rural
finance
Appraisal/Negotiation
April 1997                   3   3 economists
Supervision
November 1997                1   1 economist                         S              S
February 1998                5   2 economists, 2 agriculturists, I   S              S
finance
July 1998                    4   2 economists, 2 agriculturists      U             U
December 1998                4   2 economists, 2 agriculturists      U             U
September 1999               3   2 economists, I agriculturist       U             U
November 1999                3   2 economists, I agriculturist       S              S
March 2000                   3   2 economists, I agriculturist       S             S
ICR
January 2001
April 2001                        1 economist
(b) Staff:
Stage of Project Cycle                    Actual/Latest Estimate
No. Staff weeks              US$  0)
Identification/Preparation              178.8                       639.41
Appraisal/Negotiation                     19.0                       26.55
Supervision                               n/a                       353.00
ICR                                       n/a
Total                                     n/a
Note: Differentiation between Identification/Preparation and AppraisalNegotiation and staff week
informnation are no longer possible in SAP. The only differentiation available is between lending and
- 32 -



supervision.
- 33 -



Annex 5. Ratings for Achievement of Objectives/Outputs of Components
(H=High, SU=Substantial, M=Modest, N=Negligible, NA=Not Applicable)
Rating
ZMacro policies                           O H  OSUOM  O N  O NA
Sector Policies                          O H  OSU*M  ON  O NA
0 Physical                                O H  OSUOM  O N  O NA
El Financial                              O H  OSUOM  O N  O NA
* Institutional Development               0 H  O SUO M  0 N  0 NA
O Environmental                           O H  OSUOM  O N  O NA
Social
Ol Poverty Reduction                O H  OSUOM  O N  O NA
El Gender                           O H  OSUOM  O N  * NA
CJ Other (Please specify)           O H  OSUOM  O N  O NA
Z Private sector development              0 H  O SU O M  0 N  0 NA
 Public sector management                O H  0 SU 0 M  * N  0 NA
F Other (Please specify)                  O H  OSUOM  O N  O NA
- 34 -



Annex 6. Ratings of Bank and Borrower Performance
(HS=Highly Satisfactory, S=Satisfactory, U=Unsatisfactory, HU=Highly Unsatisfactory)
6.1 Bankperformance                                 Rating
 Lending                                            OHS*S OU OHU
 Supervision                                        OHS OS  *U  OHU
N Overall                                            OHS OS  *  U  O HU
6.2 Borrower performance                             Rating
J Preparation                                        OHSS    O U  O HU
 Government implementation performance              O HS O S  0  U  0 HU
 Implementation agency performance                  O HS O S   * U  0 HU
F Overall                                            OHS OS  *  u  O HU
- 35 -



Annex 7. List of Supporting Documents
"Romania Farm Survey," World Bank/EU, 1996
"Private Agriculture in Romania: Rural Household Surveys 1996-2000," Rusu, Lazaroiu, Abraham, 2001
"Land Transactions in Romania," Roy Prosterman, Jennifer Duncan, 1999
"Input Subsidies and the Voucher Scheme," Lucian Luca, 2001
"Privatization of Production and Processing Companies in Agriculture," Gabriel lonita et al., 2001
"Rural Household Incomes and Market Participation in a Reform Environment," Emil Tesliuc, 2001
"Warehouse Receipts, Interprofessional Grain Organizations, Seeds, and Grain Grading Reforms," by
Dinu Deaconescu and luliana lonel, 2001
"Agricultural Sector Policies and Performance: 1997-2000," Henry Gordon, 2001 (presentation
overheads and notes)
Please note: these documents are available upon request from Henry Gordon, x32961
- 36 -



Annex 8. Beneficiary Survey Results
A sample survey (Abraham, Lazaroiu, and Rusu) was commissioned to follow-up on a similar survey
undertaken in 1996 (the Bank/EU farm suvey). The results indicate that in many respects the peasant
economy has changed little since 1996. Most households (about 80%) still have agriculture as the primary
occupation and there is very little non-agricultural activity. Pensions remain a major income source.
Average land holdings and household size are still extremely small, with some increase in very small
holdings because of the breakup of holdings between heirs. There is very little labor hiring.
Although buying and selling of land is still rare, land lease activity continues to grow. This is a notable
trend: in 1996 14% of interviewed households leased out land, whereas in 2001, 19% leased out their land.
The percentage of households that leased in land grew from 2% to 6% over the period. The emergence of a
land market is perceived as positive by 75% of those interviewed.
On average, production pattems were relatively unchanged from 1996, with maintenance of the traditional
diversified crop and livestock pattem. Household connections to inputs markets (along with input use) and
output markets actually fell. There remains a very strong link between household connection to input
markets and size of land area operated.
For those households that do buy input and sell outputs on a market, the state sector "has surrendered its
position to the private sector". Yet overall, rural households still exhibit survival behavior, rather than a
forward looking commercial orientation. One positive trend among those households that did invest, was
the 23% increase in land purchase
Results from a second analysis by Tesliuc (2001) analyzing five successive years of household survey data,
support the farm survey results in many respects. Tesliuc finds that peasant farms continue to act as a
buffer against economy-wide shocks - in fact farm (and pension) income was relatively stable over the
period. Unfortunately, overall rural incomes fell from 1995-99, and household poverty increased, mainly
because of the decline in the second largest income source for rural households - wages from off-farm
(mainly urban/formal) employment.
Tesliuc also finds an increase in subsistence behavior. However, he notes: "it appears that pro-market
behavioral change did emerge during this period, and this paper quantifies them. The evidence is that (a) in
relative terms, the reduction in the incidence of agricultural sales was much smaller than the overall shock
in incomes; (b) there is evidence of increased household specialization in livestock breeding; (c) there
occurred an increase in the incidence of land transactions, and in the share of land subject to such
transactions, and (d) households increased their accumulation of productive assets and livestock." He
concludes that if macroeconomic stability is attained, and economywide growth is initiated, "the
participation of the peasant farms into markets is expected to recover quickly."
Finally, the farm survey asked respondents their opinions on ASAL policies: price liberalization, the
voucher scheme, and land market liberalization, as well as some government measures that went against
ASAL principles: producer price premia , diesel vouchers, wheat storage subsidies. The table below shows
that most households were familiar with the three ASAL policies, plus the diesel vouchers scheme, but not
the others. This is because most did not have access to the other subsidy schemes, which have been
channeled to larger farms (premia) or off farn units (storage subsidies). Of the four schemes that most
households know of, most considered all four a good measure. Of the four schemes, only one scheme, the
input voucher subsidy, was far and away considered to be the most beneficial (64% of households preferred
it). Price liberalization came next (10.4%) followed by diesel vouchers (5.6%) and land market
- 37 -



liberalization (3.2%).
'Perception of ASAL and GOR policy measures ( %/6)
Consider a     Which was most
Measures                                  Are you familiar?  good measure? beneficial to you
Price liberalization of agricultural products          79.5            71.1           10.4
Voucher system implementation                           97.2           91.6             64
Land market liberalization                             86.3            76.4            3.2
Producer premia for milk and wheat                       59            52.7            1.4
Diesel vouchers                                        91.1            83.2            5.6
State aid for wheat storage                            45.1            37.7              0
Grant in aids for livestock                            45.2            39.8            0.7
Ssource: CURS survey for ICR
- 38 -



Annex 9. Stakeholder Workshop Results
Edited transcript of ASAL-ICR Workshop minutes
April 19, 2001
Bucharest, Continental Hotel
The first presentation was on ASAL Implementation and Agricultural Performance and was made by Mr.
Henry Gordon. The comments to this presentation were as follows:
One questioner asked if it was normal that when one carries out a reform, the results in the first phase are
small, or did the World Bank expect slow results from the very beginning?
Mr. H. Gordon: In transition economies, there is an inevitably a period when sector performance is poor,
but the practical question is whether with increased attention to market institutions (e.g. the warehouse
receipt system), and faster reform implementation, performance could have been improved.
Second questioner, a researcher: The study's presentation is important and reflection on it is needed. The
period of the ASAL reforms was a period of general contraction of the economy. The report allows us to
discuss the following issues:
1.    To what extent was this type of stop and go reform with its delays and accelerations, correct?
2.     What other policy would have been right?
3.     What policy would be the right one from now on?
Another questioner, a journalist: Is the ASAL program consistent with the requirements that Romania has
to meet for accession to the EU? The EU will strike at the Romanian agriculture and will annihilate it, as it
is half finished already. As it was designed, was the ASAL program consistent with EU accession
requirements? Romania will also have to re-do the process carried out during the 1950-1970 period, when
it knew 25 years of exodus from agriculture towards industry. Now towards what sector would the
population leaving agriculture go?
The main problem of Romania's agriculture is Romanian industry, which is incapable of living on its own
feet and is a parasite on agriculture. ASAL did not take over an isolated sector, without links to the rest of
the Romanian economy! What did ASAL do in this direction? The results can be seen. The Romanian
industry is not able to subsidize agriculture, which occurs in countries where agriculture has flourished, on
the contrary it squeezes it!
Donor representative 1: Romania needs a viable market economy to accede, therefore ASAL is compatible
with the objective of EU accession. Structural reforms are needed in order to increase the competitiveness
of Romanian agriculture.
Journalist: With subsidies of 40% how can an agriculture sector without protection complete with one that
incorporates subsidies of 40%? The EU needs importers, not exporters. Soon Romania will have to open
the agricultural file for accesion, and the EU has surpluses for all we can produce! For what are we then
preparing? What policies are we to follow from now on? For what aim?
Donor representative 1: Already new mutual concessions have been adopted as regards trade in
- 39 -



agricultural products with the EU, and there is pre-accession financial aid for supporting the development
of the agricultural sector.
Member of parliament: ASAL has had good parts, but I am unhappy with its consequences for Romanian
agriculture (i.e. fall in sector value added over the period). We are continuing to import subsidized
agricultural products from our neighbors (Central European (CEFTA members). Through structural
adjustments we have to take the steps necessary to alleviate poverty. ASAL had both positive and negative
influences on the restructuring in agriculture. Livestock diminished and we are consuming imported meat,
although we have a tradition of production in the sector. This program does not meet our needs, we need
subsidies. I have heard such views from many specialists from Westem Europe.
A private grain trader noted that ASAL had good results as regards the grain warehouse sector, and this is
because farmers located near the silos have sales options. ASAL was in other respects a disaster for
Romania's agriculture. For the future, Romania's agriculture cannot develop with farms of 2.6 hectares
and without subsidies We give 1 million lei per ha. How can we compete with 10% subsidies against
farmers that have 46% subsidies? Agriculture cannot develop if it is not protected through custom tariffs. It
also has to be totally privatized, but in a healthy manner. The conclusion is that we need agricultural
policies as in the EU. As regards subsidies, we are poor, but we have to think what we can do. We also
need a credit policy.
Journalist: From where are we going to get those subsidies? You cannot ask for subsidies when industry is
incapable of giving them, but continues to take resources from agriculture. Subsidies given to agriculture
will continue to be extracted by industry through price increases for agricultural inputs.
Government trade specialist: It is absolutely our problem what we do with agriculture. It is a dangerous
illusion to consider that the problems of Romanian agriculture are the EU's problems. The question is: was
ASAL adequate to Romania's subsistence agriculture? The answer is - no. If 60% of landowners are
retired people or near retirement, can they cope with the competition from neighboring countries, where
there are export subsidies? Custom tariffs are low, of maximum 45% at some products. Competition is
beneficial to a system when that system exists. But is the Romanian agriculture a system? We must rebuild
the farm and the idea of commercial agriculture.
Researcher/investment analyst: The trade specialist knows the ASAL program but the effects of
maintaining high custom tariffs on an impoverished population that pays 65% of its income on food
consumption would be extremely negative. What would a 145% tariff on basic foodstuffs mean? In fact,
the meat processors have pleaded repeatedly for import liberalisation.
The next presentation was by Mr. Lucian Luca ("Subsidies during ASAL. An Analysis of the Voucher
System")
Journalist: What was your final assessment of the voucher system? Was it good? Do you have any
evaluation of the situation of net transfers towards agriculture through the voucher campaign or of the
inverse transfer? Many politicians discuss the idea of subsidies and mistake the budgetary effort with the
net transfer between branches.
L. Luca - Overall, the vouchers were a success in the last four years. The results were: (i) orientation
towards small farmers, (ii) the development of inputs markets (the fertiliser market gained, as well as the
pesticide one, their distribution networks expanded). As overall inputs levels remained almost constant in
this difficult period, this is due in my opinion to the vouchers. As regards the net transfer among branches,
-40 -



no estimation was made.
Private grain trader: The effect of those vouchers on production per ha was not visible. Wouldn't it have
been better to use other levers also?
Former decision maker in the Ministry of Agriculture: There are things that are misunderstood and that
were not presented:
1.    What percentage of the cost per hectare was covered by the 97-98 voucher?
2.     There is a suspicion linked to the circulation of the vouchers. Who has used them? What are the
dimensions of this phenomenon?
3.    What is the efficiency of their utilisation? Did production increase or not? The analysis should
have simulated what would have happened if the   vouchers would not have been given?
L. Luca - Referring to the last question, there was no time to carry out an estimation of its importance over
production. However, considering that a quantity x of fertilizers would have been translated in an increase y
of production while we cannot know if in the absence of those vouchers the farmers would have bought or
not the inputs make it a soft assumption. There are also the influence of adverse climatic factors on
production.
As regards the other two questions, the share of vouchers in overall production costs was during 97-98 of
around 10-12% of a standard technology. But few households apply standard technologies. Thus, in 1997,
when vouchers were distributed only in the fall campaign, they covered 36% of costs, while in 2000 they
covered 27% of real costs (as compared to 10% in case of a standard technology).
Talking about the circulation of vouchers, it is difficult to answer precisely. While in 1997 transactions
with vouchers were allowed so the survey carried out was able to ask farmers if they had sold their
vouchers (with an affirmative response of 2-3 %), in 2000 the sale of vouchers had been prohibited, so this
was a delicate question to put. However, around 23% of the vouchers were given to relatives, associations
or lessees, in which figure we expect to find also the percentage of vouchers sold.
Trade specialist: Listening to the presentation, the impression was that the voucher scheme was for
management of poverty. There are not sufficient funds to support agriculture, so what was given was an
incentive for agriculture's continued existence. This is totally insufficient when EU farmers receive 45%
support. Wouldn't it be more efficient to use those limited funds only for certain crops? Did the scheme
have better results for certain crops? The mentality in the Romanian households is to cultivate everything,
but we must arrive at specialisation in order to be efficient.
Parliamentarian: The voucher scheme was well presented, so let us not discuss about it. One must
encourage a performing agriculture. We have given money to all without thinking of performance. But
without quality and performance we cannot think about EU accession. The issues are:
I.    Which are the cultures with export potential, which Romania can produce competitively?
2.     As 40% of landowners are city dwellers, the development of the land market will aid the sale of
such land. Subsidies should be given to those that work the land, while the urban landowner should be
encouraged to sell his/her land. We should create another subsidy system that will encourage the export of
agricultural products.
Owner of a private trading firm: As regards subsidies, there are limited funds to be distributed to many, so
subsidies should be targeted towards farms (with a certain number of hectares and a certain productivity).
- 41 -



We should encourage the diversification of crops (e.g.: barley - for livestock, sugar beet for the sugar
industry etc).
Lucian Luca: (answering trade specialist) for some crops the vouchers were efficient, although I do not
believe that the way there were used can orient us towards what we should support. It would be better to
focus on comparative advantage, and the world market is the indicator which we have to take into account.
As regards subsidies for those that work the land, this is difficult to implement without a clear mechanism
of identification. There are informal mechanisms that function as regards the distribution of public funds,
as there is a weak control of eligibility. Also, in 2000 we have seen the difference between what the law
says and what happens in reality. There were orders of the Minister that changed the law.
Answering the other questions, more vouchers were distributed in 2000 than in 1999 (when the budget was
at its lowest), that is why sales through use of vouchers were smaller in 1999.
Mr. Gabriel lonita then made his presentation on privatization in agriculture.
Trading firm owner: Privatisation was successful as a process, but failed from the private market point of
view. The companies that were previously profitable remained thus, but the unprofitable ones did not
improve. Successes were seen in the grain areas. As the trading companies were subordinated then to the
SOF, the MoAF was not interested in the grain market; thus the programs of ASAL were delayed.
G. lonita: Some new actors did appear on the grain market, like ROMPAC, that invested in warehouses,
even in areas without important grain productions (like Botosani). Some companies gained access to
strategic areas, like the Danube or Black Sea ports. Some private investors also invested in agricultural
production, thus diversifying their activity.
Grain trader: The market did not gain immediately after privatization. The idea of the World Bank was to
create a cereals market, not closed companies. In Braila, there is only one warehouse operator. Although
the Romanian law does not allow capital concentrations, these happened.
G. lonita: There is a net difference between how the companies bought by strategic investors fare and how
the ones purchased by employees are, where they decided to invest just to preserve their jobs.
Grain trader: In 1997 we had no investors, that is why we convinced the employees to get involved in
privatization. Some managed very well. But they have no money to invest, and we hope they could be given
support through other programs.
G. lonita: We do not deny the value of this kind of privatization. Privatisation through any means is
laudable.
Parliamentarian: Privatisation started late. It would have been better to start the privatization of FIAS in
1992-93. It was a good thing it started, although lately I have read the paper and you are right about how
investments were made.
I did not understand the reference to the Danube Fund, which was totally unsuccessful. They lost the
money they received and did not manage to privatize one company. What happened to the money they
received from the Banca Agricola for privatization?
The idea is that not the buyer is important, but good management. In firns were employees are
-42 -



shareholders and the management is good, we have social peace, decent wages. Thus the rural middle class
emerges - no one mentioned it here. Now the privatization of FIAS is starting. Legislation is no
impediment. The majority of locators and shareholders desire to maintain their land there where
management was good.
G. lonita: As regards the Danube Fund, this is a grave problem. Some tried to present the taking over of
some companies by the Fund as a privatization, which is incorrect. Management is also very important.
Legislation is also important (see the situation of land for the privatization of FIAS). A priority for the
GOR is to solve the restitution requests and to carry out the effective restitution.
Parliamentarian: This process of privatization should be very fast.
Researcher/investment analyst: We have positive and negative examples in privatization. But the
privatization targets were achieved. The privatization objectives were unrealistic, not only on the part of the
Romanian negotiators in 1997, but also on the part of the WB. There were technical impossibilities, as this
was an extremely laborious process.
Romania has assumed economic and social costs and the reforms from the ASAL matrix are now
irreversible. Do you thus consider as honest the measure of canceling the last tranche of the loan, under the
circumstances that the WB considers the targets as achieved? The macroeconomic instability was just a
pretext, as the Romanian economy has been functioning like this since 1990.
H. Gordon: In the Bank we debated the unrealism of the targets. Multiple tranche operations do not have a
good record in our region. But this is a point well taken. As regards whether it was honest to cancel the
final tranche, the legal agreement included the provision that macroeconomic stability be maintained. In
previous years we extended the loan, sometimes in the absence of a macro program, but always with the
expectation that a program was imminent. Such assurances could not be given in December 2000 and the
loan was therefore closed.
G. lonita: It was not that the objectives were unrealistic, but the deadlines. There were one year delays. If
those successive stop-and-go could have been estimated, another deadline could have been set. Otherwise, it
was honestly negotiated by both sides. The financial loss was not of USD 50 million, but USD 35 million,
as the last tranche was nominated in DM and there were differences between the 1997 and the 2000
exchange rates.
A presentation of Dinu Deaconescu and luliana lonel followed on the cereals market
Grain trader: If you ignore the private sector's points of view, these grain market development projects will
not be successful. The issue of market regulation must go simultaneously with privatization. The private
sector wants to function "freely", but nowhere in the world is there such liberty without rules. This decay
of trade bothers many, that have holdings and are no longer interested in the market. The grain has no
quality. We have no grain grading system, no warehouse certificates. Who controls transactions if there is
no regulated market? Just inter-professional organizations will not solve the issue. These inter-professional
organizations should be market bodies, not a suprastructure where employers' associations meet to collude.
The system must be private. If it is subordinated to MoAF - failure will result. The land is private, traders
are private. What the Ministry must do is supervise, that's all.
D. Deaconescu: I hope nobody wishes that MOAF takes the reins.
- 43 -



Donor representative: The role of the MoAF is a supervisory one. I am optimistic. Our agency believes it is
worth continuing to support this type of activity. We have seen dramatic changes in these areas. Of all the
major points mentioned by Henry, none are in dispute any more. Nobody disputes privatization,
transparency, issues of rural finance. We want warehouse deposits for financing purposes. What next? I
believe here today we discussed what were the failures of ASAL, what hasn't been done yet. From the fact
that this was the tone, I consider ASAL was successful. We are not discussing anymore if it was right or
wrong, but what has to be done, and this in my opinion is an indicator of success.
MOAF official: during ASAL there were also unsuccessful events that should represent the subject of
meditation. We at the MOAF are committed to quickly adopt the legal adjustments required in order to be
successful.
H. Gordon: I sense a great deal of frustration that a difficult reform has been finally completed but there is
not yet a competitive agriculture sector. This frustration is intensified by the pressures of EU accession
and the need to become competitive quickly. We have tried to assess what happened and much of the
discussion has rightly focussed on where to go from here. We at the World Bank will continue the good
start we have in discussing these issues with the new government and in working on ways to accelerate
sector productivity and improve rural welfare.
- 44 -



Additional Annex 10. List of Attendees at ASAL ICR Stakeholders Workshop
Table 1: Attendees at Stakeholders Workshop: April 19
Nr.          Name                  Position                  Institution
1.    Adrian Raducan         Secretary of State    MAFF
2.    Simona Bara            Expert                MAFF
2.    Enache Dumitrescu      Director              MAFF
3.    Camelia Dobroteanu     Deputy Dir. Gen.      Ministry of Public Finance
4.    Victoria Campeanu      Director General      Ministry of Foreign Affairs
5.    Carmen Fratita         Expert                Ministry of Foreign Affairs
6.    Mihai Visan
7.    Ion Scurteli            Chairman             ANCER
8.    Ofelia Balan                                 ARCPA
9.    Sorin Dogaru           Director              Interagro
10.   Dinu Gavrilescu        Director General      IEA
11.   Aurel Dochia           Financial Analyst     Societe Generale
12.   Gheorghe Oprescu       Vicechairman          Competition Council
13.   Ilie Serbanescu        Economic Analyst
14.   Mihai Dumitru          Specialist            EU
15.   Lawrence Johnson       Senior Agro-Advisor   USAID
16.   Denis Provost          Counselor             Canadian Embassy
17.   Anda Popescu                                 Embassy of Holland
18.   Victor Apostolache     Senator, Chairman     Senate, Commission for
Agriculture
19.   Aurel Pana             Senator               Senate
20.   Elena Sporea           Senator               Senate
21.   Dinu Deaconescu        Consultant            USDA
22.   Cristina Cionga        Economic Analyst      RACTDG
23.   George Ostroveanu      Editor-in-chief       Profitul Agricol
24.   Maria Bogdan           Editor                Profitul Agricol
25.   Daniela Giurca         Consultant            IEA
26.   Jacqueline Leonte      Consultant            IEA
27.   Marioara Rusu          Consultant            IEA
28.   Luiza Toma             Consultant            IEA
29.   Sebastian Lazaroiu     Consultant            CURS
30.   Dorel Abraham          Consultant            CURS
31.   Kevin Cleaver          Director ECSSD        World Bank
32.   Henry Gordon           Program Team Leader  World Bank
33.   Gabriel lonita         Agriculture Specialist  World Bank
34.   Lucian Luca            Consultant            World Bank
35.   Mihaela Cimpoeasu      Consultant            IEA
36.   Camelia Totezan        Team Assistant        World Bank
39.   luliana lonel          Consultant            IEA
-45 -



Table 2: Attendees at ICR Meeting with GOR Decision Makers, April 20
Name                Position               Institution
1.    Adrian Raducan           Secretary of State    MAFF
2.    Gheorghe Sin             Secretary of State    MAFF
3.    Ovidiu Natea             Secretary of State    MAFF
4.    Viorel Ghelasa           Secretary of State    MAFF
5.    Valeria Badoi            Advisor            MAFF
6.    Daniela Popa             Spokesman          MAFF
7.    Radu Lacatusu            Director           MAFF
8.    Dorin Zaharescu          Director           MAFF
9.    Simona Bara              Expert             MAFF
10.   Irina Florescu                              MAFF
11.   Radu Rey                General Director    National Agency of Mountains
Area
12.   Valentina Siclovan      Advisor             Ministry of Public Finance
13.   Victoria Campeanu       General Director    Ministry of Foreign Affairs
14.   Dorina Antohi                               National Bank of Romania
15.   Anca-Simona Pirvulescu   Advisor            APAPS
16.   Gheorghe Zaman          Advisor             Presidency of Romania
17.   Ziad Alahdad            Chief of Office     World Bank
18.   Kevin Cleaver           Director ECSSD      World Bank
19.   Henry Gordon             Program Team       World Bank
Leader             World_Bank
20.   Gabriel lonita           Agric. Specialist    World Bank
21.   Doina Rachita            Operations Officer   World Bank
22.   Lucian Luca              Consultant         World Bank
- 46 -



Additional Annex 11. Evaluation Questionnaire Sent to Ministry Counterparts in Previous
Government
The World Bank
ROMANIA
Agriculture Sector Adjustment Loan:
Evaluation Questionnaire
Summary of Responses from
Principal Ministry Counterparts in 1997-2000 Coalition Government
KEY: Institutional Affiliation of Respondents
MF = Ministry of Finance
MA  Minister of Agriculture (there are two respondents, designated MA1 and MA2)
SOF = State Ownership Fund
1. What is in your opinion of the contribution of the World Bank ASAL project to the overall
economic development of the agricultural sector:
(Rating 1= None, 2=Minor, 3=Moderate, 4=Major)
1          2           3            4
a. Increase in overall efficiency of the  MF,         MA2,
agricultural economy                      MAI         SOF,
b. Increase in access to agricultural markets  MF     MA1,        MA2          SOF
c. More open export regime                            MF,         SOF          MA2, MAI
d. More open import regime                                        SOF          MF, MA2,
MAI, MR
e. Increase in product choices quality for                        MF, SOF,   MA2
consumers                                                         MAI
f. Improvement in confidence in markets   MF          SOF         MA2,
MAI
g. Improvement in land market efficiency  MF          MA2,
SOF,
MA1,
h. Reduced role of state in agricultural                          MA2, SOF   MF, MAI
markets
i. Improvement in the role of the Ministry of         MF, MA2,                 MAI
Agriculture                                           SOF
-47 -



j. Shift in subsidies toward direct transfers to                   SOF         MF, MA2,
beneficiaries versus commodity subsidies                                       MA]
k. Reduction in negative impact of agriculture                    MF, SOF    MA2, MA I
on the macroeconomy
1. Improvement preconditions for private rural   MF   MA2         SOF          MAI
finance
2. Do you believe that the reform program supported by the ASAL could have succeeded without
the World Bank's assistance?
Likely         none
Unlikely       MF, MA2, SOF, MAI
3. Based on your experience, how would you describe ?
(Rating 1-5: 1=very poor, 2=poor, 3=acceptable, 4=good, 5=very good)
1         2         3           4         5
a. Timeliness and effectiveness of intervention,               SOF         MF,
support and advice                                                        MA2,
b. Project overall design                            MF,                   MA2,
MAI,                  SOF
c. Relevance of World Bank advice                              MF,         MA2,
MAI        SOF
d. Efficiency of World Bank supervision              MA1                   MA2,      MF
SOF
e. Appraisal procedures                              MF        MA2,        SOF
MAI
f. Period incurred from project preparation                    MF,         MA2,
until final approval                                           MAI         SOF
g. Quickness of delivery of assistance                         MAI         MF,       MA2
SOF
4. In your opinion what were the main constraints to a more efficient project implementation? Please
list up to 5 important factors
- 48 -



1 The program was too comprehensive       MF
2 Volatile legal framework                 MF
3 Frequent changes of decision makers      MF
4 Poor monitoring of implementation due to a such comprehensive project MF
5 Need to more decisive steps by the Gov't  MA2
6 Building more ownership over proposed reforms at different levels (In advance) MA2
7 GoR should understand to play by the rules of a "win-win" game  MA2
8 Legal framework & delays in privatization  MA2
9 No political support                     MAI
10 Insulated project in Romanian reform   MAI
-49 -



5. What would you suggest to be done to improvefuture policy dialogue?
Please list:
I Better design of the projects/programs, more focused, better targeted and for shorter period
MF
2 Programs supporting the absorption of EU funds
MF
3 Better coordination with IMF's requirements related to the sector            MF
4 No changes in WB team for a project cycle
MF
5 More seminars with advanced countries in Central Europe
MF
6.Focus more on building ownership & consensus among various ministries & agencies before
implementation
MA2
7 Officials should be convinced to go publicly to explain the effects of the measures to the
population MA2
8 Honesty, transparency, the real desire for reforms, legislative decisions for reforms
SOF
9.Nondistortionary and market oriented policies
MAI
10 Target: family farm
MAI
11 Privatization is decisive
MAI
6. Please rank the importance of remaining problems in agricultural sector environment in Romania
(Rating I = None, 2=Minor, 3=Moderate, 4=Major)
1          2            3                  4
a. Regulations for starting new business                             MF, MA2, SOF       MAI
b. Small     size of farms                                           MA2, MAI           MF, SOF
c. Regulation on foreign trade, customs                 MA2,         MF, SOF, MA1
MAI
d. Labor regulation                                     MF, MA2    SOF, MAI
e. Lack of farmer skill or physical capability                       MF, MAI            MA2, SOF
f. Lack of access to commodity and input    MAI                      MF, SOF            MA2
markets by farmers
g. Difficult access to credit                                        SOF                MF, MA2,
MAI
- 50 -



h. Large amount of credit going to inefficient         MF, MA2,   MA1
SOE's and privatized companies                         SOF
i. High interest rates                                             MA2                MF, SOF,
MAI
j. High tax burden                         MF          MA2         MAI                SOF
k. Tax administration, inspections         MF          MA2,        SOF
MAI
1. Unexpected and often changes in                                                    MF, MA2,
Government's rules, laws and policies                                                 SOF, MA1
m. Crime and Corruption                                            MA2, MAI           MF, SOF
n. Inflation                                                                          MF, MA2,
SOF, MAI
o. Commodity Price Instability                                                        MF, MA2,
SOF, MAI
p. Standards and Certification Regulation              SOF         MF, MAl            MA2
+ Lack of services related to agriculture (proper                                     MF
network for collecting the agricultural products,
irrigation etc.
- 51 -



- 52 -



