Report No. PIC2078
Project Name            Romania-Agriculture Sector AdjustmentLoan(ASAL)   (@)
Region                           Europe and Central Asia Region
Sector                           Agriculture
Project ID                       ROPA8795
Borrower                         Government of Romania
Implementing Agency              Government, represented by the Ministry of
Agriculture and Food; contact State
Secretary Alexandru Lapusan,
Fax : 40-1 -613-0322
Appraisal Date                   February 1997
Projected Board Date             May 1997
Date PID Prepared                January 30, 1997
The Agriculture Sector
The agriculture sector contributes about 20t (24w including
agroindustry) to Romania's GDP and provides about 30t of
employment. Agricultural exports are 12t of total. About 88t of the
arable land is privately held.
Problems
The ovveriding constraint is an institutional infrastructure
carried over from the system of central planning which is
incompatible with a market economy. Agricultural input supply,
marketing and processing are dominated by inefficient, state-owned
entities, which are accorded preferential treatment by the
government and discourage private new entrants into the market.
Government policies are hindering the transition to a market
economy. Agricultural exports are not entirely free, and subsides
on inputs and outputs are distorting production patterns on the
farms and burdening the state budget. Preferential credit lines and
interest rate subsidies for agriculture jeopardize monetary policy
targets and aggravate the problem of farmers' uneven access to
credit. While the land reform has resulted in a large number of
small, fragmented farms, land markets that would facilitate land
consolidation are are at a very early stage of development. Private
farmer service organizations, such as cooperatives do not yet
exist.
Prospects
Romania has a rich agricultural resource base. With appropriate
government policies and an efficient, private marketing system,
agricultural productivity could be expeced to follow a long-term
up-trend, enabling the country to provide ample domestic food
supplies, become competitive in export markets and generate rising
incomes for farmers. Primary production and industries sreving



agriculture are likely to absorb a significant share of the labour
force in the forseeable future.
Operation Objectives
The objectives of the proposed operation would be to promote policy
adjustments in support of the transition to a market economy and a
more sustainable and efficient use of resources; to privatize a
major share of the productive resources in agriculture; and to free
up markets and enable the private sector to invest, produce and
trade in line with Romania's comparative advantage.
Operation Content
The components of the proposed operation are
1. Efficient use of resorces through increased competition created
by divestiture and privatization of state-owned agricultural
enterprises. The main focus will be on privatizing the grain and
seed trade, agricultural mechanization services and the main
cereal, oilseeds, and livestock product processing facilities.
Privatization of state farms will be pursued on a pilot basis.
Market liberalization and institutional development, to free up
markets and so encourage private investment and trade to flourish.
The incentive structure will be adjusted through the removal of
subisidies and price controls and liberalization of external trade.
The system providing rural credit will be improved. The leasing of
land and formation of genuine farm service cooperatives will be
promoted through revisions in the legislative framework.
Technical Assistance
To be determined
Financial Plan
The ASAL will provide balance of payments support in 1997-1998. The
World Bank contribution is likely to be set at US$200 million.
Contact Point: Farid Dhanji, Task manager
The World Bank
1818 H Street N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
Phone: 202-473-2644
Fax No.:   (202) 522-1500
Note: This is information on an evolving project. Certain
components may not necessarily be included in the final project.
Processed by the Public Information Center week ending April 18, 1997.
- 2 -



