Document of
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Report No. P-7113-RO
REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION
OF THE
PRESIDENT OF THE
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
TO THE
EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS
ON A
PROPOSED AGRICULTURE SECTOR ADJUSTMENT LOAN
IN AN AMOUNT EQUIVALENT TO US$ 350 MILLION
TO
ROMANIA
May 9, 1997
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the
performance of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without
World Bank authorization.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
(as of April 30, 1997)
Currency Unit   =    Leu
US$1    =    7,095 Lei
I Leu    =    US$0.00014
AVERAGE EXCHANGE RATES
Leu    =    US$1
1995          1996         Januart. 1997     February. 1997     March, 1997
2,033         3,084            5,146              6,896             7,236
WEIGHTS AND MEASURES
metric system
ABBREVIATIONS AND DEFINITIONS
ASAL          Agriculture Sector Adjustment Loan
BA            Banca Agricola
CAS           Country Assistance Strategy
EBRD          European Bank for Reconstruction and Development
EU            European Union
FESAL         Finance and Enterprise Sector Adjustment Loan
IAS           state farms
judet          county
LSP           Letter of Sector Policy
MEBO          Management-employee buyout
MOAF          Ministry of Agriculture and Food
MOF           Ministry of Finance
MOR           Ministry of Reform
MTI           Ministry of Trade and Industry
NAAP          National Agency for Agricultural Products
NASR          National Administration for State Reserves
NBR           National Bank of Romania
para.         paragraph
PHRD          Policy and Human Resources Development
POF           Private Ownership Fund
SEWR          State Emergency Wheat Reserve
SOF           State Ownership Fund
WTO           World Trade Organization
ROMANIA - FISCAL YEAR
Jan. 1 - Dec. 31
Vice President: Johannes F. Linn                        Division Chief: Michele de Nevers
Director: Kenneth G. Lay                                Task Manager: Farid Dhanji



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Romania
Agriculture Sector Adjustment Loan
Contents
1. INTRODUCTION..........................
II. BACKGROUND ON ECONOMIC POLICY AND PERFORMANCE ............................1
A. Macroeconomic Performance .......................................................... 1l
B. Agricultural Structure and Performance ...........................................................2
'II. THE GOVERNMENT'S AGRICULTURAL REFORM PROGRAM
SUPPORTED BY THE ASAL ...........................................................11 
A. Reform  Objectives ...........................................................11
B. Incentives Reforms ..........................................................                                                     12
C. Agricultural and Rural Finance ..........................................................                                         15
D. Land Market Reform  ..........................................................                                                    16
E. Privatization, Restructuring and Liquidation ..........................................................                           17
F. Cereals Market Development ..........................................................                                             18
G. The Role of the Ministry of Agriculture and Food Industry (MOAF) .................................. 19
IV. THE PROPOSED LOAN ..........................................................                                                       21
A. Rationale for the Loan ..........................................................                                                21
B. Composition and Quality of the Bank Portfolio                                   .......................................... 21
C. The Country Assistance Strategy and the ASAL                                     ......................................... 21
D. Loan Amount and Tranching ..........................................................                                             22
E. Loan Conditions ..........................................................                                                       22
F. Disbursement and Procurement ..........................................................                                          28
G. Reporting, Accounting and Auditing                                   .................................................. 29
H. Implementation and Monitoring of Development Impact .................................................... 29
I. Environmental Implications of the ASAL ..........................................................                                29
J. Potential Risks ..........................................................                                                       30
K. Collaboration with the IMF, EU  and Other Donors                                    ....................................... 30
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the
performance of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without
World Bank authorization.



ANNEXES
Annex I     - Letter of Sector Policy
Annex 2     - ASAL Policy Matrix
Annex 3     - Timetable of Key Processing Events
Annex 4     - Status of Bank Group Operations in Romania
Annex 5     - Agricultural Projects by Other Donors in Romania
Annex 6     - List of Pig and Poultry Enterprises to be Liquidated in First Tranche
Annex 7     - List of Selected ASAL Technical Papers (available in project file)
Annex 8     - Romania at a Glance
MAP         - IBRD 28710



Romania
Agriculture Sector Adjustment Loan
Loan and Program Summary
Borrower:          Romania
Executing Agencies: Ministry of Agriculture and Food, Ministry of Finance, Ministry of
Reform, State Ownership Fund, Ministry of Industry and
Commerce
Beneficiaries:     Individual land owners and farmers, private processors and storage
agents, small private input dealers.
Loan Amount:        $280 million (US dollars loan tranche) and DEM 117.5 million
(Deutsche marks loan tranche)
Terms:             IBRD terms with 20 years maturity including 5 years grace period,
at the Bank's standard interest rate for LIBOR-based single
currency loans in these currencies.
Commitment Fee:   0.75 percent of undisbursed loan balances, beginning 60 days after
signing, less any waiver.
Objectives:        The objective of the loan is to support rapid development of a more
efficient and responsive agricultural sector, the principles of which
are enunciated in the Government's medium-term program.
Description:        The loan will support a comprehensive reform  of agricultural
sector policies. Reforms will occur in the areas of pricing, trade,
agricultural subsidies and finance, land markets, cereals markets,
agricultural enterprise privatization, and the role of the Ministry of
Agriculture will be redefined.
Benefits:          The reforms will increase domestic marketing competitiveness by
significantly reducing the state's role as a marketing and processing
intermediary, improving the incentives environment, reducing
subsidies and redirecting those that remain to small farmers. This
will improve efficiency in production. It will also improve income
earning opportunities for rural people, contribute to rural
employment generation, and help raise rural living standards.
Consumers will benefit from improved agricultural product quality,
greater choice, more timely delivery, and ultimately, lower prices.



ii
product quality, greater choice, more timely delivery, and
ultimately, lower prices.
Risks:            The most important risks are, first, the political resistance by
politically powerful interest groups to the short-term impact of
reforms, and second, that the financial and agricultural marketing
sectors will respond slowly to reforms, with adverse effects on
production and prices. In regard to the first risk, the GOR is taking
active measures to engage unions and others that may be hurt. A
World Bank Social Protection Adjustment Loan ($50 million) will
support the Government's program to cushion the impact of the
reforms on the poor and the most vulnerable groups. Government
has embarked on a campaign of public education to explain the
need for reforms to affected groups. Second, banking and financial
responses will be supported by a transitional agricultural finance
scheme, as well as an input voucher scheme aimed at small
farmers. The latter will also help to promote an active input supply
market.
Environment:      The proposed loan has been placed in Category C.
Financing Plan:    IBRD       US$  350 million equivalent
Total       US$  350 million equivalent
Disbursements:    FY97        US$  200 million equivalent
FY98        US$  150 million equivalent
Cumulative  US$  350 million equivalent
Project I.D. Number: RO-PA-8795
Rate of Return:   N.A.



Report and Recommendation of the President
of the International Bank for Reconstruction and Development
to the Executive Directors
on a Proposed Agriculture Sector Adjustment Loan
to Romania
I.    Introduction
1.    I submit the following report and recommendation on a proposed Agriculture
Sector Adjustment Loan (ASAL) to Romania for US$ 350 million equivalent. The loan
will comprise single currency tranches in US dollars and Deutsche marks, and will be
payable in twenty years, including five years of grace, at the Bank's standard interest rate
for LIBOR-based single currency loans in these currencies.
2.    The ASAL provides foreign exchange for balance of payments support (US$350
million equivalent). The loan is conditioned upon an extensive program of policy reform
aimed at developing a competitive, market based agricultural sector. This is the first
comprehensive reform of the agricultural sector that has been undertaken in Romania.
Although important changes have occurred in land policy since the revolution of 1989,
reform in most areas of agriculture has been halting, with the system still largely state
dominated and with only minimal development of private markets.
3.    This loan supports the Government's medium-term agricultural policy as set out
in its ASAL Letter of Sector Policy (LSP), included as Annex 1 of this report. In
addition, it complements two other extensive reform efforts being implemented
concurrently. The first is a macroeconomic reform program under an IMF Standby
Agreement, the second a set of enterprise and financial sector reforms undertaken through
the World Bank Finance and Enterprise Sector Adjustment Loan (FESAL).  A third
operation, a World Bank Social Protection Adjustment Loan, will help protect low-
income groups and others from the short-term costs associated with the reforms.
II. Background on Economic Policy and Performance
A.   Macroeconomic Performance
4.    Recent political and social developments, the macroeconomic program, the
financing plan and the country's creditworthiness are discussed in the new Country
Assistance Strategy (FY 97) accompanying this report.



2
B.    Agricultural Structure and Performance
5.    Background.  Romania has traditionally been one of the major agricultural
economies of Central and Eastern Europe. In 1996, agricultural production contributed
some 20 percent to GDP and 35 percent of employment. In contrast, the agricultural
sectors of other countries in Central and Eastern Europe (with the exception of Albania),
contribute between 5 to 10 percent of GDP, and employment shares range from a low of
6.5 percent in the Czech Republic to 25 percent in Poland.
6.    Romania's climate is characterized by hot summers, long winters and significant
variability in rainfall. A large portion of its agricultural lands, in the southern plains
flanking the Danube, consists of black earth soils with high humus content, considered
ideal for growing cereals and other field crops. In the 1930's these lands were the
"granary" of Europe, and Romania exported large quantities of wheat to France and other
European countries. A second major agro-climatic area, the foothills zone, forms an arc
across the center of the country from Moldavia in the east through Transylvania in the
center-west. Forage, cereals, fruits and vegetables (especially potatoes) and vineyard
crops are cultivated here. The region contains the huge pig farms of the socialist era,
along with intensive poultry production units. In the north and west lie the mountainous
zones, comprising the Carpathians, the Suecavan and Somesan tablelands and the
Transylvanian Alps. Mountain farms engage in mixed farming, with a strong emphasis
on milk and dairy products.
7.    Collectivization of the land began in 1948. In 1989, almost 13 million hectares
out of a total of 15 million hectares of agricultural land were owned by the state (about 90
percent), and farmed either as collective farms or state run "co-operatives". The
remaining two million hectares remained in private ownership in about one million
remote and fragmented mountain farms. Following collectivization, cropping patterns,
output targets and input supplies were set by the central plan and the system administered
by the Ministry of Agriculture. A single bank - Banca Agricola - passively provided
credits, redistributed earnings and financed investments. During the late 1970's Romania
invested heavily in sprinkler irrigation in the cereals growing areas, but with the post-
transition change in energy prices, the system has largely disintegrated. In addition, using
the cereals base as an engine for livestock production, the country also invested in
numerous pig and poultry complexes; the pig complexes in particular were built to
inefficient scale and constituted some of the largest such complexes in the world.
Furthermore, autarchic tendencies combined with Ceaucescu's drive for self sufficiency
led to the support of activities and crops in which Romania has no comparative
advantage, rice and sugar beet being the two prime examples.
8.    The agricultural labor force was steadily transformed from peasant farmers before
collectivization to farm workers or managerial specialists. Employment in agriculture
declined from 74 percent of the labor force in 1950 to 28 percent in 1989. By the late
1980's, the majority of the rural labor force commuted to urban jobs in nearby towns. In



3
the 1980's, Ceaucescu attempted a forced program to reassemble villagers into new
townships, but these attempts were ultimately not successful.
9.    Production. Between 1950 and 1980, gross agricultural output trebled, largely as
a result of improved yields for both crops and livestock. As a result of this growth,
Romania met domestic food consumption requirements for temperate products and was a
large net exporter. In 1980 agricultural exports accounted for 23 percent of all exports,
with one-half of these exports directed to countries of the EU. Between 1985 and 1989,
however, gross agricultural output fell by 20 percent as agriculture was damaged by
increasingly capricious economic management.  This resulted in decreasing factor
productivity, an outcome in part of the shortage of imported inputs (particularly protein
feed for livestock), and in part of the deterioration of irrigation systems and the
agricultural machinery park. By the early 1990s, the share of agricultural exports in total
exports had fallen to within a range of 5 to 7 percent.
10.   Production fell by another 20 percent in 1990-1992. Dislocations caused by the
land reform (see below), a weakening of the coordinating mechanisms for input supply
and output marketing, and a drought all contributed to the decline. In addition, Romania's
huge livestock herds of swine, poultry and cattle were culled by almost 40 percent in
response to changing relative prices and shortages of feed. (Similar livestock herd
contractions took place during this period in other countries in Eastern Europe and the
FSU.) Within this overall decline, a marked shift occurred in the importance of different
commodity groups in total production. From 1990 to 1992, the share of crop value added
in total agricultural value added increased from 60 percent to 80 percent, while
livestock's share contracted from 40 percent to 20 percent. Despite the country's evident
comparative advantage in production of cereals for export, Romania became a net
importer.
11.   Since 1992 agricultural production has made an erratic recovery, although average
crop yields in Romania remain below neighboring countries and considerably below best
practice. By 1995, crop production had increased by 30 percent with cereals production
increasing by 50 percent. There has been a substantial increase in milk production,
offsetting a small decline in meat production. In 1995 Romania registered a record wheat
harvest with some 3 million tons available for export. In 1996, however, a late winter
frost followed by a drought wreaked havoc on the wheat harvest, and Romania may need
to import wheat for one to two months' supply in 1997 until the next harvest in July-
August.
12.   The Land Reform. Shortly after the fall of Ceaucescu in December 1989, farm
workers began spontaneously repossessing land, leading away animals and dismantling
farm buildings in the state cooperatives. Faced with a nearly unstoppable momentum to
re-privatize the land the government then passed the Land Privatization law, Law 18 of
1991. The law codified one of the most radical land reform programs in post-socialist
Eastern Europe. The restitution and redistribution of the land remains the most important
event shaping rural Romania today.



4
13.   Land was returned to the "original owners and their heirs", and to workers in the
former cooperatives who had accumulated a certain number of working years. A limit of
10 hectares was established per household. A total of between 5-6 million claims were
adjudicated and some 10 million hectares distributed. By 1996 some 60 percent of the
new owners had received titles, although there are about one million disputes before the
courts. Most ownership claims now average between 2.5 and 3.0 hectares and are
comprised of some three to five parcels. At the same time the government retained about
20 percent of the richest and most productive farm land in the country as state farms.
14.   The land law has two major deficiencies. First, it failed to provide for sale and
purchase of agricultural land. Second, it did not adequately deal with the problem of
former owners who lay claim to lands presently being farmed as state farms. Although
these owners were granted rights to dividends from state farm earnings, in practice most
of them have expressed a preference to reclaim their land.
15.   Because of the provisions of the land law many of those receiving land were aged
individuals actually expropriated during collectivization, or were urban-based heirs of
such owners. The resulting demographic structure shows that more than half of the new
owners are over 50 years old, and about 40 percent of owners live in towns. Most of the
new owners have little to no experience of smallholder farming, and for this reason some
of the land is farmed in legal or informal associations or by state-owned "integrators" (see
below).
16.   Reverse Migration and Poverty.  Following  the  land  reform   Romania
experienced the unusual phenomenon of reverse migration to the countryside, as the labor
force in agriculture increased from 28 percent to 35 percent. This resulted from several
flows: the retention of rural youth who have no urban jobs; a voluntary return to the
countryside of some who received land, as well as early retirees; and an involuntary
return of those who lost urban jobs. Agriculture, in short, has become a temporary buffer
for unemployment arising in nonagricultural sectors. At the same time rural poverty is
more extensive and severe than urban poverty, with some 28 percent of rural households
poor compared to 16 percent of urban households. Within the rural sector, the incidence
and severity of poverty is even higher for agriculture, with an incidence of 40 percent.
Nonetheless, survey data indicate that transfers between rural and urban families are a
significant component of urban non-monetary income, and agriculture has thus also
assisted in ameliorating economy-wide poverty. Off farm employment in rural service
and production activities are also quite underdeveloped.
17.   With the privatization of land, and the reverse migration to agriculture,
subsistence farming has once again become prominent. Between 55 and 90 percent of
small private farmers' production of pigs and poultry is now consumed on farm.
Between 40 and 75 percent of wheat, maize, milk and potatoes production is now
consumed on farm for both human as well as animal consumption. In all these crops and
activities, private production considerably outweighs state production.



5
18.   Farm Organization. New  organizational forms have arisen to meet the
challenges of the land reform, particularly in the lowland areas agronomically suited to
mechanized farming. About 15 percent (1.8 million hectares) of privately owned land is
now combined into formal farmers' associations with an average unit size of about 450
hectares. Another 13 percent (1.5 million hectares) of land is combined into looser knit
family associations with an average size of about 110 hectares. The remaining 72 percent
of privately owned land is either farmed as small units, or on behalf of the owners by
state-owned cereal and agricultural machinery companies (otherwise known as
"integrators").  One of the major challenges facing Romania in the transition is to
develop stable forms of cooperative farming and marketing to overcome the small size of
ownership units brought about by the land reform.
19.   Land holding "state farms" number 477, and are concentrated in the lowland areas
of the South and West. Such units, averaging around 4,200 ha in size, focus their
production on cereals and fodder crops. In 1994 these two crop types accounted for about
60 percent and 21 percent, respectively, of total planted hectarage. Although state farms
cover 20 percent of agricultural land area, their share of total value added in national crop
production was a mere 5 percent in 1995, marking a steady yearly decline in performance
since 1990 that accelerated after 1993. By contrast, private sector crop producers have
irnproved their performance since the early 1990s and now account for the remaining 95
percent of Romania's total value added in crop production. The decline in state farm
value added is largely due to an increase in "other inputs" in their financial budgets, an as
yet unexplained category.
20.   The state farms' declining economic performance is mirrored in their deteriorating
financial performance. Among a broadly representative sample of 36 state farms in
Muntenia region, over the period from 1992 to 1995 revenue declined by 14 percent in
real terms while expenses grew by 3 percent. As a consequence, gross margins fell from
9 percent of sales in 1992 to minus 3 percent in 1995. This understates the financial
predicament since it does not taken into account enterprise arrears, which a separate
examination on 42 state farms shows are large and growing. The picture that emerges is
of a secular and intensifying decline in performance. Private farms, by contrast, have
haltingly improved their production and value added over the same period, despite a more
difficult marketing and financial environment.
21.   Input Supply, Storage, Processing and Marketing.   Primary production in
Romania has largely been privatized. By 1994, only about 23 percent of the volume of
wheat production, 30 percent of poultry and pig production, and 10 percent of milk
production remained in state hands, with the rest of production accounted for by small
individual producers or associations.  At the retail end of the marketing chain,
privatization has proceeded apace.  However, state influence remains pervasive in
procurement, storage and processing functions. In 1994, official government data show
that state units purchased about 94 percent of the marketed production of wheat, while
state slaughterhouses handled 94 percent of the marketed surplus of poultry and 76
percent of the pork surplus. Milk production is almost solely a private sector activity,



6
yet state owned units still handle 49 percent of the marketed surplus. State intermediaries
such as NAAP (the National Agency for Agricultural Products) and the pig and poultry
enterprises collect a major portion of state subsidies, while the existing 490 state farms
(officially called "former IAS") demand and receive most of the state subsidies intended
for producers, despite their 20 percent share of arable land. This dominance of marketing
and processing channels has a profoundly negative effect on agricultural incentives faced
by producers, consumers, and potential private entrants to the marketing and processing
business.
22.   Since 1990, Romania has undertaken two rounds of "mass privatization", one
which started in 1992 followed by a more ambitious round which was launched in 1995.
The state holdings are nominally held by the State Ownership Fund (SOF) which was
established in 1991 with the mandate of divesting itself of all state owned companies in
seven years. To the end of 1996, about 45 percent of the SOF's overall portfolio had been
privatized, with the greater majority of such privatisations being of small and medium
sized companies. Within this overall performance, privatization of agricultural enterprises
was much weaker. Only 18 percent of the companies eligible for privatization have been
either sold or privatized through exchange of vouchers. Table I below summarizes this
performance. It should be noted that state farms are not part of the mass privatization
program, but they are included in the table for the sake of completeness.
Table 1: Slow Progress in Privatization of Agricultural Enterprises
itNumrber'
Type of Enterprise               Total Number Privatized
State Farms (former IAS)                490
Poultry Farms                           61        2
Pig Farms                               48
COMCEREALs                              44      -
Service Providers including
AGROMECs                              1,682     468
Total                                 2,325     470
23.   A number of reasons can be advanced for the slow pace of agricultural sector
privatization under the mass privatization process. The problems of pig and poultry
enterprises, cereals agencies, agricultural service providers, including seed companies, are
discussed in the following section.
24.   Pig  and  Poultry  Enterprises.   The  pig  and  poultry  enterprises are
overdimensioned complexes that largely serve urban markets. About 40 percent of pig
meat and 30 percent of poultry meat in Romania are produced by these complexes. Their
performance is generally very poor with low technical efficiency, exemplified by very
high conversion ratios. Prices of their outputs have been controlled since 1990. Although



7
they have been the recipients of large subsidies and soft "restructuring" funds, their
performance has shown little discernible improvement over the years. A sub-sample of
these enterprises (74 units) tracked under the financial surveillance regime of the FESAL
accounted for 8 percent of the total losses of 147 companies that constitute the majority
of the largest loss makers in Romania. The units are additionally burdened with
substantial debts, owed both to their suppliers and the banking system. About 35 of the
complexes have either been liquidated or are awaiting liquidation. During the 1995-96
mass privatization program the public evinced little interest in exchanging their coupons
for shares in the distressed enterprises, nor did their managers and employees opt to take
advantage of the special treatment to them accorded through management employee
buyout mechanisms (MEBOs).
25.   Cereals Sub-Sector. In 1991, a giant state-owned grain monopsony, Romcereal,
was created in response to the confusion that followed land reform. Romcereal owned all
the country's 10 million tons silo capacity, and acted as the country's major input
supplier, a distributor of directed credit, grain purchaser, and storage and marketing
agent.  Romcereal typically entered into production contracts with state farms,
associations and private farmers to deliver a package of mechanical services and input
supplies, financed by subsidized credit, in exchange for a proportion of the crop. Despite
its access to government subsidies and directed credit, Romcereal persistently ran large
financial losses.
26.   As a result of its highly privileged position in crop purchase, storage, and the
delivery of input subsidies, Romcereai largely prevented the establishment of an active
private market for cereals or inputs. Although some private input suppliers and
procurement agents exist, they are marginal in the provision of fertilizers and pesticides
or crop purchase, and they have often stated that expansion of their operations is stymied
by an inability to compete with subsidized state enterprises.
27.   In 1995, after repeated urgings from the World Bank, the EU and other advisors,
the government agreed to break up Romcereal. Accordingly, early in 1996, 44 smaller
"Comcereals" were formed and placed in the mass privatization program. These units
together assumed 65 percent of the country's silo capacity. The remaining 35 percent (3.5
million tons) were retained, however, by a newly formed regie autonome National
Agency of Agricultural Products (NAAP); the latter silos were the best located in the
country in the grain surplus regions in the south and west, close to the major cities, and
close to major transport nodes both within the country and along the Danube.
28.   The Comcereals have not effectively begun operations. In response to the 1996
wheat crop shortfall the government instructed the NAAP to assume responsibility for
outstanding purchase contracts. In addition, in line with the general slowing of
privatization that occurred in 1996, none of the Comcereals have been privatized.
29.   Agromecs and Seed Companies Under Romania's model of socialist agriculture a
large number of machinery companies - Agromecs - were established to provide



8
ploughing, harvesting and transport, and distribution services to the state farms and state
cooperatives. Since 1990 these firms have undergone steady attrition in their capacity to
deliver services as their machinery has deteriorated, they have suffered huge financial
losses, and they have been unable to replace tractors, harvesters, and trucks. Their
decline has been accompanied by an expansion of privately owned and leased machinery.
30.   Tractors and combine harvesters are the most important machines used in crop
agriculture and also the biggest investment items. The current amount of crop land per
tractor is about 70 hectares, while the average landholding in private agriculture is two to
three hectares. Hence, most private farmers who want to plow their land must hire tractor
services from neighbors or Agromecs. The high demand for such services is illustrated in
a recent farm-level sample survey carried out by a Romanian team with funding from a
PHRD trust fund, and the EU. It indicates that for the 1996 crop year, 70 percent of
smallholders purchased machinery services, making machines the most widely purchased
production input for small farmers (the next most purchased crop input being seeds,
which was bought by 42 percent of farmers).
31.   The Agromecs have been placed in the mass privatization program, but their sale
is restricted to managers and employees, farmers and village communities. During the
course of privatization, many of them have been broken up into smaller units to facilitate
easier sale. By March 1997, about 30 percent (450 out of 1,532) of the Agromecs had
been sold.
32.   Currently, most commercial seed produced in Romania is under the financial and
technical control of SEMROM (field crops) and UNISEM (vegetables, flowers, and
potatoes). In recent years, other public and private companies have taken part of the
market. For example, Pioneer Seed Company has had about 10 percent of the market for
hybrid maize, and other private companies are entering. In the case of potatoes, UJNISEM
has only 20 percent of the market, with other shares taken by medium and small
companies.  Available information suggests that the structure of seed production and
marketing is centralized and uncompetitive, an outcome of the state's institutional
dominance, reinforced by variety registration procedures that take one to three years and
severely limit market entry by domestic and international firms. With the opening of the
seed industry to international trade and entry of foreign companies and technology, net
seed exports can be expected to increase, with Romanian farmers gaining access to a
greater range of varieties.
33.   The Framework of Incentives. The Government of Romania has intervened to
affect incentives at all levels of the food marketing chain, from the producer to the
consumer.  This has chiefly been pursued through three instruments: first, pervasive
price interventions serving the conflicting aims of producer and consumer support;
second, budgetary subsidies channeled to intermediaries and producers; and third, trade
policy, including high import tariffs and quantitative controls on exports. Such direct
interventions have been reinforced by persistent exchange rate overvaluation, which has
acted as a powerful disincentive to production of tradable commodities and has



9
unintentionally counteracted interventions aimed at subsidizing producers. Directed,
subsidized credit can be considered a fourth leg of incentives policy that has helped to
shield state enterprises from budgetary constraints, to the disadvantage of private firms.
This issue requires more extended treatment and is therefore discussed separately below.
34.   Policies. Interventions affecting output prices intensified in the early 1990s in
response to the disorder in agricultural markets accompanying land reform. Producer and
consumer price interventions and margin controls affected chiefly wheat, pork, poultry,
and milk/dairy products, which accounted for a significant portion of the value of
agricultural production, and about 23 percent of total money income spent by household.
These actions were of a piece with others aimed at consolidating state control over
agricultural markets, including the creation of Romcereal, budgetary subsidies channeled
to state enterprises, and ad hoc application of administrative controls to imports and
exports. Explicit output subsidies (premia), which were ostensibly aimed at supporting a
high official producer price, and input subsidies, dominated the MOAF budget from 1994
to 1995, accounting for about 80 percent of total expenditures. Payments to staff, and
material expenditures accounted for the remainder of the budget, and the Ministry thus
had few resources left to fund public goods activities.
35.   While input price interventions such as those for fertilizer fell during the early
1990s, pressures remained to keep ex-factory urea prices below export parity levels,
leading to continued informal control on prices. The level of budgeted input subsidies
remained high, accounting for about 40 percent of the total MOAF budget from 1993-95.
Trade interventions, meanwhile, intensified. After July, 1995 when Romania signed the
Uruguay Round Agreement on agriculture, the level of the average trade-weighted tariff
for agricultural commodities increased threefold, from 24 percent to over 75 percent,
giving Romania the highest applied tariff levels in Eastern Europe. At the same time,
tariff dispersion increased from a coefficient of variation of 24 percent to over 100
percent. Ad hoc import waivers, export bans, and erratic trade administration continued
unabated. Finally, the structure of tariffs on raw and unprocessed goods introduced in
July, 1995, had a cascading pattern, which protected processors to a greater extent than
primary producers.
36.   Net Effect of Policies. The complexity and volatility in interventions make a
rendering of their overall effects challenging. Nonetheless, analysis indicates that,
despite the attempts to simultaneously subsidize production and maintain low prices to
consumers, the transfers were less than intended or the had perverse results.
37.   Producers: In 1995 agricultural production was effectively taxed by an amount
equivalent to 15% of agricultural value added, with the strongest burden of taxation
falling on wheat. This takes into account a large variety of policy transfers, including
implicit transfers through output and input pricing, explicit budgetary transfers for inputs,
credit subsidies, trade policy, and exchange rate overvaluation. It shows that taxation of
producers mainly arose from implicit output price and exchange rate taxation, which
effectively neutralized budgetary subsidies and transfers.  The degree of taxation,



10
moreover, was greater for private sector producers than for state units, and greater for
field crops than for livestock, which remained subsidized in state units but not in private
farms. A preliminary analysis of interventions in 1996 shows a similar pattern, with a
somewhat reduced level of net taxation.
38.   Consumers: Consumers have on the whole experienced positive implicit income
transfers from price controls. An exhaustive analysis of the magnitude and effect of
consumer subsidies was undertaken during ASAL preparation, based in part on data from
the 1995 Romanian Household Income and Expenditure Survey. This shows that the
total income transfer is small, never exceeding 4 percent of consumer income.  In
addition, the subsidies are all regressive in absolute terms, meaning that higher income
consumers benefited more from the subsidies than poorer consumers.   Government
interventions have thus had perverse effects at consumer as well as producer levels.
39.   Numerous other important effects have attended these interventions:
*  They have entrenched a large bureaucracy administering controls, subsidies,
and directed credit.
*  The interventions have introduced an additional degree of uncertainty and
instability in agriculture. Payments to producers and input deliveries from
state integrators are often late; pricing and input policies are frequently
changed in a precipitate manner, and, as mentioned, trade policy is highly
discretionary in its application.
3  Most of the financial transfers have been given to state farms, pig and poultry
farms, Romcereal and other state enterprises - largely by-passing the private
sector and, especially small private farmers. Moreover, price controls and
technical, economic and managerial inefficiency combined with little
motivation to restructure, have led most of the state enterprises receiving
subsidies to run large losses and arrears and to run up large debts.
. There is a widespread perception, grounded in anecdotal evidence, of
corruption in the delivery and use of subsidies and credit.
40.   Agricultural and Rural Credit. Romania's agricultural and rural credit markets
are largely underdeveloped. The predominant institution in lending to agriculture is
Banca Agricola, the second largest bank in the country. The bank has grown dramatically
in the last five years, rapidly expanding its portfolio, its branch network and its staff.
Funding sources have primarily been credit from the central bank as part of the
government's directed credit programs, and through an aggressive mobilization of
consumer deposits. In addition to Banca Agricola there is a cooperative bank network that
primarily makes small loans to private farmers and village communities. Banc Post has
also been successful in mobilizing rural deposits and, similarly, makes small loans. The
other major banks in the Romanian banking system have very limited exposure to



I1
primary production, although the Romanian Development Bank, largely through the
operation of credit lines from the IBRD and the EBRD, has lent to agro-industry.
41.   The provision of directed, subsidized credit has had several negative effects:
* it has been highly inflationary. The directed credit has been supplied through
base monetary emission of the NBR, where, at times, 70 percent of NBR
refinancing has been directed to agriculture. The large volumes involved,
coupled with the seasonal nature of the credit, has effectively prevented
monetary sterilization, and crowded out other borrowers. The failure to meet
the credit targets of four IMF standby criteria have essentially been caused by
directed agricultural financing
* most of the credit has been directed to a select and privileged set of state
enterprises, entrenching a strong state-enterprise lobby for continuing
subsidies, while bypassing private farmers and private agro-processors and
marketing agents
* there has been massive delinquency on the repayment of these credit lines
* the provision of directed credit has prevented the development of active and
thriving alternative financing mechanisms and institutions to serve agriculture
42.   A major challenge in the coming months and years will be to further develop the
agricultural and rural credit system so that it can lend to farmers and farm service
industries on a commercial basis.
III.   The Government's Agricultural Reform Program  Supported by
the ASAL
A.   Reform Objectives
43.   The Government's medium term agricultural policy is described in its Letter of
Sector Policy (LSP). Within that framework, the ASAL has been established as a set of
short term policy reforms that will lay the basis for agricultural development over the
medium and longer term. The aim of the ASAL, consistent with the LSP, is to introduce
efficient market incentives, increase private sector entry and competition, and reduce
direct Government intervention in agriculture while placing greater reliance on private
markets. These operational aims support broader Government objectives in agriculture,
namely promotion of domestic food security, support for rural incomes and employment,
foreign exchange generation, and promotion of efficiency and economic growth. The
reforms imply a new role for Government that facilitates rather than suppresses private
markets. In short, Government is no longer viewed as a substitute for a flawed market



12
system but rather a complement to private markets. The reforms are in full accordance
with the objective of EU accession. In 1993, Romania signed an Association Agreement
with the EU and is actively pursuing an application for full membership. The ASAL
reforms will align Romanian policies and institutions more closely with EU practice.
44.   The Government's program supported by the ASAL focuses on the following
elements:
* Reforming the Framework of Incentives
* Reforming the System of Agricultural Finance
* Establishing the Legal Basis for an Efficient Land Market
* Reforming the Cereals Market
* Accelerating Privatization of all State-owned Entities in Agriculture
* Redefining the Role and Functions of the Ministry of Agriculture
45.   The agricultural reforms are being implemented at the same time that the
enterprise reform program, supported by the FESAL, is being deepened and strengthened.
The Government has also simultaneously embarked upon a program of macroeconomic
stabilization supported by the IMF. Implementing these programs of stabilization and
structural reform are quite likely to exact a high social cost on the population in the short
term as food prices rise, real incomes fall, and unemployment rises. The poor, some
segments of the population on fixed incomes and the unemployed are likely to be
particularly hard hit. Accordingly, the Government has substantially increased the share
of budget resources going to social protection, from 8 percent of GDP to 10 percent of
GDP (this figure includes employee-funded pensions). The social effects of the reforms
are addressed through a World Bank Social Protection Adjustment Loan.
B.    Incentives Reforms
46.   Changes in policies affecting incentives form an essential foundation for the
Government's agricultural reform program. Three types of interventions that have a
crucial effect on agricultural incentives are considered here: pricing, subsidies and trade
policies.
47.   Prices.  All administratively set prices, price controls and margins for the
sensitive products - pork, poultry, milk and wheat products - are eliminated, along with
all "premia". The latter subsidies were provided at various points in the processing and
marketing chain to "compensate" producers for price controls on their output, but in most
cases actually subsidized inefficient intermediaries.
48.   The elimination of these price controls and accompanying subsidies, along with
concurrent price liberalization in related sectors, such as energy and transport, will result
in a substantial increase in food prices both in absolute and relative terms. In Romania,



13
consumers already spend a large proportion of their household budgets on food, about 45
percent on average. The sensitive products comprise about 23 percent of total money
expenditures for the average household. To mitigate the social ;mpact of the price
liberalization, the Government studied the possibility of a temporary bread subsidy in the
process of designing the agricultural reforms. Administrative difficulties in instituting
such a subsidy proved very difficult to overcome, however. The Government therefore
decided to provide temporary financial compensation to low income households as part of
the more general package of social protection measures.
49.   The rise in the relative price of livestock products, accompanied by an expected
temporary decline in real wages as the stabilization program is implemented, will result
in a decline in meat demand, putting further stress upon livestock enterprises that are
uncompetitive and inefficient These stresses are to be dealt with under the Government's
privatization and liquidation programs (see below).
50.   Direct controls on input prices have largely affected fertilizers and machinery
services. The very low domestic prices provided to fertilizer firms has resulted in low
domestic supplies as these firms have exported up to 90 percent of their output. Under
the Government's reform program the provision of free fertilizer is phased out so that by
the fall planting of wheat, no more free fertilizer will be distributed. The controlled priced
for fertilizer is also ended so that prices will begin to approximate border parity levels.
Prices for machinery services will also no longer be subject to negotiation under the
watchful eye of the Ministry of Agriculture but are freed. An ordinance has been
presented to Parliament for the repeal of Law 83/1993, which in the past provided the
legal basis for the entire panoply of pricing and subsidy interventions.
51.   Subsidies.  Several temporary subsidies have been maintained to ease the impact
of reforms. The first is a seeds subsidy, which remains at the same nominal levels in the
1997 budget as in the previous year and which will be reduced by 25 percent, in nominal
terms, by fiscal 1998. In real terms, using a projected yearly inflation rate of 30%, this is
equivalent to a reduction of 42%.
52.   The second is a special voucher scheme for inputs, which will allow temporary
input subsidies beginning before the fall planting in September-October, 1997. Under this
scheme farmers will receive vouchers that will enable them to purchase inputs at a
discount. Eligible inputs will include fertilizers, seeds and possibly mechanical services.
This transitional scheme will help cushion the impact of eliminating free fertilizer
provision and of freeing the fertilizer price. It will also help substitute for directed credit,
although, as a discount scheme, it will not replace the need for credit. Farmers will be
able to use these vouchers to purchase from any input suppliers and this will help to
"jump-start" the development of private input suppliers. Whereas the previous recipients
of state supplied credit were state farms and integrators, the envisaged scheme will supply
vouchers directly to farmers, bypassing the traditional state delivery mechanisms and
minimizing the diversion of subsidies from their intended beneficiaries. Thus, through
the voucher scheme, for the first time Romania's small private farmers will have



14
reasonable assurance that they are the actual beneficiary of schemes intended to raise
their productivity and incomes. These transitional subsidies are all on budget. Reforms
to the system of credit subsidies are discussed below.
53.   Trade. The new framework for trade policy allows domestic prices to more
closely reflect world prices for agricultural products and inputs. High agricultural tariff
barriers and tariff dispersion are substantially reduced, which will stimulate efficient
resource use in agriculture while reducing the anti-export bias that has seriously hindered
both export volumes and diversification of the production base. In general terms,
agricultural and food tariffs (excluding beverages and tobacco) have been reduced from a
production weighted average of 67 percent to a production weighted average of 27
percent. The maximum applicable tariff is now 60 percent which serves as a cap for a
number of sensitive products, including especially livestock (pig and poultry) and dairy
products. About 80 percent of tariff lines now fall below 40 percent.  These changes
comprise the first phase of tariff reform. In the second phase, the production weighted
average of the Tariff Schedule will not be higher than 22 percent. The maximum tariff in
the second phase will not exceed 40 percent for all products except those currently
classified as sensitive, which will be subject to a cap of 45 percent.
54.   A basic prerequisite for a well designed trade regime is that it should not restrict
export or import flows through quotas or bans, and it should be predictable. To this end,
all export bans (except timber), and quotas (except for those included in international
agreements, especially with the EU) have been eliminated. In addition, the practice of
allowing administrative waivers on import tariffs has ended. Finally, all licensing
requirements for exports and imports have ended.
55.   As an active member of the international trading system, the trade reform respects
international agreements. The reforms are carried out within the framework of WTO
rules, and are consistent with existing bilateral agreements, in particular with the
European Union. In the coming months the Government proposes to undertake a full
study of the trade regime, analyzing the rates of protection provided to different branches
of activity in order to rationalize the regime in a manner consistent with improving
efficiency and enhanced growth.
56.   A Trade Law is expected to be presented to Parliament before the end of the year
that establishes a legal basis for all significant changes in import and export policy
previously enacted by administrative ordinance. This will reduce the chance for reversal
of previously enacted policies through administrative measures, such as a change in
ordinance.
57.   Special Regulations applying to Seeds.   Specific steps have been taken to
improve farmers' access to the best available seed technology.  The existing seed
regulations have been changed to automatically register varieties that are listed in the EU
Common Catalogues (that is, to register such varieties with no waiting period
whatsoever). For the first time, Romania's farmers have access to the many seed varieties



15
that companies test and introduce to EU farmers each year. Farmers will be able to
obtain higher yields, they will be able to satisfy export demand for specific product types
and qualities, and they will be able to compete more successfully. This measure brings
Romania closer to EU practice.
C.    Agricultural and Rural Finance
58.   Under the Government's reform program there is an immediate cessation of the
NBR's role in refinancing directed credits including those for agriculture. Such
refinancing has thwarted control of the money supply, resulting in high and variable
inflation and considerable macroeconomic instability.  Henceforth, the NBR  will
refinance some commercial bank loans, but this will occur in the normal course of its
monetary operations through credit auctions, and will carry market interest rates. Also to
end is the practice of passing special laws, such as Law 20/1996, that forgive or
reschedule enterprise debts. This has been confirmed the Government's letter of sector
policy to the World Bank (Annex 1).
59.   The sharp and sudden withdrawal of directed credit to agriculture could prove
highly disruptive. Some directed funds will therefore be provided in the next few months.
These funds are now transparently budgeted in the state budget. An amount of 550 billion
lei is provided for spring planting, and an additional 500 billion lei is allocated for
purchase of the summer wheat harvest. These sums are considerably less, in real terms,
than have been provided in previous years, for example 1.6 billion lei in 1995 and 2.7
billion lei in 1996 (the latter figure is from the November, 1996 rectified budget). The
funds for the spring planting will be repaid by the end of the summer, when they will be
rolled over for the fall planting campaign.
60.   The allocation mechanisms for budgeted funds for the spring campaign have been
defined, as has the degree of subsidy. The budget will lend to commercial banks and
other financial intermediaries, who will bear the full risk of iending. In order to induce
banks and other financial intermediaries to participate, a small subsidy is provided to the
financial institutions upon making a loan, and a further and larger "bonus" is provided
when the loan is collected. Altogether the subsidy amounts to 15 percent of the principal
lent and recovered. As Romania's inflation, and hence its interest rates, are expected to
spike sharply in the first months of the reform program, the Government has also
established a fixed interest rate for on-lending to farmers and service providers of 80
percent per annum. Under current projections of inflation in the March -December period
this amounts to an annualized average real interest rate of 3 to 5 percent. Funds will not
be provided, under this scheme, to enterprises that are delinquent and allocation criteria
will be established to direct funds toward smaller commercial farmers and entrepreneurs
rather than state enterprises.
61.   As noted earlier, one of the major challenges facing Romanian agriculture is to
quickly develop alternative mechanisms and institutions for the delivery of credit to the
sector. As a first step in this process the Government intends to separate the operations of



16
the rural credit cooperatives from the consumer cooperatives, reduce the role of the
central coordinating cooperative body, and encourage "bottom-up" development of the
rural credit cooperative system.  Revisions to the relevant law also encompass
improvements in supervision of the credit cooperatives by the NBR. In addition, the
Government intends to urgently mount a study of agricultural and rural finance, building
upon previous work undertaken in ASAL preparation, in order to refine transitional
intermediation measures and accelerate the establishment of commercially viable
institutions that will lend to agriculture. Finally, Banca Agricola's difficulties are being
treated in the parallel operation of the FESAL. A Resolution Committee will be
established shortly and will develop a restructuring plan to be implemented in the coming
months.
D.   Land Market Reform
62.     Great strides have been made in restituting over 8 million hectares of land to
former private owners and redistributing land to others, and in conferring title on over 60
percent of the new holdings. However, as noted earlier, Romanian landholders do not
now enjoy a legal framework supportive of free leasing, purchase or sale transactions.
This, along with lack of a widely functioning cadastre and land registration system,
hinders the formation of efficient farm sizes, and limits the ability of farmers to reduce
severe fragmentation. The objective of the Government's land policy reforms is
therefore to improve the efficiency of land market operation. Completion of a general
cadastre and land registration is a more protracted task that will be carried out over the
medium term.
63.   An amendment to the existing land law (Law 18/1991) and a new Law on Land
Circulation have been presented to Parliament and will allow free purchase and sale of
land. The amendment to Law 18 clarifies the situation of private individuals with
legitimate claims on land under state farms, and defines the status of those state farm
lands not claimed by individuals. The new Land Circulation Law ensures that the state
has no pre-emption rights on land transactions, guarantees that land can be sold to the
highest bidder, and raises the ceilings on land ownership by individuals. The Bank is also
assisting land market development through preparation of a proposed Cadastre Project.
64.   Leasing transactions have been addressed through presentation of an amendment
to Law 16/1994 on the Renting and Leasing of Land. The amendment makes leasing and
subleasing transactions less difficult. It allows subleasing and leasing to entities with
foreign ownership, units administering state owned land may lease, the duration of leases
becomes the sole concern of transacting parties, and the rights of owners/lessees and their
heirs are properly defined in cases of death of either party.
E.   Privatization, Restructuring and Liquidation



17
65.   Progress in privatization of agricultural enterprises under the Mass Privatization
Program (MPP) has been painfully slow, and privatization of state farms, which were
placed outside the MPP, has only recently become government policy. Many state-
owned enterprises (SOEs) are insolvent. Enterprises' losses and further accumulation of
bad debts must be limited, even in this requires forcing loss-making and insolvent SOEs
into liquidation.  Privatization of all categories of agricultural enterprises must of
necessity be accelerated.
66.   An initial step in this direction is to end the restrictions on sales transactions that
limit market bidding and overregulate the process. Consequently, the State Ownership
Fund (SOF) will be allowed to sell shares or assets at auction or through tender to the
highest bidder without prior appraisal of their value, without minimum price limit, and
without other conditions of sale such as the requirement to maintain employment and
undertake certain investments.
67.   Changes in land policy are critical to speeding the process of state farm
privatization. An amended land law under preparation will initiate restitution of land
previously held privately and now occupied by the former IAS (state farms). A new
Land Circulation Law will give private agents the right to buy or lease land and other
assets currently held by the former IAS; and it will clarify the very limited number of
instances where the Court of Accounts has the power to intervene in the privatization
process. The restitution process will restore to private individuals a substantial portion
the land currently under state farm control. A residual portion of land that is unclaimed
by individuals will remain in state hands. From an agreed list of 75 state farms currently
occupying at least 380,000 hectares, 50 will undergo privatization or initiation of
liquidation. For all other state farms occupying the residual land, mutually agreed
guidelines will be established that will allow their breakup and subsequent privatization
or liquidation. Within this group, another 50 farms occupying at least 250,000 hectares
will be split into smaller functional units in preparation for privatization or liquidation.
As a result of this process, a substantial number of former IAS will have been privatized
or liquidated.
68.   A list of 20 loss-making pig and poultry enterprises has been prepared and agreed
with the Government, and these enterprises have been substantially liquidated or
privatized. By May 1998, and as a condition of second tranche, the privatization or, at a
minimum, initiation of liquidation will have occurred for all pig and poultry farms. In the
cereals sector, NAAP and 30 of 44 Comcereals will be privatised, while all necessary
measures for privatization of remaining fourteen will be taken. For the Comcereals, the
process will be supported by appointment of one or more investment banks or investment
advisors.  In the inputs sector, SEMROM  seed company will be reorganized and
privatized, and UNISEM will also be privatized.. Out of a total of 1,682 agricultural
service providers that includes Agromecs (which provide machinery services), 1,500 will
be privatized.



18
F.    Cereals Market Development
69    The objective of the Government's cereals market reform is create an active and
competitive private sector that can efficiently serve farmers, agro-industries and export
markets. As bread is a basic staple in the Romanian diet, the wheat sector reforms have
been designed to ensure food security for the population in the case of calamities.
70.   The National Agency for Agricultural Products (NAAP), the large regie autonome
created after the break-up of the former grain monopoly Romcereal, will be privatized.
All the storage capacity of the regie will be transferred to 29 state-owned commercial
companies owned by the State Ownership Fund (SOF), of which twenty will be
privatized over a period of twelve months. NAAP's successor enterprises will begin
operating entirely as independent companies, under competitive conditions, at the time of
commercialisation. In particular, they no longer have privileged access to finance or
special prices. The GOR has issued an ordinance to take over previous losses of NAAP,
amounting to about 200 billion lei (to be audited) in order to allow for a more rapid
privatization of the newly created commercial companies. This privatization effort
complements the accelerated timetable for the privatization of the Comcereals.
71.   The reform program also envisages a reorientation in the use and size of the State
Reserves for wheat. To avoid detrimental interference to free market development and
limit the costs of stockholding, the GOR will restrict the activities of the National
Administration of State Reserves (NASR) to the maintenance of a reserve of bread-
making wheat. The reserve will be limited to use in emergency situations only, such as
natural catastrophes, and it will not be employed to stabilize or support the domestic price
of wheat (however, the GOR with World Bank experts will consider policy options for
support of producer prices for wheat in years when the price falls to extremely low
levels). The wheat reserve, officially called the State Emergency Wheat Reserve
(SEWR), will be reduced to a level of no more than 350,000 mt, by the end of August,
1997, as a condition of second tranche. It will be complemented by a State Emergency
Wheat Fund (SEWF), a financial reserve of $60 million to be kept in foreign exchange
available in the National Bank. This allows a reduction in physical reserve levels that
will save on the budgetary cost of purchase, financing and storage of a large quantity of
wheat. The two reserves, physical and financial, ensure an extremely high level of food
security. Reserves will be sufficient to maintain the entire population on a substantial
ration per person, per day, for up to four months.
72.   The state reserves will be held in privatized silos and be subject to normal
inspections and controls. As a general principle it is important that the management of
reserves be consistent with private market development. For this reason, after August 15,
1997, NASR operations regarding the SEWR will be executed through auctions under
free market conditions with no administrative setting of prices. This process will be
preceded by the auction during at least one month of modest quantities of wheat (at least
20,000 tons of wheat, per month). Until August 15, allocation of quantities above this
level may be conducted using previous methods of distribution, but sales must occur at



19
levels approximating those in private markets. In the future, when wheat stocks are
rotated, NASR will sell the grain through public auctions and will spread its auctions over
a reasonable period of time, announcing them at least one week in advance to avoid
market disruptions. In addition, regulations limiting the NASR to use of only NAAP
warehouses have been rescinded.
73.   Policy reforms will be supported by institutional strengthening and infrastructural
investments. The Government will support the establishment of individual private
associations of grain marketing professionals and an umbrella Interprofessional
Organization for Cereals (IOC). The latter would be comprised of organizations of
farmers, wholesalers and brokers, processors, and consumers, and would be non-
commercial. Its chief functions would be to coordinate dialogue between the private
scctor and the Government on matters of common interest, including public information
about market conditions, implementation of new economic policies, marketing
procedures and disputes, quality standards and research, and promotion of Romanian
agricultural products abroad. In addition, the Government has approached the IBRD to
assist in infrastructural development in the port of Constanza, and the Danube ports to
allow for cheaper and more efficient export of grain from Romania and surplus
neighboring countries, as well as assist help improve marketing (including through the
formation of commodity exchanges), and internal transportation logistics.
G.   The Role of the Ministry of Agriculture and Food (MOAF)
74.   The incentives, finance, land policy, and privatization measures outlined above all
lead to a reduction in direct state intervention in agricultural markets and an increase in
private production and marketing activity. As agriculture shifts to a market orientation,
the Government is acutely aware that the MOAF also needs to adapt to new roles and
functions. This new role will primarily involve support for public goods, defined as goods
such as physical infrastructure or market information that are necessary for efficient
private sector operation, but which the private sector cannot or will not provide in
requisite amounts.
75.   A plan to redefine the MOAF's role and reorganize its field administration will be
prepared before the year's end to give content to this vision of the MOAF's future role.
There are three likely areas in which the MOAF will be active. First, it will need to
improve its ability to monitor, analyze and anticipate the effects of the current policy
reforms. To this end, a high level policy analysis unit has been established as part of the
current reform program. Second, the Ministry will undoubtedly play a role, along with
other agencies, in supporting improved grades and standards in agriculture as Romania
prepares to enter the EU. A study before the year's end will assist in defining this role.
Third, the Ministry will undertake a study examining rural development needs in
Romania and defining the role the Ministry will have in administering a rural
development  fund   that   will  support  investments  in  rural   areas.



20
IV. The Proposed Loan
A.   Rationale for the Loan
76.   The proposed loan would provide financial support in two tranches. In the LSP,
strong macroeconomic and sectoral justifications are advanced for agricultural reforms.
On the macroeconomic side, state-owned agricultural enterprises have been a major drain
on Government finances and an important contributor to inflation. This is a long-
standing problem. To address it, comprehensive reform of the enterprise sector, and the
system of incentives and subsidized financial flows that sustain it, is required.
77.   Agriculture is also an important sector in its own right. It is a significant source
of employment and income, a generator of foreign exchange, and has served as a buffer
against poverty.  Yet analysis during ASAL preparation has shown that the current
policy regime imposes a substantial net tax on agricultural producer incomes in some
years. Through this taxation, and the uncertainty engendered by a discretionary policy
regime, market development and private investment are inhibited, and agricultural
incomes are lowered. Concerns about the need for sectoral efficiency and improved
growth performance therefore provide an important justification for the reforms.
B.   Composition and Quality of the Bank Portfolio
78.   The current portfolio of IBRD loans has placed primary emphasis on reform and
rehabilitation of the energy, power and transport sectors (see table in Annex 4).  A
secondary focus has been on human services, covering the health and education sectors,
and the area of social protection. IFC and MIGA involvement in Romania are described
in the accompanying CAS document.
C.   The Country Assistance Strategy and the ASAL
79.   Romania's poor policy environment has prevented implementation of a number of
projects. The current reform program, which includes policy measures undertaken
through the proposed ASAL, a restructured FESAL, a World Bank Social Protection
Adjustment Loan, and an IMF Standby Agreement, should allow disbursement to resume
rapidly. The Romania Country Assistance Strategy (CAS) will, in the short term
(through FY 1998), focus on supporting this adjustment and social protection program,
which was initiated on February 17, 1997.
80.  In the reform program, there exist strong links between ASAL and other elements.
The ASAL reforms will support the stabilization efforts of the IMF Agreement through
reduction in the economic role of loss-making agricultural enterprises. It will also benefit
substantially from the free foreign exchange regime embodied in the Standby Agreement,



21
as well as the reduced inflation brought about by stabilization measures.   ASAL
privatization measures are complementary to those of the FESAL, and social measures
under the Social Protection Adjustment Loan have been carefully designed to cushion the
impact of ASAL reforms.
81.   The funding levels and activities proposed for the Romania CAS are described in
accompanying documents. ASAL makes a substantial contribution towards the overall
funding levels in the CAS.
D.   Loan Amount and Tranching
82.   The proposed ASAL would be a two tranche operation. Upon loan effectiveness,
US$ 200 million equivalent would be released. The remaining portion of the loan, US$
150 million equivalent, would be released upon fulfillment of second tranche conditions
(see below for a detailed list of conditions). The loan would be payable in twenty years,
including five years of grace, at the Bank's standard interest rate for LIBOR-based single
currency loans in the chosen currencies (US dollars and Deutsche marks).
E.    Loan Conditions
83.   This section enumerates first and second tranche conditions in the ASAL Policy
Matrix (policy matrix conditions are set out in bold). "Recent actions" are those actions
that have already been implemented and which were a prerequisite for presenting this
operation to the Board. Second tranche actions are targeted for completion no later than
June 3, 1998.  All conditions are followed by a paragraph number in parentheses,
referring to the location in the body of text above where the condition is discussed.
Recent Actions
Incentives Reforms
* Eliminate all price and margin controls at all levels of the marketing
chain for pig/pork, poultry/poultry meat, milk/dairy products, and
wheat/flour/bread. Office of Prices and Competition will be instructed to
discontinue any price setting activities relating to state or private
enterprises. (para. 47.) This action is reflected in the Law on Competition
(no. 21/1996) implemeinted starting February 1997, that restricts the role of the
state in setting prices or margins to a negative list of commodities (mainly
utility tariffs or products of monopolies), that has been specified by the
Emergency Ordinance no. 3/1997 and Governmental Decree llo. 37/1997. No
agricultural commodity was included in the negative list;  through this
measure, all the price setting mechanisms for agricultural commodities have
been discontinued. Moreover, the Government submitted to the Parliament a



22
draft law for the repeal of the Law 83/1993 on the state suppolt for
agriculture, witlh the no. E144 / April 14, 1997, that explicitly repeals producer
price support (the minimum guaranteed price).
*  Eliminate administered prices for fertilizer. (para. 50.) The same laws and
regulations as outlined above.
*  Eliminate all premia (budgetary subventions aimed at producer price
support). (para 47.) This action is reflected in the 1997 budget, which
approved by Parliament on April 29, 1997 (Law on the State Budget for 1997
no. 72 /1997). Moreover, the Government submitted to the Parliament a diraft
law for the repeal of the Law 83/1993 on the state support for agriculture, with
the no. E44 / April 14, 1997. that repeals explicitly the provision of premnia.
*  Certified seed subsidies for 1997 farm campaign to be placed on 1997
budget, and not to exceed 1996 budget allocations, in nominal terms.
(para. 51.) This action is reflected in the Law on the State Budget for 1997,
no. 72/April 29, 1997.
X  Permanently eliminate all export bans and quotas, except for timber, and
except as included in agreements with the EU and other international
agreements. (para. 54.) This actions is reflected in Government [)ecision Ino.
162 from May 5, 1997, jointly initiated by the MOAF and the MT[.
-  Eliminate all licensing requirements for agricultural imports and exports
(however, licensing of exports that are subject to tariff quotas imposed by
the EU will not be affected).  (para. 54.) This action takes the form of
Govermnent Decisions no. 162/1997 (referring to exports) and 161/1997
(referring to imports). which eliminated licenses on agricultural commodities.
*  Reduce average tariffs on agricultural outputs and inputs, and reduce
their dispersion. The relevant tariff positions on which tariff revision is
applicable will be Chapters 1 to 23 of the Romanian Tariff Schedule, with
the exception of Chapter 22 (beverages and alcoholic drinks). The
production weighted average tariff will not exceed 27%. The maximum
tariff applicable will be 60%, with the understanding that tariffs on
imports of sensitive products (pig and processed pork products, milk and
dairy products, and poultry and processed poultry products) will not
surpass 60%. A tariff range of 0% to 40% will be applied to at least 70%
of all tariff positions. Exceptions will only be acceptable to the extent that
they are legally binding through international agreements; to the extent
that this is not the case, tariffs on those items will be adjusted to the level
of the average tariff (or mode) of the four digit position to which they



23
belong. (para. 54.) Tariff levels and dispersion have been lowered to these
levels by Government Decision No. 161, of May 5, 1997.
*  End the practice of allowing administratively initiated import tariff
exemptions (waivers).  (para. 54.)  In the past, tariff waivers have been
implemented by decrees having a legal basis in Art. 35 of Ordinance 26/1993,
which governs the Import Tariff Schedule. The official Gazette verifies that
the Government has promulgated no decrees allowing waivers since May 1,
1997. It has, in addition, the Government states in its Letter of Sector Policy
(Annex 1) that "administrative waivers on import tariffs have ended and will
not resume in the future."
*  Present ordinance for repeal of Law 83/1993, which provides the legal
basis for price and subsidy interventions in agriculture. (para. 54.) 'I he
draft law for the repeal of the Law 83/1993 has been adopted by the
Government and sent to the Parliament with the no. E44/ Apr. 14, 1997.
Currently, this draft law is on the agenda of the Senate (the higher Chamber of
the Parliament). and will be discussed by the Parliament in an emergency
procedure.
*  Revise regulations on certified seed registration so that all varieties listed
in the EU's Common Catalogue are automatically registered (i.e. with no
waiting period). (para. 57.) The Government adopted a draft seed law with
this provision in April 14, 1997, and sent the bill to Parliament with the no.
E43/1997, to be discussed in an emergency procedure.
Agricultural and Rural Finance
*  NBR refinancing of directed credit to agriculture has been ended. (para.
58.) In the past, such directed credit was authorized through Parliamentary
approval of decrees, ordinances, or laws requiring the NBR to supply
specified volumes of credit to agriculture. The official Gazette verifies that no
such Parliamentary act has been issued in 1997.    Furthermore, the
Government has stated in its Letter of Sector Policy (Annex 1) that it is
committed to preventing NBR refinancing of directed credit to agriculture.
*  A limited amount of credit, a sum of 1,050 billion lei, has been put on the
1997 budget for finance of input supply and crop purchase activities
during the year. This amount was put in the 1997 MOAF budget, passed by
the State Budget Law on April 29. 1997. Disbursement mechanisms
satisfactory to the World Bank have been determined for the April
planting for an amount of 550 billion lei. through the Emergency Ordinance
no. 3 from March 5. 1997 (para. 59).



24
* Government has confirmed to the World Bank that it will not submit to
Parliament nor support any law similar to Law 20/96 , that forgives or
reschedules debt for agricultural enterprises. (para. 58.) This condition
was satisfied by a statement in the Government's Letter of Sector Policy,
attached to this report as Annex 1.
Land Markets
*  Amendments to Law 18/1991 and a new Law on Land Circulation have
been presented to Parliament; these ensure free land transactions
(specific measures are listed in the attached policy matrix).  (para. 63.)
T-he draft law on land circulation was adopted by the Government in April,
1997 and has been sent to the Parliamnent on May 5, 1997 with the no. E63.
*  An amendment to Law 16/1994 has been presented to Parliament that
will ensure free leasing and subleasing of land (specific measures are
listed in the attached policy matrix). (para. 64.) Amendments to Law
16/1994 have been adopted by the Government in April 1997, and were
presented to Parliament on May 5. 1997, with the no. E65.
Privatization. Restructuring and Liquidation
-  Clarify ownership status of lands held by former state farms (FIAS) so
that they can be privatized.  (para. 67.)  Such clarifications will be
implemented through the modification of the land law no 18/1991. Currently,
a parliamentary legislative initiative is debated, that will lead to the
modification of the land law. The Government has sent to the Parliament its
proposals for modification of the Land Law, that explicitly clarify the
ownership status of land under the state farms.
*  Privatize an additional one hundred and fifty agricultural service
companies, including Agromecs (machinery service companies) to reach a
total of at least 600 enterprises.  (para. 68.) Evidence satisfactory to the
World Bank that this was accomplished was provided by the President of the
SOF through Letter no P322 1 from April 17, 1997.
*  Decision by SOF Board to reorganize SEMROM  seed company and
include UNISEM in the 1997 privatization program. (para. 68.) Evidence
satisfactory to the World Bank that this was accomplished was provided by
the President of the SOF on March. 31, 1997 (Order no. 2 / March 31, 1997).
* Prepared a list acceptable to the World Bank, of 75 former IAS
occupying at least 380,000 hectares of land, for eventual privatization or
initiation of liquidation. (para. 67.) This list was provided by the Minister



25
of Agriculture and the President of the SOF through letter no 53168 from
March 19,1997.
*  Establish agreed guidelines for breaking up all other former state farms
into smaller functional units to be privatized separately if viable or
liquiated if unviable. Guidelines must be agreeable to the Bank. (para.
67.) A letter from the acceptable to the World Bank, stating agreed guidelines
for break up of former state farms, was delivered to the World Bank on March
17. 1997.
*  Privatize or start liquidation proceedings for at least 20 pig and poultry
farms, from a list agreed with the World Bank. (para. 68.) Evidence
satisfactory to the World Bank that this was accomplished was provided by
the President of the SOF on April 24, 1997.
Cereals Markets
-  The National Agency of Agricultural Products (NAAP) has been
transformed from a regie autonome into a minimum of eight commercial
companies with no more that 300,000 mt of storage capacity each. (para.
70.) Government Decision No. 184, of May 5, 1997, implemented this
measure. A total of 29 successor companies have been established.
-  Issue an ordinance to compensate NAAP for financial losses it took over
from the former Romcereal.  (para. 70.) This was carried out through
Government Emergency Ordinance No. 16 of May 5, 1997.
*  In one month before Board presentation, a minimum of 20,000 tons of
wheat will be auctioned from the State Emergency Wheat Reserves
(SEWR) in order to develop experience in auctioning. During this time,
sales in excess of 20,000 tons can be undertaken through previous
administrative distribution methods. The NASR will implement the
auctions through competitive bidding. The bidding process is to be
announced in advance according to legislation on public procurement
and is open to domestic and foreign bidders subject to the usual
guarantees from recognized commercial banks. The competitive bidding
requirement will be waived only in cases of emergency. (para. 72).
Evidence that 20,000 metric tons of wheat was auctioned from the SEWR on
April 18, 1997, in a competitive auction organized by the NAAP, was
provided in a letter from the NAAP to the Bank Resident Mission on May 9,
1997.



26
*  Repeal articles in Governmental Decision no. 1054/95 that instruct the
NASR to use only NAAP or Comcereal warehouses for storage.  (para.
72.) Through the transfer of all the storage capacity of the reoie autonome
ANPA to the successor commercial companies, regulated by the
Governmental Decision no. 184 /1997, the relevant provision from
Government Decision no. 1054/1995 no longer has legal effect.
*  Initiate feasibility studies to improve grain marketing and export along
the Danube-Black Sea corridor, and initiate program to develop private
sector  representation  through   private  Interprofessional  Grain
Organization. (para. 73.) Both of these activities have been initiated through
the World Bank Grain Marketing and Export Project, which is currently under
preparation.
Role of the Ministry of Agriculture
* Establish a high level Policy Advisory Unit (PAU) in the MOAF to assist
with reform implementation and provide technical advice on agricultural
policy. (para. 75.) The PAU was established with financial support from EU-
Phare, in February, 1997.
Conditions of Second Tranche (expected to be taken before June 3, 1998)
1. The Borrower has provided satisfactory evidence to the Bank that: (i) all
fertilizer subsidies have been eliminated; (ii) the Borrower has provided
in its budget plan for 1998, for a reduction in seed subsidies of at least
25%, in nominal terms, in comparison with the amount of seed subsidies
in the 1997 budget; and (iii) the Borrower has privatised or, if not
privatized, initiated liquidation (with the appointment of a liquidator) of
the two seed companies UNISEM and SEMROM (or successor companies
thereto). (paras. 50, 51, and 68.)
2. The Borrower has provided satisfactory evidence to the Bank that: (i) the
average production-weighted tariff on agricultural products is not higher
than 22%, as calculated in accordance with a methodology acceptable to
the Bank; (ii) no tariff on the import price of pig and processed pork
products, milk and dairy products, and poultry and processed poultry
products, exceeds 45%; (iii) no tariff on the import price of agricultural
products, other than those relating to the products listed under letter (ii)
of this paragraph, exceeds 40%; and (iv) no administrative waivers of
tariffs on the import price of agricultural products have been grantred
since June 30, 1997. (para. 53.)



27
3. The Borrower has provided satisfactory evidence to the Bank that the
Borrower has: (a) privatised or, if not privatized, initiated liquidation
(with the appointment of a liquidator) of at least : (i) twenty NAAP
commercial companies; (ii) thirty Comcereals; and (iii) one thousand five
hundred out of a list of one thousand six hundred and eighty-two former
State agricultural service companies; and (b) taken all necessary
measures on its part in view of the privatization of fourteen more
Comcereals (paras. 70, 68.)
4. The Borrower has provided satisfactory evidence to the Bank that the
Borrower's State Emergency Wheat Reserve has been reduced to no
more than 350,000 metric tons by August 31, 1997, and such level has not
been exceeded thereater. (para. 71.)
5. The Borrower has provided satisfactory evidence to the Bank that: (i) at
least fifty out of a list of seventy-five former State farms have been
reorganized into smaller functional units and privatized or, if not
privatized, their liquidation (with the appointment of a liquidator) has
been initiated; and (ii) at least fifty more former State farms, collectively
occupying an area of at least 250,000 hectares, out of a list acceptable to
the Bank, have been reorganized into smaller functional units, and plans
acceptable to the Bank for their privatization have been submitted to the
Bank. (para. 67)
6. The Borrower has provided satisfactory evidence to the Bank that all
State pig and poultry enterprizes have been privatized or, if not
privatized, their liquidation (with the appointment of a liquidator) has
been initiated. (para. 68.)
7. The Borrower has provided satisfactory evidence to the Bank that all
necessary measures have been adopted for the implementation of a plan,
acceptable to the Bank, for the reorganization of the Borrower's Ministry
of Agriculture and Food, and a new definition of the functions exercised
by such Ministry. (para. 75.)
8. The macroeconomic policies of Romania policies are consistent with the
objectives of the stabilization program. (para. 4.)
F. Disbursement and Procurement
84.  In accordance with the February 8, 1996 Operational Directive on the
Simplification of Disbursement Rules under Structural Adjustment and Sectoral
Adjustment Loans, funds disbursed under the proposed ASAL will be released against



28
satisfactory implementation of the adjustment program, including compliance with
stipulated second tranche release conditions, pursuit of macroeconomic policies that are
consistent with the ongoing stabilization program, and progress shown in carrying out the
program set forth in the Letter of Sector Policy (Annex 1). Disbursements will not be
linked to any specific purchases.  Thus, evidence will not be needed to support
disbursements, nor will procurement requirements be necessary.
G.   Reporting, Accounting and Auditing
85.   The Government of Romania will maintain accounts and records, or ensure that
such items are maintained, showing that loan disbursements were in accordance with
provisions of the Loan Agreement. Such accounts and records will be maintained in a
form acceptable to the Bank, and the Bank may require an audit of such records by
independent auditors.
H.   Implementation and Monitoring of Development Impact
86.   ASAL implementation and monitoring will be the responsibility of the Ministry
of Agriculture and Food in collaboration with other members of the Interministerial
ASAL Coordination Committee. The MOAF will chair the committee. Other members
will include the Ministry of Finance, the Ministry of Industry and Commerce, the
Ministry of Reform, and the State Ownership Fund.  The Committee's work in
implementation and monitoring of the ASAL will be assisted by a high level policy
analysis unit placed in the Ministry of Agriculture. Implementation of reform progress
will also be monitored through semi-annual reviews, and preparation of other projects
such as the Grain Marketing and Export Project.
I.    Environmental Implications of the ASAL
87.   The Romania ASAL will have no clear, demonstrable impact on the environment.
Pesticide use and prices will not be measurably changed by the reforms, as prices are
unregulated. Use of other inputs, such as fertilizer, seeds and machinery, will be affected,
but it is not clear that more intensive use of purchased inputs will occur over the short
term, or if so, which inputs will be used more intensively than others, or what will be the
effect on the natural resource base. This depends on an assessment of trading responses
to reform, relative price changes and input substitution patterns and subsequent effects on
the environrnent. The same can be said of the effect of reforms on output price and
production patterns, and their implications for input use and natural resources. Similarly,
it is hard to predict the impact of land policy changes on the environment. Given the
broad nature of the reforms, and the wide range of possible effects, any firm conclusions



29
about environmental impact are difficult to uphold. The proposed loan has been
examined by EMTEM and placed in Environmental Category C.
J.    Potential Risks
88.   Among the most important risks is that of political resistance to reforms that leads
to policy reversal. In response to this possibility, the GOR has actively engaged unions
and others that may be hurt.  In addition, an extensive social protection program
supported by the World Bank will assist low-income groups who are least able to cope
with any negative short-term effects of reforms. A second risk is that the financial and
marketing sectors will respond only weakly to reforms, with adverse effects on
production and prices. For example, it is feared that once NBR-refinanced directed credit
ends, no intermediaries will lend to agriculture. A transitional agricultural finance
scheme will thus continue to provide funds for input supply and crop purchase, but it will
enforce strict loan eligibility criteria ensuring that loss making state enterprises will not
receive credit. In addition a voucher scheme is being designed that will distribute input
subsidies directly to farmers. This is supplemented by active measures to organize and
inform domestic and international traders of the policy reform program. Efforts will also
being made, with the cooperation of other donors, to improve market price information
system in order to provide timely price information to farmers and traders, and to
generate reliable market-level indicators of reform progress.
K.   Collaboration with the IMF, EU and Other Donors
89.   The preparation of ASAL conditions and implementation of initial reforms has
been carried out in close collaboration with the European Community PHARE program,
the IMF, USAID and other donors. ASAL preparation was funded with a PHRD grant
provided by the Government of Japan. Project investments in agriculture by multilateral
and bilateral donors provide an important complement to the ASAL reforms and help to
improve the production and marketing response to reforms.
90.   ASAL implementation has been helped by establishment of a 3 million ECU
facility under EU-PHARE, a portion of which has been used to establish a Policy
Advisory Unit in the MOAF that will assist implementation and monitoring of
agricultural reforms. These funds may also be used to design a rural development fund in
which the MOAF may have some involvement, as well as activities supporting
harmonization of Romanian agricultural standards with those of the EU. All of these
activities support items in the ASAL policy matrix, in Section VI.
91.   The EU-PHARE program was particularly active in its participation in ASAL
workshops and support for preparation of policy reforms. It provided funds for co-
financing of a farm survey with the World Bank (including financing of field work and a
final workshop to present results); its consultants working on cereals sector reform gave



30
important technical input to ASAL privatization recommendations; studies by an EU
funded Policy Analysis Unit provided a reference for the ASAL's own agricultural policy
analysis; and EU-funded studies and technical assistance in the areas of land policy and
pig and poultry enterprise restructuring were helpful in formulating specific reforms. The
final formulation of ASAL reforms was accomplished in close coordination with the IMF
in Bucharest, ensuring compatibility between the sectoral and macroeconomic reforms
put forth.
92.   Projects currently funded in agriculture by other donors provide substantial
complementary support to the ASAL (Annex 5 table).  These cover the areas of land
registration and cadastral work (EU-PHARE and Canadian Government), market
development and market and crop information systems (EU-PHARE and EBRD),
extension and support to farmer organizations (EU-PHARE and USAID), and rural
credit (EU-PHARE).
IV. Recommendation
I am satisfied that the proposed loan would comply with the Articles of
Agreement of the Bank and recommend that the Executive Directors approve the
proposed loan.
James D. Wolfensohn
President
by Caio K. Koch-Weser
Washington, D.C.
May 9, 1997



Annex I
Page 1 of 15
ROMANIA
AGRICULTURE SECTOR ADJUSTMENT LOAN
LETTER FROM THE GOVERNMENT OF ROMANIA ON ITS MEDIUM-TERM
POLICY FOR THE AGRICULTURE SECTOR
May 3, 1997
Mr. James Wolfensohn
President
International Bank for Reconstruction and Development
Washington, D.C.
Dear Mr. Wolfensohn,
Following its victory in elections of November, 1996, our Government became
increasingly aware of the grave economic situation we had inherited from the previous
regime. We quickly began to consider measures necessary to correct the situation and put
the economy on a sustainable course. A specific set of reforms was discussed with the
World Bank and the IMF in January, 1997. Concurrently, discussions were held with
political parties and trade unions to ensure their understanding of and support for the
reform measures. In early February, 1997, a comprehensive program was agreed upon
which enjoyed broad social support.
The stabilization and structural reform measures were announced by the Prime
Minister on February 17 and implementation began immediately. The reforms initiate a
year of great austerity for the Romanian people, with national income expected to fall by
perhaps 3% (in real terms) in 1997, and with a substantial decline foreseen in the
purchasing power of the average wage. However, we anticipate that with the forceful
implementation of our stabilization and structural reform programs the economy will start
growing again in 1998. In the course of this difficult process, great care has been taken to
devise social protection measures targeted to those most in need, including children, the
elderly, the unemployed, the rural poor, and low income wage earners.
We inherited a very difficult macroeconomic situation from the previous
government and could not in the short term prevent a further rapid deterioration. In 1996,
the general government deficit, measured on an accrual basis, widened to nearly 6 percent
of GDP, compared to 2.5 percent in 1995. While this increased inflationary pressure,
actual inflation in 1996 was repressed through controls on prices and manipulation of the
exchange rate.  Due to the aforementioned inherited policies, inflation accelerated



Annex I
Page 2 of 15
dramatically to an average monthly increase of 20.8 percent during the first quarter of
1997, compared to 1.6 percent on a monthly basis in the first quarter of the previous year.
In 1996, the external current account deficit widened significantly to US$2.3 billion
(about 7 percent of GDP), compared to US$ 1.3 billion in 1995 (about 5 percent of GDP).
The main elements of our macro stabilization program include: (i) a flexible
exchange rate policy, the rate being freely determined by supply and demand in the
interbank market for foreign exchange; (ii) a disciplined monetary policy, involving the
cessation of directed credit from the NBR, to bear down on inflation; (iii) reduction of the
general government deficit on a cash basis to 4.5 percent of GDP (3.5 percent of GDP on
an accrual basis), which incorporates a significant reduction in total subsidies to industry
and agriculture; and (iv) increased financial discipline in enterprises, including a public
sector incomes policy and measures to control arrears to public utilities. This program is
receiving the support of the IMF, which approved a Standby Agreement for Romania on
April 23, 1997, amounting to SDR 301.5 million.
It is clear from past experience that rapid and comprehensive structural reforms
must accompany the stabilization program if we are to be successful in our efforts to
strengthen our economy. In this respect we have prepared, and are implementing,
complementary programs of structural reform for industrial and public utility enterprises,
and for agriculture. These programs are being supported by a substantial increase in
budgetary resources for social protection.
Agriculture is an important sector in the economy that contributes about 20
percent of GDP and employs about 35 percent of the labor force. Our agriculture is
diverse as we have rich soils and favorable climatic conditions for growing a variety of
temperate products. Cereals (wheat, maize, barley) and livestock (pig, poultry, beef) are
the major products, and we also produce fruits, vegetables, wines and oils. We are largely
self-sufficient in basic food products. Exports of agricultural and food products have
amounted to about US$ 350-500 million in recent years (about 5 to 7.5 percent of total
exports), while imports have amounted to about US$ 500 million.
Our agricultural sector has faced severe difficulties through the transition. In 1991
a Law restituted land to former owners or their heirs, redistributed land to others, and put
83 percent of arable land under the ownership of private individuals. Over 5 million
persons acquired ownership rights. The land distribution resulted in the new owners
holding an average of 2.5 hectares of agricultural land each, with holdings often
fragmented into four or five plots. Many of the new owners are also elderly, and lack
financial resources; few have much experience as farmers and about 40 percent of the
new owners live in towns. Although most primary production is carried out by the
private sector, the state has maintained a dominant role through excessive administrative
control of prices and granting of preferential support to state enterprises involved in input
supply, storage, processing and marketing.



Annex I
Page 3 of 15
The priorities for agricultural reform, even if they were developed in the short
time period following elections, reflect a longer-term process of analysis and preparation.
It is clear from the assessment of previous agricultural policies which has been
undertaken by Romanian officials, researchers and others, that we can improve upon past
performance. Efficient market processes have been prevented by the pervasive state
dominance in most aspects of agricultural input supply and marketing. Prices for several
important commodities (including wheat) have been controlled up and down the
marketing chain. Since 1995, a trade regime has been in place that has hindered exports,
provided excessive protection to some producers and agro-processors, and forced higher
prices on consumers. Persistent exchange rate overvaluation has also led to the loss of
substantial potential income for agricultural producers and exporters. The large volume
of subsidized, directed credit to agriculture, emanating from the National Bank of
Romania, has been a major source of economy-wide inflationary pressure. These credits
have suffered from high rates of default. Privatization in the sector has been slow with
the vast majority of cereals storage and marketing agencies, pig and poultry farms,
mechanical service and input supply arrangements, and a sizable and powerful segment of
the farm sector, all remaining in state hands. Although, as noted, the majority of arable
land was restituted to private owners in 1991, there still exist legal obstacles to buying
and selling land that have effectively prevented the emergence of a land market.
Our aims in the agricultural reform program are to create conditions for rapid
emergence of a dynamic private-sector and market-based agricultural system.  The
government's role is to be reoriented away from direct intervention and toward
development and promotion of policies and institutions that will allow a healthy private
based agriculture to thrive. The end result of this process will be an improvement in the
performance of the sector, improvements in efficiency and productivity, an increase in
farm incomes, and increased variety, better quality, and improved availability of
agricultural products for consumers. The policies we are now promoting will move us
closer to EU practice. Moreover we expect that the sector will regain its position as a
major net exporter.
Structural reforms outside agriculture will positively affect the sector and
complement its reforms. Through reforms negotiated under the Finance and Enterprise
Sector Adjustment Loan (FESAL), extensive changes will occur in the industrial
enterprise and banking sectors. Energy prices increased sharply at the beginning of
March as they were re-aligned towards international levels. In the financial sector,
prudential standards and supervision are being enhanced, and the privatization of selected
state-owned banks is commencing. A large number of state enterprises, particularly in the
energy sector, are slated for rapid restructuring, privatization, or liquidation under the
FESAL.
The main elements of our agricultural sector strategy are as follows:



Annex I
Page 4 of 15
*  First, we are reforming the pricing, trade and subsidy regime facing agricultural
producers and the agro-food industry. Formal and informal price setting procedures
along the marketing chain have been ended, a change that affects both agricultural
outputs and inputs. This is accompanied by an end to all premia subsidies, and
reform of the trade regime. Import tariffs have been substantially lowered, and we
have permanently removed export bans and other export restrictions, other than those
permitted in international agreements.  These changes lay the foundation for
development of an agricultural sector that is efficient and can compete on world
markets. In view of the bread price shocks that occurred in the period immediately
following food price liberalization, a program of financial compensation was initiated
for the most vulnerable consumers. Transitional budgetary subsidies will also remain
for seeds and for some other inputs.
*  Second, we place high priority on development of a rural financial system that is well
adapted to the credit and savings needs of a market oriented agricultural system. A
necessary first step in this direction is the ending of state-sponsored directed,
subsidized credit. Directed credit to agriculture, emanating from the central bank, has
been highly inflationary in the past. Most of the credit has bypassed small private
farmers who are the heart of Romania's agriculture. Our challenge now is to find
ways of speeding the process by which the banking system can provide credits to
agricultural producers and other rural enterprises and we shall institute modest
incentives for banks and others to enter into this market.
*  Third, we submitted to Parliament new legislation and modification of existing laws
so as to ensure free land sales (including land that is the "private property of the
state"'). Specific amendments are also being made in the current Land Lease law to
remove restrictions on leasing transactions. And finally, steps will be taken to
implement a Cadastre in order to properly establish plot boundaries and furnish title
to existing landholdings.
*  Fourth, we plan institutional and infrastructural reforms in the cereals subsector to
complement the incentives reforms. We shall substantially reduce the Government's
ownership of grain storage through breakup of NAAP (the National Agency for
Agricultural Products) and privatization of its successor units. Since food security for
the Romanian population is an essential and indispensable part of our program, we
shall establish a special foreign exchange fund for emergency food imports, and
maintain physical stocks in Romania which allow us to meet food security
requirements in times of calamity (the physical reserve will be operated in such a way
as to avoid market destabilization.)
*  Fifth, we intend to rapidly accelerate existing privatization processes, and establish
rapid liquidation procedures for less viable enterprises. The scope of the accelerated
reforms will be broad, covering the State Farms, Comcereals, all state-owned
agricultural input and service enterprises, the seed farms, and pig and poultry



Annex I
Page 5 of 15
enterprises. By mid- 1998, most of the commercial companies currently in the process
of privatization will be under full private sector ownership.
Sixth, the Ministry of Agriculture will continue to change its role to one more
appropriate to market-oriented agriculture. The Ministry's functions will shift to
support for provision of public goods in agriculture. Such activity will include
support for market intelligence and analysis, grades and standards, and rural
development activities.
These elements of our agricultural reform program, and their justification, are
now discussed in more detail.
Incentives Policies
The reform of incentives is fundamental to the achievement of higher farm
incomes and higher productivity in Romanian agriculture. Previous policies sought to
shield domestic production and processing from world markets through high tariffs and
quantitative controls, supplemented by internal price controls and restrictions. These
policies were not effective. Wheat and milk producers were paid less than the world
price for their products. Consumers of some meat products paid much higher prices than
they otherwise would under conditions of international competition. In fact the entire
system of controls, intended to benefit both producers and consumers, resulted in an
overall taxation of producers and only a very small consumer income transfer per capita.
Moreover, subsidies were required to sustain the inefficient state enterprises nurtured by
these interventions.  Apart from  the other consequences of these subsidies, they
substantially increased the overall rate of inflation.
The agricultural pricing, subsidy and trade regime has been interventionist in the
extreme, and must be radically altered if a productive, market-oriented system is to
emerge in Romania. Accordingly, a new framework for agricultural incentives is being
established that will make Romanian agriculture competitive in world markets and
flexible in its adjustments to changes in the domestic and world environment. The new
trade policy will be transparent, relatively simple to implement, understandable to market
participants, and based on rules rather than discretion. A substantial benefit of the system
is that it will provide clear investment signals to farmers and intermediaries. We
recognize that some enterprises will expand and some will decline in response to the
changed incentives; this is a necessary adaptation if our agricultural sector is to become a
major source of economic growth, employment and exports.



Annex 1
Page 6 of 15
Pricing, Subsidy and Market Regulation Policies
A number of pricing, subsidy and regulatory changes will take place under the
new incentives policy framework. All administratively set prices, price controls and
margins for pork, poultry, milk and wheat products have been eliminated, along
with elimination of all "premia". Remaining controls on input prices have been
ended. In addition, free fertilizer distribution will be rapidly phased out so that by the
fall planting, no more free fertilizer will be distributed. We intend to repeal provisions
of the law that has hitherto provided the legal basis for pricing and subsidy
interventions (Law 83/1993).
Second, we will take specific steps to improve farmers' access to the best
available seed technology. The existing seed regulations of the MOAF have been
changed to allow automatic registration of varieties that are listed in the EU
Common Catalogues. For the first time, Romania's farmers will thus have access to the
many seed varieties that companies test and introduce to EU farmers each year. Farmers
will be able to obtain higher yields, they will be able to satisfy export demand for specific
product types and qualities, and they will be able to compete more successfully. This
measure, among others, will bring us closer to EU practice.
Third, as we move toward the elimination of subsidies, some temporary subsidies
will be maintained to ease the impact of reforms. The first is a seeds subsidy, which will
remain at the same nominal levels in the 1997 budget as in the previous year. The second
is a special voucher scheme for input use that will allow input subsidies for a short
period, beginning around September, 1997. Under this scheme we shall directly transfer
vouchers to farmers that will enable them to purchase inputs (seeds, fertilizer, and
probably mechanical services). Farmers will be able to use these vouchers with any input
suppliers and we intend by this means to stimulate the rapid development of private input
supply companies that can replace monopolistic state provision of inputs. These
transitional subsidies are all on budget.
Trade Reforms
The new framework for trade policy will allow our agricultural sector to respond
rapidly to changing market conditions and integrate our export sector with the world
economy. The basic prerequisite for such a system is a commercial regime that does not
restrict export flows, and one with relatively low tariffs on agricultural outputs and
inputs. We regard it as essential that the new system be effective in promoting trade and
investment. The regime will therefore be based on a clear set of rules rather than
administrative discretion. To this end, export licensing rules that hinder trade in
unpredictable ways have been eliminated. In addition, administrative waivers on
import tariffs have ended and will not resume in the future. Finally, all licensing
requirements for exports and imports have ended.



Annex 1
Page 7 of 15
We have eliminated all export bans and quotas, except for timber, and except
for those quotas that are part of our international agreements as, for instance with
the EU. A temporary export tax on wheat has been instituted but will end on
August 15, 1997.
We have resolved that the high tariff barriers that have isolated the Romanian
agricultural producer and processor from world markets will be substantially reduced and
tariff dispersion will be reduced. This will stimulate efficient resource use in agriculture
while reducing the anti-export bias that has seriously hindered both export volumes and
diversification of the production base. Accordingly, tariff positions in Chapters 1 to 23
of the Tariff Schedule (excluding Chapter 22) have been reduced to a production
weighted average that does not exceed 27 percent. The maximum applicable tariff
has been reduced to 60 percent.  These changes comprise the first phase of tariff
reform. We intend to reduce tariffs further from May, 1997 to early 1998. In the second
phase of reform, the production weighted average of the Tariff Schedule will not
exceed 22 percent. The maximum tariff in the second phase will not exceed 40
percent for all products except those currently classified as sensitive, which will be
subject to a cap of 45 percent. By these changes we will strike an appropriate balance
between protecting sensitive sectors, reducing discrimination against consumers and
exporters, and allowing our agricultural sector to adjust into activities that reflect our
comparative advantage.
Finally, as an active member of the international trading system, the trade reform
will respect our international agreements. The reforms will be carried out within the
framework of WTO rules, and will be consistent with existing bilateral agreements, in
particular with the European Union. In the coming months we propose to undertake a
full study of our trade regime, analyzing the rates of protection being offered to
different branches of activity in order to rationalize the regime in a manner
consistent with our agreements.
The first phase of changes in the tariff regime will be carried out by Government
Decree, however, we firmly believe that administrative changes in trade policy must be
embodied in law. Without a such as basis uncertainty may exist among potential
investors, importers and exporters. Therefore, we will present a Trade Law to
Parliament before the end of the year that establishes a legal basis for all significant
changes in import and export policy previously enacted by administrative
ordinance.
Agricultural and Rural Finance
We are aware that in the past, the National Bank of Romania's (NBR's) role in
refinancing directed credits, especially those channeled to agriculture, thwarted control of
the money supply and resulted in strong inflationary pressures.  We are therefore
determined to prevent this from happening again. We have decided that the NBR will



Annex I
Page 8 of 15
not in the future direct credit to agriculture. Legislative proposals supporting this,
and forgiving or rescheduling past loans, such as Law 20/1996, will be resisted.
NBR refinancing will now occur at market interest rates.
Agricultural credit will be granted by banks based on commercial principles. Past
practice was to channel substantial subsidized funds through Banca Agricola, often to
unprofitable state enterprises that were unable to repay, due in some measure to the
regime of controlled prices. The incentives and privatization reforms to be undertaken by
this government will improve banks' willingness to enter into agricultural and rural
lending by reducing the number of persistent loss-makers in agriculture. Ending directed
credit will in turn reverse the perception among many borrowers that bank loans are a free
transfer, and allow private banks to enter into true commercial relationships with new
borrowers. Romania has a good private banking network capable of reaching out to rural
savers and borrowers. These institutions include, among others, the credit cooperatives,
Post Bank and Bank Coop. However, these banks have not traditionally lent large
volumes to agriculture. Elimination of directed credit is one measure that will promote a
more conducive environment for commercial lending to agriculture, but other changes
must occur as well. Banks must learn how to appraise agricultural loan proposals,
information technologies in rural banks must improve, collateral mechanisms in
agriculture need to develop, and intermediation costs must fall in order to allow lower
spreads and lending rates. These changes take time and require preparation of a specific
program for development of rural financial systems, which this Government will
promote.
In view of continuing imperfections in credit markets, a transition scheme for
agricultural credit has been designed.  550 billion lei has been provided, as a
temporary measure, to fund agricultural inputs for spring planting in order to avoid
disruptions from a sudden withdrawal. This amount has been allocated under a
revolving fund called an Agricultural Special Fund (ASF) approved by Emergency
Ordinance 6/1997. The funds are intermediated by eligible participating commercial
banks, and subject to all prudential regulations in force. Commercial banks have been
given incentives to participate, the banks themselves assume the credit risk, and no
government guarantees are provided. Funds repaid to the ASF will be made available for
financing of works for the fall planting. An additional 500 billion lei will be provided
for wheat procurement at the summer harvest. These funds are budgeted and NBR
will not be involved in their provision.
Land Markets
The Law on Land Resources (Law 18/1991) undertook a monumental task in
restituting over 8 million hectares of land to former private owners. In achieving this
goal, and conferring title on nearly 65 percent of the new holdings, the law made great
strides over the previous system. However, Romanian landholders do not now enjoy a
legal framework supportive of free land transactions. Law 18/1991 forbids rural land



Annex I
Page 9 of 15
sales, and gave state preemption rights to a Rural Development Agency, the
establishment of which was foreseen in the law. The Rural Development Agency has
never been established, however, and this has prevented the occurrence of land sales. In
addition, the current Leasing Law inhibits leasing and subleasing transactions. These
measures preclude the efficient consolidation of land, which is necessary if Romanian
producers are to take advantage of the new incentives environment.
Accordingly, a new Land Circulation Law, and modifications to Law 18/1991
have been presented to Parliament.  The amendments to law 18/1991 clarify the
situation of private individuals with claims on land under state farms, and clarify the
status of land remaining under state farms. We have decided that the State Ownership
Fund will be the agency with rights to dispose of land that is the "private property of the
state", thus facilitating privatization of state farms (former IAS).   The new Land
Circulation Law ensures that the state has no preemption rights on land transactions, it
guarantees that land can be sold to the highest bidder, and finally, it raises the ceilings on
land ownership by individuals.
Furthermore, we have presented to Parliament amendments to Law 16/1994
on the Renting and Leasing of Land in order to make leasing and subleasing
transactions easier. The amendments allow subleasing and leasing to "legal entities
with foreign ownership"; they allow state owned land to be leased; they allow the
duration of leases to be the sole concern of the transacting parties; and they clearly
establish the rights of owners/lessees and their heirs in cases of death of either party.
Finally, we will at the earliest possible time implement a cadastral survey in
order to establish property boundaries and facilitate transactions in the new legal
framework. Although the majority of landholding households now hold title to land, the
cadastral records on which titles are based are often inaccurate. This is due to the lack of
clear physical boundaries between holdings, inaccuracies in the records due to hasty
drawing of boundaries or clerical errors, and disappearance of some records over the
years.
Cereals Marketing
It is our belief that, with the reforms we have embarked upon, Romania has the
opportunity to recover its position as a major net exporter of cereals, at the same time
assuring supplies of cereals for the domestic population. The reforms will facilitate
Romania's accession to the European Union.
The policy changes we are undertaking in the cereals markets are the following:
First, the withdrawal of the State from the marketing of cereals. The 3.5
million tonnes of storage capacity of the National Agency for Agricultural Products
(NAAP) will be allocated to 29 successor companies which will be privatized over a
period of 18 months (with 20 of these privatized within 12 months). NAAP's successor



Annex 1
Page 10 of 15
enterprises will operate entirely as independent companies, under free market conditions,
starting at the time of commercialisation, which we expect to occur in the next two
months. They will no longer have access to any privileged financing nor be subject to
state determined pricing conditions. In the break-up of Romcereal, NAAP had assumed
responsibility all the losses of the former company. In order to facilitate privatization, the
GOR will take over previous losses, amounting to about 200 billion lei (to be audited)
allowing for a more rapid privatization of the commercial companies.
Second, the elimination of administrative price setting policies regarding
cereals; and the reduction in State Reserves of wheat and limitation to use for
emergency situations. To avoid detrimental interference to free market development,
the GOR has limited the activities of the National Administration of State Reserves
(NASR) to the maintenance of a reserve of bread-making wheat. This reserve will not be
used to stabilize the domestic price of wheat, nor to force higher or lower prices on the
domestic market. However, we are considering, with the World Bank experts, possible
options for future support of wheat producer prices in years when the price drops to
unusually low levels. The reserve will be kept for emergency situations such as natural
catastrophes. The State Emergency Wheat Reserve (SEWR) will be steadily reduced to a
level of no more than 350,000 mt by the end of August, 1997, and will not rise above this
level thereafter. This physical stock will be complemented by a State Emergency Wheat
Fund (SEWF) of US$60 million, to be kept in foreign exchange and available in the
National Bank. The resulting reduction of physical reserves will save the budgetary cost
of purchase, financing and storage of a large quantity of wheat. We owe a profound
obligation to the Romanian people to ensure food security in times of calamity. These
arrangements will allow us to fulfill this obligation.
Third, NASR operations regarding the SEWR after the 1997 summer wheat
harvest will be executed exclusively through auctions at free market conditions.
When appropriate for the rotation of the wheat, NASR will sell the grain through public
auctions and will spread its auctions over a reasonable period of time and announce them
at least one week in advance to avoid market disruptions.
Fourth, the privatization of the Comcereals (the 44 commercial companies
formed by the breakup of Romcereal) by SOF will be accelerated, so that in 12
months, 30 of these companies will be privatised or have initiated of liquidation (the
minimum requirement is the appointment of a liquidator). In addition, during this
period all necessary measures will be taken to privatize all remaining Comcereals,
including establishment of sales prices and circulation of prospectuses. Natural
barriers to trade resulting from monopolistic market conditions and poor
infrastructure on the Danube and Black Sea port will be reviewed in collaboration
with the World Bank and adjusted accordingly over the next two years. In this context,
foreign technical assistance will be sought to help modernize the marketing methods for
cereals: e.g., standardization of commercial contracts; private arbitration of disputes;
quality standards; commodity exchanges; private and market-based risk management
techniques; training; etc. The GOR will finally create the legal framework to develop a



Annex I
Page II of 15
private interprofessional organization where representatives of the marketing chain will
improve instruments and techniques for the marketing cereals; and meet with State
representatives to discuss issues of common interest.
Privatization, Restructuring, Liquidation
Six years after the initiation of the economic reforms in Romania, privatization in
the agricultural sector is a mixture of achievement and disappointment. Pursuant to the
1991 Land Law, the cooperative farms system was dismantled and 83 percent of the
arable land in the country was restituted to former owners or heirs. As a result, the private
sector now plays the dominant role in agricultural production. By 1996, the private
sector was producing over 90 percent of the value added in agriculture in both vegetal and
animal production. While the performance of the State sector has steadily declined since
1992 both in terms of output and efficiency, the private sector's performance has
improved.
The relatively inefficient State Farms (former IAS) continue to control about 1.7
million ha. of land. The privatization of this land has been frustrated by a confusing and
often conflicting legal framework for land ownership. Even with 83 percent of the land
in private hands, the markets for agricultural products, inputs and services have been
dominated by the State or by State enterprises. Private farmers still rely on local state
agricultural service providers which control machinery, input supply, transport and
distribution. State-owned swine and poultry farms are the dominant suppliers of meat for
the urban population. The monopsonistic State organization Romcereal played a
dominant role in channeling funds, inputs, and specialized services to cereals producers.
We accord a high priority to reorienting the state's role in the agricultural sector,
particularly through reducing its role as owner of agricultural enterprises. Thus we have
decided to extend the privatization process to cover commercial companies and regies
previously exempted, and to transfer ownership of the shares or assets of agricultural
enterprises to private owners and investors.
As many State-owned enterprises are insolvent and making large losses, rapid
privatization through liquidation is also necessary in order to reduce losses in the
economy and halt the further accumulation of payment arrears due to banks, utilities,
other enterprises and the Government budget.
Privatization will be accelerated for all categories of agricultural companies and
all methods presently authorized by law will be applied, including sale of assets, cash
auctions of shares, open or restricted tender sale, negotiated sale, and administrative and
judicial liquidation. We view liquidation as a mechanism for transferring assets to new
private owners who will manage the assets more efficiently and productively.
A new legal and regulatory framework for privatization in the agriculture
sector. As noted earlier, the Government has proposed to Parliament a number of



Annex 1
Page 12 of 15
amendments and modifications to the existing legislation concerning land. These will
allow a resumption of the process of privatizing land occupied by the state farms (former
IAS). The new legal and regulatory framework to be adopted will give new private
owners the right to sell or lease land and other assets. It will clarify the very limited
number of circumstances in which the Court of Accounts has the power to intervene in
the privatization process.
We are presenting draft laws and ordinances to Parliament to allow the SOF to
sell shares or assets to the highest bidder, without minimum price limit and sale
conditions. This, in our view, will considerably accelerate the privatization process.
Scope and timing of the program. By mid 1998, Government intends to
complete the privatization or initiate liquidation for about 90 percent of agricultural
service providers, all pig and poultry farms, the majority of Comcereals, and UNISEM
and SEMROM. A large number of the former IAS will also be privatized or have
liquidation initiated (again, as a mechanism to transfer assets to more productive uses).
Agricultural Service Companies. There are 1,682 agricultural service providers
in Romania, including mechanization and equipment repairing companies, transport,
wholesale input traders, irrigation system maintenance companies, etc. The mechanical
service companies in the sector underwent restructuring which broke up 470 original
enterprises into 1,463 enterprises. By early 1997, about 450 of these companies had been
privatized, usually through sale to employees, managers and local agricultural producers.
Another 150 have been privatized, so that now a total of about 600 of these companies
have been privatized. As the SOF has gained extensive experience in implementing this
type of privatization it is expected that Government's target of privatizing 1,500 such
companies over the next year (about 90 percent of the total number) can readily be met.
At the same time, the sale of assets will be encouraged in order to foster further
restructuring of the companies and prevent the creation of local monopolies.
Seed Companies. There are two domestic companies specialized in seeds
production and commercialization. UNISEM, the smaller company, was included in the
Mass Privatization Program and 49 percent of the shares are now in private hands. By
June, 1998, the SOF will sell a controlling stake of at least 30 percent of its shares to pre-
selected investors. The rest of the shares will be sold to employees, managers, local seed
growers and the public at large. The large SEMROM company will be re-organized
during 1997 through assets sales, and spin-offs of smaller, specialized units.  As
privatization proceeds we expect to build a healthy, vibrant domestic seed producing
sector that can readily serve the requirements of our farmers.
Comcereals. As a result of mass privatization, private investors already have a
majority stake in nine of the 44 existing Comcereals. The privatization of 30 units can be
completed over the next 12 months, with a controlling stake (30 to 50 percent of the
shares) to be sold to pre-selected entrepreneurs, the rest of the shares being sold to local
agricultural producers, traders, processors, employees and managers of the company. In



Annex I
Page 13 of 15
addition, necessary measures will be taken to privatize all remaining Comcereals,
including establishment of sales prices and circulation of prospectuses.
NAAP. 29 storage and trade companies will result from the commercialization
and reorganization of the National Agency for Agricultural Products (NAAP). These
companies will be privatized using the same methods as for Comcereals and will play an
important role in fostering competition on local markets. We intend 20 of these
companies to be privatised by mid 1998.
Former IAS. The state farms (former IAS) are not performing well. They are
heavily indebted, have lower value added than their private counterparts, and have
received large volumes of subsidies and privileges under the former policy regime of
controlled prices. We intend to privatize these farms (bringing us in line with EU
practice) and place the assets in the hands of private farmers who will have the incentive
to use the land efficiently and productively and add to, rather than subtract from, our
national agricultural wealth. There are a number of steps towards privatization, the first
being the restitution of land under the former IAS.
The amendments we have proposed to Law 18/1991 will allow restitution to occur
to families, individuals and other agents who have claims on land presently being
administered by the state farms (former IAS). We expect to embark upon this restitution
process as soon as the amendments pass Parliament, and to complete it by early 1998.
Following restitution we shall be in the position to privatize the former IAS, and we
intend to take preliminary steps in the coming months to ensure that the momentum for
privatization is maintained. These steps include vesting the State Ownership Fund with
the rights of disposition over land administered by the state farms (otherwise known as
"land in the private property ownership of the state"); and breaking up the land and non-
land assets of the former IAS into separate cropping farms, orchards, vineyards, livestock
operations, processing operations, etc.
We have prepared a list of 75 former IAS occupying about 380,000 hectares to be
part of the first wave of privatization. These farms account for more than 40 percent of
the indebtedness of the sector and over 70 percent of the losses. By mid 1998 we shall
have privatised or begun liquidation proceedings (as a means of privatization and
settlement of debt) for 50 of these farms. The remaining 25 farms will be privatised or
liquidated in the course of 1998. In addition we shall in the coming months prepare
another 50 former IAS, occupying at least 250,000 hectares of land for privatization. By
mid 1998 we expect to have plans drawn up for their privatization. Drawing upon the
experience gained in the first wave of privatization we shall proceed with their sale in the
latter half of 1998.
Pig and Poultry Farms. The vast majority of the swine and poultry farms
currently under State ownership are in a difficult and steadily deteriorating financial
situation. The Government has taken immediate measures to reduce on-going losses in
the sector by completing the privatization or initiating liquidation of at least 20 large loss-



Annex I
Page 14 of 15
making pig and poultry farrns. All other farms will be offered for sale and, if there is no
buyer, they will be liquidated. Before mid-1998, all pig and poultry farms will have been
either privatized, liquidated, or initiated liquidation.
The Role of the Ministry of Agriculture and Food (MOAF)
In the past, MOAF activities and the greater share of its budget emphasized the
provision of subsidies to state enterprises. As agricultural production, processing and
marketing shift to a market orientation, the MOAF will also have to adapt. In well
functioning market systems, the public sector plays an important role in its support for
public goods, defined as goods such as physical infrastructure or market information that
are necessary for efficient private sector operation. but which the private sector cannot
provide. This is the general role which we envisage for the MOAF. but it remains to be
defined. A plan to redefine the MOAF's role and reorganize its field administration will
thereforc be prepared before the year's end to give content to this vision of thc MOIAF's
future role. We can an present anticipate three specific areas in which the MOAF will be
active. First. it will need to improve its ability to monitor, analyze and anticipate the
effects of the current policy reforms. To this end. a high level policy analysis unit will be
established in conjunction with the current refomi program. Second. the Ministry will
undoubtedly play a role, along with other agencies. in supporting improved grades and
standards in agriculture. A study before the year's end will assist in defining this role as
well. Third. the Ministry will undertak-e a study examining rural development needs in
Romania and defining wlhat role, if any the Ministry may have in administering a rural
development fund that will support investments in rural areas.



Annex 1
A.SAI, <.'ooXrdimatioli, 1111pictlICII(.iti,1 allci lbftsIlitol il ,,                        Page 15 of 15
Coordiniaion and idWPkitc;llatoin of Otc ASAL wil] bIe ic Charge of an lntermizn teri
.AS.AL Coordinatiori Commirwe, chaired by thL  Mfinister of .AricuItLLu- and l ood, \viILh
represeatation from the IMinistry of 1iinance. MNfinistry of Trade and IndLIstry, 9ninistiv ol Reflml,
andi the State ON-nership Find3, ihc work of thc coiiniitte: will be assisted bv a hi,h level poliev
an,Ilysis Lnit pLaced in tile Minis'ry of A-riculture.
Y'ualrs siIC.creQIy,
Ptin: Minister
NXinistci of'Financc
/   fiviiiste ;,of R;:l'ormt
M] inisTer of Industrv anti C' ozmnerce
Nlinisher or- A .tnw.[:l    uid i ood
,.th i   ..u  ttp-   un,
l'rctJcIsent Jib}e "S Llale U%vileurilipFls)1^ok1






Annex 2
page 1 of 9
The World Bank
Romania
Agriculture Sector Adjustment Loan (ASAL)
Policy Matrix
Important note:
Bold items in the last two columns are conditions in Schedule 3 of the Loan Agreement.



Annex 2
page 2 of 9
I. Incentives Reform
Issues     Objectives         First Tranche Actions (before Board)                                  Actions Expected to be Taken Before 2nd Tranche
Actions Expected to be Taken by December,   Actions Expected to be Taken by
1997                                      June 3, 1998
Macro-    Improve                                                                                                              Macroeconomic policies followed
economy    macroeconomic                                                                                                       are consistent with the objectives
environment to                                                                                                     of the stabilization program.
support reforn of
sectoral incentives
Prices     Improve efficiency   Eliminate all price and margin controls at all levels of the    The Borrower has provided satisfactory
in agriculture and   marketing chain for pig/pork, poultry/poultry meat,  evidence to the Bank that all fertilizer
increase incentives  milk/dairy products, and wheat/flour/bread. Office of  subsidies have been eliminated. Subsidized
for entry of private  Prices and Competition 'sill be instructed to discontinue  provision should end by the fall, 1997
agents into the    any price setting activities relating to state or private  campaign.
market             enterprises.
Eliminate administered prices for fertilizers.
Subsidies  Improve efficiency   Eliminate all premia.                               Institute a voucher scheme for fall planting to   The Borrower has provided, in its
in agriculture and                                                      allow farmers to discount input purchases,  budget plan for 1998, for a
increase incentives  Certified seed subsidies for 1997 farm campaign to be  subject to budget availability.        reduction in seed subsidies of at
for market entry  placed on 1997 budget, and not to exceed 1996 budget                                             least 25%, in nominal terms, in
through creation of  allocations, in nominal terms.                                                                comparison with the amount of
a level playing                                                                                                    seed subsidies in the 1997 budget.
field.



Annex 2
page 3 of 9
I. Incentives Reform (continued}
Issues     Obejctives        First Tranche Actions (before Board)                                                  Actions Expected to be Taken Before 2nd Tranche
Actions to be Taken by December, 1997           Actions to be Taken
.___ _ __ __ _ __ __ _ __ __ _ __ _ __ __ _ __ __ _ __ _   _ __ _ __ __ _ __ __ _ __ __ _ _ _   by    June    3,   1998
Trade      Establish a more  Exports:                                                                 Exports
Regime    open import and   Permanently eliminate all export bans and quotas, except for timber, and except    The temporary whewat export tax imposed until
export regime    as included in agreements with the EU and other intemational agreements.  August 15, 1997 will be removed on that date.
that is clear in
its principles,  Eliminate all licensing requirements for agricultural products, except for exports
predictable in    to the EU.
application,
uniform, and     Imports:                                                                  Imports:
rule based       Eliminate all licensing requirements for imports of agricultural products.  The Borrower has provided satisfactory evidence
to the Bank that (i) the average production
Reduce average tariffs on agricultural outputs and inputs, and reduce their  weighted tariff on agricultural products is not
dispersion. The relevant tariff positions on which tariff revision is applicable wNill  higher than 22%, as calculated in accordance
be Chapters I to 23 of the Romanian Tariff Schedule, with the exception of  with a methodology acceptable to the Bank; (ii)
Chapter 22 (beverages and alcoholic drinks). The production weighted average  no tariff on the import price of pig and processed
tariff will not exceed 27%. The maximum tariff applicable will be 60%, with the   pork products, milk and dairy products, and
understanding that tariffs on imports of sensitive products (pig and processed pork  poultry and processed poultry products, exceeds
products, milk and dairv products, and poultry and processed poultry products)  45-/; (iii) no tariff on the import price of
wvill not surpass 60%. A tariff range of 0% to 40% will be applied to at least 70%    agricultural products, other than those relating
of all tariff positions. Exceptions w%rill only be acceptable to the extent that they    to the products listed under letter (ii) of this
are legally binding through international agreements; to the extent that this is not   paragraph, exceeds 40%; and (iv) no
the case, tariffs on those items wvill be adjusted to the level of the average tariff    administrative waivers of tariffs on the import
(or mode) of the four digit position to which they belong.                price of agricultural products have been granted
since June 30, 1997.
End the practice of allowzing administratively initiated import tariff exemptions  Govermnent to undertake a comprehensive trade
(waivers).                                                               policy survev.
Legal and                   Present Ordinance to Parliament for repeal of Law 83/1993.1
regulatory
changes                     Revise regulations on certified seed registration so that all varieties listed in the
EU's Common Catalogue are automatically registered.
Romanian legislation supporting past price interventions and most subsidy interventions



Annex 2
page 4 of 9
II. Agricultural and Rural Finance
Issue           Objectives              First Tranche Actions (before Board)                     Actions Expected to be Taken Before 2nd Tranche
Actions Expected to be Taken by      Actions Expected to be Taken by June 3,
December, 1997                       1998
Directed credit  End directed credit as   End NBR refinancing of directed credit to
a first step toward     agriculture.
creation of a
competitive private     Place limited amount of credit made       Criteria acceptable to the World Bank
financial network       available to agriculture on budget (550   to be established for credit
serving agriculture and  billion lei for spring campaign agricultural  disbursement and recovery for
the rural sector.      works, 500 billion lei for wheat crop      summer wheat harvest.
purchase). Criteria acceptable to the
World Bank to be established for credit
disbursement and recovery for the spring
planting campaign..
Changes in      Ensure that debt write-  Government to submit to the World Bank
legal           offs or reschedulings    confirmation that Government will not
framework       as happened in the past  submit to Parliament nor support any law
w ill not recur.        similar to Law 20/96.2
Credit          Develop role of credit                                            Revise credit cooperatives law to
cooperatives    coops in private rural                                            separate credit coops from consumer
banking                                                           coops.
Development   Promote development                                                 Undertake a study providing detailed
of rural        of competitive private                                            recommendations on development of
finance         banking system to                                                 rural financial institutions in
institutions    meet the needs of rural                                           Romania, including the role of
population and                                                    cooperatives and other private banks
agriculture.                                                      and nonbank intermediaries;
improvement in the access of small
farmers, traders and processors to
lending and savings services; and
development of collateral
I _____________  _____________________    _______________________________________   mechanisms.
2Laiv 20, passed in March, 1996, wrote off or forgave much of the agricultural debt that had accumulated up to that time.



Annex 2
page 5 of 9
III. Land Market
Issue          Objectives                First Tranche Actions (before Board)          Actions Expected to be Taken Before 2nd Tranche
Actions Expected to be      Actions Expected to be
Taken by December, 1997     Taken by June 3, 1998
Legal Changes  Develop a competitive     Present to Parliament a new law, and modify   Government to appoint the    Pass the new law before
land market, including   existing law regulating land transactions that  State Ow nership Fund     Parliament that was
land sales and leasing   (a) rapidly allows locators to possess their land3;  (SOF) as the agency with the  previously presented,
(b) clarifies ownership rights of remaining land   right to dispose of land that   regulating land
under state companies so that this may be    is state private property   transactions.
privatised (for a. and b. see also Privatisation    through sale, lease,
matrix); (c) gives the state no pre-emption  concession, or some
rights in land transactions; (d) ensures that land  combination of these
can be sold to the highest bidder; (e) raises the   instruments.
ceiling on land ownership by individuals.
Put amendment to Law 16/94 before Parliament                              Pass amendments to Law
so as to allow: (a) subleasing of land; (b) leasing                       16/94 before Parliament
to foreigners and foreign investors; (c) leasing                          with the specified changes.
of land by units administering state owned land;
(d) decisions on duration of lease to be
determined by transacting parties, subject to no
constraint; (e) rent to be left to the parties alone
with no reference to either cash or in-kind
payment; (f) definition of rights of
owners/lessees or their heirs in cases of death or
I separation.                                I_I
3 "Locators" are private individuals with rights to land lying under state farms. The existing land law has not allowed repossession or disposal of this land to date.



Annex 2
page 6 of 9
IV. Cereals Market
Issue         Objectives           First Tranche Actions (before Board)                                          Actions Expected to be Taken Before 2 d Tranche
Actions Expected to be Taken by December,    Actions Expected to be
1997                                      Taken by June 3, 1998
NAAP silos    Reduce state role in   (For conditions on NAAP privatisation see Privatization Matrix).  (For conditions on NAAP privatisation see  (For conditions on NAAP
and fixed     grain marketing                                                                       Privatization Matrix).                     privatisation see
assets        through ANPA         Issue ordinance to compensate former Romcereal losses taken over by                                         Privatization Matrix).
privatisation       NAAP, up to a maximum of 200 billion lei.
Strategic     Reduce fiscal and    In one month before Board presentation, a minimum of 20,000 tons of  The Borrower has provided satisfactory
reserve       economic costs of    wheat will be auctioned from the State Emergency Wheat Reserves  evidence to the Bank that the Borrower's
storage while       (SEWR) in order to develop experience in auctioning. During this time,   SEWR has been reduced to no more than
maintaining food    sales in excess of 20,000 tons can be undertaken through previous  350,000 metric tons by August 31, 1997, and
securitv.           administrative distribution methods. The NASR will implement the  such level has not been exceeded thereafter.
auctions through competitive bidding. The bidding process is to be  Until August 15, any stocks sold up to a total
announced in advance according to legislation on public procurement and   quantity of 20,000 tons will be auctioned,
is open to domestic and foreign bidders subject to the usual guarantees  while quantities sold in excess of this amount
from recognized commercial banks. The competitive bidding requirement  may be sold by administrative means that were
will be waived only in cases of emergency.                       previously employed. After August 15, the
practice of auctioning will apply to all SEWR
Repeal articles of Regulation 1054/1995 instructing the NASR to use  wheat transactions, i.e. all wheat purchases, all
only NAAP or Comcereals warehouses.                              sales (which will occur for rotation of stocks
only), and all leases of silo facilities.
Up to 150,000 mt of wvheat per month to be
sold by NASR starting March, 1997 and
receipts to be immediately transferred to the
State budget.
Cereals       Improve market      Initiate feasibility studies to improve grain marketing and export along the  Undertake study on Romanian cereals market   Present program to the Bank
market        infrastructure and   Danube- Black Sea corridor.                                      to consider requirements for institutional and    to implement
institu-tions    institutions to allowv                                                            infrastructural development. With its      recommendations of cereals
development   rapid response to   Initiate program to develop private sector representation through private   recommendations as a basis, establish  market studies.
changed incentives.   Interprofessional Grain Organization.                          appropriate legal and policy framework for
_  development of a warehouse receipts system.



Annex 2
page 7 of 9
V. Privatisation, Liquidation, and Restructuring
Issue    Objectives   First Tranche Actions (before Board)                           Actions Expected to be Taken Before 2d Tranche
Actions Expected to be Taken by December, 1997   Actions Expected to be Taken by June 3, 1998
Privati  Privatise   State farms                        Pig and poultry enterprises                   Pie and poultry farms
sation   state-      Clarify ownership status of lands  Privatise at least 25 pig and poultry enterprises.    The Borrower has provided satisfactory evidence to the
owned       held by former state farms (FIAS) so                                             Bank that all pig and poultry enterprises have been
enterprises  that they can be privatised (see Land                                           privatized or, if not privatized, their liquidation (with the
(SOEs)      Market matrix).                                                                  appointment of a liquidator) has been initiated.
engaged in
agricultural                                   Comeereals                                    Comcereals
production,                                    Sell off at least 30% of shares in each of 18  The Borrower has provided satisfactory evidence to the
processing                                     Comcereals to strategic investors and initiate sales  Bank that the Borrower has privatized or, if not
and                                            of remaining SOF shares.                      privatized, initiated liquidation (with the appointment of a
marketing                                                                                    liquidator) of at least 30 Comcereals. In addition, the
Appoint one or more investment banks or       Borrower will have taken all necessary measures on its
investment advisors to assist with the privatisation  part in view of the the privatization of fourteen more
of Comcereals.                                Comcereals ("all necessary measures" will mean
establishment of the price and the necessary advertisements.)
Agricultural. Service companies   Agricultural Service companies                Agricultural Senrice companies
Privatise an additional 150       Complete privatisation of at least 900 agricultural  The Borrower has provided satisfactory evidence to the
agricultural service companies    service companies, to a total of 1,500.        Bank that the Borrower has privatized or, if not
(Agromecs, etc.) to reach a total of at                                          privatized, initiated liquidation (with the appointment of a
least 600 enterprises.                                                          liquidator) of at least 1,500 out of 1,682 agricultural service
companies.
Seed companies                                Seed companies
Seed companies                    Prepare a strategy for the privatisation of   The Borrower has privatized or, if not privatized,
Decision by SOF Board to reorganise  SEMROM seeds producer.                     initiated liquidation (with the appointment of a liquidator)
SEMROM and include UNISEM in                                                    of the two seed companies, UNISEM and SEMROM (or
1997 privatisation program.                                                     successor companies thereto).
NAAP                              NAAP                                          NAAP
Reorganise NAAP regie autonome    SOF to privatize at least 51% of the shares in each  The Borrower has provided satisfactory evidence to the
into a minimum of 8 commercial    of five of the 29 newly created commercial    Bank that the Borrower has privatized or, if not
companies with a maximum of       companies.                                    privatized, initiated liquidation (with the appointment of a
300,000 mt storage capacity each.4                                              liquidator) of at least 20 NAAP commercial companies.
4 NAAP was reorganized into 29 successor commercial companies before Board.



Annex 2
page 8 of 9
V. Privatisation, Liquidation, and Restructuring (continued)
Issue         Objectives              First Tranche Actions (before Board)                  Actions to be Taken Before 2nd Tranche
Actions Expected to be Taken by     Actions Expected to be Taken by June 3,
December, 1997                      1998
Liquidation &   Privatize through sale of  State farms                  State farms                         State farms
restructuring    assets insolvent former   Prepare a list acceptable to the Bank   Complete restitution of lands occupied    The Borrower has provided satisfactory
IAS (FIAS) and pig and   of 75 FIAS occupying at least  by the 75 FIAS.                      evidence to the Bank that (i) at least 50
poultry farms.         380,000 hectares of land for                                          out of a list of 75 former State farms
eventual privatisation or initiation of  Prepare a list acceptable to the Bank of   (FIAS) have been reorganized into smaller
liquidation,                     another 50 FIAS occupying at least   functional units and privatized, or their
250,000 hectares of land to be      liquidation (with the appointment of a
Establish agreed guidelines for  reorganized and prepared for         liquidator) has been initiated; and (ii) at
breaking up all other FIAS into  privatisation.                       least 50 more former state farms
smaller functional units to be                                        (occupying an area of at least 250,000 ha),
privatised separately if viable or                                    out of a list acceptable to the Bank, have
liquidated if unviable. Guidelines for                                been reorganized into smaller functional
breakup must be agreeable to the                                      units, and plans acceptable to the Bank
Bank.                                                                 for their privatization have been
submitted to the Bank.
Pig and poultry farms            Pig and poultrv farms
Privatise or start liquidation   Conclude liquidation of the 20 pig and    The term privatization will, when applied to
proceedings of at least 20 pig and  poultry enterprises.             the former FIAS, be defined broadly to
poultry farms, as per list prepared by                                include sale, liquidation, leasing, or some
MOAF and agreed Nvith the Bank.                                       combination of these mechanisms acceptable
to the Bank.



Annex 2
page 9 of 9
VI. The Role of the Ministry of Agriculture and Food                                                                             nd
Issue          Objectives                   First Tranche Actions (before Board)            Actions Expected to be Taken Before 2nd Tranche
Actions Expected to be Taken by  Actions Expected to be Taken by June
December, 1997                   3, 1998
Policy         Assist MOAF in its ability to   Establish a high-level Policy   Develop a Plan for Redefining     The Borrower has provided
Analysis       implement and anticipate     Advisory Unit at the MOAF          MOAF role and reorganising        satisfactory evidence to the Bank
effects of policy reforms.                                     MOAF and its field administration   that all necessary measures have
(before August, 1997).           been adopted for the implementation
of a plan, acceptable to the Bank, for
the reorganization of the Borrower's
Ministry of Agriculture and Food,
with a new definition of the functions
exercised by such Ministry.
Grades and     Assist quality improvement in                                   Undertake study on improvement of  Begin implementation of an Action
standards      private markets.                                                agricultural grades and standards,   Plan for formulation and
including the impact of EU       administration of agricultural grades
accession.                       and standards, with definition of
MOAF's appropriate role in that
._____________________________                                       process.
Rural          Assist planning investments                                     Undertake studv on fostering rural   Begin implementation of a rural
Dcvelopment   in public goods delivery in the                                  development that will include    development Action Plan.
rural area.                                                    recommendations for an
appropriate rural development fund
.____________  __ __ __ _ __ __ __ _ __ _  _ __ __ _management entity.






Annex 3
Page I of I
Timetable of Key Processing Events
Appraisal Mission                      January 13 - February 14, 1997
Operations Committee Review            April 17, 1997
Negotiations                           April 29 -May 1, 1997
Planned Board Presentation             June, 1997
Planned Loan Effectiveness             July, 1997






Annex 4
Generated: May 7, 1997
Page I of 2
Status of Bank Group Operations in Romania
IBRD Loans and IDA Credits in the Operations Portfolio
Differerce              Last ARPP
Original Amount in USS Millions                Between expected        Supervi.ion Rating
Loan or   Fiscal                                                                                                    and actual     Developmnent  Implementation
Project ID   Credit No.  Year    Booywcr                  Purpose               IBRD    IDA    Cancellations    Undisbused    disbursements"       Objectives      Progress
Number of Closed Loans/credits: 35
Active Loans
RO-PE-8772    L34860       1992  ROMANIA    PRIVATE FARMER &cENT                   10000    0.00            0.00           1 82            -2.18        S               S
RO-PE-8759    L34090       1992  ROMANIA    HEALTH SERVICES REHA                   150.00    0.00           000           56.00           56.00         S               S
RO-PE-8771    L35930       1993  ROMANIA    TRANSPORT                              120.00    0.00           0.00          10.18          -14.82        HS               HS
RO-PE-8774    L37350       1994  ROMANIA   INDUSTRIALDEV.                          175.00    0.00           0.00         140.87          107.37         U               U
RO-PE-8784    L37240       1994  ROMANIA    EDUCATION                               50.00    0.00           0.00          46.95            3.15         S               S
RO-PE-8777    L37230       1994  ROMANIA    PETROLEUM SECTOR REH                   175.60    0.00           0.00         15077           101.17         S               U
RO-PE-8776    L38490       1995  ROMANIA    EMPLOY. & SOC. PROTECT.                 55.40    0.00           0.00          54.73           22.63         S               S
RO-PE-36013   L39760       1996  SNCFR          RAILWAY                            120.00    0.00           000          120.00           15.00         S               S
RO-PE-8773    L39752       1996  ROMANIA    FESAL                                   20.00    0.00           0.00          1767             0.00         S                S
RO-PE-8773    L39751       1996  ROMANIA    FESAL                                   90.00    000            0.00          80.46            0.00         S               S
RO-PE-8773    L39750       1996  ROMANIA    FESAL                                  170.00    0.00           0.00          70.00            9.26         S               S
RO-PE-8794    L39360       1996  RENEL          POWER SECTORREHAB.                 110.00    0.00           0.00         108.26           49.26         U               U
RO-PE-8793    L40960       1997  ROMANIA    HIGHER EDUCATION                        50.00    0.00           0.00          50.00            720          S               S
RO-PE-8778    L40790       1997  ROMANIA    BUCHAREST WATER SUPP                    25.00    0.00           0.00          24.97            1.97         S               S
Total                                                                            1,411.00    0 00           0 00         932.68          356.01
Active Loans          Closed Loans               Tta
Total Disbursed (IBRD and IDA):                            466.45                 2,761.39                3.227.84
ofwhichhasbeenrepaid:                                     0.00                 2.191.00                2.191.00
Total now held by IBRD and IDA                            1,411.00                  571.22                 1,982.22
Amount sold:                                                  0.00                   19.78                   19.78
Of whuch repaid                                             0.00                    19.78                   19.78
Total Undisbursed                                          932.68                      .83                  933.51
a Intended disbursements to date minus actual disbursements to date as projected at appraisal.
b Rating of 1-4 see OD 13.05. Annex D2. Preparation of Implementation Summary (Formn 590). Following the FY94 Annual Review of Portfolio performance (ARPP). a letter
based system will be used (HS = highly Satisfactory, S = satisfactory, U = unsatisfactory, HU = highly unsatisfactory): see proposed Improvements in Project and
Portfolio Performance Rating Methodology (SecM94-901). August 23. 1994.
Note.
Disbursement data is updated at the end of the first week of the month
Generated by the Operations Information System (OIS)
5/9/97: 4:03 PM
M:ROM\CAS97\ANNEXES\A7BANK.DOC



Annex 4
Generated:May 7, 1997
Page 2 of 2
Romania
STATEMENTOF IFC's
Committed and Disbursed Portfolio
As of 31 March 1997
In Millions US Dollars
Committed                        Disbursed
~~F..~IFC                          IFC
FY             Company           Loan    Equity   Quasi   Partic   Loan   Equity   Quasi  Partic
Approval
1992     Alcatel                     0.00     0.00      .69    0.00   0.00    0.00    .69    0.00
1994     Romlease                    5.00      .45    0.00    0.00   3.00       .45   0.00    0.00
1996     Danube Fund                 0.00     2.00    0.00    0.00   0.00       .40   0.00    0.00
Pending Commitments
1997      * EFES BREWERY            12.00     5.00    0.00    8.00
Generated by the Operations Information System (OIS)
5/9197: 5:36 PM
M:\ROM\CAS97\ANNEXES\A7IFC.DOC



Annex 5
Page I of I
Agricultural Projects by Other Donors in Romania
Project/Loan                            Amount            Project Description
(million)
A. EU PHARE
Land Reform, Land Registration and Land    5 million ECU  Technical assistance (TA) and equipment for cadastral work and
Information System                      _        _        training for implementation of the Cadastre Law
Support to Land Reform                  1.5 million ECU    TA for land information system and agricultural forecast system
Agricultural Market Development         4 million ECU     TA for market distribution channels and a national market
information system
Legal and Financial Technical Assistance to   3 million ECU  TA for four pilot projects in national extension services and provision
Private Farmers                                           of grants to farmers in mountain areas to purchase equipment
Rural Credit Guarantee Fund             9 million ECU     Training programs for bank staff and the RCGF Board and Executive
Agribusiness Consultancy Services       3 million ECU     TA for development of local agribusinesses
Privatization and Restructuring         6 million ECU     TA for privatization of plant protection and soil analysis laboratories;
of veterinary services and animal reproduction; of pig and poultry
complexes; management training for agro-industries; restructuring of
NAAP; restructuring and privatization of Comcereals
Agricultural and Rural Development      3.5 million ECU    TA and training for development of a national extension service and
of agriculture knowledge and information systems
Crop Information Systems                I million ECU     TA for restructuring of CRUTA and to establish a nationwide crop
information system; pilot projects will also be carried to monitor soil
erosion and irrigation.
Financial Assistance for Agro-industries and  2.5 million ECU    TA to strengthen the Rural Credit Guarantee Fund and processor
Farms                                                     organizations; and provision of equity capital transfers to to emerging
private agro-processors
Agriculture Sector Adjustment Policy    3 million ECU     Main components: (i) background study to develop a framework for
Implementation                                            bringing Romanian legislation in line with EU standards and
regulation (ii) background study to prepare a support programme for
rural development (iii) establishment of a Policy Advisory Unit
(PAU)
B. EBRD
Bucharest Wholesale Market              25 million US$    Funding for construction of a central wholesale market and for
rehabilitation of agricultural retail markets in Bucharest
Credit Line I for Banca Agricola        70 million US$    Credit intermediated through Banca Agricola (BA) to finance small-
scale projects for private fanrmers and processors
Credit Line 11 for Banca Agricola       50 million US$    Credit intermediated through BA to finance small-scale projects for
Iprivate processors
Rompak                                  7.5 million US$    Green field investment in a Romanian-Turkish joint venture for yeast
production
United Romanian Breweries               19 million US$    Financing provided for construction of a brewery in Pantelimon
C. UNDP
Reproduction of Fruit Trees             0.23 million US$   TA for reorganization and rehabilitation of tree farms and training
______________program for farmers on the management of tree farms
Introduction of Upgraded Irrigation     0.09 million US$   Training for on-farm irrigation techniques and practices
Methods and Practices
Strengthening the Food Control System   0.27 million US$   TA for development of appropriate food legislation and establishment
of a National Codex Committee for food control activities
D. USAID
VOCA                                   |                | Program to promote farmers associations
Land O' Lakes                                             Program to promote local dairy businesses
E. CANADIAN Govt.
Land Market Development                 0.5 million US$    TA for land reform and land market development and institutional
I  support for implementation of the Cadastre Law






Annex 6
Pagel of I
Table: List of Pig and Poultry Enterprises to be Liquidated as Condition
of First Tranche
Name of Enterprise    Fiscal Code
1.   Avicola Craiova       5274970
2.   Avicola Babadag        2363479
3.   Suinprod Zimnicea      1396125
4.   Avicola Mintia         2115830
5.   Avicola Ploiesti/Baicoi   1300707
6.   Araviascomb            7043700
7.   Suinprod Tumu Severin  3197641
8.   Avicola Arad           1752028
9.   Nutrimur               1229099
10.  Avisuinprod Bistrita  5412614
11.  Avicola Piatra Neamt    2045289
12.  Suinprod Bailesti      3442953
13.  Avicola Zalau          680500
14.  Comsuin Ulmeni         1924220
15.  Avicola Codlea         1123532
16.  Auinprod Macin        2364423
17.  Suinprod Seini        2218819
18.  Suinprod Satu Mare    2385663
19.  Avitim                2507353
20.  Avicola Covasna        543430



Annex 7
Pagel of 2
List of Selected ASAL Technical Papers
(available upon request from project files)
1. "Romania: A Strategy for the Transition in Agriculture (Vols. 1-5)" by a joint Romanian-Intemational
Team supported by the World Bank in cooperation with EU-Phare, EBRD, USAID, and the French and
German Governments (1993)
2. "Agricultural Trade Regime" by Emil Daniel Tesliuc (July, 1996)
3. "An Analysis of Consumer Food Price and Subsidy Policies in Romania" by Cristina Esanu (January,
1997)
4. "Techniques for Analysis of Agricultural Price Interventions in Romania" by Constantin Deaconescu
(n.d.)
5. "Agricultural Finance: An Assessment of the Costs and Implicit Transfers Associated with the Current
System of Agricultural Finance" by Emil Daniel Tesliuc (December, 1996)
6. "Producer Price Interventions and Incentives in Romanian Agriculture" by Constantin Deaconescu,
Emil Daniel Tesliuc and Henry Gordon (January 7, 1997)
7. "Privatization in Agriculture" by Gheorge Oprescu (July, 1996)
8. "Food Consumption Patterns in Romania" by Dr. Vasilie Bogdan and Alexandru Brodeala (June, 1996)
9. "Price and Subsidy Interventions in the Romanian Wheat Market" by Letitia Zahiu (June-September,
1996)
10. "Romania Agricultural Effective Protection Analysis" by Jeffrey C. Metzel and B. Lynn Salinger
(December 31, 1996)
11. "Reforming Romanian State Farms" by J.F. Declan Quinn and Aurelian Dochia (December, 1996)
12. "Report on the Agricultural Associations in Romania" by Gabriel lonita (November, 1996)
13. "Rural Finance in Romania" by Dale W. Adams and Robert Vogel (December, 1996)
14. "The Rural Planning and Development Agency (ADAR) and the Land Market and Rural Development"
by Raymond Noronha (November, 1996)
15. "Romanian Agricultural Policy and Integration into the European Union" by Roxana Stoleru and Emil
Daniel Tesliuc (draft, December, 1996)
16. "Rural Credit and Agricultural Cooperatives in Romania" by Mihaela Cimpoeasu
17. "Comments on the Land Market in Romania" by Mihaela Cimpoeasu and Eugen Buciuman (1996)
18. "Romania Land Market (documentation)" Eugen Buciuman (November, 1996)



Annex 7
Page 2 of 2
19. "Synthesis of Case Studies of Agricultural Marketing and Processing: by Violeta Ciurel and Alina
Stanciu (Sept., 1996)
20. "Discussion and Recommendations on the Restructuring of Romcereal" by Farid Dhanji, Ama
Hartmann, Alberto Valdes, and Michel Debatisse (1995)
21. "Overview of Romania's Agricultural Sector" (presentation materials) Farid Dhanji (spring, 1996)
22. "Ownership of Agricultural Company (ex-IAS) Held Land and Overview of Seeds and Seedlings
Legislation" by Mara Angel (1996)
23. "Agricultural Product Supply Modeling" by Angela Gaburici (1996)
24. "Methodology for Income Elasticity of Demand for a Product Calculation" by Constantin Ciupagea
(1996)
25. "The Social Assistance System and Food Subsidies in Romania" by Marta Trusca and Maria Poenaru
(April, 1997)
26. "Notes Conceming the ADAR Draft Law" by Eugen Buciuman (1996)



Document of
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Report No. P-7113-RO
REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION
OF THE
PRESIDENT OF THE
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
TO THE
EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS
ON A
PROPOSED AGRICULTURE SECTOR ADJUSTMENT LOAN
IN AN AMOUNT EQUIVALENT TO US$ 350 MILLION
TO
ROMANIA
May 9, 1997
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the
performance of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without
World Bank authorization.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
(as of April 30, 1997)
Currency Unit         Leu
US$I    =    7,095 Lei
I Leu    =    US$0.00014
AVERAGE EXCHANGE RATES
Leu          US$1
1995          1996         January. 1997     February. 1997     March. 1997
2,033         3,084            5,146              6,896             7,236
WEIGHTS AND MEASURES
metric system
ABBREVIATIONS AND DEFINITIONS
ASAL          Agriculture Sector Adjustment Loan
BA            Banca Agricola
CAS           Country Assistance Strategy
EBRD          European Bank for Reconstruction and Development
EU            European Union
FESAL         Finance and Enterprise Sector Adjustment Loan
IAS           state farms
judet          county
LSP           Letter of Sector Policy
MEBO          Management-employee buyout
MOAF          Ministry of Agriculture and Food
MOF           Ministry of Finance
MOR           Ministry of Reform
MTI           Ministry of Trade and Industry
NAAP          National Agency for Agricultural Products
NASR          National Administration for State Reserves
NBR           National Bank of Romania
para.         paragraph
PHRD          Policy and Human Resources Development
POF           Private Ownership Fund
SEWR          State Emergency Wheat Reserve
SOF           State Ownership Fund
WTO           World Trade Organization
ROMANIA - FISCAL YEAR
Jan. I - Dec. 31
Vice President: Johannes F. Linn                        Division Chief: Michele de Nevers
Director: Kenneth G. Lay                                Task Manager: Farid Dhanji



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Romania
Agriculture Sector Adjustment Loan
Contents
I. INTRODUCTION  .....................................................................................................................1
II. BACKGROUND ON ECONOMIC POLICY AND PERFORMANCE ............................1
A. Macroeconomic Performance .........................................................                                                      lI
B. Agricultural Structure and Performance ..........................................................2
III. THE GOVERNMENT'S AGRICULTURAL REFORM PROGRAM
SUPPORTED BY THE ASAL ..........................................................11
A. Reform Objectives ..........................................................11
B. Incentives Reforms .........................................................                                                           12
C. Agricultural and Rural Finance .........................................................                                              15
D. Land Market Reform .........................................................                                                           16
E. Privatization, Restructuring  and Liquidation .........................................................                                17
F. Cereals Market Development .........................................................                                                   18
G. The Role of the Ministry of Agriculture and Food Industry (MOAF) .................................. 19
IV. THE PROPOSED LOAN ........................................................                                                              21
A. Rationale for the Loan ........................................................                                                       21
B. Composition and Quality of the Bank Portfolio                                      .......................................... 21
C. The Country Assistance Strategy and the ASAL .........................................................                                  21
D. Loan Amount and Tranching .........................................................                                                   22
E. Loan Conditions .........................................................                                                             22
F. Disbursement and Procurement ........................................................                                                 28
G. Reporting, Accounting and Auditing ........................................................                                           29
H. Implementation and Monitoring of Development Impact .................................................... 29
I. Environmental Implications of the ASAL .........................................................                                      29
J. Potential Risks .........................................................                                                             30
K. Collaboration with the IMF, EU and Other Donors                                        ....................................... 30
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the
performance of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without
World Bank authorization.



ANNEXES
Annex I     - Letter of Sector Policy
Annex 2     - ASAL Policy Matrix
Annex 3     - Timetable of Key Processing Events
Annex 4     - Status of Bank Group Operations in Romania
Annex 5     - Agricultural Projects by Other Donors in Romania
Annex 6     - List of Pig and Poultry Enterprises to be Liquidated in First Tranche
Annex 7     - List of Selected ASAL Technical Papers (available in project file)
Annex 8     - Romania at a Glance
MAP         - IBRD 28710



Romania
Agriculture Sector Adjustment Loan
Loan and Program Summary
Borrower:          Romania
Executing Agencies: Ministry of Agriculture and Food, Ministry of Finance, Ministry of
Reform, State Ownership Fund, Ministry of Industry and
Commerce
Beneficiaries:     Individual land owners and farmers, private processors and storage
agents, small private input dealers.
Loan Amount:        $280 million (US dollars loan tranche) and DEM 117.5 million
(Deutsche marks loan tranche)
Terms:             IBRD terms with 20 years maturity including 5 years grace period,
at the Bank's standard interest rate for LIBOR-based single
currency loans in these currencies.
Commitment Fee:   0.75 percent of undisbursed loan balances, beginning 60 days after
signing, less any waiver.
Objectives:        The objective of the loan is to support rapid development of a more
efficient and responsive agricultural sector, the principles of which
are enunciated in the Government's medium-term program.
Description:       The loan will support a comprehensive reform  of agricultural
sector policies. Reforms will occur in the areas of pricing, trade,
agricultural subsidies and finance, land markets, cereals markets,
agricultural enterprise privatization, and the role of the Ministry of
Agriculture will be redefined.
Benefits:          The reforms will increase domestic marketing competitiveness by
significantly reducing the state's role as a marketing and processing
intermediary, improving the incentives environment, reducing
subsidies and redirecting those that remain to small farmers. This
will improve efficiency in production. It will also improve income
earning opportunities for rural people, contribute to rural
employment generation, and help raise rural living standards.
Consumers will benefit from improved agricultural product quality,
greater choice, more timely delivery, and ultimately, lower prices.



ii
product quality, greater choice, more timely delivery, and
ultimately, lower prices.
Risks:            The most important risks are, first, the political resistance by
politically powerful interest groups to the short-term impact of
reforms, and second, that the financial and agricultural marketing
sectors will respond slowly to reforms, with adverse effects on
production and prices. In regard to the first risk, the GOR is taking
active measures to engage unions and others that may be hurt. A
World Bank Social Protection Adjustment Loan ($50 million) will
support the Government's program to cushion the impact of the
reforms on the poor and the most vulnerable groups. Government
has embarked on a campaign of public education to explain the
need for reforms to affected groups. Second, banking and financial
responses will be supported by a transitional agricultural finance
scheme, as well as an input voucher scheme aimed at small
farmers. The latter will also help to promote an active input supply
market.
Environment:      The proposed loan has been placed in Category C.
Financing Plan:    IBRD       US$  350 million equivalent
Total       US$  350 million equivalent
Disbursements:    FY97        US$  200 million equivalent
FY98        US$  150 million equivalent
Cumulative  US$  350 million equivalent
Project I.D. Number: RO-PA-8795
Rate of Return:   N.A.



Report and Recommendation of the President
of the International Bank for Reconstruction and Development
to the Executive Directors
on a Proposed Agriculture Sector Adjustment Loan
to Romania
I.    Introduction
1.    I submit the following report and recommendation on a proposed Agriculture
Sector Adjustment Loan (ASAL) to Romania for US$ 350 million equivalent. The loan
will comprise single currency tranches in US dollars and Deutsche marks, and will be
payable in twenty years, including five years of grace, at the Bank's standard interest rate
for LIBOR-based single currency loans in these currencies.
2.    The ASAL provides foreign exchange for balance of payments support (US$350
million equivalent). The loan is conditioned upon an extensive program of policy reform
aimed at developing a competitive, market based agricultural sector. This is the first
comprehensive reform of the agricultural sector that has been undertaken in Romania.
Although important changes have occurred in land policy since the revolution of 1989,
reform in most areas of agriculture has been halting, with the system still largely state
dominated and with only minimal development of private markets.
3.    This loan supports the Government's medium-term agricultural policy as set out
in its ASAL Letter of Sector Policy (LSP), included as Annex 1 of this report. In
addition, it complements two other extensive reform efforts being implemented
concurrently. The first is a macroeconomic reform program under an IMF Standby
Agreement, the second a set of enterprise and financial sector reforms undertaken through
the World Bank Finance and Enterprise Sector Adjustment Loan (FESAL). A third
operation, a World Bank Social Protection Adjustment Loan, will help protect low-
income groups and others from the short-term costs associated with the reforms.
II. Background on Economic Policy and Performance
A.   Macroeconomic Performance
4.    Recent political and social developments, the macroeconomic program, the
financing plan and the country's creditworthiness are discussed in the new Country
Assistance Strategy (FY 97) accompanying this report.



2
B.    Agricultural Structure and Performance
5.    Background.  Romania has traditionally been one of the major agricultural
economies of Central and Eastern Europe. In 1996, agricultural production contributed
some 20 percent to GDP and 35 percent of employment. In contrast, the agricultural
sectors of other countries in Central and Eastern Europe (with the exception of Albania),
contribute between 5 to 10 percent of GDP, and employment shares range from a low of
6.5 percent in the Czech Republic to 25 percent in Poland.
6.    Romania's climate is characterized by hot summers, long winters and significant
variability in rainfall. A large portion of its agricultural lands, in the southern plains
flanking the Danube, consists of black earth soils with high humus content, considered
ideal for growing cereals and other field crops. In the 1930's these lands were the
"granary" of Europe, and Romania exported large quantities of wheat to France and other
European countries. A second major agro-climatic area, the foothills zone, forms an arc
across the center of the country from Moldavia in the east through Transylvania in the
center-west. Forage, cereals, fruits and vegetables (especially potatoes) and vineyard
crops are cultivated here. The region contains the huge pig farms of the socialist era,
along with intensive poultry production units. In the north and west lie the mountainous
zones, comprising the Carpathians, the Suecavan and Somesan tablelands and the
Transylvanian Alps. Mountain farms engage in mixed farming, with a strong emphasis
on milk and dairy products.
7.    Collectivization of the land began in 1948. In 1989, almost 13 million hectares
out of a total of 15 million hectares of agricultural land were owned by the state (about 90
percent), and farmed either as collective farms or state run "co-operatives". The
remaining two million hectares remained in private ownership in about one million
remote and fragmented mountain farms. Following collectivization, cropping patterns,
output targets and input supplies were set by the central plan and the system administered
by the Ministry of Agriculture. A single bank - Banca Agricola - passively provided
credits, redistributed earnings and financed investments. During the late 1970's Romania
invested heavily in sprinkler irrigation in the cereals growing areas, but with the post-
transition change in energy prices, the system has largely disintegrated. In addition, using
the cereals base as an engine for livestock production, the country also invested in
numerous pig and poultry complexes; the pig complexes in particular were built to
inefficient scale and constituted some of the largest such complexes in the world.
Furthermore, autarchic tendencies combined with Ceaucescu's drive for self sufficiency
led to the support of activities and crops in which Romania has no comparative
advantage, rice and sugar beet being the two prime examples.
8.    The agricultural labor force was steadily transformed from peasant farmers before
collectivization to farm workers or managerial specialists. Employment in agriculture
declined from 74 percent of the labor force in 1950 to 28 percent in 1989. By the late
1980's, the majority of the rural labor force commuted to urban jobs in nearby towns. In



3
the 1980's, Ceaucescu attempted a forced program to reassemble villagers into new
townships, but these attempts were ultimately not successful.
9.    Production. Between 1950 and 1980, gross agricultural output trebled, largely as
a result of improved yields for both crops and livestock. As a result of this growth,
Romania met domestic food consumption requirements for temperate products and was a
large net exporter. In 1980 agricultural exports accounted for 23 percent of all exports,
with one-half of these exports directed to countries of the EU. Between 1985 and 1989,
however, gross agricultural output fell by 20 percent as agriculture was damaged by
increasingly capricious economic management.  This resulted in decreasing factor
productivity, an outcome in part of the shortage of imported inputs (particularly protein
feed for livestock), and in part of the deterioration of irrigation systems and the
agricultural machinery park. By the early 1 990s, the share of agricultural exports in total
exports had fallen to within a range of 5 to 7 percent.
10.   Production fell by another 20 percent in 1990-1992. Dislocations caused by the
land reform (see below), a weakening of the coordinating mechanisms for input supply
and output marketing, and a drought all contributed to the decline. In addition, Romania's
huge livestock herds of swine, poultry and cattle were culled by almost 40 percent in
response to changing relative prices and shortages of feed. (Similar livestock herd
contractions took place during this period in other countries in Eastern Europe and the
FSU.) Within this overall decline, a marked shift occurred in the importance of different
commodity groups in total production. From 1990 to 1992, the share of crop value added
in total agricultural value added increased from 60 percent to 80 percent, while
livestock's share contracted from 40 percent to 20 percent. Despite the country's evident
comparative advantage in production of cereals for export, Romania became a net
importer.
11.   Since 1992 agricultural production has made an erratic recovery, although average
crop yields in Romania remain below neighboring countries and considerably below best
practice. By 1995, crop production had increased by 30 percent with cereals production
increasing by 50 percent. There has been a substantial increase in milk production,
offsetting a small decline in meat production. In 1995 Romania registered a record wheat
harvest with some 3 million tons available for export. In 1996, however, a late winter
frost followed by a drought wreaked havoc on the wheat harvest, and Romania may need
to import wheat for one to two months' supply in 1997 until the next harvest in July-
August.
12.   The Land Reform. Shortly after the fall of Ceaucescu in December 1989, farm
workers began spontaneously repossessing land, leading away animals and dismantling
farm buildings in the state cooperatives. Faced with a nearly unstoppable momentum to
re-privatize the land the government then passed the Land Privatization law, Law 18 of
1991. The law codified one of the most radical land reform programs in post-socialist
Eastern Europe. The restitution and redistribution of the land remains the most important
event shaping rural Romania today.



4
13.   Land was returned to the "original owners and their heirs", and to workers in the
former cooperatives who had accumulated a certain number of working years. A limit of
10 hectares was established per household. A total of between 5-6 million claims were
adjudicated and some 10 million hectares distributed. By 1996 some 60 percent of the
new owners had received titles, although there are about one million disputes before the
courts. Most ownership claims now average between 2.5 and 3.0 hectares and are
comprised of some three to five parcels. At the same time the government retained about
20 percent of the richest and most productive farm land in the country as state farms.
14.   The land law has two major deficiencies. First, it failed to provide for sale and
purchase of agricultural land. Second, it did not adequately deal with the problem of
former owners who lay claim to lands presently being farmed as state farms. Although
these owners were granted rights to dividends from state farm earnings, in practice most
of them have expressed a preference to reclaim their land.
15.   Because of the provisions of the land law many of those receiving land were aged
individuals actually expropriated during collectivization, or were urban-based heirs of
such owners. The resulting demographic structure shows that more than half of the new
owners are over 50 years old, and about 40 percent of owners live in towns. Most of the
new owners have little to no experience of smallholder farming, and for this reason some
of the land is farmed in legal or informal associations or by state-owned "integrators" (see
below).
16.   Reverse Migration and Poverty.  Following  the  land  reform   Romania
experienced the unusual phenomenon of reverse migration to the countryside, as the labor
force in agriculture increased from 28 percent to 35 percent. This resulted from several
flows: the retention of rural youth who have no urban jobs; a voluntary return to the
countryside of some who received land, as well as early retirees; and an involuntary
return of those who lost urban jobs. Agriculture, in short, has become a temporary buffer
for unemployment arising in nonagricultural sectors. At the same time rural poverty is
more extensive and severe than urban poverty, with some 28 percent of rural households
poor compared to 16 percent of urban households. Within the rural sector, the incidence
and severity of poverty is even higher for agriculture, with an incidence of 40 percent.
Nonetheless, survey data indicate that transfers between rural and urban families are a
significant component of urban non-monetary income, and agriculture has thus also
assisted in ameliorating economy-wide poverty. Off farm employment in rural service
and production activities are also quite underdeveloped.
17.   With the privatization of land, and the reverse migration to agriculture,
subsistence farming has once again become prominent. Between 55 and 90 percent of
small private farmers' production of pigs and poultry is now consumed on farm.
Between 40 and 75 percent of wheat, maize, milk and potatoes production is now
consumed on farm for both human as well as animal consumption. In all these crops and
activities, private production considerably outweighs state production.



5
18.   Farm Organization. New  organizational forms have arisen to meet the
challenges of the land reform, particularly in the lowland areas agronomically suited to
mechanized farming. About 15 percent (1.8 million hectares) of privately owned land is
now combined into formal farmers' associations with an average unit size of about 450
hectares. Another 13 percent (1.5 million hectares) of land is combined into looser knit
family associations with an average size of about 110 hectares. The remaining 72 percent
of privately owned land is either farmed as small units, or on behalf of the owners by
state-owned cereal and agricultural machinery companies (otherwise known as
"integrators").  One of the major challenges facing Romania in the transition is to
develop stable forms of cooperative farming and marketing to overcome the small size of
ownership units brought about by the land reform.
19.   Land holding "state farms" number 477, and are concentrated in the lowland areas
of the South and West. Such units, averaging around 4,200 ha in size, focus their
production on cereals and fodder crops. In 1994 these two crop types accounted for about
60 percent and 21 percent, respectively, of total planted hectarage. Although state farms
cover 20 percent of agricultural land area, their share of total value added in national crop
production was a mere 5 percent in 1995, marking a steady yearly decline in performance
since 1990 that accelerated after 1993. By contrast, private sector crop producers have
improved their performance since the early 1990s and now account for the remaining 95
percent of Romania's total value added in crop production. The decline in state farm
value added is largely due to an increase in "other inputs" in their financial budgets, an as
yet unexplained category.
20.   The state farms' declining economic performance is mirrored in their deteriorating
financial performance. Among a broadly representative sample of 36 state farms in
Muntenia region, over the period from 1992 to 1995 revenue declined by 14 percent in
real terms while expenses grew by 3 percent. As a consequence, gross margins fell from
9 percent of sales in 1992 to minus 3 percent in 1995. This understates the financial
predicament since it does not taken into account enterprise arrears, which a separate
examination on 42 state farms shows are large and growing. The picture that emerges is
of a secular and intensifying decline in performance. Private farms, by contrast, have
haltingly improved their production and value added over the same period, despite a more
difficult marketing and financial environment.
21.   Input Supply, Storage, Processing and Marketing.   Primary production in
Romania has largely been privatized. By 1994, only about 23 percent of the volume of
wheat production, 30 percent of poultry and pig production, and 10 percent of milk
production remained in state hands, with the rest of production accounted for by small
individual producers or associations.  At the retail end of the marketing chain,
privatization has proceeded apace.  However, state influence remains pervasive in
procurement, storage and processing functions. In 1994, official government data show
that state units purchased about 94 percent of the marketed production of wheat, while
state slaughterhouses handled 94 percent of the marketed surplus of poultry and 76
percent of the pork surplus. Milk production is almost solely a private sector activity,



6
yet state owned units still handle 49 percent of the marketed surplus. State intermediaries
such as NAAP (the National Agency for Agricultural Products) and the pig and poultry
enterprises collect a major portion of state subsidies, while the existing 490 state farms
(officially called "former IAS") demand and receive most of the state subsidies intended
for producers, despite their 20 percent share of arable land. This dominance of marketing
and processing channels has a profoundly negative effect on agricultural incentives faced
by producers, consumers, and potential private entrants to the marketing and processing
business.
22.   Since 1990, Romania has undertaken two rounds of "mass privatization", one
which started in 1992 followed by a more ambitious round which was launched in 1995.
The state holdings are nominally held by the State Ownership Fund (SOF) which was
established in 1991 with the mandate of divesting itself of all state owned companies in
seven years. To the end of 1996, about 45 percent of the SOF's overall portfolio had been
privatized, with the greater majority of such privatisations being of small and medium
sized companies. Within this overall performance, privatization of agricultural enterprises
was much weaker. Only 18 percent of the companies eligible for privatization have been
either sold or privatized through exchange of vouchers. Table I below summarizes this
performance. It should be noted that state farms are not part of the mass privatization
program, but they are included in the table for the sake of completeness.
Table 1: Slow Progress in Privatization of Agricultural Enterprises
Type of Ente]rist                Totalq-d"  POatird
State Farms (former IAS)                490
Poultry Farms                           61        2
Pig Farms                               48
COMCEREALs                              44      -
Service Providers including
AGROMECs                              1,682     468
Total                            - - 32-   470-
23.   A number of reasons can be advanced for the slow pace of agricultural sector
privatization under the mass privatization process. The problems of pig and poultry
enterprises, cereals agencies, agricultural service providers, including seed companies, are
discussed in the following section.
24.   Pig  and  Poultry  Enterprises.    The  pig  and  poultry  enterprises are
overdimensioned complexes that largely serve urban markets. About 40 percent of pig
meat and 30 percent of poultry meat in Romania are produced by these complexes. Their
performance is generally very poor with low technical efficiency, exemplified by very
high conversion ratios. Prices of their outputs have been controlled since 1990. Although



7
they have been the recipients of large subsidies and soft "restructuring" funds, their
performance has shown little discernible improvement over the years. A sub-sample of
these enterprises (74 units) tracked under the financial surveillance regime of the FESAL
accounted for 8 percent of the total losses of 147 companies that constitute the majority
of the largest loss makers in Romania. The units are additionally burdened with
substantial debts, owed both to their suppliers and the banking system. About 35 of the
complexes have either been liquidated or are awaiting liquidation. During the 1995-96
mass privatization program the public evinced little interest in exchanging their coupons
for shares in the distressed enterprises, nor did their managers and employees opt to take
advantage of the special treatment to them accorded through management employee
buyout mechanisms (MEBOs).
25.   Cereals Sub-Sector. In 1991, a giant state-owned grain monopsony, Romcereal,
was created in response to the confusion that followed land reform. Romcereal owned all
the country's 10 million tons silo capacity, and acted as the country's major input
supplier, a distributor of directed credit, grain purchaser, and storage and marketing
agent.  Romcereal typically entered into production contracts with state farms,
associations and private farmers to deliver a package of mechanical services and input
supplies, financed by subsidized credit, in exchange for a proportion of the crop. Despite
its access to government subsidies and directed credit, Romcereal persistently ran large
financial losses.
26.   As a result of its highly privileged position in crop purchase, storage, and the
delivery of input subsidies, Romcereai largely prevented the establishment of an active
private market for cereals or inputs. Although some private input suppliers and
procurement agents exist, they are marginal in the provision of fertilizers and pesticides
or crop purchase, and they have often stated that expansion of their operations is stymied
by an inability to compete with subsidized state enterprises.
27.   In 1995, after repeated urgings from the World Bank, the EU and other advisors,
the government agreed to break up Romcereal. Accordingly, early in 1996, 44 smaller
"Comcereals" were formed and placed in the mass privatization program. These units
together assumed 65 percent of the country's silo capacity. The remaining 35 percent (3.5
million tons) were retained, however, by a newly formed regie autonome National
Agency of Agricultural Products (NAAP); the latter silos were the best located in the
country in the grain surplus regions in the south and west, close to the major cities, and
close to major transport nodes both within the country and along the Danube.
28.   The Comcereals have not effectively begun operations. In response to the 1996
wheat crop shortfall the government instructed the NAAP to assume responsibility for
outstanding purchase contracts. In addition, in line with the general slowing of
privatization that occurred in 1996, none of the Comcereals have been privatized.
29.   Agromecs and Seed Companies Under Romania's model of socialist agriculture a
large number of machinery companies - Agromecs - were established to provide



8
ploughing, harvesting and transport, and distribution services to the state farms and state
cooperatives. Since 1990 these firms have undergone steady attrition in their capacity to
deliver services as their machinery has deteriorated, they have suffered huge financial
losses, and they have been unable to replace tractors, harvesters, and trucks. Their
decline has been accompanied by an expansion of privately owned and leased machinery.
30.   Tractors and combine harvesters are the most important machines used in crop
agriculture and also the biggest investment items. The current amount of crop land per
tractor is about 70 hectares, while the average landholding in private agriculture is two to
three hectares. Hence, most private farmers who want to plow their land must hire tractor
services from neighbors or Agromecs. The high demand for such services is illustrated in
a recent farm-level sample survey carried out by a Romanian team with funding from a
PHRD trust fund, and the EU. It indicates that for the 1996 crop year, 70 percent of
smallholders purchased machinery services, making machines the most widely purchased
production input for small farmers (the next most purchased crop input being seeds,
which was bought by 42 percent of farmers).
31.   The Agromecs have been placed in the mass privatization program, but their sale
is restricted to managers and employees, farmers and village communities. During the
course of privatization, many of them have been broken up into smaller units to facilitate
easier sale. By March 1997, about 30 percent (450 out of 1,532) of the Agromecs had
been sold.
32.   Currently, most commercial seed produced in Romania is under the financial and
technical control of SEMROM (field crops) and UNISEM (vegetables, flowers, and
potatoes). In recent years, other public and private companies have taken part of the
market. For example, Pioneer Seed Company has had about 10 percent of the market for
hybrid maize, and other private companies are entering. In the case of potatoes, UNISEM
has only 20 percent of the market, with other shares taken by medium and small
companies.  Available information suggests that the structure of seed production and
marketing is centralized and uncompetitive, an outcome of the state's institutional
dominance, reinforced by variety registration procedures that take one to three years and
severely limit market entry by domestic and international firms. With the opening of the
seed industry to international trade and entry of foreign companies and technology, net
seed exports can be expected to increase, with Romanian farrners gaining access to a
greater range of varieties.
33.   The Framework of Incentives. The Government of Romania has intervened to
affect incentives at all levels of the food marketing chain, from the producer to the
consumer.  This has chiefly been pursued through three instruments: first, pervasive
price interventions serving the conflicting aims of producer and consumer support;
second, budgetary subsidies channeled to intermediaries and producers; and third, trade
policy, including high import tariffs and quantitative controls on exports. Such direct
interventions have been reinforced by persistent exchange rate overvaluation, which has
acted as a powerful disincentive to production of tradable commodities and has



9
unintentionally counteracted interventions aimed at subsidizing producers. Directed,
subsidized credit can be considered a fourth leg of incentives policy that has helped to
shield state enterprises from budgetary constraints, to the disadvantage of private firms.
This issue requires more extended treatment and is therefore discussed separately below.
34.   Policies. Interventions affecting output prices intensified in the early 1990s in
response to the disorder in agricultural markets accompanying land reform. Producer and
consumer price interventions and margin controls affected chiefly wheat, pork, poultry,
and milk/dairy products, which accounted for a significant portion of the value of
agricultural production, and about 23 percent of total money income spent by household.
These actions were of a piece with others aimed at consolidating state control over
agricultural markets, including the creation of Romcereal, budgetary subsidies channeled
to state enterprises, and ad hoc application of administrative controls to imports and
exports. Explicit output subsidies (premia), which were ostensibly aimed at supporting a
high official producer price, and input subsidies, dominated the MOAF budget from 1994
to 1995, accounting for about 80 percent of total expenditures. Payments to staff, and
material expenditures accounted for the remainder of the budget, and the Ministry thus
had few resources left to fund public goods activities.
35.   While input price interventions such as those for fertilizer fell during the early
1990s, pressures remained to keep ex-factory urea prices below export parity levels,
leading to continued informal control on prices. The level of budgeted input subsidies
remained high, accounting for about 40 percent of the total MOAF budget from 1993-95.
Trade interventions, meanwhile, intensified. After July, 1995 when Romania signed the
Uruguay Round Agreement on agriculture, the level of the average trade-weighted tariff
for agricultural commodities increased threefold, from 24 percent to over 75 percent,
giving Romania the highest applied tariff levels in Eastern Europe. At the same time,
tariff dispersion increased from a coefficient of variation of 24 percent to over 100
percent. Ad hoc import waivers, export bans, and erratic trade administration continued
unabated. Finally, the structure of tariffs on raw and unprocessed goods introduced in
July, 1995, had a cascading pattern, which protected processors to a greater extent than
primary producers.
36.   Net Effect of Policies. The complexity and volatility in interventions make a
rendering of their overall effects challenging. Nonetheless, analysis indicates that,
despite the attempts to simultaneously subsidize production and maintain low prices to
consumers, the transfers were less than intended or the had perverse results.
37.   Producers: In 1995 agricultural production was effectively taxed by an amount
equivalent to 15% of agricultural value added, with the strongest burden of taxation
falling on wheat. This takes into account a large variety of policy transfers, including
implicit transfers through output and input pricing, explicit budgetary transfers for inputs,
credit subsidies, trade policy, and exchange rate overvaluation. It shows that taxation of
producers mainly arose from implicit output price and exchange rate taxation, which
effectively neutralized budgetary subsidies and transfers.  The degree of taxation,



10
moreover, was greater for private sector producers than for state units, and greater for
field crops than for livestock, which remained subsidized in state units but not in private
farms. A preliminary analysis of interventions in 1996 shows a similar pattern, with a
somewhat reduced level of net taxation.
38.   Consumers: Consumers have on the whole experienced positive implicit income
transfers from price controls. An exhaustive analysis of the magnitude and effect of
consumer subsidies was undertaken during ASAL preparation, based in part on data from
the 1995 Romanian Household Income and Expenditure Survey. This shows that the
total income transfer is small, never exceeding 4 percent of consumer income.  In
addition, the subsidies are all regressive in absolute terms, meaning that higher income
consumers benefited more from the subsidies than poorer consumers.  Government
interventions have thus had perverse effects at consumer as well as producer levels.
39.   Numerous other important effects have attended these interventions:
  They have entrenched a large bureaucracy administering controls, subsidies,
and directed credit.
*  The interventions have introduced an additional degree of uncertainty and
instability in agriculture. Payments to producers and input deliveries from
state integrators are often late; pricing and input policies are frequently
changed in a precipitate manner, and, as mentioned, trade policy is highly
discretionary in its application.
-  Most of the financial transfers have been given to state farms, pig and poultry
farms, Romcereal and other state enterprises - largely by-passing the private
sector and, especially small private farmers. Moreover, price controls and
technical, economic and managerial inefficiency combined with little
motivation to restructure, have led most of the state enterprises receiving
subsidies to run large losses and arrears and to run up large debts.
. There is a widespread perception, grounded in anecdotal evidence, of
corruption in the delivery and use of subsidies and credit.
40.   Agricultural and Rural Credit. Romania's agricultural and rural credit markets
are largely underdeveloped. The predominant institution in lending to agriculture is
Banca Agricola, the second largest bank in the country. The bank has grown dramatically
in the last five years, rapidly expanding its portfolio, its branch network and its staff.
Funding sources have primarily been credit from the central bank as part of the
government's directed credit programs, and through an aggressive mobilization of
consumer deposits. In addition to Banca Agricola there is a cooperative bank network that
primarily makes small loans to private farmers and village communities. Banc Post has
also been successful in mobilizing rural deposits and, similarly, makes small loans. The
other major banks in the Romanian banking system have very limited exposure to



11
primary production, although the Romanian Development Bank, largely through the
operation of credit lines from the IBRD and the EBRD, has lent to agro-industry.
41.   The provision of directed, subsidized credit has had several negative effects:
* it has been highly inflationary. The directed credit has been supplied through
base monetary emission of the NBR, where, at times, 70 percent of NBR
refinancing has been directed to agriculture. The large volumes involved,
coupled with the seasonal nature of the credit, has effectively prevented
monetary sterilization, and crowded out other borrowers. The failure to meet
the credit targets of four IMF standby criteria have essentially been caused by
directed agricultural financing
* most of the credit has been directed to a select and privileged set of state
enterprises, entrenching a strong state-enterprise lobby for continuing
subsidies, while bypassing private farmers and private agro-processors and
marketing agents
* there has been massive delinquency on the repayment of these credit lines
* the provision of directed credit has prevented the development of active and
thriving alternative financing mechanisms and institutions to serve agriculture
42.   A major challenge in the coming months and years will be to further develop the
agricultural and rural credit system so that it can lend to farmers and farm service
industries on a commercial basis.
lII.   The Government's Agricultural Reform Program Supported by
the ASAL
A.   Reform Objectives
43.   The Government's medium term agricultural policy is described in its Letter of
Sector Policy (LSP). Within that framework, the ASAL has been established as a set of
short term policy reforms that will lay the basis for agricultural development over the
medium and longer term. The aim of the ASAL, consistent with the LSP, is to introduce
efficient market incentives, increase private sector entry and competition, and reduce
direct Government intervention in agriculture while placing greater reliance on private
markets. These operational aims support broader Government objectives in agriculture,
namely promotion of domestic food security, support for rural incomes and employment,
foreign exchange generation, and promotion of efficiency and economic growth. The
reforms imply a new role for Government that facilitates rather than suppresses private
markets. In short, Government is no longer viewed as a substitute for a flawed market



12
system but rather a complement to private markets. The reforms are in full accordance
with the objective of EU accession. In 1993, Romania signed an Association Agreement
with the EU and is actively pursuing an application for full membership. The ASAL
reforms will align Romanian policies and institutions more closely with EU practice.
44.   The Government's program supported by the ASAL focuses on the following
elements:
* Reformning the Framework of Incentives
* Reforming the System of Agricultural Finance
* Establishing the Legal Basis for an Efficient Land Market
* Reforming the Cereals Market
* Accelerating Privatization of all State-owned Entities in Agriculture
* Redefining the Role and Functions of the Ministry of Agriculture
45.   The agricultural reformns are being implemented at the same time that the
enterprise reform program, supported by the FESAL, is being deepened and strengthened.
The Government has also simultaneously embarked upon a program of macroeconomic
stabilization supported by the IMF. Implementing these programs of stabilization and
structural reform are quite likely to exact a high social cost on the population in the short
term as food prices rise, real incomes fall, and unemployment rises. The poor, some
segments of the population on fixed incomes and the unemployed are likely to be
particularly hard hit. Accordingly, the Governmnent has substantially increased the share
of budget resources going to social protection, from 8 percent of GDP to 10 percent of
GDP (this figure includes employee-funded pensions). The social effects of the reforms
are addressed through a World Bank Social Protection Adjustment Loan.
B.    Incentives Reforms
46.   Changes in policies affecting .ncentives form an essential foundation for the
Government's agricultural reform program. Three types of interventions that have a
crucial effect on agricultural incentives are considered here: pricing, subsidies and trade
policies.
47.   Prices.  All administratively set prices, price controls and margins for the
sensitive products - pork, poultry, milk and wheat products - are eliminated, along with
all "premia". The latter subsidies were provided at various points in the processing and
marketing chain to "compensate" producers for price controls on their output, but in most
cases actually subsidized inefficient intermediaries.
48.   The elimination of these price controls and accompanying subsidies, along with
concurrent price liberalization in related sectors, such as energy and transport, will result
in a substantial increase in food prices both in absolute and relative terms. In Romania,



13
consumers already spend a large proportion of their household budgets on food, about 45
percent on average. The sensitive products comprise about 23 percent of total money
expenditures for the average household. To mitigate the social ;mpact of the price
liberalization, the Government studied the possibility of a temporary bread subsidy in the
process of designing the agricultural reforms. Administrative difficulties in instituting
such a subsidy proved very difficult to overcome, however. The Government therefore
decided to provide temporary financial compensation to low income households as part of
the more general package of social protection measures.
49.   The rise in the relative price of livestock products, accompanied by an expected
temporary decline in real wages as the stabilization program is implemented, will result
in a decline in meat demand, putting further stress upon livestock enterprises that are
uncompetitive and inefficient These stresses are to be dealt with under the Government's
privatization and liquidation programs (see below).
50.   Direct controls on input prices have largely affected fertilizers and machinery
services. The very low domestic prices provided to fertilizer firms has resulted in low
domestic supplies as these firms have exported up to 90 percent of their output. Under
the Government's reform program the provision of free fertilizer is phased out so that by
the fall planting of wheat, no more free fertilizer will be distributed. The controlled priced
for fertilizer is also ended so that prices will begin to approximate border parity levels.
Prices for machinery services will also no longer be subject to negotiation under the
watchful eye of the Ministry of Agriculture but are freed. An ordinance has been
presented to Parliament for the repeal of Law 83/1993, which in the past provided the
legal basis for the entire panoply of pricing and subsidy interventions.
51.   Subsidies.  Several temporary subsidies have been maintained to ease the impact
of reforms. The first is a seeds subsidy, which remains at the same nominal levels in the
1997 budget as in the previous year and which will be reduced by 25 percent, in nominal
terms, by fiscal 1998. In real terms, using a projected yearly inflation rate of 30%, this is
equivalent to a reduction of 42%.
52.   The second is a special voucher scheme for inputs, which will allow temporary
input subsidies beginning before the fall planting in September-October, 1997. Under this
scheme farmers will receive vouchers that will enable them to purchase inputs at a
discount. Eligible inputs will include fertilizers, seeds and possibly mechanical services.
This transitional scheme will help cushion the impact of eliminating free fertilizer
provision and of freeing the fertilizer price. It will also help substitute for directed credit,
although, as a discount scheme, it will not replace the need for credit. Farmers will be
able to use these vouchers to purchase from any input suppliers and this will help to
"jump-start" the development of private input suppliers. Whereas the previous recipients
of state supplied credit were state farms and integrators, the envisaged scheme will supply
vouchers directly to farmers, bypassing the traditional state delivery mechanisms and
minimizing the diversion of subsidies from their intended beneficiaries. Thus, through
the voucher scheme, for the first time Romania's small private farmers will have



14
reasonable assurance that they are the actual beneficiary of schemes intended to raise
their productivity and incomes. These transitional subsidies are all on budget. Reforms
to the system of credit subsidies are discussed below.
53.   Trade. The new framework for trade policy allows domestic prices to more
closely reflect world prices for agricultural products and inputs. High agricultural tariff
barriers and tariff dispersion are substantially reduced, which will stimulate efficient
resource use in agriculture while reducing the anti-export bias that has seriously hindered
both export volumes and diversification of the production base. In general terms,
agricultural and food tariffs (excluding beverages and tobacco) have been reduced from a
production weighted average of 67 percent to a production weighted average of 27
percent. The maximum applicable tariff is now 60 percent which serves as a cap for a
number of sensitive products, including especially livestock (pig and poultry) and dairy
products. About 80 percent of tariff lines now fall below 40 percent.  These changes
comprise the first phase of tariff reform. In the second phase, the production weighted
average of the Tariff Schedule will not be higher than 22 percent. The maximum tariff in
the second phase will not exceed 40 percent for all products except those currently
classified as sensitive, which will be subject to a cap of 45 percent.
54.   A basic prerequisite for a well designed trade regime is that it should not restrict
export or import flows through quotas or bans, and it should be predictable. To this end,
all export bans (except timber), and quotas (except for those included in international
agreements, especially with the EU) have been eliminated. In addition, the practice of
allowing administrative waivers on import tariffs has ended. Finally, all licensing
requirements for exports and imports have ended.
55.   As an active member of the international trading system, the trade reformi respects
international agreements. The reforms are carried out within the framework of WTO
rules, and are consistent with existing bilateral agreements, in particular with the
European Union. In the coming months the Government proposes to undertake a full
study of the trade regime, analyzing the rates of protection provided to different branches
of activity in order to rationalize the regime in a manner consistent with improving
efficiency and enhanced growth.
56.   A Trade Law is expected to be presented to Parliament before the end of the year
that establishes a legal basis for all significant changes in import and export policy
previously enacted by administrative ordinance. This will reduce the chance for reversal
of previously enacted policies through administrative measures, such as a change in
ordinance.
57.   Special Regulations applying to Seeds.   Specific steps have been taken to
improve farmers' access to the best available seed technology.  The existing seed
regulations have been changed to automatically register varieties that are listed in the EU
Common Catalogues (that is, to register such varieties with no waiting period
whatsoever). For the first time, Romania's farmers have access to the many seed varieties



15
that companies test and introduce to EU farmers each year. Farmers will be able to
obtain higher yields, they will be able to satisfy export demand for specific product types
and qualities, and they will be able to compete more successfully. This measure brings
Romania closer to EU practice.
C.    Agricultural and Rural Finance
58.   Under the Government's reform program there is an immediate cessation of the
NBR's role in refinancing directed credits including those for agriculture. Such
refinancing has thwarted control of the money supply, resulting in high and variable
inflation and considerable macroeconomic instability.  Henceforth, the NBR  will
refinance some commercial bank loans, but this will occur in the normal course of its
monetary operations through credit auctions, and will carry market interest rates. Also to
end is the practice of passing special laws, such as Law 20/1996, that forgive or
reschedule enterprise debts. This has been confirmed the Government's letter of sector
policy to the World Bank (Annex 1).
59.   The sharp and sudden withdrawal of directed credit to agriculture could prove
highly disruptive. Some directed funds will therefore be provided in the next few months.
These funds are now transparently budgeted in the state budget. An amount of 550 billion
lei is provided for spring planting, and an additional 500 billion lei is allocated for
purchase of the summer wheat harvest. These sums are considerably less, in real terms,
than have been provided in previous years, for example 1.6 billion lei in 1995 and 2.7
billion lei in 1996 (the latter figure is from the November, 1996 rectified budget). The
funds for the spring planting will be repaid by the end of the summer, when they will be
rolled over for the fall planting campaign.
60.   The allocation mechanisms for budgeted funds for the spring campaign have been
defined, as has the degree of subsidy. The budget will lend to commercial banks and
other financial intermediaries, who will bear the full risk of iending. In order to induce
banks and other financial intermediaries to participate, a small subsidy is provided to the
financial institutions upon making a loan, and a further and larger "bonus" is provided
when the loan is collected. Altogether the subsidy amounts to 15 percent of the principal
lent and recovered. As Romania's inflation, and hence its interest rates, are expected to
spike sharply in the first months of the reform program, the Government has also
established a fixed interest rate for on-lending to farmers and service providers of 80
percent per annum. Under current projections of inflation in the March -December period
this amounts to an annualized average real interest rate of 3 to 5 percent. Funds will not
be provided, under this scheme, to enterprises that are delinquent and allocation criteria
will be established to direct funds toward smaller commercial farmers and entrepreneurs
rather than state enterprises.
61.   As noted earlier, one of the major challenges facing Romanian agriculture is to
quickly develop alternative mechanisms and institutions for the delivery of credit to the
sector. As a first step in this process the Government intends to separate the operations of



16
the rural credit cooperatives from the consumer cooperatives, reduce the role of the
central coordinating cooperative body, and encourage "bottom-up" development of the
rural credit cooperative system.  Revisions to the relevant law  also encompass
improvements in supervision of the credit cooperatives by the NBR. In addition, the
Government intends to urgently mount a study of agricultural and rural finance, building
upon previous work undertaken in ASAL preparation, in order to refine transitional
intermediation measures and accelerate the establishment of commercially viable
institutions that will lend to agriculture. Finally, Banca Agricola's difficulties are being
treated in the parallel operation of the FESAL. A Resolution Committee will be
established shortly and will develop a restructuring plan to be implemented in the coming
months.
D.    Land Market Reform
62.     Great strides have been made in restituting over 8 million hectares of land to
former private owners and redistributing land to others, and in conferring title on over 60
percent of the new holdings. However, as noted earlier, Romanian landholders do not
now enjoy a legal framework supportive of free leasing, purchase or sale transactions.
This, along with lack of a widely functioning cadastre and land registration system,
hinders the formation of efficient farm sizes, and limits the ability of farmers to reduce
severe fragmentation. The objective of the Government's land policy reforms is
therefore to improve the efficiency of land market operation. Completion of a general
cadastre and land registration is a more protracted task that will be carried out over the
medium term.
63.   An amendment to the existing land law (Law 18/1991) and a new Law on Land
Circulation have been presented to Parliament and will allow free purchase and sale of
land. The amendment to Law 18 clarifies the situation of private individuals with
legitimate claims on land under state farms, and defines the status of those state farm
lands not claimed by individuals. The new Land Circulation Law ensures that the state
has no pre-emption rights on land transactions, guarantees that land can be sold to the
highest bidder, and raises the ceilings on land ownership by individuals. The Bank is also
assisting land market development through preparation of a proposed Cadastre Project.
64.   Leasing transactions have been addressed through presentation of an amendment
to Law 16/1994 on the Renting and Leasing of Land. The amendment makes leasing and
subleasing transactions less difficult. It allows subleasing and leasing to entities with
foreign ownership, units administering state owned land may lease, the duration of leases
becomes the sole concern of transacting parties, and the rights of owners/lessees and their
heirs are properly defined in cases of death of either party.
E.    Privatization, Restructuring and Liquidation



17
65.   Progress in privatization of agricultural enterprises under the Mass Privatization
Program (MPP) has been painfully slow, and privatization of state farms, which were
placed outside the MPP, has only recently become government policy. Many state-
owned enterprises (SOEs) are insolvent. Enterprises' losses and further accumulation of
bad debts must be limited, even in this requires forcing loss-making and insolvent SOEs
into liquidation.  Privatization of all categories of agricultural enterprises must of
necessity be accelerated.
66.   An initial step in this direction is to end the restrictions on sales transactions that
limit market bidding and overregulate the process. Consequently, the State Ownership
Fund (SOF) will be allowed to sell shares or assets at auction or through tender to the
highest bidder without prior appraisal of their value, without minimum price limit, and
without other conditions of sale such as the requirement to maintain employment and
undertake certain investments.
67.   Changes in land policy are critical to speeding the process of state farrn
privatization. An amended land law under preparation will initiate restitution of land
previously held privately and now occupied by the former IAS (state farms). A new
Land Circulation Law will give private agents the right to buy or lease land and other
assets currently held by the former IAS; and it will clarify the very limited number of
instances where the Court of Accounts has the power to intervene in the privatization
process. The restitution process will restore to private individuals a substantial portion
the land currently under state farm control. A residual portion of land that is unclaimed
by individuals will remain in state hands. From an agreed list of 75 state farms currently
occupying at least 380,000 hectares, 50 will undergo privatization or initiation of
liquidation. For all other state farms occupying the residual land, mutually agreed
guidelines will be established that will allow their breakup and subsequent privatization
or liquidation. Within this group, another 50 farms occupying at least 250,000 hectares
will be split into smaller functional units in preparation for privatization or liquidation.
As a result of this process, a substantial number of former IAS will have been privatized
or liquidated.
68.   A list of 20 loss-making pig and poultry enterprises has been prepared and agreed
with the Government, and these enterprises have been substantially liquidated or
privatized. By May 1998, and as a condition of second tranche, the privatization or, at a
minimum, initiation of liquidation will have occurred for all pig and poultry farms. In the
cereals sector, NAAP and 30 of 44 Comcereals will be privatised, while all necessary
measures for privatization of remaining fourteen will be taken. For the Comcereals, the
process will be supported by appointment of one or more investment banks or investment
advisors.  In the inputs sector, SEMROM  seed company will be reorganized and
privatized, and UNISEM will also be privatized.. Out of a total of 1,682 agricultural
service providers that includes Agromecs (which provide machinery services), 1,500 will
be privatized.



18
F.    Cereals Market Development
69    The objective of the Government's cereals market reform is create an active and
competitive private sector that can efficiently serve farmers, agro-industries and export
markets. As bread is a basic staple in the Romanian diet, the wheat sector reforms have
been designed to ensure food security for the population in the case of calamities.
70.   The National Agency for Agricultural Products (NAAP), the large regie autonome
created after the break-up of the former grain monopoly Romcereal, will be privatized.
All the storage capacity of the regie will be transferred to 29 state-owned commercial
companies owned by the State Ownership Fund (SOF), of which twenty will be
privatized over a period of twelve months. NAAP's successor enterprises will begin
operating entirely as independent companies, under competitive conditions, at the time of
commercialisation. In particular, they no longer have privileged access to finance or
special prices. The GOR has issued an ordinance to take over previous losses of NAAP,
amounting to about 200 billion lei (to be audited) in order to allow for a more rapid
privatization of the newly created commercial companies. This privatization effort
complements the accelerated timetable for the privatization of the Comcereals.
71.   The reform program also envisages a reorientation in the use and size of the State
Reserves for wheat. To avoid detrimental interference to free market development and
limit the costs of stockholding, the GOR will restrict the activities of the National
Administration of State Reserves (NASR) to the maintenance of a reserve of bread-
making wheat. The reserve will be limited to use in emergency situations only, such as
natural catastrophes, and it will not be employed to stabilize or support the domestic price
of wheat (however, the GOR with World Bank experts will consider policy options for
support of producer prices for wheat in years when the price falls to extremely low
levels). The wheat reserve, officially called the State Emergency Wheat Reserve
(SEWR), will be reduced to a level of no more than 350,000 mt, by the end of August,
1997, as a condition of second tranche. It will be complemented by a State Emergency
Wheat Fund (SEWF), a financial reserve of $60 million to be kept in foreign exchange
available in the National Bank. This allows a reduction in physical reserve levels that
will save on the budgetary cost of purchase, financing and storage of a large quantity of
wheat. The two reserves, physical and financial, ensure an extremely high level of food
security. Reserves will be sufficient to maintain the entire population on a substantial
ration per person, per day, for up to four months.
72.   The state reserves will be held in privatized silos and be subject to normal
inspections and controls. As a general principle it is important that the management of
reserves be consistent with private market development. For this reason, after August 15,
1997, NASR operations regarding the SEWR will be executed through auctions under
free market conditions with no administrative setting of prices. This process will be
preceded by the auction during at least one month of modest quantities of wheat (at least
20,000 tons of wheat, per month). Until August 15, allocation of quantities above this
level may be conducted using previous methods of distribution, but sales must occur at



19
levels approximating those in private markets. In the future, when wheat stocks are
rotated, NASR will sell the grain through public auctions and will spread its auctions over
a reasonable period of time, announcing them at least one week in advance to avoid
market disruptions. In addition, regulations limiting the NASR to use of only NAAP
warehouses have been rescinded.
73.   Policy reforms will be supported by institutional strengthening and infrastructural
investments. The Government will support the establishment of individual private
associations of grain marketing professionals and an umbrella Interprofessional
Organization for Cereals (IOC). The latter would be comprised of organizations of
farmers, wholesalers and brokers, processors, and consumers, and would be non-
commercial. Its chief functions would be to coordinate dialogue between the private
scctor and the Government on matters of common interest, including public information
about market conditions, implementation of new economic policies, marketing
procedures and disputes, quality standards and research, and promotion of Romanian
agricultural products abroad. In addition, the Government has approached the IBRD to
assist in infrastructural development in the port of Constanza, and the Danube ports to
allow for cheaper and more efficient export of grain from Romania and surplus
neighboring countries, as well as assist help improve marketing (including through the
formation of commodity exchanges), and internal transportation logistics.
G.   The Role of the Ministry of Agriculture and Food (MOAF)
74.   The incentives, finance, land policy, and privatization measures outlined above all
lead to a reduction in direct state intervention in agricultural markets and an increase in
private production and marketing activity. As agriculture shifts to a market orientation,
the Government is acutely aware that the MOAF also needs to adapt to new roles and
functions. This new role will primarily involve support for public goods, defined as goods
such as physical infrastructure or market information that are necessary for efficient
private sector operation, but which the private sector cannot or will not provide in
requisite amounts.
75.   A plan to redefine the MOAF's role and reorganize its field administration will be
prepared before the year's end to give content to this vision of the MOAF's future role.
There are three likely areas in which the MOAF will be active. First, it will need to
improve its ability to monitor, analyze and anticipate the effects of the current policy
reforms. To this end, a high level policy analysis unit has been established as part of the
current reform program. Second, the Ministry will undoubtedly play a role, along with
other agencies, in supporting improved grades and standards in agriculture as Romania
prepares to enter the EU. A study before the year's end will assist in defining this role.
Third, the Ministry will undertake a study examining rural development needs in
Romania and defining the role the Ministry will have in administering a rural
development  fund   that   will  support  investments  in  rural   areas.



20
IV. The Proposed Loan
A.   Rationale for the Loan
76.   The proposed loan would provide financial support in two tranches. In the LSP,
strong macroeconomic and sectoral justifications are advanced for agricultural reforms.
On the macroeconomic side, state-owned agricultural enterprises have been a major drain
on Government finances and an important contributor to inflation. This is a long-
standing problem. To address it, comprehensive reform of the enterprise sector, and the
system of incentives and subsidized financial flows that sustain it, is required.
77.   Agriculture is also an important sector in its own right. It is a significant source
of employment and income, a generator of foreign exchange, and has served as a buffer
against poverty.  Yet analysis during ASAL preparation has shown that the current
policy regime imposes a substantial net tax on agricultural producer incomes in some
years. Through this taxation, and the uncertainty engendered by a discretionary policy
regime, market development and private investment are inhibited, and agricultural
incomes are lowered. Concerns about the need for sectoral efficiency and improved
growth performance therefore provide an important justification for the reforms.
B.    Composition and Quality of the Bank Portfolio
78.   The current portfolio of IBRD loans has placed primary emphasis on reform and
rehabilitation of the energy, power and transport sectors (see table in Annex 4).  A
secondary focus has been on human services, covering the health and education sectors,
and the area of social protection. IFC and MIGA involvement in Romania are described
in the accompanying CAS document.
C.   The Country Assistance Strategy and the ASAL
79.   Romania's poor policy environment has prevented implementation of a number of
projects. The current reform program, which includes policy measures undertaken
through the proposed ASAL, a restructured FESAL, a World Bank Social Protection
Adjustment Loan, and an IMF Standby Agreement, should allow disbursement to resume
rapidly. The Romania Country Assistance Strategy (CAS) will, in the short term
(through FY 1998), focus on supporting this adjustment and social protection program,
which was initiated on February 17, 1997.
80.  In the reform program, there exist strong links between ASAL and other elements.
The ASAL reforms will support the stabilization efforts of the IMF Agreement through
reduction in the economic role of loss-making agricultural enterprises. It will also benefit
substantially from the free foreign exchange regime embodied in the Standby Agreement,



21
as well as the reduced inflation brought about by stabilization measures.   ASAL
privatization measures are complementary to those of the FESAL, and social measures
under the Social Protection Adjustment Loan have been carefully designed to cushion the
impact of ASAL reforms.
81.   The funding levels and activities proposed for the Romania CAS are described in
accompanying documents. ASAL makes a substantial contribution towards the overall
funding levels in the CAS.
D.   Loan Amount and Tranching
82.   The proposed ASAL would be a two tranche operation. Upon loan effectiveness,
US$ 200 million equivalent would be released. The remaining portion of the loan, US$
150 million equivalent, would be released upon fulfillment of second tranche conditions
(see below for a detailed list of conditions). The loan would be payable in twenty years,
including five years of grace, at the Bank's standard interest rate for LIBOR-based single
currency loans in the chosen currencies (US dollars and Deutsche marks).
E.    Loan Conditions
83.   This section enumerates first and second tranche conditions in the ASAL Policy
Matrix (policy matrix conditions are set out in bold). "Recent actions" are those actions
that have already been implemented and which were a prerequisite for presenting this
operation to the Board. Second tranche actions are targeted for completion no later than
June 3, 1998.  All conditions are followed by a paragraph number in parentheses,
referring to the location in the body of text above where the condition is discussed.
Recent Actions
Incentives Reforms
. Eliminate all price and margin controls at all levels of the marketing
chain for pig/pork, poultry/poultry meat, milk/dairy products, and
wheat/flour/bread. Office of Prices and Competition will be instructed to
discontinue any price setting activities relating to state or private
enterprises. (para. 47.) This action is reflected in the Law on Competition
(no. 21/1996) implemented starting February 1997, that restricts the role of the
state in setting prices or margins to a negative list of commodities (mainly
utility tariffs or products of monopolies), that has been specified by the
Emergency Ordinance no. 3/1997 and Governmental Decree no. 37/1997. No
agricultural commodity was included in the negative list;  through this
measure, all the price setting mechanisms for agricultural commodities have
been discontinued. Moreover, the Government submitted to the Parliament a



22
draft ]aw for the repeal of the l aw  83/1993 on the state support for
agriculture, with the no. F44 / April 14, 1997, that explicitly repeals producer
price suppolt (the minimum guaraniteed price).
*  Eliminate administered prices for fertilizer. (para. 50.) The same laws and
regulations as outlined above.
*  Eliminate all premia (budgetary subventions aimed at producer price
support). (para 47.) This action is reflected in the 1997 budget, which
approved by Parliament on April 29, 1997 (Law on the State Budget for 1997
no. 72 /1997). Moreover, the Government submitted to the Parliament a draft
law for the repeal ol tlhe Law 83/1993 on the state support for agriculture, with
the no. E44 / April 14, 1997, that repeals explicitly the provision of premia.
*  Certified seed subsidies for 1997 farm campaign to be placed on 1997
budget, and not to exceed 1996 budget allocations, in nominal terms.
(para. 51.) This action is reflected in the Law on the State Budget for 1997,
no. 72/April 29, 1997.
*  Permanently eliminate all export bans and quotas, except for timber, and
except as included in agreements with the EU and other international
agreements. (para. 54.) This actions is reflected in Government Decision no.
162 from May 5, 1997, jointly initiated by the MOAI and the MITr
*  Eliminate all licensing requirements for agricultural imports and exports
(however, licensing of exports that are subject to tariff quotas imposed by
the EU will not be affected).  (para. 54.) This action takes the form of
Govermment Decisions no. 16'/1997 (referring to exports) and 161/1997
(referring to imports). which eliminated licenses on agricultural commodities.
*  Reduce average tariffs on agricultural outputs and inputs, and reduce
their dispersion. The relevant tariff positions on which tariff revision is
applicable will be Chapters 1 to 23 of the Romanian Tariff Schedule, with
the exception of Chapter 22 (beverages and alcoholic drinks). The
production weighted average tariff will not exceed 27%. The maximum
tariff applicable will be 60%, with the understanding that tariffs on
imports of sensitive products (pig and processed pork products, milk and
dairy products, and poultry and processed poultry products) will not
surpass 60%. A tariff range of 0% to 40% will be applied to at least 70%
of all tariff positions. Exceptions will only be acceptable to the extent that
they are legally binding through international agreements; to the extent
that this is not the case, tariffs on those items will be adjusted to the level
of the average tariff (or mode) of the four digit position to which they



23
belong. (para. 54.) Tariff levels and dispersion have been lowered to these
levels by Govermment Decision No. 161, of May 5, 1997.
*  End the practice of allowing administratively initiated import tariff
exemptions (waivers).  (para. 54.)  In the past, tariff waivers have been
implemented by decrees having a legal basis in Art. 35 of Ordinance 26/1993,
which governs the Import Tariff Schedule. The official Gazette verifies that
the Government has promulgated no decrees allowing waivers since May 1,
1997. It has, in addition, the Govermment states in its Letter of Sector Policy
(Annex 1) that "administrative waivers on import tariffs have ended and will
not resume in the future."
.  Present ordinance for repeal of Law 83/1993, which provides the legal
basis for price and subsidy interventions in agriculture. (para. 54.) T'he
draft law for the repeal of the Law 83/1993 has been adopted by the
Government and sent to the Parliament with the no. E44/ Apr. 14, 1997.
Currently, this draft law is on the agenda of the Senate (the higher Chamber of
the Parliament). and will be discussed by the Parliament in an emergency
procedure.
3  Revise regulations on certified seed registration so that all varieties listed
in the EU's Common Catalogue are automatically registered (i.e. with no
waiting period). (para. 57.) The Government adopted a draft seed law witl
this provision in April 14. 1997, and sent the bill to Parliament with the no.
E43/1997, to be discussed in an emergency procedure.
Agricultural and Rural Finance
*  NBR refinancing of directed credit to agriculture has been ended. (para.
58.) In the past, such directed credit was authorized through Parliamentary
approval of decrees, ordinances, or laws requiring the NBR to supply
specified volumes of credit to agriculture. The official Gazette verifies that no
such Parliamentary act has been issued in 1997.    Furthermore, the
Government has stated in its Letter of Sector Policy (Annex 1) that it is
committed to preventing NBR refinancing of directed credit to agriculture.
*  A limited amount of credit, a sum of 1,050 billion lei, has been put on the
1997 budget for finance of input supply and crop purchase activities
during the year. This amount was put in the 1997 MOAF budget, passed by
the State Budget Law on April 29. 1997.  Disbursement mechanisms
satisfactory to the World Bank have been determined for the April
planting for an amount of 550 billion lei. through the Emergency Ordinance
no. 3 from March 5. 1997 (para. 59).



24
* Government has confirmed to the World Bank that it will not submit to
Parliament nor support any law similar to Law 20/96 , that forgives or
reschedules debt for agricultural enterprises. (para. 58.) This condition
was satisfied by a statement in the Government's Letter of Sector Policy,
attached to this report as Annex 1.
Land Markets
*  Amendments to Law 18/1991 and a new Law on Land Circulation have
been presented to Parliament; these ensure free land transactions
(specific measures are listed in the attached policy matrix).  (para. 63.)
T he draft law on land circulation was adopted by the Government in April,
1997 and has been sent to the Parl iament on May 5. 1997 with the no. E63.
*  An amendment to Law 16/1994 has been presented to Parliament that
will ensure free leasing and subleasing of land (specific measures are
listed in the attached policy matrix). (para. 64.) Amendments to Law
16/1994 have been adopted by the Government in April 1997, and were
presented to Parliament on May 5. 1997, with the no. E65.
Privatization. Restructuring and Liquidation
*  Clarify ownership status of lands held by former state farms (FIAS) so
that they can be privatized.  (para. 67.)  Such clarifications will be
implemented through the modification of the land law no 18/1991. Currently,
a parliamentary legislative initiative is debated, that will lead to the
modification of the land law. The Government has sent to the Parliament its
proposals for modification of the Land Law, that explicitly clarify the
ownership status of land under the state farms.
*  Privatize an additional one hundred and fifty agricultural service
companies, including Agromecs (machinery service companies) to reach a
total of at least 600 enterprises.  (para. 68.) Evidence satisfactory to the
World Bank that this was accomplished was provided by the President of the
SOF through Letter no. P3221 from April 17. 1997.
*  Decision by SOF Board to reorganize SEMROM  seed company and
include UNISEM in the 1997 privatization program. (para. 68.) Evidence
satisfactory to the World Bank that this was accomplished was provided by
the President of the SOF on March. 31, 1997 (Order no. 2 / March 31, 1997).
*  Prepared a list acceptable to the World Bank, of 75 former IAS
occupying at least 380,000 hectares of land, for eventual privatization or
initiation of liquidation. (para. 67.) This list was provided by the Minister



25
of Agriculture and the President of the SOF through letter no 53168 from
March 19,1997.
*  Establish agreed guidelines for breaking up all other former state farms
into smaller functional units to be privatized separately if viable or
liquiated if unviable. Guidelines must be agreeable to the Bank. (para.
67.) A letter from the acceptable to the World Bank, stating agreed guidelines
for break up of former state farms, was delivered to the World Bank on March
17. 1997.
*  Privatize or start liquidation proceedings for at least 20 pig and poultry
farms, from a list agreed with the World Bank. (para. 68.) Evidence
satisfactory to the World Bank that this was accomplished was provided by
the President of the SOF on April 24, 1997.
Cereals Markets
X  The National Agency of Agricultural Products (NAAP) has been
transformed from a regie autonome into a minimum of eight commercial
companies with no more that 300,000 mt of storage capacity each. (para.
70.) Government Decision No. 184, of May 5, 1997, implemented this
measure. A total of 29 successor companies have been established.
*  Issue an ordinance to compensate NAAP for financial losses it took over
from the former Romcereal.  (para. 70.) This was carried out through
Government Emergency Ordinance No. 16 of May 5, 1997.
*  In one month before Board presentation, a minimum of 20,000 tons of
wheat will be auctioned from the State Emergency Wheat Reserves
(SEWR) in order to develop experience in auctioning. During this time,
sales in excess of 20,000 tons can be undertaken through previous
administrative distribution methods. The NASR will implement the
auctions through competitive bidding. The bidding process is to be
announced in advance according to legislation on public procurement
and is open to domestic and foreign bidders subject to the usual
guarantees from recognized commercial banks. The competitive bidding
requirement will be waived only in cases of emergency. (para. 72).
Evidence that 20,000 metric tons of wheat was auctioned from the SEWR on
April 18, 1997, in a competitive auction organized by the NAAP, was
provided in a letter from the NAAP to the Bank Resident Mission on May 9,
1997.



26
*  Repeal articles in Governmental Decision no. 1054/95 that instruct the
NASR to use only NAAP or Comcereal warehouses for storage.  (para.
72.) Through the transfer of all the storage capacity of the regie autonome
ANPA to the successor commercial companies, regulated by the
Governmental Decision no. 184 / 1997, the relevant provision from
Government Decision no. 1054/1995 no longer has legal effect.
*  Initiate feasibility studies to improve grain marketing and export along
the Danube-Black Sea corridor, and initiate program to develop private
sector  representation  through   private  Interprofessional  Grain
Organization. (para. 73.) Both of these activities have been initiated through
the World Bank Grain Marketing and Export Project, which is currently under
preparation.
Role of the Ministry of Agriculture
* Establish a high level Policy Advisory Unit (PAU) in the MOAF to assist
with reform implementation and provide technical advice on agricultural
policy. (para. 75.) The PAU was established with financial support from EU-
Phare, in February, 1997.
Conditions of Second Tranche (expected to be taken before June 3, 1998)
1. The Borrower has provided satisfactory evidence to the Bank that: (i) all
fertilizer subsidies have been eliminated; (ii) the Borrower has provided
in its budget plan for 1998, for a reduction in seed subsidies of at least
25%, in nominal terms, in comparison with the amount of seed subsidies
in the 1997 budget; and (iii) the Borrower has privatised or, if not
privatized, initiated liquidation (with the appointment of a liquidator) of
the two seed companies UNISEM and SEMROM (or successor companies
thereto). (paras. 50, 51, and 68.)
2. The Borrower has provided satisfactory evidence to the Bank that: (i) the
average production-weighted tariff on agricultural products is not higher
than 22%, as calculated in accordance with a methodology acceptable to
the Bank; (ii) no tariff on the import price of pig and processed pork
products, milk and dairy products, and poultry and processed poultry
products, exceeds 45%; (iii) no tariff on the import price of agricultural
products, other than those relating to the products listed under letter (ii)
of this paragraph, exceeds 40%; and (iv) no administrative waivers of
tariffs on the import price of agricultural products have been grantred
since June 30, 1997. (para. 53.)



27
3. The Borrower has provided satisfactory evidence to the Bank that the
Borrower has: (a) privatised or, if not privatized, initiated liquidation
(with the appointment of a liquidator) of at least : (i) twenty NAAP
commercial companies; (ii) thirty Comcereals; and (iii) one thousand five
hundred out of a list of one thousand six hundred and eighty-two former
State agricultural service companies; and (b) taken all necessary
measures on its part in view of the privatization of fourteen more
Comcereals (paras. 70, 68.)
4. The Borrower has provided satisfactory evidence to the Bank that the
Borrower's State Emergency Wheat Reserve has been reduced to no
more than 350,000 metric tons by August 31, 1997, and such level has not
been exceeded thereater. (para. 71.)
5. The Borrower has provided satisfactory evidence to the Bank that: (i) at
least fifty out of a list of seventy-five former State farms have been
reorganized into smaller functional units and privatized or, if not
privatized, their liquidation (with the appointment of a liquidator) has
been initiated; and (ii) at least fifty more former State farms, collectively
occupying an area of at least 250,000 hectares, out of a list acceptable to
the Bank, have been reorganized into smaller functional units, and plans
acceptable to the Bank for their privatization have been submitted to the
Bank. (para. 67)
6. The Borrower has provided satisfactory evidence to the Bank that all
State pig and poultry enterprizes have been privatized or, if not
privatized, their liquidation (with the appointment of a liquidator) has
been initiated. (para. 68.)
7. The Borrower has provided satisfactory evidence to the Bank that all
necessary measures have been adopted for the implementation of a plan,
acceptable to the Bank, for the reorganization of the Borrower's Ministry
of Agriculture and Food, and a new definition of the functions exercised
by such Ministry. (para. 75.)
8. The macroeconomic policies of Romania policies are consistent with the
objectives of the stabilization program. (para. 4.)
F. Disbursement and Procurement
84.  In accordance with the February 8, 1996 Operational Directive on the
Simplification of Disbursement Rules under Structural Adjustment and Sectoral
Adjustment Loans, funds disbursed under the proposed ASAL will be released against



28
satisfactory implementation of the adjustment program, including compliance with
stipulated second tranche release conditions, pursuit of macroeconomic policies that are
consistent with the ongoing stabilization program, and progress shown in carrying out the
program set forth in the Letter of Sector Policy (Annex 1). Disbursements will not be
linked to any specific purchases.  Thus, evidence will not be needed to support
disbursements, nor will procurement requirements be necessary.
G.   Reporting, Accounting and Auditing
85.   The Government of Romania will maintain accounts and records, or ensure that
such items are maintained, showing that loan disbursements were in accordance with
provisions of the Loan Agreement. Such accounts and records will be maintained in a
form acceptable to the Bank, and the Bank may require an audit of such records by
independent auditors.
H.   Implementation and Monitoring of Development Impact
86.   ASAL implementation and monitoring will be the responsibility of the Ministry
of Agriculture and Food in collaboration with other members of the Interministerial
ASAL Coordination Committee. The MOAF will chair the committee. Other members
will include the Ministry of Finance, the Ministry of Industry and Commerce, the
Ministry of Reform, and the State Ownership Fund.  The Committee's work in
implementation and monitoring of the ASAL will be assisted by a high level policy
analysis unit placed in the Ministry of Agriculture. Implementation of reform progress
will also be monitored through semi-annual reviews, and preparation of other projects
such as the Grain Marketing and Export Project.
I.    Environmental Implications of the ASAL
87.   The Romania ASAL will have no clear, demonstrable impact on the environment.
Pesticide use and prices will not be measurably changed by the reforms, as prices are
unregulated. Use of other inputs, such as fertilizer, seeds and machinery, will be affected,
but it is not clear that more intensive use of purchased inputs will occur over the short
term, or if so, which inputs will be used more intensively than others, or what will be the
effect on the natural resource base. This depends on an assessment of trading responses
to reform, relative price changes and input substitution patterns and subsequent effects on
the environment. The same can be said of the effect of reforms on output price and
production patterns, and their implications for input use and natural resources. Similarly,
it is hard to predict the impact of land policy changes on the environment. Given the
broad nature of the reforms, and the wide range of possible effects, any firm conclusions



29
about environmental impact are difficult to uphold.  The proposed loan has been
examined by EMTEM and placed in Environmental Category C.
J.    Potential Risks
88.   Among the most important risks is that of political resistance to reforms that leads
to policy reversal. In response to this possibility, the GOR has actively engaged unions
and others that may be hurt. In addition, an extensive social protection program
supported by the World Bank will assist low-income groups who are least able to cope
with any negative short-term effects of reforms. A second risk is that the financial and
marketing sectors will respond only weakly to reforms, with adverse effects on
production and prices. For example, it is feared that once NBR-refinanced directed credit
ends, no intermediaries will lend to agriculture. A transitional agricultural finance
scheme will thus continue to provide funds for input supply and crop purchase, but it will
enforce strict loan eligibility criteria ensuring that loss making state enterprises will not
receive credit. In addition a voucher scheme is being designed that will distribute input
subsidies directly to farmers. This is supplemented by active measures to organize and
inform domestic and international traders of the policy reform program. Efforts will also
being made, with the cooperation of other donors, to improve market price information
system in order to provide timely price information to farmers and traders, and to
generate reliable market-level indicators of reform progress.
K.   Collaboration with the IMF, EU and Other Donors
89.   The preparation of ASAL conditions and implementation of initial reforms has
been carried out in close collaboration with the European Community PHARE program,
the IMF, USAID and other donors. ASAL preparation was funded with a PHRD grant
provided by the Government of Japan. Project investments in agriculture by multilateral
and bilateral donors provide an important complement to the ASAL reforms and help to
improve the production and marketing response to reforms.
90.   ASAL implementation has been helped by establishment of a 3 million ECU
facility under EU-PHARE, a portion of which has been used to establish a Policy
Advisory Unit in the MOAF that will assist implementation and monitoring of
agricultural reforms. These funds may also be used to design a rural development fund in
which the MOAF may have some involvement, as well as activities supporting
harmonization of Romanian agricultural standards with those of the EU. All of these
activities support items in the ASAL policy matrix, in Section VI.
91.   The EU-PHARE program was particularly active in its participation in ASAL
workshops and support for preparation of policy reforms. It provided funds for co-
financing of a farm survey with the World Bank (including financing of field work and a
final workshop to present results); its consultants working on cereals sector reform gave



30
important technical input to ASAL privatization recommendations; studies by an EU
funded Policy Analysis Unit provided a reference for the ASAL's own agricultural policy
analysis; and EU-funded studies and technical assistance in the areas of land policy and
pig and poultry enterprise restructuring were helpful in formulating specific reforms. The
final formulation of ASAL reforms was accomplished in close coordination with the IMF
in Bucharest, ensuring compatibility between the sectoral and macroeconomic reforms
put forth.
92.   Projects currently funded in agriculture by other donors provide substantial
complementary support to the ASAL (Annex 5 table). These cover the areas of land
registration and cadastral work (EU-PHARE and Canadian Government), market
development and market and crop information systems (EU-PHARE and EBRD),
extension and support to farmer organizations (EU-PHARE and USAID), and rural
credit (EU-PHARE).
IV. Recommendation
I am satisfied that the proposed loan would comply with the Articles of
Agreement of the Bank and recommend that the Executive Directors approve the
proposed loan.
James D. Wolfensohn
President
by Caio K. Koch-Weser
Washington, D.C.
May 9, 1997



Annex I
Page I of 15
ROMANIA
AGRICULTURE SECTOR ADJUSTMENT LOAN
LETTER FROM THE GOVERNMENT OF ROMANIA ON ITS MEDIUM-TERM
POLICY FOR THE AGRICULTURE SECTOR
May 3, 1997
Mr. James Wolfensohn
President
International Bank for Reconstruction and Development
Washington, D.C.
Dear Mr. Wolfensohn,
Following its victory in elections of November, 1996, our Government became
increasingly aware of the grave economic situation we had inherited from the previous
regime. We quickly began to consider measures necessary to correct the situation and put
the economy on a sustainable course. A specific set of reforms was discussed with the
World Bank and the IMF in January, 1997. Concurrently, discussions were held with
political parties and trade unions to ensure their understanding of and support for the
reform measures. In early February, 1997, a comprehensive program was agreed upon
which enjoyed broad social support.
The stabilization and structural reform measures were announced by the Prime
Minister on February 17 and implementation began immediately. The reforms initiate a
year of great austerity for the Romanian people, with national income expected to fall by
perhaps 3% (in real terms) in 1997, and with a substantial decline foreseen in the
purchasing power of the average wage. However, we anticipate that with the forceful
implementation of our stabilization and structural reform programs the economy will start
growing again in 1998. In the course of this difficult process, great care has been taken to
devise social protection measures targeted to those most in need, including children, the
elderly, the unemployed, the rural poor, and low income wage earners.
We inherited a very difficult macroeconomic situation from the previous
government and could not in the short term prevent a further rapid deterioration. In 1996,
the general government deficit, measured on an accrual basis, widened to nearly 6 percent
of GDP, compared to 2.5 percent in 1995. While this increased inflationary pressure,
actual inflation in 1996 was repressed through controls on prices and manipulation of the
exchange rate.  Due to the aforementioned inherited policies, inflation accelerated



Annex I
Page 2 of 15
dramatically to an average monthly increase of 20.8 percent during the first quarter of
1997, compared to 1.6 percent on a monthly basis in the first quarter of the previous year.
In 1996, the external current account deficit widened significantly to US$2.3 billion
(about 7 percent of GDP), compared to US$ 1.3 billion in 1995 (about 5 percent of GDP).
The main elements of our macro stabilization program include: (i) a flexible
exchange rate policy, the rate being freely determined by supply and demand in the
interbank market for foreign exchange; (ii) a disciplined monetary policy, involving the
cessation of directed credit from the NBR, to bear down on inflation; (iii) reduction of the
general government deficit on a cash basis to 4.5 percent of GDP (3.5 percent of GDP on
an accrual basis), which incorporates a significant reduction in total subsidies to industry
and agriculture; and (iv) increased financial discipline in enterprises, including a public
sector incomes policy and measures to control arrears to public utilities. This program is
receiving the support of the IMF, which approved a Standby Agreement for Romania on
April 23, 1997, amounting to SDR 301.5 million.
It is clear from past experience that rapid and comprehensive structural reforms
must accompany the stabilization program if we are to be successful in our efforts to
strengthen our economy. In this respect we have prepared, and are implementing,
complementary programs of structural reform for industrial and public utility enterprises,
and for agriculture. These programs are being supported by a substantial increase in
budgetary resources for social protection.
Agriculture is an important sector in the economy that contributes about 20
percent of GDP and employs about 35 percent of the labor force. Our agriculture is
diverse as we have rich soils and favorable climatic conditions for growing a variety of
temperate products. Cereals (wheat, maize, barley) and livestock (pig, poultry, beef) are
the major products, and we also produce fruits, vegetables, wines and oils. We are largely
self-sufficient in basic food products. Exports of agricultural and food products have
amounted to about US$ 350-500 million in recent years (about 5 to 7.5 percent of total
exports), while imports have amounted to about US$ 500 million.
Our agricultural sector has faced severe difficulties through the transition. In 1991
a Law restituted land to former owners or their heirs, redistributed land to others, and put
83 percent of arable land under the ownership of private individuals. Over 5 million
persons acquired ownership rights. The land distribution resulted in the new owners
holding an average of 2.5 hectares of agricultural land each, with holdings often
fragmented into four or five plots. Many of the new owners are also elderly, and lack
financial resources; few have much experience as farmers and about 40 percent of the
new owners live in towns. Although most primary production is carried out by the
private sector, the state has maintained a dominant role through excessive administrative
control of prices and granting of preferential support to state enterprises involved in input
supply, storage, processing and marketing.



Annex I
Page 3 of 15
The priorities for agricultural reform, even if they were developed in the short
time period following elections, reflect a longer-term process of analysis and preparation.
It is clear from the assessment of previous agricultural policies which has been
undertaken by Romanian officials, researchers and others, that we can improve upon past
performance. Efficient market processes have been prevented by the pervasive state
dominance in most aspects of agricultural input supply and marketing. Prices for several
important commodities (including wheat) have been controlled up and down the
marketing chain. Since 1995, a trade regime has been in place that has hindered exports,
provided excessive protection to some producers and agro-processors, and forced higher
prices on consumers. Persistent exchange rate overvaluation has also led to the loss of
substantial potential income for agricultural producers and exporters. The large volume
of subsidized, directed credit to agriculture, emanating from the National Bank of
Romania, has been a major source of economy-wide inflationary pressure. These credits
have suffered from high rates of default. Privatization in the sector has been slow with
the vast majority of cereals storage and marketing agencies, pig and poultry farms,
mechanical service and input supply arrangements, and a sizable and powerful segment of
the farm sector, all remaining in state hands. Although, as noted, the majority of arable
land was restituted to private owners in 1991, there still exist legal obstacles to buying
and selling land that have effectively prevented the emergence of a land market.
Our aims in the agricultural reform program are to create conditions for rapid
emergence of a dynamic private-sector and market-based agricultural system.  The
government's role is to be reoriented away from direct intervention and toward
development and promotion of policies and institutions that will allow a healthy private
based agriculture to thrive. The end result of this process will be an improvement in the
performance of the sector, improvements in efficiency and productivity, an increase in
farm incomes, and increased variety, better quality, and improved availability of
agricultural products for consumers. The policies we are now promoting will move us
closer to EU practice. Moreover we expect that the sector will regain its position as a
major net exporter.
Structural reforms outside agriculture will positively affect the sector and
complement its reforms. Through reforms negotiated under the Finance and Enterprise
Sector Adjustment Loan (FESAL), extensive changes will occur in the industrial
enterprise and banking sectors. Energy prices increased sharply at the beginning of
March as they were re-aligned towards international levels. In the financial sector,
prudential standards and supervision are being enhanced, and the privatization of selected
state-owned banks is commencing. A large number of state enterprises, particularly in the
energy sector, are slated for rapid restructuring, privatization, or liquidation under the
FESAL.
The main elements of our agricultural sector strategy are as follows:



Annex I
Page 4 of 15
*  First, we are reforming the pricing, trade and subsidy regime facing agricultural
producers and the agro-food industry. Formal and informal price setting procedures
along the marketing chain have been ended, a change that affects both agricultural
outputs and inputs. This is accompanied by an end to all premia subsidies, and
reform of the trade regime. Import tariffs have been substantially lowered, and we
have permanently removed export bans and other export restrictions, other than those
permitted in international agreements.  These changes lay the foundation for
development of an agricultural sector that is efficient and can compete on world
markets. In view of the bread price shocks that occurred in the period immediately
following food price liberalization, a program of financial compensation was initiated
for the most vulnerable consumers. Transitional budgetary subsidies will also remain
for seeds and for some other inputs.
*  Second, we place high priority on development of a rural financial system that is well
adapted to the credit and savings needs of a market oriented agricultural system. A
necessary first step in this direction is the ending of state-sponsored directed,
subsidized credit. Directed credit to agriculture, emanating from the central bank, has
been highly inflationary in the past. Most of the credit has bypassed small private
farmers who are the heart of Romania's agriculture. Our challenge now is to find
ways of speeding the process by which the banking system can provide credits to
agricultural producers and other rural enterprises and we shall institute modest
incentives for banks and others to enter into this market.
*  Third, we submitted to Parliament new legislation and modification of existing laws
so as to ensure free land sales (including land that is the "private property of the
state"). Specific amendments are also being made in the current Land Lease law to
remove restrictions on leasing transactions.  And finally, steps will be taken to
implement a Cadastre in order to properly establish plot boundaries and furnish title
to existing landholdings.
*  Fourth, we plan institutional and infrastructural reforms in the cereals subsector to
complement the incentives reforms. We shall substantially reduce the Government's
ownership of grain storage through breakup of NAAP (the National Agency for
Agricultural Products) and privatization of its successor units. Since food security for
the Romanian population is an essential and indispensable part of our program, we
shall establish a special foreign exchange fund for emergency food imports, and
maintain physical stocks in Romania which allow us to meet food security
requirements in times of calamity (the physical reserve will be operated in such a way
as to avoid market destabilization.)
*  Fifth, we intend to rapidly accelerate existing privatization processes, and establish
rapid liquidation procedures for less viable enterprises. The scope of the accelerated
reforms will be broad, covering the State Farms, Comcereals, all state-owned
agricultural input and service enterprises, the seed farms, and pig and poultry



Annex 1
Page 5 of 15
enterprises. By mid-1998, most of the commercial companies currently in the process
of privatization will be under full private sector ownership.
Sixth, the Ministry of Agriculture will continue to change its role to one more
appropriate to market-oriented agriculture. The Ministry's functions will shift to
support for provision of public goods in agriculture. Such activity will include
support for market intelligence and analysis, grades and standards, and rural
development activities.
These elements of our agricultural reform program, and their justification, are
now discussed in more detail.
Incentives Policies
The reform of incentives is fundamental to the achievement of higher farm
incomes and higher productivity in Romanian agriculture. Previous policies sought to
shield domestic production and processing from world markets through high tariffs and
quantitative controls, supplemented by internal price controls and restrictions. These
policies were not effective. Wheat and milk producers were paid less than the world
price for their products. Consumers of some meat products paid much higher prices than
they otherwise would under conditions of international competition. In fact the entire
system of controls, intended to benefit both producers and consumers, resulted in an
overall taxation of producers and only a very small consumer income transfer per capita.
Moreover, subsidies were required to sustain the inefficient state enterprises nurtured by
these interventions.  Apart from  the other consequences of these subsidies, they
substantially increased the overall rate of inflation.
The agricultural pricing, subsidy and trade regime has been interventionist in the
extreme, and must be radically altered if a productive, market-oriented system is to
emerge in Romania. Accordingly, a new framework for agricultural incentives is being
established that will make Romanian agriculture competitive in world markets and
flexible in its adjustments to changes in the domestic and world environment. The new
trade policy will be transparent, relatively simple to implement, understandable to market
participants, and based on rules rather than discretion. A substantial benefit of the system
is that it will provide clear investment signals to farmers and intermediaries. We
recognize that some enterprises will expand and some will decline in response to the
changed incentives; this is a necessary adaptation if our agricultural sector is to become a
major source of economic growth, employment and exports.



Annex I
Page 6 of 15
Pricing, Subsidy and Market Regulation Policies
A number of pricing, subsidy and regulatory changes will take place under the
new incentives policy framework. All administratively set prices, price controls and
margins for pork, poultry, milk and wheat products have been eliminated, along
with elimination of all "premia". Remaining controls on input prices have been
ended. In addition, free fertilizer distribution will be rapidly phased out so that by the
fall planting, no more free fertilizer will be distributed. We intend to repeal provisions
of the law that has hitherto provided the legal basis for pricing and subsidy
interventions (Law 83/1993).
Second, we will take specific steps to improve farmers' access to the best
available seed technology. The existing seed regulations of the MOAF have been
changed to allow automatic registration of varieties that are listed in the EU
Common Catalogues. For the first time, Romania's farmers will thus have access to the
many seed varieties that companies test and introduce to EU farmers each year. Farmers
will be able to obtain higher yields, they will be able to satisfy export demand for specific
product types and qualities, and they will be able to compete more successfully. This
measure, among others, will bring us closer to EU practice.
Third, as we move toward the elimination of subsidies, some temporary subsidies
will be maintained to ease the impact of reforms. The first is a seeds subsidy, which will
remain at the same nominal levels in the 1997 budget as in the previous year. The second
is a special voucher scheme for input use that will allow input subsidies for a short
period, beginning around September, 1997. Under this scheme we shall directly transfer
vouchers to farmers that will enable them to purchase inputs (seeds, fertilizer, and
probably mechanical services). Farners will be able to use these vouchers with any input
suppliers and we intend by this means to stimulate the rapid development of private input
supply companies that can replace monopolistic state provision of inputs. These
transitional subsidies are all on budget.
Trade Reforms
The new framework for trade policy will allow our agricultural sector to respond
rapidly to changing market conditions and integrate our export sector with the world
economy. The basic prerequisite for such a system is a commercial regime that does not
restrict export flows, and one with relatively low tariffs on agricultural outputs and
inputs. We regard it as essential that the new system be effective in promoting trade and
investment. The regime will therefore be based on a clear set of rules rather than
administrative discretion. To this end, export licensing rules that hinder trade in
unpredictable ways have been eliminated. In addition, administrative waivers on
import tariffs have ended and will not resume in the future. Finally, all licensing
requirements for exports and imports have ended.



Annex I
Page 7 of 15
We have eliminated all export bans and quotas, except for timber, and except
for those quotas that are part of our international agreements as, for instance with
the EU. A temporary export tax on wheat has been instituted but will end on
August 15, 1997.
We have resolved that the high tariff barriers that have isolated the Romanian
agricultural producer and processor from world markets will be substantially reduced and
tariff dispersion will be reduced. This will stimulate efficient resource use in agriculture
while reducing the anti-export bias that has seriously hindered both export volumes and
diversification of the production base. Accordingly, tariff positions in Chapters 1 to 23
of the Tariff Schedule (excluding Chapter 22) have been reduced to a production
weighted average that does not exceed 27 percent. The maximum applicable tariff
has been reduced to 60 percent.  These changes comprise the first phase of tariff
reform. We intend to reduce tariffs further from May, 1997 to early 1998. In the second
phase of reform, the production weighted average of the Tariff Schedule will not
exceed 22 percent. The maximum tariff in the second phase will not exceed 40
percent for all products except those currently classified as sensitive, which will be
subject to a cap of 45 percent. By these changes we will strike an appropriate balance
between protecting sensitive sectors, reducing discrimination against consumers and
exporters, and allowing our agricultural sector to adjust into activities that reflect our
comparative advantage.
Finally, as an active member of the international trading system, the trade reform
will respect our international agreements. The reforms will be carried out within the
framework of WTO rules, and will be consistent with existing bilateral agreements, in
particular with the European Union. In the coming months we propose to undertake a
full study of our trade regime, analyzing the rates of protection being offered to
different branches of activity in order to rationalize the regime in a manner
consistent with our agreements.
The first phase of changes in the tariff regime will be carried out by Government
Decree, however, we firmly believe that administrative changes in trade policy must be
embodied in law. Without a such as basis uncertainty may exist among potential
investors, importers and exporters. Therefore, we will present a Trade Law to
Parliament before the end of the year that establishes a legal basis for all significant
changes in import and export policy previously enacted by administrative
ordinance.
Agricultural and Rural Finance
We are aware that in the past, the National Bank of Romania's (NBR's) role in
refinancing directed credits, especially those channeled to agriculture, thwarted control of
the money supply and resulted in strong inflationary pressures.  We are therefore
determined to prevent this from happening again. We have decided that the NBR will



Annex I
Page 8 of 15
not in the future direct credit to agriculture. Legislative proposals supporting this,
and forgiving or rescheduling past loans, such as Law 20/1996, will be resisted.
NBR refinancing will now occur at market interest rates.
Agricultural credit will be granted by banks based on commercial principles. Past
practice was to channel substantial subsidized funds through Banca Agricola, often to
unprofitable state enterprises that were unable to repay, due in some measure to the
regime of controlled prices. The incentives and privatization reforms to be undertaken by
this government will improve banks' willingness to enter into agricultural and rural
lending by reducing the number of persistent loss-makers in agriculture. Ending directed
credit will in turn reverse the perception among many borrowers that bank loans are a free
transfer, and allow private banks to enter into true commercial relationships with new
borrowers. Romania has a good private banking network capable of reaching out to rural
savers and borrowers. These institutions include, among others, the credit cooperatives,
Post Bank and Bank Coop. However, these banks have not traditionally lent large
volumes to agriculture. Elimination of directed credit is one measure that will promote a
more conducive environment for commercial lending to agriculture, but other changes
must occur as well. Banks must learn how to appraise agricultural loan proposals,
information technologies in rural banks must improve, collateral mechanisms in
agriculture need to develop, and intermediation costs must fall in order to allow lower
spreads and lending rates. These changes take time and require preparation of a specific
program for development of rural financial systems, which this Government will
promote.
In view of continuing imperfections in credit markets, a transition scheme for
agricultural credit has been designed.  550 billion lei has been provided, as a
temporary measure, to fund agricultural inputs for spring planting in order to avoid
disruptions from a sudden withdrawal. This amount has been allocated under a
revolving fund called an Agricultural Special Fund (ASF) approved by Emergency
Ordinance 6/1997. The funds are intermediated by eligible participating commercial
banks, and subject to all prudential regulations in force. Commercial banks have been
given incentives to participate, the banks themselves assume the credit risk, and no
government guarantees are provided. Funds repaid to the ASF will be made available for
financing of works for the fall planting. An additional 500 billion lei will be provided
for wheat procurement at the summer harvest. These funds are budgeted and NBR
will not be involved in their provision.
Land Markets
The Law on Land Resources (Law 18/1991) undertook a monumental task in
restituting over 8 million hectares of land to former private owners. In achieving this
goal, and conferring title on nearly 65 percent of the new holdings, the law made great
strides over the previous system. However, Romanian landholders do not now enjoy a
legal framework supportive of free land transactions. Law 18/1991 forbids rural land



Annex I
Page 9 of 15
sales, and gave state preemption rights to a Rural Development Agency, the
establishment of which was foreseen in the law. The Rural Development Agency has
never been established, however, and this has prevented the occurrence of land sales. In
addition, the current Leasing Law inhibits leasing and subleasing transactions. These
measures preclude the efficient consolidation of land, which is necessary if Romanian
producers are to take advantage of the new incentives environment.
Accordingly, a new Land Circulation Law, and modifications to Law 18/1991
have been presented to Parliament.  The amendments to law 18/1991 clarify the
situation of private individuals with claims on land under state farms, and clarify the
status of land remaining under state farms. We have decided that the State Ownership
Fund will be the agency with rights to dispose of land that is the "private property of the
state", thus facilitating privatization of state farms (former IAS).   The new Land
Circulation Law ensures that the state has no preemption rights on land transactions, it
guarantees that land can be sold to the highest bidder, and finally, it raises the ceilings on
land ownership by individuals.
Furthermore, we have presented to Parliament amendments to Law 16/1994
on the Renting and Leasing of Land in order to make leasing and subleasing
transactions easier. The amendments allow subleasing and leasing to "legal entities
with foreign ownership"; they allow state owned land to be leased; they allow the
duration of leases to be the sole concern of the transacting parties; and they clearly
establish the rights of owners/lessees and their heirs in cases of death of either party.
Finally, we will at the earliest possible time implement a cadastral survey in
order to establish property boundaries and facilitate transactions in the new legal
framework. Although the majority of landholding households now hold title to land, the
cadastral records on which titles are based are often inaccurate. This is due to the lack of
clear physical boundaries between holdings, inaccuracies in the records due to hasty
drawing of boundaries or clerical errors, and disappearance of some records over the
years.
Cereals Marketing
It is our belief that, with the reforms we have embarked upon, Romania has the
opportunity to recover its position as a major net exporter of cereals, at the same time
assuring supplies of cereals for the domestic population. The reforms will facilitate
Romania's accession to the European Union.
The policy changes we are undertaking in the cereals markets are the following:
First, the withdrawal of the State from the marketing of cereals. The 3.5
million tonnes of storage capacity of the National Agency for Agricultural Products
(NAAP) will be allocated to 29 successor companies which will be privatized over a
period of 18 months (with 20 of these privatized within 12 months). NAAP's successor



Annex 1
Page 10 of 15
enterprises will operate entirely as independent companies, under free market conditions,
starting at the time of commercialisation, which we expect to occur in the next two
months. They will no longer have access to any privileged financing nor be subject to
state determined pricing conditions. In the break-up of Romcereal, NAAP had assumed
responsibility all the losses of the former company. In order to facilitate privatization, the
GOR will take over previous losses, amounting to about 200 billion lei (to be audited)
allowing for a more rapid privatization of the commercial companies.
Second, the elimination of administrative price setting policies regarding
cereals; and the reduction in State Reserves of wheat and limitation to use for
emergency situations. To avoid detrimental interference to free market development,
the GOR has limited the activities of the National Administration of State Reserves
(NASR) to the maintenance of a reserve of bread-making wheat. This reserve will not be
used to stabilize the domestic price of wheat, nor to force higher or lower prices on the
domestic market. However, we are considering, with the World Bank experts, possible
options for future support of wheat producer prices in years when the price drops to
unusually low levels. The reserve will be kept for emergency situations such as natural
catastrophes. The State Emergency Wheat Reserve (SEWR) will be steadily reduced to a
level of no more than 350,000 mt by the end of August, 1997, and will not rise above this
level thereafter. This physical stock will be complemented by a State Emergency Wheat
Fund (SEWF) of US$60 million, to be kept in foreign exchange and available in the
National Bank. The resulting reduction of physical reserves will save the budgetary cost
of purchase, financing and storage of a large quantity of wheat. We owe a profound
obligation to the Romanian people to ensure food security in times of calamity. These
arrangements will allow us to fulfill this obligation.
Third, NASR operations regarding the SEWR after the 1997 summer wheat
harvest will be executed exclusively through auctions at free market conditions.
When appropriate for the rotation of the wheat, NASR will sell the grain through public
auctions and will spread its auctions over a reasonable period of time and announce them
at least one week in advance to avoid market disruptions.
Fourth, the privatization of the Comcereals (the 44 commercial companies
formed by the breakup of Romcereal) by SOF will be accelerated, so that in 12
months, 30 of these companies will be privatised or have initiated of liquidation (the
minimum requirement is the appointment of a liquidator). In addition, during this
period all necessary measures will be taken to privatize all remaining Comcereals,
including establishment of sales prices and circulation of prospectuses. Natural
barriers to trade resulting from monopolistic market conditions and poor
infrastructure on the Danube and Black Sea port will be reviewed in collaboration
with the World Bank and adjusted accordingly over the next two years. In this context,
foreign technical assistance will be sought to help modernize the marketing methods for
cereals: e.g., standardization of commercial contracts; private arbitration of disputes;
quality standards; commodity exchanges; private and market-based risk management
techniques; training; etc. The GOR will finally create the legal framework to develop a



Annex I
Page I  of 15
private interprofessional organization where representatives of the marketing chain will
improve instruments and techniques for the marketing cereals; and meet with State
representatives to discuss issues of common interest.
Privatization, Restructuring, Liquidation
Six years after the initiation of the economic reforms in Romania, privatization in
the agricultural sector is a mixture of achievement and disappointment. Pursuant to the
1991 Land Law, the cooperative farms system was dismantled and 83 percent of the
arable land in the country was restituted to former owners or heirs. As a result, the private
sector now plays the dominant role in agricultural production. By 1996, the private
sector was producing over 90 percent of the value added in agriculture in both vegetal and
animal production. While the performance of the State sector has steadily declined since
1992 both in terms of output and efficiency, the private sector's performance has
improved.
The relatively inefficient State Farms (former IAS) continue to control about 1.7
million ha. of land. The privatization of this land has been frustrated by a confusing and
often conflicting legal framework for land ownership. Even with 83 percent of the land
in private hands, the markets for agricultural products, inputs and services have been
dominated by the State or by State enterprises. Private farmers still rely on local state
agricultural service providers which control machinery, input supply, transport and
distribution. State-owned swine and poultry farms are the dominant suppliers of meat for
the urban population. The monopsonistic State organization Romcereal played a
dominant role in channeling funds, inputs, and specialized services to cereals producers.
We accord a high priority to reorienting the state's role in the agricultural sector,
particularly through reducing its role as owner of agricultural enterprises. Thus we have
decided to extend the privatization process to cover commercial companies and regies
previously exempted, and to transfer ownership of the shares or assets of agricultural
enterprises to private owners and investors.
As many State-owned enterprises are insolvent and making large losses, rapid
privatization through liquidation is also necessary in order to reduce losses in the
economy and halt the further accumulation of payment arrears due to banks, utilities,
other enterprises and the Government budget.
Privatization will be accelerated for all categories of agricultural companies and
all methods presently authorized by law will be applied, including sale of assets, cash
auctions of shares, open or restricted tender sale, negotiated sale, and administrative and
judicial liquidation. We view liquidation as a mechanism for transferring assets to new
private owners who will manage the assets more efficiently and productively.
A new legal and regulatory framework for privatization in the agriculture
sector. As noted earlier, the Government has proposed to Parliament a number of



Annex 1
Page 12 of 15
amendments and modifications to the existing legislation concerning land. These will
allow a resumption of the process of privatizing land occupied by the state farms (former
IAS). The new legal and regulatory framework to be adopted will give new private
owners the right to sell or lease land and other assets. It will clarify the very limited
number of circumstances in which the Court of Accounts has the power to intervene in
the privatization process.
We are presenting draft laws and ordinances to Parliament to allow the SOF to
sell shares or assets to the highest bidder, without minimum price limit and sale
conditions. This, in our view, will considerably accelerate the privatization process.
Scope and timing of the program. By mid 1998, Government intends to
complete the privatization or initiate liquidation for about 90 percent of agricultural
service providers, all pig and poultry farms, the majority of Comcereals, and UNISEM
and SEMROM. A large number of the former IAS will also be privatized or have
liquidation initiated (again, as a mechanism to transfer assets to more productive uses).
Agricultural Service Companies. There are 1,682 agricultural service providers
in Romania, including mechanization and equipment repairing companies, transport,
wholesale input traders, irrigation system maintenance companies, etc. The mechanical
service companies in the sector underwent restructuring which broke up 470 original
enterprises into 1,463 enterprises. By early 1997, about 450 of these companies had been
privatized, usually through sale to employees, managers and local agricultural producers.
Another 150 have been privatized, so that now a total of about 600 of these companies
have been privatized. As the SOF has gained extensive experience in implementing this
type of privatization it is expected that Government's target of privatizing 1,500 such
companies over the next year (about 90 percent of the total number) can readily be met.
At the same time, the sale of assets will be encouraged in order to foster further
restructuring of the companies and prevent the creation of local monopolies.
Seed Companies.  There are two domestic companies specialized in seeds
production and commercialization. UNISEM, the smaller company, was included in the
Mass Privatization Program and 49 percent of the shares are now in private hands. By
June, 1998, the SOF will sell a controlling stake of at least 30 percent of its shares to pre-
selected investors. The rest of the shares will be sold to employees, managers, local seed
growers and the public at large. The large SEMROM company will be re-organized
during 1997 through assets sales, and spin-offs of smaller, specialized units.  As
privatization proceeds we expect to build a healthy, vibrant domestic seed producing
sector that can readily serve the requirements of our farmers.
Comcereals. As a result of mass privatization, private investors already have a
majority stake in nine of the 44 existing Comcereals. The privatization of 30 units can be
completed over the next 12 months, with a controlling stake (30 to 50 percent of the
shares) to be sold to pre-selected entrepreneurs, the rest of the shares being sold to local
agricultural producers, traders, processors, employees and managers of the company. In



Annex I
Page 13 of 15
addition, necessary measures will be taken to privatize all remaining Comcereals,
including establishment of sales prices and circulation of prospectuses.
NAAP. 29 storage and trade companies will result from the commercialization
and reorganization of the National Agency for Agricultural Products (NAAP). These
companies will be privatized using the same methods as for Comcereals and will play an
important role in fostering competition on local markets. We intend 20 of these
companies to be privatised by mid 1998.
Former IAS. The state farms (former IAS) are not performing well. They are
heavily indebted, have lower value added than their private counterparts, and have
received large volumes of subsidies and privileges under the former policy regime of
controlled prices. We intend to privatize these farms (bringing us in line with EU
practice) and place the assets in the hands of private farmers who will have the incentive
to use the land efficiently and productively and add to, rather than subtract from, our
national agricultural wealth. There are a number of steps towards privatization, the first
being the restitution of land under the former IAS.
The amendments we have proposed to Law 18/1991 will allow restitution to occur
to families, individuals and other agents who have claims on land presently being
administered by the state farms (former IAS). We expect to embark upon this restitution
process as soon as the amendments pass Parliament, and to complete it by early 1998.
Following restitution we shall be in the position to privatize the former IAS, and we
intend to take preliminary steps in the coming months to ensure that the momentum for
privatization is maintained. These steps include vesting the State Ownership Fund with
the rights of disposition over land administered by the state farms (otherwise known as
"land in the private property ownership of the state"); and breaking up the land and non-
land assets of the former IAS into separate cropping farms, orchards, vineyards, livestock
operations, processing operations, etc.
We have prepared a list of 75 former IAS occupying about 380,000 hectares to be
part of the first wave of privatization. These farms account for more than 40 percent of
the indebtedness of the sector and over 70 percent of the losses. By mid 1998 we shall
have privatised or begun liquidation proceedings (as a means of privatization and
settlement of debt) for 50 of these farms. The remaining 25 farms will be privatised or
liquidated in the course of 1998. In addition we shall in the coming months prepare
another 50 former IAS, occupying at least 250,000 hectares of land for privatization. By
mid 1998 we expect to have plans drawn up for their privatization. Drawing upon the
experience gained in the first wave of privatization we shall proceed with their sale in the
latter half of 1998.
Pig and Poultry Farms. The vast majority of the swine and poultry farms
currently under State ownership are in a difficult and steadily deteriorating financial
situation. The Government has taken immediate measures to reduce on-going losses in
the sector by completing the privatization or initiating liquidation of at least 20 large loss-



Annex I
Page 14 of 15
making pig and poultry farms. All other farms will be offered for sale and, if there is no
buyer, they will be liquidated. Before mid-1998, all pig and poultry farms will have been
either privatized, liquidated, or initiated liquidation.
The Role of the Ministry of Agriculture and Food (MOAF)
In the past, MOAF activities and the greater share of its budget emphasized the
provision of subsidies to state enterprises. As agricultural production, processing and
marketing shift to a market orientation, the MOAF will also have to adapt. In well
functioning market systems, the public sector plays an important role in its support for
public goods, defined as goods such as physical infrastructure or market information that
are necessary for efficient private sector operation. but which the private sector cannot
provide. This is the general role which we envisage for the !vOAF. but it remains to be
defined. A plan to redefine the MOAF's role and reorganize its field administration will
therefore be prepared before the year's end to igive content to this vision of the NMOAF's
future role. We can an present anticipate three specific areas in which the MOAF will be
active. First, it will need to improve its ability to monitor, analyze and anticipate the
effects of the current policy reforms. To this end. a high level policv analysis unit will be
established in conjunction w&ith the current reform program. Second. the Mfinistry will
undoubtedly play a role, along with other agencies. in supporting improved grades and
standards in agriculture. A study before the year's end will assist in defining this role as
well. Third. the M'vlinistry will undertake a study examining rural development needs in
Romania and defining what role, if any the MNinistry may have in administering a rural
development fund that will support investments in rural areas.



Annex 1
Il jPage 15 of 15
.-ASA.s1. Coors2dinntlion, ltluclxltNio1   lt  IOJiIU) ill-
Coord'ination auid  iplapilLtation of tIh ASAL will be. tihi charge of a  InterInlemisteri.1[
ASAL Coordinarion C:ommniiwo, chaired by thc Minister of A,riCutLurx and Food. v,ith
represeatation Erom thle Minisiry of i;inance.  Ministry of Tiacle and IJndustryT, MinistrV o0fRClOmb ,
anid rho Strite Ovnershirp Fund, i-lic -work ofJ the comnuittee will be assisted by a high level policy
analysis unil placed in thc Minis;' of Aariculture.
YouLrs siiie.Crly, 
Pi-,i'nc Ministur
\1inistci ofF minancc
/ Ii;liste/yof ReLrn~
N.Jinist,r of IDldus,Iry anrI Commelrce
lrC.tiodent of the Siatu OwCnership) Fund






Annex 2
page I of 9
The World Bank
Romania
Agriculture Sector Adjustment Loan (ASAL)
Policy Matrix
Important note:
Bold items in the last two columns are conditions in Schedule 3 of the Loan Agreement.



Annex 2
page 2 of 9
I. Incentives Reform
Issues     Objectives         First Tranche Actions (before Board)                                  Actions Expected to be Taken Before 2nd Tranche
Actions Expected to be Taken by December,   Actions Expected to be Taken by
1997                                      June 3, 1998
Macro-    Improve                                                                                                              Macroeconomic policies followed
economy    macroeconomic                                                                                                       are consistent with the objectives
environment to                                                                                                     of the stabilization program.
support reform of
sectoral incentives
Prices     Improve efficiency   Eliminate all price and margin controls at all levels of the    The Borrower has provided satisfactory
in agriculture and   marketing chain for pig/pork, poultry/poultry meat,  evidence to the Bank that all fertilizer
increase incentives  milk/dairy products, and wvheat/flour/bread. Office of  subsidies have been eliminated. Subsidized
for entry of private  Prices and Competition will be instructed to discontinue  provision should end by the fall, 1997
agents into the    any price setting activities relating to state or private  campaign.
market             enterprises.
Eliminate administered prices for fertilizers.
Subsidies  Improve efficiency   Eliminate all premia.                              Institute a voucher scheme for fall planting to   The Borrower has provided, in its
in agriculture and                                                      allow farmers to discount input purchases,  budget plan for 1998, for a
increase incentives  Certified seed subsidies for 1997 farm campaign to be  subject to budget availability.        reduction in seed subsidies of at
for market entry   placed on 1997 budget, and not to exceed 1996 budget                                            least 25%, in nominal terms, in
through creation of  allocations, in nominal terms.                                                                comparison with the amount of
a level plaving                                                                                                    seed subsidies in the 1997 budget.
field.



Annex 2
page 3 of 9
I. Incentives Reform continued)
Issues     Obejctives       First Tranche Actions (before Board)                                                   Actions Expected to be Taken Before 2nd Tranche
Actions to be Taken by December, 1997           Actions to be Taken
by June 3, 1998
Trade      Establish a more  Exports:                                                                  Exports
Regime     open import and   Permanently eliminate all export bans and quotas, except for timber, and except    The temporary whewat export tax imposed until
export regime    as included in agreements with the EU and other international agreements.  August 15, 1997 will be removed on that date.
that is clear in
its principles,  Eliminate all licensing requirements for agricultural products, except for exports
predictable in    to the EU.
application,
unifomm, and     Imports:                                                                  Imports:
rule based       Eliminate all licensing requirements for imports of agricultural products.  The Borrower has provided satisfactory evidence
to the Bank that (i) the average production
Reduce average tariffs on agricultural outputs and inputs, and reduce their  weighted tariff on agricultural products is not
dispersion. The relevant tariff positions on which tariff revision is applicable will  higher than 22%, as calculated in accordance
be Chapters I to 23 of the Romanian Tariff Schedule, with the exception of  with a methodology acceptable to the Bank; (ii)
Chapter 22 (beverages and alcoholic drinks). The production weighted average  no tariff on the import price of pig and processed
tariff will not exceed 27%. The maximum tariff applicable will be 60%, with the   pork products, milk and dairy products, and
understanding that tariffs on imports of sensitive products (pig and processed pork  poultry and processed poultry products, exceeds
products, milk and dairv products, and poultry and processed poultry products)  45/.; (iii) no tariff on the import price of
w,ill not surpass 60%. A tariff range of 0% to 40% wNill be applied to at least 70%    agricultural products, other than those relating
of all tariff positions. Exceptions wvill only be acceptable to the extent that they    to the products listed under letter (ii) of this
are legally binding through intemational agreements; to the extent that this is not   paragraph, exceeds 40%; and (iv) no
the case, tariffs on those items ssill be adjusted to the level of the average tariff    administrative waivers of tariffs on the import
(or mode) of the four digit position to which they belong.                price of agricultural products have been granted
since June 30, 1997.
End the practice of allowzing administratively initiated import tariff exemptions  Govenmment to undertake a comprehensive trade
(waivers).                                                               policv survev.
Legal and                   Present Ordinance to Parliament for repeal of Law 83/1993.'
regulatory
changes                     Revise regulations on certified seed registration so that all varieties listed in the
l________  ______________  EU's Common Catalogue are automatically registered.
Romanian legislation supporting past price interventions and most subsidy interventions



Annex 2
page 4 of 9
I. Agricultural and Rural Finance
Issue          Objectives             First Tranche Actions (before Board)                  Actions Expected to be Taken Before 2nd Tranche
Actions Expected to be Taken by    Actions Expected to be Taken by June 3,
December. 1997                    1998
Directed credit  End directed credit as   End NBR refinancing of directed credit to
a first step towvard  agriculture.
creation of a
competitive private   Place limited amount of credit made     Criteria acceptable to the World Bank
financial network     available to agriculture on budget (550  to be established for credit
serving agriculture and  billion lei for spring campaign agricultural  disbursement and recovery for
the rural sector.     wvorks, 500 billion lei for wheat crop  summer wheat harvest.
purchase). Criteria acceptable to the
World Bank to be established for credit
disbursement and recovery for the spring
planting campaign.
Changes in     Ensure that debt write-  Government to submit to the World Bank
legal          offs or reschedulings    confirmation that Government will not
framework      as happened in the past  submit to Parliament nor support any law
wvill not recur.      similar to Law 20/96.2
Credit         Develop role of credit                                         Revise credit cooperatives law to
cooperatives    coops in private rural                                        separate credit coops from consumer
banking                                                       coops.
Development   Promote development                                             Undertake a study providing detailed
of rural       of competitive private                                         recommendations on development of
finance        banking system to                                             rural financial institutions in
institutions   meet the needs of rural                                        Romania, including the role of
population and                                                cooperatives and other private banks
agriculture.                                                  and nonbank intermediaries;
improvement in the access of small
farmers, traders and processors to
lending and savings senices; and
development of collateral
mechanisms.
2 Laiv 20, passed in AMIarch, 1996, wrote off or forgave much of the agricultural debt that had accumulated up to that time.



Annex 2
page 5 of 9
III. Land Market
Issue          Objectives                First Tranche Actions (before Board)          Actions Expected to be Taken Before 2nd Tranche
Actions Expected to be      Actions Expected to be
Taken by December, 1997     Taken by June 3, 1998
Legal Changes  Develop a competitive     Present to Parliament a new law, and modify   Government to appoint the    Pass the new law before
land market, including   existing law regulating land transactions that  State Ownership Fund      Parliament that was
land sales and leasing   (a) rapidly allows locators to possess their land3;  (SOF) as the agency with the  previously presented,
(b) clarifies ownership rights of remaining land   right to dispose of land that   regulating land
under state companies so that this may be    is state private property   transactions.
privatised (for a. and b. see also Privatisation    through sale, lease,
matrix); (c) gives the state no pre-emption  concession, or some
rights in land transactions; (d) ensures that land  combination of these
can be sold to the highest bidder; (e) raises the   instruments.
ceiling on land ownership by individuals.
Put amendment to Law 16/94 before Parliament                              Pass amendments to Law
so as to allow: (a) subleasing of land; (b) leasing                       16/94 before Parliament
to foreigners and foreign investors; (c) leasing                          with the specified changes.
of land by units administering state owned land;
(d) decisions on duration of lease to be
determined by transacting parties, subject to no
constraint; (e) rent to be left to the parties alone
with no reference to either cash or in-kind
payment; (f) definition of rights of
owners/lessees or their heirs in cases of death or
I separation.
3 "Locators" are private individuals with rights to land lying under state farms. The existing land laiv has not allowved repossession or disposal of this land to date.



Annex 2
page 6 of 9
IV. Cereals Market
Issue         Objectives           First Tranche Actions (before Board)                                          Actions Expected to be Taken Before 2nd Tranche
Actions Expected to be Taken by December,    Actions Expected to be
1997                                      Taken by June 3, 1998
NAAP silos    Reduce state role in   (For conditions on NA4P privatisation see Privatization Matrix).  (For conditions on NAAP privatisation see  (For conditions on NAAP
and fixed     grain marketing                                                                       Privatization Matrix).                     privatisation see
assets        through ANPA         Issue ordinance to compensate former Romcereal losses taken over by                                         Privatization Matrix).
privatisation       NAAP, up to a maximum of 200 billion lei.
Strategic     Reduce fiscal and    In one month before Board presentation, a minimum of 20,000 tons of  The Borrower has provided satisfactory
reserve       economic costs of    wheat will be auctioned from the State Emergency Wheat Reserves  evidence to the Bank that the Borrower's
storage while       (SEWR) in order to develop experience in auctioning. During this time,   SEWR has been reduced to no more than
maintaining food    sales in excess of 20,000 tons can be undertaken through previous  350,000 metric tons by August 31, 1997, and
security.           administrative distribution methods. The NASR will implement the  such level has not been exceeded thereafter.
auctions through competitive bidding. The bidding process is to be  Until August 15, any stocks sold up to a total
announced in advance according to legislation on public procurement and   quantity of 20,000 tons will be auctioned,
is open to domestic and foreign bidders subject to the usual guarantees  while quantities sold in excess of this amount
from recognized commercial banks. The competitive bidding requirement  may be sold by administrative means that were
will be waived only in cases of emergency.                       previously employed. After August 15, the
practice of auctioning will apply to all SEWR
Repeal articles of Regulation 1054/1995 instructing the NASR to use  wheat transactions, i.e. all wheat purchases, all
only NAAP or Comcereals svarehouses.                             sales (which will occur for rotation of stocks
only), and all leases of silo facilities.
Up to 150,000 mt of wheat per month to be
sold by NASR starting March, 1997 and
receipts to be immediately transferred to the
State budget.
Cereals       Improve market      Initiate feasibility studies to improve grain marketing and export along the  Undertake study on Romanian cereals market   Present program to the Bank
market        infrastructure and   Danube- Black Sea corridor.                                      to consider requirements for institutional and    to implement
institu-tions    institutions to allowv                                                            infrastructural development. With its      recommendations of cereals
development   rapid response to   Initiate program to develop private sector representation through private   recommendations as a basis, establish  market studies.
changed incentives.   Interprofessional Grain Organization.                          appropriate legal and policy framework for
.____________I  ___                                                             development of a wvarehouse receipts system.



Annex 2
page 7 of 9
V. Privatisation,  iquidation, and Restructu ing
Issue    Objectives   First Tranche Actions (before Board)                           Actions Expected to be Taken Before 2nd Tranche
Actions Expected to be Taken by December, 1997   Actions Expected to be Taken by June 3, 1998
Privati  Privatise   State farms                        Pig and poultry enterprises                   Pie and noultry farms
sation   state-      Clarify ownership status of lands  Privatise at least 25 pig and poultry enterprises.    The Borrower has provided satisfactory evidence to the
owned       held by former state farns (FIAS) so                                             Bank that all pig and poultry enterprises have been
enterprises  that they can be privatised (see Land                                           privatized or, if not privatized, their liquidation (with the
(SOEs)      Market matrix).                                                                  appointment of a liquidator) has been initiated.
engaged in
agricultural                                   Comcereals                                    Comcereals
production,                                    Sell off at least 30% of shares in each of 18  The Borrower has provided satisfactory evidence to the
processing                                     Comcereals to strategic investors and initiate sales  Bank that the Borrower has privatized or, if not
and                                            of remaining SOF shares.                      privatized, initiated liquidation (with the appointment of a
marketing                                                                                    liquidator) of at least 30 Comcereals. In addition, the
Appoint one or more investment banks or       Borrower will have taken all necessary measures on its
investment advisors to assist with the privatisation  part in view of the the privatization of fourteen more
of Comcereals.                                Comeereals ("all necessary measures" will mean
establishment of the price and the necessary advertisements.)
Agricultural. Service companies   Agricultural Senrice companies                 Agricultural Service companies
Privatise an additional 150       Complete privatisation of at least 900 agricultural  The Borrower has provided satisfactory evidence to the
agricultural service companies    serice companies, to a total of 1,500.        Bank that the Borrower has privatized or, if not
(Agromecs, etc.) to reach a total of at                                          privatized, initiated liquidation (with the appointment of a
least 600 enterprises.                                                          liquidator) of at least 1,500 out of 1,682 agricultural service
companies.
Seed companies                                Seed companies
Seed companies                    Prepare a strategy for the privatisation of   The Borrower has privatized or, if not privatized,
Decision by SOF Board to reorganise  SEMROM seeds producer.                     initiated liquidation (with the appointment of a liquidator)
SEMROM and include UNISEM in                                                    of the two seed companies, UNISEM and SEMROM (or
1997 privatisation program.                                                     successor companies thereto).
NAAP                              NAAP                                          NAAP
Reorganise NAAP regie autonome    SOF to privatize at least 51% of the shares in each  The Borrower has provided satisfactory evidence to the
into a minimum of 8 commercial    of five of the 29 newly created commercial    Bank that the Borrower has privatized or, if not
companies with a maximum of       companies.                                    privatized, initiated liquidation (with the appointment of a
300,000 mt storage capacity each.4                                              liquidator) of at least 20 NAAP commercial companies.
4 NAAP was reorganized into 29 successor commercial companies before Board.



Annex 2
page 8 of 9
V. Privatisation, Li uidation, and Restructuring (continued)
Issue         Objectives              First Tranche Actions (before Board)                  Actions to be Taken Before 2nd Tranche
Actions Expected to be Taken by     Actions Expected to be Taken by June 3,
December, 1997                     1998
Liquidation &   Privatize through sale of  State farms                  State farms                         State farms
restructuring    assets insolvent former   Prepare a list acceptable to the Bank   Complete restitution of lands occupied    The Borrower has provided satisfactory
IAS (FIAS) and pig and   of 75 FIAS occupying at least  by the 75 FIAS.                      evidence to the Bank that (i) at least 50
poultry farms.         380,000 hectares of land for                                          out of a list of 75 former State farms
eventual privatisation or initiation of  Prepare a list acceptable to the Bank of   (FIAS) have been reorganized into smaller
liquidation.                     another 50 FIAS occupying at least   functional units and privatized, or their
250,000 hectares of land to be      liquidation (with the appointment of a
Establish agreed guidelines for  reorganized and prepared for         liquidator) has been initiated; and (ii) at
breaking up all other FIAS into  privatisation.                       least 50 more former state farms
smaller functional units to be                                        (occupying an area of at least 250,000 ha),
privatised separately if viable or                                    out of a list acceptable to the Bank, have
liquidated if unviable. Guidelines for                                been reorganized into smaller functional
breakup must be agreeable to the                                      units, and plans acceptable to the Bank
Bank.                                                                 for their privatization have been
submitted to the Bank.
Pie and poultry farms            Pig and poultnr farms
Privatise or start liquidation   Conclude liquidation of the 20 pig and    The term privatization will, when applied to
proceedings of at least 20 pig and  poultry enterprises.             the former FIAS, be defined broadly to
poultry farms, as per list prepared by                                include sale, liquidation, leasing, or some
MOAF and agreed %vith the Bank.                                       combination of these mechanisms acceptable
to the Bank.



Annex 2
page 9 of 9
VI. The Role of the Ministry of Agriculture and Food
Issue          Objectives                   First Tranche Actions (before Board)            Actions Expected to be Taken Before 2nd Tranche
Actions Expected to be Taken by  Actions Expected to be Taken by June
December, 1997                   3,1998
Policy         Assist MOAF in its ability to   Establish a high-level Policy   Develop a Plan for Redefining     The Borrower has provided
Analysis       implement and anticipate     Advisory Unit at the MOAF          MOAF role and reorganising        satisfactory evidence to the Bank
effects of policy reforms.                                     MOAF and its field administration   that all necessary measures have
(before August, 1997).           been adopted for the implementation
of a plan, acceptable to the Bank, for
the reorganization of the Borrower's
Ministry of Agriculture and Food,
with a new definition of the functions
______________  ._________________________                           exercised   by  such   M inistry.
Grades and     Assist quality improvement in                                   Undertake study on improvement of  Begin implementation of an Action
standards      private markets.                                                agricultural grades and standards,   Plan for formulation and
including the impact of EU       administration of agricultural grades
accession.                       and standards, with definition of
MOAF's appropriate role in that
process.
Rural          Assist planning investments                                     Undertake studv on fostering rural   Begin implementation of a rural
Development   in public goods delivery in the                                  development that will include     development Action Plan.
rural area.                                                    recommendations for an
appropriate rural development fund
management entity.






Annex 3
Page I of I
Timetable of Key Processing Events
Appraisal Mission                     January 13 - February 14, 1997
Operations Committee Review           April 17, 1997
Negotiations                          April 29 -May 1, 1997
Planned Board Presentation            June, 1997
Planned Loan Effectiveness            July, 1997






Annex 4
Generated: May 7, 1997
Page I of 2
Status of Bank Group Operations in Romania
IBRD Loans and IDA Credits in the Operations Portfolio
Difference              Last ARPP
Original Amount in USS Millions               Between expected       Supeivision Rating u
Loan or   Fiscal                                                                                                  and actual    Development  Implementation
Project ID    Credit No.  Year    Borrower               Purpose              IBRD    IDA    Cancellations   Unidisbured    isbueents'    Objectives            Progress
Number of Closed Loans/credits: 35
Active Loans
RO-PE-8772    L34860       1992  ROMANIA    PRIVATEFARMER&ENT                    100.00    0.00           0.00           1.82           -2.18        S               S
RO-PE-8759    L34090       1992  ROMANIA    HEALTH SERVICES REHA                 150.00    0.00           0.00          56.00           56.00        S               S
RO-PE-8771    L35930       1993  ROMANIA    TRANSPORT                            12000    0.00            0.00          10.18          -14.82       HS              HS
RO-PE-8774    L37350       1994  ROMANIA   INDUSTRIALDEV.                        175.00    0.00           0.00         140.87          107.37        U               U
RO-PE-8784    L37240       1994  ROMANIA    EDUCATION                             50.00    0.00           0.00          46.95            3.15        S               S
RO-PE-8777    L37230       1994  ROMANIA    PETROLEUM SECTOR REH                 175.60    0.00           0.00         150177          101.17        S               U
RO-PE-8776    L38490       1995  ROMANIA    EMPLOY. & SOC. PROTECT.               55.40    0.00           0.00         54.73           22.63         S               S
RO-PE-36013   L39760       1996  SNCFR         RAILWAY                           120.00    0.00           0.00         120.00           15.00        S               S
RO-PE-8773    L39752       1996  ROMANIA    FESAL                                 20.00    0.00           0.00          1767            0.00         S               S
RO-PE-8773    L39751      1996  ROMANIA    FESAL                                  90.00    000            0.00          80.46           0.00         S               S
RO-PE-8773    L39750      1996  ROMANIA    FESAL                                 170.00    0.00           0.00         70.00            9.26         S               S
RO-PE-8794    L39360      1996  RENEL          POWERSECTORREHAB.                 110.00    0.00           0.00         108.26          49.26         U               U
RO-PE-8793    L40960      1997  ROMANIA    HIGHEREDUCATION                        50.00    0.00           0.00          50.00           7.20         S               S
RO-PE-8778    L40790      1997  ROMANIA    BUCHAREST WATER SUPP                   25.00    0.00           0.00         24.97             1.97        5               5
Total                                                                           1,411.00    0.00          0.00        932.68          356.01
Active Loans         Closed Loans               Total
Total Disbursed (IBRD and IDA):                           466.45                2.761.39                3,227.84
of which has been repaid:                                0.00                2.191.00                2,191.00
Total now held by IBRD and IDA:                          1,411.00                 571.22                1,982.22
Amount sold:                                                0.00                   19.78                   19.78
Of which repaid                                            0.00                   19.78                   19.78
Total Undisbursed:                                        932.68                     .83                  933.51
a. Intended disbursements to date minus actual disbursements to date as projected at appraisal.
b. Rating of 1-4: see OD 13.05. Annex D2. Preparation of Implementation Sunmary (Fomnm 590). Following the FY94 Annual Review of Portfolio performance (ARPP). a letter
based system will be used (HS = higihly Satisfactory, S = satisfactory, U = unsatisfactory, HU = highly unsatisfactory): see proposed Improvements in Project and
Portfolio Performance Rating Methodology (SecM94-901), August 23, 1994.
Note:
Disbursement data is updated at the end of the first week of the month.
Generated by the Operations Information System (OIS)
5/9/97: 4:03 PM
MAROM\CAS97\ANNEXES\A7BANK.DOC



Annex 4
Generated:May 7, 1997
Page 2 of 2
Romania
STATEMENTOF IFC's
Committed and Disbursed Portfolio
As of 31 March 1997
In Millions US Dollars
Committed                        Disbursed
~~IIFIFC                           IFC
FY             Company           Loan    Equity   Quasi   Partic   Loan   Equity   Quasi  Partic
Approval
1992      Alcatel                    0.00     0.00      .69    0.00   0.00    0.00    .69    0.00
1994     Romlease                    5.00      .45    0.00    0.00   3.00       .45   0.00    0.00
1996     Danube Fund                 0.00     2.00    0.00    0.00   0.00       .40   0.00    0.00
Pending Commitments
1997      * EFES BREWERY            12.00     5.00    0.00    8.00
Genemted by the Operations Information System (OIS)
5/9/97: 5:36 PM
M:\ROM\CAS97\ANNEXES\A71FC.DOC



Annex 5
Page 1 of 1
Agricultural Projects by Other Donors in Romania
Project/Loan                           Amount           Project Description
(million)
A. EU   PHARE                          _  _  _   _  _     _  _  _  _   _  _  _  _  _   _  _  _  _  _  _   _  _  _
Land Reform, Land Registration and Land    5 million ECU  Technical assistance (TA) and equipment for cadastral work and
Information System                                      training for implementation of the Cadastre Law
Support to Land Reform                 1.5 million ECU   TA for land information system and agricultural forecast system
Agricultural Market Development        4 million ECU    TA for market distribution channels and a national market
information system
Legal and Financial Technical Assistance to   3 million ECU  TA for four pilot projects in national extension services and provision
Private Farmers                                         of grants to farmers in mountain areas to purchase equipment
Rural Credit Guarantee Fund            9 million ECU    Training programs for bank staff and the RCGF Board and Executive
Agribusiness Consultancy Services      3 million ECU    TA for development of local agribusinesses
Privatization and Restructuring        6 million ECU    TA for privatization of plant protection and soil analysis laboratories;
of veterinary services and animal reproduction; of pig and poultry
complexes; management training for agro-industries; restructuring of
NAAP; restructuring and privatization of Comcereals
Agricultural and Rural Development     3.5 million ECU   TA and training for development of a national extension service and
of agriculture knowledge and information systems
Crop Information Systems               I million ECU    TA for restructuring of CRUTA and to establish a nationwide crop
information system; pilot projects will also be carried to monitor soil
erosion and irrigation.
Financial Assistance for Agro-industries and  2.5 million ECU   TA to strengthen the Rural Credit Guarantee Fund and processor
Farms                                                   organizations; and provision of equity capital transfers to to emerging
private agro-processors
Agriculture Sector Adjustment Policy   3 million ECU    Main components: (i) background study to develop a framework for
Implementation                                          bringing Romanian legislation in line with EU standards and
regulation (ii) background study to prepare a support programme for
rural development (iii) establishment of a Policy Advisory Unit
(PAU)
B. EBRD    :                              :_V
Bucharest Wholesale Market             25 million US$    Funding for construction of a central wholesale market and for
rehabilitation of agricultural retail markets in Bucharest
Credit Line I for Banca Agricola       70 million US$    Credit intermediated through Banca Agricola (BA) to finance small-
scale projects for private farmers and processors
Credit Line II for Banca Agricola      50 million US$    Credit intermediated through BA to finance small-scale projects for
private processors
Rompak                                 7.5 million US$   Green field investment in a Romanian-Turkish joint venture for yeast
production
United Romanian Breweries              19 million US$    Financing provided for construction of a brewery in Pantelimon
C. UNDP_
Reproduction of Fruit Trees            0.23 million US$  TA for reorganization and rehabilitation of tree farms and training
program for farmers on the management of tree farms
Introduction of Upgraded Irrigation    0.09 million US$  Training for on-farm irrigation techniques and practices
Methods and Practices
Strengthening the Food Control System  0.27 million US$  TA for development of appropriate food legislation and establishment
of a National Codex Committee for food control activities
D. USAID
VOCA                                  I                 Program to promote farmers associations
Land O' Lakes                                           Program to promote local dairy businesses
E. CANADIAN Govt.
Land Market Development                0.5 million US$   TA for land reform and land market development and institutional
I                I support for implementation of the Cadastre Law






Annex 6
Pagel of I
Table: List of Pig and Poultry Enterprises to be Liquidated as Condition
of First Tranche
Name of Enterprise    Fiscal Code
1.   Avicola Craiova       5274970
2.   Avicola Babadag        2363479
3.   Suinprod Zimnicea      1396125
4.   Avicola Mintia         2115830
5.   Avicola Ploiesti/Baicoi   1300707
6.   Araviascomb            7043700
7.   Suinprod Tumu Severin  3197641
8.   Avicola Arad           1752028
9.   Nutrimur               1229099
10.  Avisuinprod Bistrita  5412614
11.  Avicola Piatra Neamt    2045289
12.  Suinprod Bailesti     3442953
13.  Avicola Zalau         680500
14.  Comsuin Ulmeni         1924220
15.  Avicola Codlea         1123532
16.  Auinprod Macin        2364423
17.  Suinprod Seini        2218819
18.  Suinprod Satu Mare    2385663
19.  Avitim                2507353
20.  Avicola Covasna        543430



Annex 7
Pagel of 2
List of Selected ASAL Technical Papers
(available upon request from project files)
I. "Romania: A Strategy for the Transition in Agriculture (Vols. 1-5)" by a joint Romanian-Intemational
Team supported by the World Bank in cooperation with EU-Phare, EBRD, USAID, and the French and
German Governments (1993)
2. "Agricultural Trade Regime" by Emil Daniel Tesliuc (July, 1996)
3. "An Analysis of Consumer Food Price and Subsidy Policies in Romania" by Cristina Esanu (January,
1997)
4. "Techniques for Analysis of Agricultural Price Interventions in Romania" by Constantin Deaconescu
(n.d.)
5. "Agricultural Finance: An Assessment of the Costs and Implicit Transfers Associated with the Current
System of Agricultural Finance" by Emil Daniel Tesliuc (December, 1996)
6. "Producer Price Interventions and Incentives in Romanian Agriculture" by Constantin Deaconescu,
Emil Daniel Tesliuc and Henry Gordon (January 7, 1997)
7. "Privatization in Agriculture" by Gheorge Oprescu (July, 1996)
8. "Food Consumption Patterns in Romania" by Dr. Vasilie Bogdan and Alexandru Brodeala (June, 1996)
9. "Price and Subsidy Interventions in the Romanian Wheat Market" by Letitia Zahiu (June-September,
1996)
10. "Romania Agricultural Effective Protection Analysis" by Jeffrey C. Metzel and B. Lynn Salinger
(December 31, 1996)
11. "Reforming Romanian State Farms" by J.F. Declan Quinn and Aurelian Dochia (December, 1996)
12. "Report on the Agricultural Associations in Romania" by Gabriel lonita (November, 1996)
13. "Rural Finance in Romania" by Dale W. Adams and Robert Vogel (December, 1996)
14. "The Rural Planning and Development Agency (ADAR) and the Land Market and Rural Development"
by Raymond Noronha (November, 1996)
15. "Romanian Agricultural Policy and Integration into the European Union" by Roxana Stoleru and Emil
Daniel Tesliuc (draft, December, 1996)
16. "Rural Credit and Agricultural Cooperatives in Romania" by Mihaela Cimpoeasu
17. "Comments on the Land Market in Romania" by Mihaela Cimpoeasu and Eugen Buciuman (1996)
18. "Romania Land Market (documentation)" Eugen Buciuman (November, 1996)



Annex 7
Page 2 of 2
19. "Synthesis of Case Studies of Agricultural Marketing and Processing: by Violeta Ciurel and Alina
Stanciu (Sept., 1996)
20. "Discussion and Recommendations on the Restructuring of Romcereal" by Farid Dhanji, Ama
Hartmann, Alberto Valdes, and Michel Debatisse (1995)
21. "Overview of Romania's Agricultural Sector" (presentation materials) Farid Dhanji (spring, 1996)
22. "Ownership of Agricultural Company (ex-IAS) Held Land and Overview of Seeds and Seedlings
Legislation" by Mara Angel (1996)
23. "Agricultural Product Supply Modeling" by Angela Gaburici (1996)
24. "Methodology for Income Elasticity of Demand for a Product Calculation" by Constantin Ciupagea
(1996)
25. "The Social Assistance System and Food Subsidies in Romania" by Marta Trusca and Maria Poenaru
(April, 1997)
26. "Notes Concerning the ADAR Draft Law" by Eugen Buciuman (1996)



page 1 of 2                                                      Annex 8
Romania at a glance                                                                 3/28/97
Europe &8 Lower-
POVERTY and SOCIAL                                            Central  middle-
Romania       Asia  Income       Development dlamond*
Populatkin mki-It 90 (nWlonsj                   -      22.7       488    1,153
GNP per capita 1995 (USS)                             1,480     2,220    1,670                 Life expectancy
GNP 1995 (blllons US$)                                 33.5     1,083    1,926
Average annual growth, 199046
Population                                             -OA)       0.3       1.4     GNP                              Gross
Labor ef(%e                                             0.1       0.5       1       p7 GPmaro
per  I   \                     primary
Most recent estimate (/afestyearavanable sine 1989)                                 capita                       enrollment
Poverty: headcount index (% o(populabon)
Urban population (%of tal popuaffon)                    56         65       56
Life expectancy at birth (#eVsa-)                       70         68       67
Infant modality (per 1, 000 'Uvo blfhs)                 23         26       41                Access to safe water
Child malnutrition (% of chidren under 5)   - -.                            22
Acoess to safe waler (% of populaton)
Illiteracy (% orpopuleifn age 15+)                                                      -     Romania
Gross primary enroliment (% of school-age populaton)    a6         97      104                Rornan/a
Male                                                  87         97      105                Lower-mk ncome group
Female                                                86         97      101
KEY ECONOMIC RATIOS and LONG-TERM TRENDS
197S    1986       1994     1995
Economic ratios'
GDP (billions US$)                                               30.1     35.5
Gross domestic investment/GDP                 40.4     33.0      26.9     25.7
Exports of goods and non-factor services/GDP           22.9      24.9     27.6              Openness of economy
Gross domestic savings/GDP                          - 372        24.9     21.2
Gross national savings/GDP                             35.9      25.4     21.6
Current account balance1GDP                                       -1.7     -4.0
Interest payments/GDP                                         4      -  0.   .      Savings                     Investment
Total debt/GDP                                                   18.4      18.7
Total debt service/exports                    0.0      18.7       8.3     10.5
Present value of deb/GOP                                         16.8     17.6
Present value of debt/exports                                    68.1     67.7                   Indebtedness
1976-84  1986-95     1994      1995  1996-04
(average annual growlh)                                                                -      Romania
GDP                                  5.1      -4.1      3.9       6.9       5.0               Lower-mkdde-Jncom group
GNP per capita                       4.2      -4.0      4.2       6.8
Exports of goods and nfs                     -1.9      19.0      11.8      6.0
STRUCTURE of the ECONOMY
19S76    1986      1994     1996
(X of GDP)                                                                          Growth rates of output and Investment (%)
Agriculture                                                      20.8     20.9      60
Industry                                                         39.7     40.2              A
Manufacluring                                 ..       ..         ..
Services                                                         39.5     38.9       o
Private consumption                                    58.9      61.8     66.5    -s0
General government consumption                          3.9      13.3     12.3                     GDI    0      GDP
Imports of goods and non-factor services               18.7      26.9     32.1
1976-84  1985-96      1994     1996
(average annua/ growth)                                                             Growth rates of exports and imports (Y)
Agriculture                                             2.4       3.1      4.8      20
Industry                                               -6.5       5.2      9.4
Manufacturing                                                                      o-      , \   l,
Services                                               -5.0       3.1      5.7              w0    91   92   93   94  9s
Private consumption                                    -1.1       5.1     12.3    -20
General govemment consumption                          5.4        0.9      -2.4               /
Gross domestic investment                              -3.5      -2.0       1.5    -Q
Imports of goods and non-factor services                1.1      11.6      14.1             -IExports  - mports
Gross national product                         4.9     -4.1       4.0      6.7
Note: 1995 data are preliminary estimates. Figures in italics are for years other than those specified.
The diamonds show four key indicators in the country (in bold) compared with its income-group average. If data are missing, the diamond will
be incomplete.



page 2of 2                                                       Annex 8
Romania
PRICES and GOVERNMENT FINANCE
1976     1985      1994     1996
DomesUc prces                                                                       Inflation %)
(% change)                                                                          300
Consumer prices                                 ..       ..    137.0      32.0      200
Implicit GDP deflator                           ..      0.4     139.0     35.790570r
Government finance                                                                   0
(%  GDP)                                                                             .      90   91   92   93   94   95
Current revenue                                 ..    48.9       31.9     32.0
Current budget balance                          ..    29.7        3.8       2.7             -GDP det   O    CPI
Overall surplus/deficit                         ..       ..      -1.9      -2.6
TRADE
1976     1988      1994     1996
(milions USS)                                                                        Expor and import bvels (mill. USS)
Total exports (fob)                             ..  10,174      6,067    7,422      15000
Commodity I                                    ..      ..    2,408    2,946
Commodity 2                                    ..      ..    2,612    3,195
Manufactures                                        6,949                         10000
Total imports (cif)                             ..   8,402      6.550    8,875
Food                                           ..     160       383      818       5000
Fuel and energy                                ..   4,753      1,014    1,160
Capital goods                                 ..    1,861                             0r
Export price index (1987=100)                   ..       ..        ..                     B9  90  91  92  93  94  95
Import price index (1987=100)                   ..       ..         .E .x Oxports    a Imports
Terms of trade (1987-100)                       ..
BALANCE of PAYMENTS
1976     1986      1994     1996
(millons USS)                                                                       Current account balance to GDP ratio (%)
Exports of goods and non-factor services    5,812   10,920      7,097    8,943      10
Imports of goods and non-factor services    5,858    8,926      7,777   10,506
Resource balance                              -46    1,994       -680   -1,563
Net factor income                             -89     -613       -131     -234
Net current transfers                           0        0        295      369
Current account balance,
before official transfers                   -135    1,381      -516   -1,428      .s
Financing items (net)                         103   -1,698        968    1,362
Changes in net reserves                        32      317       -452       66     -10
Memo:
Reserves including gold (milt. US$)           904    1,447      3,092    2,624
Conversion rate (ocal/USS)                      .              1,655.1  2,033.3
EXTERNAL DEBT and RESOURCE FLOWS
1976     1985      1994     1995
(millions USS)                                                                      Composition of total debt, 1995 (mill. USS)
Total debt outstanding and disbursed          211    7,008      5,528    6,653
IBRD                                         19    1,633        695      844                             A
IDA                                           0        0          0        0                G           844
Total debt service                              1    2,064        619      967               1
IBRD                                          0      274         32       53
IDA                                           0        0          0        0                           /        C
7   1038
Composition of net resource flows
Official grants                               0        0         96       30            F
Official creditors                           31       -61       466      698           1317
Private creditors                             0     -645        268      267 D
Foreign direct investment                     0        0        340      550                          E     851
Portfolio equity                              0        0          1        1                        1300
World Bank program
Commitments                                 160        0        226      340      A - IBRD                    E . Bilateral
Disbursements                                19       49        263      129      B- IDA    D - Other mutilateral  F- Private
Principal repayments                          0      146          0        0      C - IMF                     G - Short-term
Net flows                                    19      -97        263      129
Interest payments                             0      127         32       53
Net transfers                                19     -225        230       76
Intemational Economics Department                                                                                    3/28/97






IBRD 28710
U UK R A I NE                     ovo                                                                    R O M A N IA
ELEVATIONS ABOVE 500 METERS
o     SELECTED CITIES
HUNGARY                                                                                                     SOTOSANI                                             a~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~oJ  COUNTY (JUDET) CENTERS
NATIONAt CAPITAL
R E                                                                                                   0~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~A            EXPRESSWAY
k~~~~
MAJOR ROAD$
T. KiAm-      1      OTHER PORTS
COUNTY (JUDET) BOUNDARIES
EDRE O   - INTERNATIONAL BOUNDARIES
YUGOSLAVIA                                                                                                                                                                                                         KI)LCr iovrz L T  S   ( jnuciest  >   <\   OwOMETIRI
TOS~~~~~ROd  .-...,~~~~~~~~~~~~'  ARAD                                                                                                               Birlad              0     0    20   30   40   50   60~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~I.  1    2    3   ~    ~   ~
MILES
({Serbia/fMOntenlegro)                                        )                                   ga<                                            ?/           9'                                             -  Medg,di=r t   cansetntr
rhin=peprdcdyh                                       ,                                                                                                                             TCrcl. y j t /      ;1istr  CON'STA  fTAf                                  w
M=p OaeRnn Uni    t M( ha W  Id ank.:
Ine boandnr,es. nolan, denon.innr,ans              'Collont/                                                           kAlexcndria               fugit*          
andanyothor inlareatianth=wn-n an                  (                                                                    tE tMM               ,         ,,x                                                            ,
thin nap da nat nnnply an th, ptart of*ab(y                                                                                                  .        .                                 =V n         
TIn, Wordd BonE Unr=, any mndgnnn.nt                                                                                                                /  r    = SruMgrl                                                          d  MangaLaI
an hoe Ie9al stats of any nennietanya=r.                                                             _.                                          /
any enndorsem.nt or onnOptfnce oh                  -vlmi  r}F  =n
MaIn baandarien.22-                                  ;                                          24      B  U  L G  A  R I A            -               26                                                       2eo      ;= VKR                 IN
T.\8.19,.dS                                          UVA                                                                                         ILA                                                      1997
pit.mi~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~~~~~~~~~A   9









IMAGING
Report No.: P      7113   RO
Type:     PR



