Page  1
July 21, 2000
His Excellency Decebal Traian Remes 
Minister of Finance 
Ministry of Finance 
Bucharest, Romania
Re:
ROMANIA:  Loan No. 4176-0 RO
Loan No. 4176-1 RO (Agricultural Sector Adjustment Loan)
Amendments to the Loan Agreement
Excellency:
We refer to our recent correspondence and discussion in connection with the 
above loan whereby we have agreed to restructure the above loan into three tranches. 
The restructuring was approved by our Board of Executive Directors on July 20, 2000.
To formalize our agreement on the restructuring, we propose to amend the Loan 
Agreement between us (Agricultural Sector Adjustment Loan), dated July 1, 1997, as 
follows: 
1.
Section 2.02, paragraph (d) is amended and a new paragraph (e) is added, both to 
read as shown in Attachment A to this letter. 
2.
Schedule 3 is amended to read as shown in Attachment B to this letter. Please 
indicate your agreement to the above amendments by signing, dating and returning to us 
the attached copy of this letter. These amendments will become effective as of the 
date of countersignature.
Sincerely,
By /s/ Julius Varallyay
Acting Country Director
South Central Europe Country Unit
Europe and Central Asia Region
CONFIRMED:
ROMANIA
By /s/ Decebal Traian Remes
Date:  July 25, 2000
bcc and cleared with:   Aly Abu-Akeel, Kichigina (LEGEC); Kenneth Miller (LOAEL)
bcc:
Messrs./Mmes.  Pieter Stek (EDS19); Myla Taylor Williams; 
Suman Mehra; Angela Demas, Adrian Guth, Gabriela Doina Manea; Agnes Nuval  
Attachment A
ARTICLE II
The Loan
“Section 2.02. (d)
No withdrawals shall be made from the Loan Account 
after the 
aggregate of the proceeds of the Loan withdrawn from the Loan 
Account shall have reached the 
equivalent of $200,000,000, unless the Bank shall be 
satisfied, after an exchange of views 
as described in Section 3.01 of this Agreement 
based on evidence satisfactory to the Bank: 
(i) that the macro-economic framework of 
the Borrower is consistent with the Program as 
determined on the basis of 
indicators agreed upon between the Borrower and the Bank; (ii) 
with the progress 
achieved by the Borrower in the carrying out of the Program; and (iii) 
that 
Page  2
the actions described in Section I of Schedule 3 to this Agreement have been taken. 
If, 
after said exchange of views, the Bank shall have given notice to the Borrower 
that the 
progress achieved and actions taken are not satisfactory and, 
within ninety (90) days after 
such notice, the Borrower shall not have achieved 
progress and taken actions satisfactory to 
the Bank, then the Bank may, by notice 
to the Borrower, cancel the unwithdrawn amount of the 
Loan or any part thereof.
(e)
No withdrawals shall be made from the Loan Account after the 
aggregate of the 
proceeds of the Loan withdrawn from the Loan account shall have 
reached the equivalent of  $300,000,000, unless the Bank shall be satisfied, after an 
exchange of views as described in 
Section 3.01 of this Agreement based on 
evidence satisfactory to the Bank: (i) that the 
macro-economic framework 
of the Borrower is consistent with the Program as determined on the 
basis of 
indicators agreed upon between the Borrower and the Bank; (ii) with the progress 
achieved by the Borrower in the carrying out of the Program; and (iii) that the 
actions 
described in Section II of Schedule 3 to this Agreement have been 
taken. If, after said 
exchange of views, the Bank shall have given notice 
to the Borrower that the progress 
achieved and actions taken are not 
satisfactory and, within ninety (90) days after such 
notice, the Borrower shall 
not have achieved progress and taken actions satisfactory to the 
Bank, then the Bank 
may, by notice to the Borrower, cancel the unwithdrawn amount of the 
Loan 
or any part thereof.”
Attachment B
SCHEDULE 3
Action Referred to in Section 2.02 (d) and (e) of this Agreement
Section I.
1.
The Borrower has provided satisfactory evidence to the Bank that: (i) all 
fertilizer subsidies have been eliminated; (ii) the Borrower has provided, in its 
budget plan for 1998, for a reduction in seed subsidies of at least 25%, in nominal 
terms, in comparison with the amount of seed subsidies in the 1997 budget; and (iii) 
the Borrower has privatized or, if not privatized, initiated liquidation (with the 
appointment of a liquidator) of the two seed companies UNISEM and SEMROM (or successor 
companies thereto). 
2.
The Borrower has provided satisfactory evidence to the Bank that: (i) the 
average production weighted tariff on agricultural products is not higher than 22%, as 
calculated in accordance with a methodology acceptable to the Bank; (ii) no tariff on 
the import price of pig and processed pork products, milk and diary products, and 
poultry and processed poultry products, exceeds 45%; (iii) no tariff on the import 
price of agricultural products, other than those relating to the products listed under 
letter (ii) of this paragraph, exceeds 40%; and (iv) no administrative waivers of 
tariffs on the import price of agricultural products have been granted since June 30, 
1997.
3.
The Borrower has provided satisfactory evidence to the Bank that the Borrower 
has: (a) privatized or, if not privatized, initiated liquidation (with the appointment 
of a liquidator) of at least: (i) twenty NAAP commercial companies; (ii) thirty 
Comcereals; and (iii) one thousand five hundred out of a list of one thousand six 
hundred and eighty-two former State agricultural service companies; and (b) taken all 
necessary measures on its part in view of the privatization of fourteen (14) more 
Comcereals.
4.
The Borrower has provided satisfactory evidence to the Bank that the Borrower’s 
State Emergency Wheat Reserve has been reduced to no more than 350,000 metric tons by 
August 31, 1997, and such level has not been exceeded thereafter.
5.
The Borrower has provided satisfactory evidence to the Bank that all State pig 
and poultry enterprises have been privatized or, if not privatized, their liquidation 
(with the appointment of a liquidator) has been initiated. \0c6.
The Borrower has 
provided satisfactory evidence to the Bank that all necessary measures have been 
adopted for the implementation of a plan, acceptable to the Bank, for the 
Page  3
reorganization of the Borrower’s Ministry of Agriculture and Food, with a new 
definition of the functions exercised by such Ministry.  
Section II.
The Borrower has provided satisfactory evidence to the Bank that: (i) at least 
fifty (50) out of a list of seventy-five former State farms have been reorganized into 
smaller functional units and privatized or, if not privatized, their liquidation (with 
the appointment of a liquidator) has been initiated; and (ii) at least fifty (50) more 
former State farms, collectively occupying an area of at least 250,000 hectares, out 
of a list acceptable to the Bank, have been reorganized into smaller functional units, 
and plans, acceptable to the Bank, for their privatization have been submitted to the 
Bank. 
