CA.   A.-
RESTRICTED
LE  COPY               Report No. PA-46a
This report was prepared for use within the Bank and its affiliated organizations.
They do not accept responsibility for its accuracy or completeness. The report may
not be published nor may it be quoted as representing their views.
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
AGRICULTURAL CREDIT PROJECT
AFGHANISTAN
May 27, 1970
Agriculture Projects Department



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
US$1             =    Af 75
Af 1             =    US$0. 013
Af 1, 000        =    US$13. 3
Af 1, 000, 000   =    US$13, 333
WEIGHTS AND MEASURES
1 Jerib               0. 20 Hectare
1 Hectare        =    5 Jeribs
I Seer                7 Kg
1 Kg             =    0.14 Seer
ABBREVIATIONS
ADB       -   Asian Development Bank
AFA       -   Agricultural Finance Agency
AGBANK  -   Agricultural Development Bank
HVA       -   Helmand Valley Authority
MAI       -   Ministry of Agriculture and Irrigation
MID       -   Minor Irrigation Department of MAI
PACCA    -   Program on Agricultural Credit and Cooperatives
in Afghanistan
PDA       -   Paktia Development Authority
RGA       -   Royal Government of Afghanistan
SIDA      -   Swedish International Development Authority
UNDP/SF  -   United Nations Development Program/Special Fund
USAID     -   United States Agency for International Development



AFGHANISTAN
AGRICULTURAL CREDIT PROJECT
TABLE OF CONTENTS
Page No.
SUMMARY AND CONCLUSIONS . . . . . . . . . . . .    . . . . . . .         -
I.   INTRODUCTION  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .          1
II.   THE AGRICULTURE SECTOR  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .          2
General ....  .      .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .   .  2
Agricultural Production . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .          3
Some Factors Affecting Development  . . . . . . . . .          3
Irrigation ....  .  .  .    .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .   .  3
Land Tenure and Farmers' Organization  . . . . .         5
Support Services . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .         5
Agricultural Credit  . . . . . . . . . . . . . .         6
Machinery  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .         6
III.   THE AGRICULTURAL DEVELOPMENT BANK OF AFGHANISTAN
(AGBANK)   .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  7
General   .   .   .  .   .  .   .  .  .  .   .  .   .  .   .  .   .  .   .   .  .  .   .  7
Resources   .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  7
Use of Resources  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .          8
Financial Position and Past Earnings  . . . . . . . .         9
Organization and Management . . . . . . . . . . . . .          9
Lending Policies and Procedures  . . . . . . . .         9
Agricultural Finance Agency (AFA) . . . . . . . . . .         9
IV.   THE PROJECT . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .    10
A.   General Description  . . . . . . . . . . . . . .    10
B.   Detailed Features  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .    11
Farm Machinery  . . . . . . . . . . . . . .    11
Tractors and Related Equipment . . . .    11
Animal-drawn Equipment . . . . . . . .    11
Shallow-Well Pumps and Experimental
Tubewell Development . . . . . . . . .    11
Improvement of Small Traditional Irriga-
tion Schemes . . . . . . . . . . . . .    12
Supporting Services . . . . . . . . . . . .    12
C.   Cost Estimates and Financing . . . . . . . . . .    13
D.   Procurement  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .    15
E.   Disbursements  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .    16
This report is based on the findings of a mission which visited Afghanistan
in November 1969, and was composed of Messrs. H. von Oppenfeld, H.A.
Vieilhescaze, E. Zimmer-Vorhaus (IDA) and M. Nakahara (Consultant).
Mr. von Oppenfeld was primarily responsible for writing the report.



-2-
Page No.
V.   ORGANIZATION AND MANAGEMENT . . . . . . . . . . . . . .   17
Ministry of Agriculture and Irrigation  . . . . . . . .  17
Minor Irrigation Section (MIS) . . . . . . . . . .  17
Groundwater Development Sub-section (GWD). . . . .  17
Project Coordinating Committee . . . . . . . . . .   17
Extension Services ....                .               18
Agricultural Development Bank of Afghanistan (AGBANK) .  18
Organization and Management  . . . . . . . . . . .  18
Lending Policies and Procedures  . . . . . . . . .  19
Financing and Expansion  . . . . . . . . . . . . .  19
Interest Rates and Future Earnings . . . . . . . .  19
Accounts and Audit ....  .  .  .    .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .   .   20
VI.  PRODUCTION, MARKETS, PRODUCER BENEFITS AND REVENUE
GENERATION . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .  21
Production  ....  .     .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .   .   21
Markets ....  .  .    .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .   .   21
Prices ....  .     .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .   .   21
Producer Benefits and Revenue Generation  . . . . . . .   22
VII.   BENEFITS AND JUSTIFICATION  . . . . . . . . . . . . . .  25
VIII. RECOMMENDATIONS ..26



-3-
ANNEXES
1.   THE AGRICULTURAL DEVELOPMENT BANK
Appendix 1 -- Consultants' Terms of Reference
Appendix 2 -  Revised Organization Chart
Appendix 3 -- Projected Cash Flow 1969/70 - 1979/80
Appendix 4 -- Projected Income and Expenses 1968/69 - 1979/80
Appendix 5 -- Projected Balance Sheet 1969/70 - 1979/80
2.  IMPROVEMENT OF EXISTING SMALL IRRIGATION SCHEMES
Appendix 1 -- Guidelines for Preliminary Investigation
Appendix 2 -- Guidelines for Project Preparation
Appendix 3 -- Terms of Reference for Experts
Appendix 4 -- Organization of the Ministry of Agriculture
and Irrigation
Appendix 5 -- Project Coordinating Committee
Appendix 6 -- Proposed Fellowship Program and Estimated Cost
Table 1    -- Minor Irrigation Rehabilitation, Cost Estimate
for .Model Scheme
3.   AGRICULTURE -- MDERNIZATION AND INSTITUTIONAL SUPPORT
Table 1    -- Technical Services, Estimated Cost of Additional
Project Staff, Equipment and Vehicles
4.   FARM MECHANIZATION IN AFGHANISTAN
5.   FARM MODELS
6.   ECONOMIC RATE OF RETURN
MAP






AFGHANISTAN
AGRICULTURAL CREDIT PROJECT
SUMMARY AND CONCLUSIONS
i.        Output of staple food in Afghanistan has not kept pace with the
country's population growth. Although modernization of agriculture has
begun, mainly due to new technology for growing wheat, maize and cotton,
traditional subsistence farming is still paramount. The priority objective
is to accelerate the momentum of modernization through careful deployment of
technical assistance, strengtliening of the development agencies of Govern-
ment, and meeting the increasing demand by the farmer for output-increasing
capital goods.
ii.       This report appraises an agricultural credit project for which
an IDA Credit of US$5 million is proposed. This would be the first agri-
cultural project in Afghanistan receiving Bank Group support. The Project
is a three-year lending program by the Agricultural Development Bank of
Afghanistan (AGBANK) to finance farmers' investment in mechanization, pump-
sets and improvement of small traditional irrigation schemes. This invest-
ment is expected to lead to increased production of staple food and cotton,
mainly for import substitution at an estimated annual value of about US$12
million equivalent. About US$1 million would be direct export earnings.
iii.      The Royal Government of Afghanistan (RGA) realizes the importance
of institutional credit for financing increasing use of modern inputs.
The main agency in the credit field is the AGBANK which has experienced
difficulties in the past in establishing an effective lending program.
Although AGBANK's financial resources are adequate at present, RGA would
have to augment AGBANK's capital to meet projected requirements. Strength-
ening of the AGBANK, which is essential, is already underway through tech-
nical and management assistance under a UNDP/SF project for which the Bank
is executing agency. The Project is also designed to take advantage of
ongoing technical assistance eforts supported by multilateral and bilate-
ral sources.
iv.       The Project would support a three-year lending program amounting
to an estimated cost of US$5.8 million equivalent and supporting services
(including expert and extensica. serv:-es, fellowships for local staff, irri-
gation construction equipment aald spare parts), at an estimated cost of
US$1.4 million equival n... The main components of the lending program are:
US$4.1 million for farm machinery and US$1.7 million for rehabilitation of
existing minor irrigation schemes. Of the total project cost (US$7.2 mil-
lion equivalent), IDA would finance about 70%. This represents the total



- ii -
estimated foreign exchange component (66%) plus some local currency.
Farmers would contribute 18% of the investment cost, the AGBANK 11%, and
RGA 1%. The borrower would be the RGA, which would make the loan portion
of the credit available to AGBANK on an equity basis. RGA would carry
the exchange risk. AGBANK would lend to individual borrowers at 8% per
annum.
v.        Tractors (including attachments and spare parts), pumpsets,
vehicles and construction equipment would be procured through international
competitive bidding. Animal-drawn implements and threshers amounting to
about US$270,000 equivalent would be locally procured. For irrigation
rehabilitation schemes, local competitive bidding would be followed since
these works, being labor-intensive, would not attract foreign firms.
vi.       To strengthen the Ministry of Agriculture's technical services
for farmers investing under the Project, the Ministry would establish a
Minor Irrigation Section, including a Ground Water Development Sub-section.
Three experts for the irrigation unit and one for the groundwater unit
would be provided by the Project. Their terms of reference would, in addi-
tion to technical and managerial assistance, include the preparation of
sub-projects for a second-stage project. The Ministry would also expand
and improve its extension services. To strengthen local staff competence,
fellowships are included for on-the-job training in neighboring countries
under conditions similar to those in Afghanistan.
vii.      Returns to farmers ranging from 22% on irrigation rehabilitation
to 31% on tractors would be high because investment would be on existing
farms, and output would be increasing from a low starting base. The rate
of return to the economy is estimated at 21%. Additional but non-quantified
benefits would result mainly from institutional improvements of the AGBANK
and the Ministry of Agriculture. During negotiations, appropriate assuran-
ces were obtained for carrying out the Project. It is suitable for an IDA
Credit of US$5 million.



AFGHANISTAN
AGRICULTURAL DEVELOPMENT BANK OF AFGHANISTAN
I. INTRODUCTION
1.01      Afghanistan is at an early stage of trying to modernize agricul-
ture. Thle only credit source for the farmer is the Agricultural Development
Bank of Afghanistan (AGBANK), a mixed public-private enterprise, which has
been in operation since 1954 but has had great difficulty in trying to
establish an effective lending program. The requested IDA Credit is aimed
at supporting its efforts during a critical phase of reorganization. A
three-year lending program, primarily for farm mechanization, shallow-well
pumps, and the improvement of small irrigation schemes -- with appropriate
institutional proposals -- was worked out through consultations with the
Bank Group, UNDP assistance and consultant advice.
1.02      In 1967, following two FAO/IBRD preparation missions, an IDA
mission visited Afghanistan and reported that a lending program could not
be developed and implemented unless AGBANK was completely reorganized.
Because of the lack of local expertise, IDA proposed that RGA request
technical assistance from UNDP/SF and the Bank prepared the terms of ref-
erence for the experts required. RGA did not submit the request to UNDP/SF
until November 1968. It was approved in July 1969, with the Bank as execut-
ing agency. A consultant firm 1/ was employed and four experts, with execu-
tive responsibility, assumed their duties with AGBANK in September 1969
(terms of reference are at Annex 1, Appendix 1).
1.03      A second IDA mission visited Afghanistan in January 1969 to advise
on the further steps necessary for the preparation of a lending program.
As a result of this mission's recommendations, another FAO/IBRD preparation
mission followed in July 1969. RGA's application for an IDA Credit is
based on the recommendations of these two missions.
1.04      This report is based on the findings on an IDA appraisal mission
to Afghanistan in November 1969, composed of Messrs. H. von Oppenfeld,
H. A. Vieilhescaze, E. Zimmer-Vorhaus (IDA) and M. Nakahara (Consultant).
1/ Dr. Hendrikson Associates, Gesellachaft Fuer Angewandte Planungs-und
Entwicklungsforschung mbH, Frankfurt, Germany.



- 2 -
II. THE AGRICULTURE SECTOR
General
2.01      Afghanistan is a land-locked country of about 650,000 km2 in
Central Asia bounded by Russia, Mainland China, Pakistan and Iran (see
Map). Estimates of its population range from 12 to 15 million, including
about 2 million nomads. No overall population census has been taken.
2.02      Elevation averages about 1,300 m.  However, the Hindu-Kush
mountain range rises above 6,000 m. Stretching from northeast to south-
west, it divides the entire country. North of Hindu-Kush the altitude
drops to 500 m permitting cotton, grain and fruit production in fertile,
wind-blown soils. The Central Plateau contains many small fertile valleys,
watered from adjacent mountains. Southwestern Afghanistan is mostly desert,
with less than 100 mm of annual rainfall.
2.03      Precipitation in North and Central Afghanistan, averaging 250-
300 mm per annum, occurs mostly in winter and spring and in the form of
snow. Supplementary irrigation is thus of extreme importance. The climate
is predominantly continental, cold in winter and hot in summer. Only the
southeastern regions bordering Pakistan have semi-tropical climate.
2.04      Agriculture, the dominant sector in the Afghan economy, supports
at least 80% of the population, accounts for 53% of GDP, and contributes
85% to the country's export revenue. It is relatively stagnant, however,
and subsistence oriented. The slow growth of the economy (2% per annum,
from 1962/63 to 1967/68) is due largely to the slow pace of agricultural
development.
2.05      The First and Second Five-Year Plan (1958 to 1967) emphasized
infrastructure development, especially roads, electricity and tele-
communications. Actual investment in the agricultural sector reached less
than half of planned expenditures. Moreover, two-thirds of Second Plan
agricultural investment went into slow-yielding major irrigation structures.
Output of staple food, over the 10-year period, did not keep pace with
estimated population growth.
2.06      The Third Plan (1967 to 1972) strategy calls for a shift from
infrastructure to productive agricultural and industrial investment. In
agriculture it emphasizes quick-yielding inputs, such as fertilizer and
high-yielding seed, and completion and improvement of existing irrigation
schemes. No major new irrigation projects are included. Public invest-
ment in agriculture is being raised to Af 9.7 billion (US$129 million)
in the Third Plan period compared with Af 4.4 billion in the Second Plan
and this will increase agriculture's share of the total public investment
from 18% to 29%.



-3-
Agricultural Production
2.07      About 8 million ha are believed to be arable, but only 3.8 million
ha are actually cultivated, of which about 60% (2.4 million ha) are irriga-
ted.  Foodgrains (wheat, barley, rice and corn) account for 90% of the crop
area; the balance is planted to cotton, sugar beet and cane, oil seeds,
fruit and vegetables. About 75% of the output is consumed on farms.
2.08      Livestock is important.  The national sheep flock is estimated
at 23 million of which about 6 million are Karakul sheep, highly valued
for their pelts in foreign markets. Sheep losses are high (up to 50% in
severe winters), due to poor nutrition, parasites and disease. Livestock
contributes 7% to GDP and 17% to commodity export revenue.
2.09      On the vast majority of farms, tools and methods are traditional
and productivity is low. Overall wheat yields are low averaging about
1 ton/ha, and are much less on dry lands where yields are also unreliable.
National foodgrain output has fluctuated between 3.4 and 3.9 million tons
since 1962 and, despite good weather in the last three years, has not
markedly exceeded historic levels. Wheat imports have averaged nearly
100,000 tons per year during the last six years.
2.10      The introduction of modern crop production practices has been
recent, but early results have been highly encouraging. Seeds of "Mexipak"
and other high-yielding wheat varieties have been tested, multiplied and
distributed on a limited basis. Yields of irrigated wheat, on demonstra-
tion plots and farmers' fields, have reaclhed 3 tons/ha. The Government's
"Accelerated Wheat Program," initiated in 1966, has emphasized the use
of fertilizer and improved seeds. The program has been active in selected
provinces, and despite handicaps such as inadequate production credit,
it has been well received by farmers. An estimated 10-15% of the irriga-
ted wheat area is now included in the program. Encouraging results have
also been obtained with high-yielding varieties of corn and cotton in
selected provinces.
Some Factors Affecting Development
2.11      Irrigation.  For climatic reasons, irrigation is in many regions
essential to survival. For centuries farmers have shown great ingenuity
in developing surface channels and underground tunnels, called karezes,
through which aquifers are capped and water conveyed 20-30 m below ground
for several kilometers to irrigable land. Th3se karezes in effect con-
nect hillside sources of groundwater with nearby flatland. Although very
important as a method, the karez is not the most important source of
irrigation water. In order of importance, major sources are rivers and
canals, springs, karezes, and shallow wells. Canal or surface irrigation
accounts for 85% of the 2.4 million ha of irrigated land.



- 1; _.
2.12      Most surface irrigation schemes Sap rivers, are minor in size,
and have been constructed by the f"mrs ttiemselves.  Traditional systems
are frequently destroyed through spring 'moods, resulting in costly repairs,
damaged crops, and later in the growing season crop losses througlh water
shortage.  There is an institutional mechanism through which groups of
water users approach Government for assistance in improving their systems
through more modern structures.  Goverriment had 67 suclh requests on file
in 1969. It has been able to assist in only a few cases so far. lhus
public investment for improving minor irrigation schemes has been negligible.
2.13      External assistance has concentrated on two large storage and
canal systems: one with US assistance in the Helmand Valley, the otlher
with USSR assistance in Nangahar province. Major civil works are involved
and although not yet completed, they absorbed about 50% of public expendi-
ture for agriculture during the First and Second Five-Year Plan, and will
require still further expenditures for secondary irrigation and drainage
canals, on-farm development, and settlement of new farm families. More
time will elapse before the full benefits materialize. Feasibility studies
are under way for two other large projects (Kunduz/Khahahad and liari Rud).
Asian Development Bank (ADB) financing is being contemplated for 2-4 medium-
sized irrigation projects. Construction is in progress on two other medium-
sized projects, one with Mainland Chinese, the other with USSR financial and
technical assistance. All these have long gestation periods.
2.14      Rehabilitation of small, existing irrigation systems, by contrast,
is relatively inexpensive (averaging US$120/ha), yields quick returns, and
benefits farmers already settled in the area who are willing to share con-
struction cost. Government has staff capacity for planning and executing
rehabilitation, provided that its organization is strengthened by appro-
priate means (Annex 2).
2.15      Shallow-well pumping was introduced in Afghanistan within the
past decade. About 370 pump and engine units have been imported from
Pakistan, about 100 being purchased through farmers' own initiative and
the remainder by RGA; these latter were sold to farmers with AGBANK
financing in 1967. Total area irrigated by pumps does not exceed 6,000 ha.
Since 1967 there have been applications for about 500 additional pump units,
but no procurement has been undertaken. The method of well construction
and pump installation had been influenced by Afghan farmers' experience
in Karez construction, involving placing the pump at the bottom of a double-
shaft system. 1/ Although showing adaptive ingenuity, this method of pump-
ing has technical and economic limitations. Where groundwater conditions
are satisfactory, drilled wells, although initially more costly, would be
1/   A vertical shaft is dug down to the water table, sometimes 25 m deep,
and then a second, inclined shaft is dug tc meet the vertical shaft
about 15-20 m below the surface where a diesel engine is installed.



- 5 -
more efficient and economical. Initial surveys indicate groundwater
development potential in the provinces of Kabul, Parwan and Paktia, but
there is a danger of overpumping in Ghatwin and Katawaz provinces. Addi-
tional investigations are planned with USAID assistance in Kabul, Kandahar
and Helmand provinces. Existing applications for pumps are concentrated
in Farah and Herat provinces, where observations on open wells and tube-
wells ranging in depth from 10 m to 100 m and a groundwater expert's
preliminary report indicate ample groundwater resources. The Government
is strengthening technical services to farmers acquiring and operating
pumps, with technical assistance from UNDP. Commercial well drilling has
not yet been established.
2.16      Land Tenure and Farmers' Organization.  Reliable information on
farm size and tenure exists for some regions, but not for the whole country.
Half of the cultivated area, it is estimated, is farmed by owner-operators.
Share-tenancy is common on larger farms where the land-owner generally makes
the investment decisions. Irrigated farms tend to be small (2-5 ha) in
Central and Northern regions, larger (20-IJO ha) in Southern and Western
Afghanistan.
2.17      Farmers' organizations, including cooperatives, are relatively
under-developed in Afghanistan. These are expanding slowly but without
any guidance from government agencies at present. Water users' associations
are not established by law, but traditional organizations exist which
operate and maintain their irrigation schemes.
2.18      Support Services.  Agricultural research and extension services,
established only 6 and 12 years ago respectively, are the responsibility
of the Ministry of Agriculture and Irrigation (MAI). Some time will elapse
and substantial outside technical and financial assistance will be required
until staff competence and leadership will reach effective levels.
2.19      Conflicts in the extension agents' role, due to their involve-
ment in regulatory functions and supply distribution, are being eliminated.
For example, extension workers are no longer responsible for farmers'
compliance with cotton and sugar beet acreage allotments, and the respon-
sibility for distributing wheat seed and fertilizer under the "Accelerated
Wheat Program" is gradually being shifted to the Food Department and to
bonded village leaders (Annex 3).
2.20      About 300 extension workers serve some 2.1 million farm families.
Since this 1:7,000 ratio is so inadequate, bilateral assistance in agricul-
tural development has concentrated on regional development schemes: The
Helmand Valley scheme supported by USAID; the Paktia Development Scheme
supported by Germany; and a Cotton Development Institute near Kunduz sup-
ported by France. With assured budgetary allocations from the Afghan, the
US and German Governments respectively, the Helmand Valley Authority (HVA)
and the Paktia Development Authority (PDA) have financial and administrative
autonomy. Aside from watar resource development and input supply, agricul-



- 6 -
tural research and extension are major components of these regional develop-
ment schemes. HVA will also have a USAID funded short-term credit program,
in close coordination with the AGBANK's medium- and long-term credit program.
2.21      The thrust of MAI's research and extension effort has been on
the "Accelerated Wheat Program" which aims at introducing high-yielding
wheat varieties coupled with improved cultural practices and short-term
input credit. Wheat research and extension have also had USAID technical
assistance. In Nangahar province, 90% of the wheat acreage is reported
to have been planted with improved seed in 1969.
2.22      Agricultural Credit.  Institutional credit for agriculture was
introduced in Afghanistan with the AGBANK's establishment in 1954.  Earlier
established commercial banks, the Pashtany Tejeraty Bank, the Bank Melli,
and the Da Afghanistan Bank (which performs both central bank and commer-
cial bank functions) have not been active in agricultural production credit.
Only some large farms have access to these banks whose interest charges,
mainly for short-term loans, range from 9% to 12% per annum. Commercial
banks have financed processing and marketing of agricultural commodities,
however, especially for export of grapes, raisins, and karakul pelts.
2.23      Two approaches to improving short-term credit for input purchase
are being tried on a limited scale. One involves distribution of these
inputs from provincial warehouses, against farmers' or small merchants'
pledge to repay after harvest through delivery of grain; the other involves
distribution of seed and fertilizer "packages" through elected village
leaders. While these approaches appear to be popular, a true short-term
credit program has not yet emerged.
2.24      As in other countries at a similar stage of development, small
farmers depend primarily on non-institutional sources, landlords, mer-
chants, and money-lenders for loans in cash or kind. Interest charges on
these often exceed 30% per annum.
2.25      Machinery.  Tractors were introduced in 1964 and there is a great
deal of interest among farmers in their potential. One hundred were im-
ported in 1964 and a further 300 in 1966. Since then a back-log of 217
applications for tractors has been accumulated.  The demand is great enough
to have stimulated unofficial imports from Pakistan, and it is estimated
that at least 100 tractors have been brought across the border. Advantages
of tractor operation cited by farmers in areas suitable for them are: full
use of irrigated land (eliminating areas left fallow because of draft ani-
mal shortage); better and more timely land preparation; and more double-
cropping (Annex 4).



2.26      The "polyculteur," an animal-drawn multi-purpose implement for
cultivation, introduced with French technical assistance, has achieved
some initial success in the country and is being manufactured locally.
Its wide-spread adoption will only be achieved, however, as an integral
part of improved practices for commercial crops like cotton and sugar
beets. Other implements for which demand is expected to increase are
grain and fertilizer drills imported from Pakistan, and locally-made
threshing machines.
III. THE AGRICULTURAL DEVELOPMENT BANK OF AFGHANISTAN (AGBANK)
General
3.01      The AGBANK (formerly the Agricultural and Cottage Industries Bank)
is the only source of institutional credit to farmers and would be the
main channel for the proposed IDA Credit. After a promising start in 1954,
the AGBANK devoted increasing portions of its limited resources to supply
of fertilizer, pesticides and farm machinery and to investments in firms
engaged in agricultural processing and trade, at the expense of its credit
function. Its lending performance has been poor and at very low interest
rates. Security requirements have been excessive and unsuitable for short=@
term production loans since chattel mDrtgages and cooperative laws did not
exist. Its earnings have been mediocre, due primarily to weak organization
and ineffective management which lacked experience in agricultural credit.
It has had no access to additional resources which would have been necessary
to sustain an agriculture credit program (details are at Annex 1).
3.02      Corrective action is now being taken to improve organization and
management and to revise loan regulations and procedures. With further
staff training and provision of permanent resources as part of the proposed
Project, the AGBANK should constitute a suitable channel for the proposed
Credit.
Resources
3.03      The AGBANK is a joint stock company with an authorized capital
of Af 150 million. Most of its resources have been contributed by Govern-
ment principally as capital. Out of an estimated capitalization of
Af 162 million (based on provisional accounts as of March 20, 1970, the
end of the last fiscal year), Af 100 million was equity, consisting of
paid up capital of Af 86 million and reserves (net of estimated portfolio
losses) of Af 14 million. The AGBANK has no access to long-term borrowings
and there are no discounting facilities available in Afghanistan. About
half of the outstanding debt of Af 62 million represents the balance of
five-year medium-term credits principally from foreign suppliers, repayable
by 1972. The other half consists of short-term government deposits and



-8-
accounts payable. RGA has agreed that AGBANK would retain as equity capital
that part of the IDA Credit which covers its lending program (US$3.7 mil-
lion, paras. 4.14 and 5.09).
Use of Resources
3.04      Since 1954, AGBANK has made loans totalling about Af 225 million
(US$3 million). Lending, however, declined progressively to 15 loans
totalling Af 5 million (US$70,000) in 1968/69 and to an even lower level
in 1970. The estimated portfolio as of March 20, 1970 was about Af 91 mil-
lion (US$1.2 million), net of about Af 20 million of doubtful accounts.
Most of the latter stem from loans disbursed before 1961. Recent portfolio
reviews have indicated that the large arrears about 30% were due to
inadequate collection procedures rather than to debtors' unwillingness to
pay. Initial improvements have been recorded and should proceed under
reorganized management (para. 3.09). Interest rates charged by AGBANK
were 4% for short-term loans, 5-6% for medium-term and 7% for long-term.
These rates, which would be increased in connection with the proposed
Project, are substantially below commercial rates, do not reflect lending
costs and contributed to the AGBANK's mediocre earnings performance
(para. 3.06).
3.05      Under its revised Charter, AGBANK will no longer be permitted
to continue investing in firms engaged in agricultural processing and
trade. At March 20, 1970, such investments aggregated Af 18 million.
AGBANK has been increasingly active in agricultural supply transactions
(tractors, waterpumps, fertilizers, pesticides and veterinary drugs). The
turnover for the last four years reached Af 142 million. Goods in stock
as of March 20, 1970 amounted to Af 19.2 million. Separation of t[ie Supply
Department's activities is in progress. Its performance will be reviewed
with a view to an eventual transfer of the supply activities to the private
sector.
Financial Position and Past Earnings
3.06      As of March 20, 1970, the liquidity position was satisfactory
(Annex 1, Appendix 5). Liquid assets of Af 29 million (US$40,000) repre-
sented 18% of total assets (Af 162 million) and covered current liabilities
1.1 times. The debt: net equity ratio was 0.5. Overall results remain
positive considering the build-up of reserves to Af 14.2 million after
adjustment for losses to be written off (Af 28.4 million). These results
were achieved partly because revenues were generated from operations in
preceding years and partly because proceeds from loan collection were kept
in bank deposits earning 6% interest per annum instead of being re-lent,
and also because of earnings from commercial transactions and participations.



- 9-
Organization and Management
3.07      As indicated in para. 1.02, a consultant teamu assumed duty in
September 1969, under a technical assistance project financed by UNDP/SF.
There are four experts: a credit specialist, an agricultural economist,
a supply manager and an accountant. They hold senior executive positions.
The credit specialist is the General Manager.
3.08      Organizational improvements have already been achieved through
approval in January 1970 of a revised Charter which is satisfactory to
IDA. The General Manager and the President are now ex-officio members of
the Supreme Council, whose chairman (formerly the Minister of Agriculture)
is the Minister of Finance. The Supreme Council delegates executive power
to the Executive Board which consists of the President, the two Vice-Presi-
dents and the four consultants. Staff training is in progress by Program
on Agricultural Credit and Cooperatives in Afghanistan (PACCA) (Annex 3,
para. 5) and through on-the-job training under the consultants. The pro-
posed Project includes fellowships for further staff training.
3.09      Lending Policies and Procedures.  The four consultants are also
in the process of redrafting loan regulations and introducing effective
loan appraisal, supervision, and collection procedures. Hitherto, AGBANK
has insisted on mortgages on land as security for every loan in the absence
of chattel mortgage and cooperative laws. The formalities for obtaining
mortgages are complicated, time-consuming and expensive. This type of
security is not suitable for short-term production loans. The consultants
are in the process of investigating possibilities of liberalizing security
requirements and introducing chattel mortgage and cooperative society laws.
Agricultural Finance Agency (AFA)
3.10      The AFA is being established as a semi-autonomous agency, with
head office in the city of Lashkar-Gah (Helmand province). RGA and USAID
have agreed to transfer Af 49 million (US$600,000) as additional capital
subscription to AGBANK. Simultaneously AGBANK would apply these funds
to subscribe the initial AFA capital. AFA's own lending program would be
developed in accordance with AGBANK's lending policies and procedures,
AFA acting as a branch office. AGBANK's General Manager would be an ex-
officio member of AFA's administrative board with veto powers. Although RGA,
USAID and AGBANK have reached agreement on these conditions which are satis-
factory to IDA, final agreements and AFA's proposed Charter have not yet been
signed.



- 10 -
IV. THE PROJECT
A. General DescrLption
4.01      The Project is a lending program by AGBANK to finance farmers'
investment in farm mechanization, shallow-well pumps and improvement of
small traditional irrigation facilities. Aside from financial support
for the lending program, it aims at institution building: to enable
AGBANK to meet Afghan farmers' credit needs and to assist the Ministry of
Agriculture and Irrigation in minor irrigation improvement and groundwater
development, during and beyond the Project's disbursement period. Because
planning and execution of the irrigation improvements are carried out by
MAI, the Project would include provision of technical assistance and
equipment to strengthen MAI's capabilities. Total Project cost is esti-
mated at AF 542 million (US$7.2 million).
4.02      Type of investment, typical farm size, phasing and average invest-
ment per farm is shown below:
Average                              Average   Total
Farm                                Invest-  Invest-
Size          Number of Loans         ment     ment
Year    Year    Year       per Farm    Af
Lending ProRra            ha     1        2       3   Total Af'0O   million
1.   Farm Mechanization
Tractors &
Attachments        60    150       150     150   450   476       214
Animal-drawn
Implements          4    500    1,000   2,000 3,500       5       18
2.   Pumpsets             40    130       150     150   430   175         75
3.   Irrigation
Rehabilitation      5    800       900   1,100 2,800    45       126
Total               1,580    2,200   3,400 7,180              433
The Project would cover the purchase of the investment goods by AGBANK's
Supply Department and arrangements for their subsequent distribution
under AGBANK's credit operation. The equipment and technical services
component, accounting for the remainder of the Project, would include
expert and local extension services and fellowships, office, construction
and design equipment.



- 11 -
B. Detailed Features
Farm Machinery
4.03      Tractors and Related Equipment.  The Project would provide for
the purchase of 450 tractors (35-45 hp) together with spare parts and
implements, including trailers and locally made threshing machines. A
back-log of demand for this type of equipment has accumulated since 1966
when imports ceased. About 300 tractors would be sold in the Helmand/
Kandahar and Paktia provinces and the remaining 150 in provinces where
improved wheat, cotton, and maize are being introduced, including areas
covered by the project irrigation schemes.
4.04      Normally, loans would be made to farmers or contractors culti-
vating about 40 ha of irrigated land, unless, on smaller farms, it
could be proved that the tractor would also be used for custom work, with
reasonable evidence that there will be at least 1,000 hours per year of
productive work in agriculture. During negotiations, assurances were
obtained on the foregoing. Loans would include the purchase of auxiliary
equipment such as a plow and tiller or other implements needed by the
farmer. An average loan would be Af 380,000 (US$5,000) repayable over
five years without a grace period.
4.05      Animal-Drawn Equipment.  Ox-drawn implements (polyculteurs) would
be sold on credit to small farmers cultivating about 4 ha of irrigated land,
initially in provinces served by the cotton development center at Kunduz.
Altliough one unit with attachments suitable for cotton and wheat cultivation
costs only Af 5,000 (US$67), farmers' repayment capability depends on simul-
taneous use of other improved cultural practices (para. 2.26). To establish
and expand a coordinated program, RGA would add a cotton-wheat extension
and marketing program to its existing cotton research, seed multiplication,
and extension training program, under guidance of French technical assis-
tance experts; IDA received assurances on this. Assurances were also ob-
tained that AGBANK would extend short-term credit for cotton and wheat fer-
tilizer to farmers purchasing polyculteurs with medium-term loans. Farmer
loans which would average Af 4,000 (US$54), would be repayable over three
years without a grace period.
Shallow-Well Pumps and Experimental Tubewell Development
4.06      The provision of pumps would assist farmers, cultivating about
40 ha, in the installation of about 430 pumps and engines (mainly 20 hp).
In addition, RGA would give these farmers technical assistance in well
construction and selection of pumps best suited to groundwater and pump
conditions. In certain regions, the groundwater/pump expert provided for
in the Project is likely to recommend tubewells rather than the conventional
shallow-well pumps. All pump loans would require the groundwater and pump
expert's technical approval (paras. 5.01 and 5.03) in addition to AGBANK's
evaluation in terms of incremental returns. A continued evaluation of



groundwater resources will be part of the ex'ert services provided for.
Farmer loans for pumpsets averaging about .5t 140,000 (US$1,900) would be
repayable in six years without a grace period.
Improvement of Small Traditional Irrr4g,?tion Schemes
4.07      These small irrigation schemes involve groups of about 200
farmers, cultivating about 5 ha eag    Project investments would cover
construction of intakes, spiliwavs, syphons, sluices, and gated turnouts
(technical details are at Annex 2). Emphasis would be on improvements
which would ensure efficient water use 'within each canal system rather than
individual components of the system. Only in exceptional circumstances
would the expansion of existing canal schemes to irrigate adjacent publicly-
owned land be financed. In such cases Government would, in accordance with
its current practice, bear the costs attributable to that part of the com-
mand area. Assurance was obtained that this practice would be continued.
4.08      Although costs would vary from scheme to scheme, a 1,000 ha model
based on experience in Afghanistan indicates improvement costs would average
about Af 9,000 (US$120) per ha. MAI would carry out, and bear, the costs
of survey, design, and feasibility analysis. It would also provide technical
services and supervision during and after construction. Construction costs
would be financed by AGBANK through long-term loans (nine years, including
two years grace period) to farmers and/or associations of water users. To
be eligible for AGBANK financing these associations would be legally estab-
lished. Loan contracts would provide for security, repayment, organization
and management of the water users' associations. Assurances were obtained
on the foregoing.
4.09      Under the Project, 14 rehabilitation schemes would be undertaken.
Three would be carried out by the Helmand Valley Authority (HVA) which has
experienced irrigation engineers and technical assistance from the USAID.
Three further schemes would be carried out by Paktia Development Authority
(PDA) with the support of German irrlgation experts. The remaining eight,
in the Central and Northern provinces, would be done by MAI, or by contrac-
tors under MAI's supervision.
Supporting Services
4.10      The available contingent of local and expatriate irrigation
engineers and surveyors is adequate for planning and implementing invest-
ments under the Project, but their services cannot be fully utilized due to
lack of management and equipment. The Project, therefore, provides for
strengthening of MAI by the addition of three experts for irrigation re-
habilitation and one for groundwater development (paras. 5.02 and 5.03);
the experts would have managerial functions. Additional equipment, vehicles,
extension staff and finance for operating expenses are also required and
details of the provision for these under the Project are given at Annex 3,
Table 1.



- 13 -
C. Cost Estimates and Financing
4.11      Estimated project cost and foreign exchange requirements are
shown below:
Af  (million)           US$   ('000)    Foreign
Local         Total   Local   Fgn. Total &2h.n:e
a.  LENDING PROGRAM
1.  Farm Mechanization
Tractors                27.3 108.9 136.2       364 1,452  1,816   SO
Tractor attachments     15.0   60.0   75.0     200    800 1,000    80
Stationary threshers     2.0    1.3   3.3       26    18      44    40
Animal-drawn
implements           10.5    7.0  17.5      140     93    233    40
2.  Pumpsets
Pimpsj eingines & pipes   8.9   35.4  44.3     118    473   591    80
Wells & pump
installation         30.9    --   30.9    413              413   --
3.   rrigation
Rehabilitation       75.6  50.4 126.0  1,ooB   672  1,68o    40
Sub-total ...... 170.2  263.0 1433.2  2,269  3,508  5,777    61
b. TRACTOR SPARES                      17.0  17.0        __ 227    227   100
c. SUPPORTING TECHNICAL SERVICES
BEpert services              31.   28.4  31.5       42    378    420    90
Fellowships                   --   21.6   21.6       --    288    288   100
Local extension services     8.8    --    8.8    118        3- 118    --
Vehicles and office            -                      -
equipment                  --    9.3    9.3      -_    124    124   100
Construction & design          -
equipment                  --   20.2  20.2       --    269    269   100
Sub-total ......   119   79.5  91.4       160 1,059 1,219    87
Total ..........  182.1  359.5  541.6  2,429 4,794  7,223    66
Foreign exchange costs are est4iured on the basis of dealers' CIF
Kabul quotations for tractors, attachments, pumpsets, vehicles and equipment
and include 5% for contingenci-    Local costs of these items were estimated
at 25% of their CIF costs. For rrinor irrigation schemes, estimates of foreign
exchange and total costs are based on experience with similar works in
Afghanistan. Spare part requirements for the disbursement period are esti-
mated at about 15% of the CIF value of _._. &-actors. This constitutes an initial
stock of spare parts.



4.12      The Project would be financed as follows:
Total Foreign
Farmers      Gov' t.     AGBANK        IDA      Cost Excchange
%  of       %   o- %  of             %  of        %  of
Af M Total Af M Total Af M Total Af M Total Af M Total
a. LENDING PROGRAM
1. Farm Mechanization
Tractors      27.3  20      --   --     --   -   108.9  80   136.2  80
Tractor
attachments 15.0  20      --   --     --   -     60.0  80    75.0  80
Stationary
threshers    0.7  20      --  --    1.3  40       1.3  40       3.3  40
Aimal -draln
Implements   3.5  20      --7.0                   7.0  40    17.5   4'
2. Pungsets
umps, engines
& pipes      8.9  20      --   -      --   --    35.4  80    44.3  80
Wells & plump
installationl5.4   50     --  --  15.5   50        --  --    30.9   --
3. Irrigation Rehabilitation
Saall schemes 25.2  20      __   _    37.8  40    63.0  50  126.0  40
Sub-total   96.0  22                61.6  14   275.6  64   433.2
b. TRACTOR SPARES     -           -    --     --         17.0  100    17.0  100
c. SUPPORTING TECENICAL SERVICE
lcpert services    -- _-    3.1  10             -     28.4   90   31.5   90
Fellowships        --   --     --  -_    --   --    21.6  100    21.6  lOo
Local extension
services         --         4.4  50      --  --      4.4  50      8.8   --
Vehicles & office
equipment        --  --      --   --    --   --      9.3 100      9.3 100
Construction & desigmf
equipment        --  --      -    --     --   --    20.2  100    20.2 100
Sub-total                7.5                     83.9         91.4
Total       96.0  18    7.5    1   61.6  U1   376.5  70  5141.6  66
(in US$ Million)    (1.3)       (0.1)       (0.8)        (5.0)        (7.2)



- 15 -
4.13      The IDA Credit of Af 377 million (US$5 million) would finance
(a) the foreign exchange component of farm machinery, pumps, irrigation
rehabilitation, expert services, fellowships, vehicles and construction
equipment and (b) local currency costs covering 10% of irrigation rehabi-
litation and 50% of the additional extension services. Although IDA's
contribution to local costs (Af 17 million or US$230,000) would be small,
it would help ensure that essential extension services would be provided.
In total, IDA would finance 70% of the Project costs while farmers would
contribute 18%, AGBANK 11% and RGA 1%.
4.14      RGA would be the borrower and would bear the exchange risk.  It
would transfer about Af 276 million (US$3.7 million) or 73% of the Credit
proceeds to AGBANK as equity and retain the balance to help finance expen-
ditures for technical assistance, fellowships and expert services. The
proposed transfer of IDA capital to AGBANK would, after full disbursement
of the IDA Credit, eliminate the need for further contributions from RGA
to AGBANK and pass on to AGBANK the principal benefit of IDA terms. This
would enable AGBANK to use farmer repayments for re-lending for similar
agricultural projects (see para. 5.09 and Annex 1, Appendices 3, 4 and 5).
Assurances were obtained on the foregoing.
D. Procurement
4.15      Farmers' purchases of tractors through existing dealerships are
not acceptable since a reasonable level of competition does not exist;
only one established tractor dealer imports from IDA countries (imports
began only in 1966 and total some 200 to date), and dealers in pumpsets
(who are not yet well established) represent only two or three makes. One
local firm is beginning to manufacture water pumps. AGBANK would procure
tractors, attachments, spares and pumpsets through international competi-
tive bidding. Provided specifications can be met, the local manufacturer of
pumpsets may participate in international competitive bidding with a level
of preference of 15% or prevailing customs duties, whichever is lower.
AGBANK would also coordinate procurement through international competitive
bidding of vehicles and construction equlxment, and local dealers would be
invited to participate without any preference.  To encourage development of
efficient dealer services, AGBANK would require suppliers submitting bids
to give full particulars as to after-sale service arrangements and suppliers
not meeting satisfactory service conditions would be disqualified. Assurances
of these procurement conditions were obtained during negotiations.
4.16      Importation of an initiai stock of tractor spares would be equal
to 15%, of the CIF value of all tractors. however, to ensure proper ser-
vicing of project tractors, assurances were received from RGA that for the
five years following the final IDA dis:.-.rsement for tractors, import licen-
ses would be issued to AGBANK or dealer. for the annual importation of
tractor spares at 10% of the CIF value of all tractors imported under the
Project.



-- 16 -
4.17      Ox-drawn implements, th-shers and other locally made small
equipment which is specially desi- -  for Afghan farmers' needs and
would involve average investments o. less than the equivalent of
US$100,000 annually or about US$270,000 in total, would not attract
foreign firms at this stage. They would, therefore, be locally procured
by AGBANK.
4.18      Irrigation rehabilitation for 14 schemes at estimated average
cost of Af 9 million (US$120,000) each would involve small civil works and
would be carried out over three and a half years. Similar works are at pre-
sent carried out by MAI, HVA and PDA in their respective regions. Being
labor-intensive, they would not be attractive for foreign firms, but might
attract local contractors for all or part of the works in each scheme.  Local
competitive bidding would, therefore, be required for each scheme or for its
major components. AGBANK together with MAI's Minor Irrigation Section's
project manager would be responsible for preparing tender documents and
for evaluating bids. If contractors do not participate or if their bids
are not judged acceptable, MAI's Construction Sub-section, HVA and PDA
would carry out the works in thteir respective regions. IDA's approval
prior to the award would be required where construction costs or contracts
for one scheme exceed US$100,000 in the aggregate. RGA would continue its
current practice of bearing the construction cost attributable to the
expansion of existing command areas (para. 4.07).
E. Disbursements
4.19      Disbursement under the Project would cover 3-1/2 years, allowing
for completion of irrigation improvement initiated during the third year.
Against appropriate statements and documents IDA would disburse:
(a) the CIF value of tractors, attachments, pumpsets, MAI
and AGBANK vehicles, construction, design and office
equipment, the foreign exchange cost of expert services,
fellowships, and spare parts upon proof that importation
of such spare parts has been made under license from RGA;
(b) 50% of the irrigation rehabilitation cost, and 40%
of the cost of ox-drawn implements, threshing machines
and other locally made equipment, upon certification
that such goods and services have been sold or extended
against loans to farmers; and
(c) 50% of RGA's expenditures for additional extension
services required under the Project.
At RGA's request, IDA would disburse directly to foreign suppliers, based
upon invoice and shipping documents.



- 17 -
V. ORGANIZATION AND MANAGEMENT
5.01      The two main agencies involved are the Ministry of Agriculture
and Irrigation (MAI) and the AGBANK. AGBANK's reorganization is in pro-
gress (paras. 3.08 and 5.06). In the Ministry, a Minor Irrigation Section
(MIS) (para. 5.02), including a new Ground Water Development Sub-section (GWD)
(para. 5.03), would be established. The extension services would be ex-
panded and improved under the Project. RGA would also establish a Project
Coordinating Committee (para. 5.04). Assurances were obtained on the fore-
going.
Ministry of Agriculture and Irrigation
5.02      Minor Irrigation Section (MIS).  MIS would consist of three sub-
sections: (a) Survey and Design, (b) Construction and (c) Ground Water
Development (Annex 2, Appendix 4). The sub-sections (a) and (b) would be
responsible for the rehabilitation of minor irrigation schemes, for which
MAI would secure the services of a Design Engineer (Project Manager), a
Construction Engineer and a Farm Management Expert for three years each
(Annex 2, Appendix 3) in addition to supporting staff as needed for the
Project. MIS would be further strengthened through procurement of vehicles,
irrigation design and construction equipment under the Project. RGA has
assured that MIS would be established, staffed and equipped as proposed
and that MAI would render the services required for preparation and execu-
tion of minor irrigation schemes, and would not divert MIS staff and
equipment services for purposes outside the Project, without approval
of the Project Coordinating Committee (para. 5.04).
5.03      Ground Water Development Sub-section (GWD).  GWD would be set up
as a sub-section of MIS and would be responsible for the study, evaluation
and execution of groundwater development. It would also assist AGBANK in
the appraisal of applications for pump loans and in the preparation of
tender documents for pumpsets. The services of a Groundwater and Pump
Expert would be required for three years (Annex 2, Appendix 3) in addition
to supporting staff. Assurances were obtained on the establishment and
staffing of GWD.
5.04      Project                    itee.  This committee would be composed
of representatives of AGBANK, the Ministries of Agriculture and Planning
(Annex 2, Appendix 5) and would have the following responsibilities:
i) to coordinate all tezhnical aspec_s of irrigation and agricultural ex-
tension with AGBANK's _nding proi,>->   it) subject to preliminary evaluation
of MIS and AGBANK's technical staff. zo approve each minor irrigation and
pump scheme, before construction ana credit operations would be allowed to
begin; iii) to approve plans and procedures for preparing a second-stage
project; and iv) to nominate trainees and develop training programs for
AGBANK and MIS, including GWD staff  'r..  -,  ppendix 6).  Assurances on



- 18 -
the foregoing have been obtained. The appointment of the four experts
(paras. 5.02 and 5.03) and the establishment of the Project Coordinating
Committee would be conditions of effectiveness.
5.05      Extension Services.  Existing services in Helmand and Paktia
provinces are adequate. Assurances were obtained that extension services
would be expanded and improved for farmers investing in animal-drawn equip-
ment, initially in provinces served by the cotton development center at
Kunduz, and for those undertaking irrigation rehabilitation in Central and
Northern Afghanistan and pump irrigation in Southeastern Afghanistan, Farah
and Herat provinces. In addition, demonstration farms and plots would be
established within irrigation areas. The present staff of about 300 would
need to be increased by not less than 100 over the next three years (Annex 3)
to cope with the additional work. In view of inadequate budgetary support
in the past, assurances were obtained that sufficient funds would be made
available on a timely basis for the operating expenses of MIS and for the
extension services to be established under the Project. To enable MiAI to
start operations when the Project becomes effective, RGA has assured that an
initial amount of Af 1.5 million (US$20,000) would be available to MAI.
Thereafter, annual budgets would be prepared by the Project Coordinating
Committee and, after Government's approval, would be submitted to IDA.
Agricultural Development Bank of Afghanistan (AGBANK)
5.06      Organization and Management.  AGBANK would be capable of adminis-
tering the Project subject to further strengthening of its organization and
management. The following assurances have, therefore, been obtained:
(a) the revised Charter approved in January 1970 would not
be changed without IDA's approval (para. 3.08);
(b) changes in the appointments of AGBANK's President and
its two Vice-Presidents would not be made without con-
sulting IDA;
(c) AGBANK would, over the next two years, supplement the six
university graduates on its staff with at least 10 more and
would accelerate further training under the fellowship pro-
gram provided in the Project (para. 4.12 and Annex 2,
Appendix 6); and
(d) arrangements satisfactory to IDA would be made to ensure
the continued management of AGBANK after September 1972,
when the existing UNDP/SF management service contract
terminates (para. 3.07).



- 19 -
5.07      Lending Policies and Procedures.  As indicated in para. 3.09, new
lending policies and procedures are being prepared by the consultants.
These policies and procedures should be submitted to IDA for review and
approval by AGBANK's Supreme Council as a condition of effectiveness.
5.08      To help ensure the technical feasibility and economic justifica-
tion of sub-loans under the Project, assurances were obtained that:
(a) farmers' loan requests for tractors and pumpsets would be
evaluated in terms of incremental returns;
(b) pump loans would, in addition, require the groundwater and
pump expert's technical approval;
(c)  unless otherwise agreed with IDA, farmers investing in
animal-drawn equipment, initially in provinces served by
MAI's Cotton Development Center in Kunduz, would not
receive loans without the recommendation of MAI's or
PACCA's designated extension officer, certifying that
these farmers are participating in MAI's cotton/wheat
improvement program; and
(d) loans to farmers for minor irrigation rehabilitation would
be appraised on the basis of MAI's evaluation reports and
feasibility analyses.
5.09      Financing and Expansion.  In connection with the proposed Project,
RGA has recently increased AGBANK's resources by Af 20 million. In addition,
RGA and USAID have agreed to transfer Af 49 million as additional capital
subscription to AGBANK for AFA's operations (para. 3.10). Assurances were
obtained that the establishment of AFA or any other such subsidiary would
be made on terms and conditions acceptable to IDA. To further augment
AGBANK's resources, as mentioned in paras. 3.03 and 4.14, the lending pro-
gram portion of the IDA Credit would be passed on to AGBANK as equity.
This would enable AGBANK to continue and expand its lending program beyond
the disbursement period of the Project (Annex 1, Appendix 3).
5.10      Interest Rates and Future Earnings.  Assurances were obtained that
interest rates to farmers (including fees and service charges) would be
raised from 4% to 10% on short-term loans and from 5-7% to 8% on medium- and
long-term loans and that a 2% pe.r annum oenalty rate for late repayment
would be introduced. This increase is needed to reflect lending costs,
especially the higher cost and risk of short-term loans, and to enable
AGBANK to accumulate resources consistent with its expansion needs. The
new rates would be more in line witn commercial rates in the country
(para. 2.22) while within the estimated payment capabilities of farmers.
These rates will be implemented ana would not be changed without IDA's ap-
proval. Such rates would be reviewed from time to time with IDA to ensure
that the objectives mentioned above continue to be met.



- 20 -
5.11      Forecasts of income and expenses (Annex 1, Appendix 4) show that
in five years gross income would increase almost four times while expenses
and provisions for bad debts would only double. Taking into account only
the lending operations, the net return to capital in 1974/75, after taxes,
would be about 2.5%. On this basis, reserves would build up to about
Af 46 million. Estimates, not reflected in this report, indicate that if
profits from marketing and supply operations were included the net return
would be in the order of 5%.
5.12      Accounts and Audit.  AGBANK's revised Charter provides for the
auditing of accounts at least once every fiscal year. Present audit
arrangements are unsatisfactory because qualified personnel are not em-
ployed. Moreover, for many years accounts were kept in branches, without
effective control and supervision from the head office. An interim audit
was prepared by a German accountant to evaluate the portfolio and clarify
the accounts. A full audit by an accountant acceptable to IDA for the
years ending March 20, 1969 and 1970 would be a condition of effectiveness.
In addition, assurances were obtained that AGBANK will henceforth employ
auditors acceptable to IDA and submit to IDA, not later than four months
following the close of each fiscal year, audited statements of its entire
operations.



- 21 -
VI. PRODUCTION, MURKETS, PRODUCER BENEFITS AND REVENUE GENERATION
Production
6.01      Under the Project about 7,000 farms cultivating some 70,000 ha
would benefit from mechanization, irrigation rehabilitation and pump irri-
gation (para. 4.02). Incremental production at full development is esti-
mated at 70,000 tons of wheat, 50,000 tons of maize and 10,000 tons of
seed cotton, aside from small quantities of rice and alfalfa.
Markets
6.02      Domestic demand can readily absorb the incremental production
generated by the Project, except for cotton which would either be exported
as lint or processed, substituting for imported cotton goods.
(a) Wheat imports have averaged more than 100,000 tons annually.
Incremental production under the Project would partly fill
this gap.
(b) Part of the incremental maize production would also substitute
for wheat imports since Afghans in several regions eat maize;
the remainder would be fed to sheep (mainly karakul), thus
helping to reduce winter death loss (para. 2.08).
(c) Cotton exports have during the last five years contributed
between 10% and 21% to Afghanistan's export revenue. The
cotton has an average staple length of 1-1/16" and has been
sold to USSR and European countries. Incremental project
output would either be exported or processed, thus substi-
tuting for imports of cotton fabrics which during the last
five years have averaged 29 to 36 million meters annually.
Cotton ginneries have about 60% unused capacity at present.
(d) The small additional quantities of rice would be readily absorbed
in domestic urban markets while alfalfa would mainly be bought
by camel and sheep owners.
6.03      Prices.  Present farm prices for wheat, maize and cotton are shown
below in comparison with 1975 projected world market prices.  World prices
included transport allowance of US$20/mt from Karachi to Kabul for wheat and
maize, while cotton prices are adjusted to FOB Kabul basis by deducting
US$12b/mt for ginning, baling, tra:.sport, insurance and handling.



- 22 -
Present                   1975 Projected
Price                  World Market Price
Afghanistan            Adjusted FOB Kabul Basis
----US$/mt----------------------
Wheat               67                            85
Maize               48                            83
Cotton, Lint       381                           421
Wheat prices have been fairly stable for about two years at Af 35/seer
(US$67/mt) after declining from a temporary high of Af 57/seer (US$109/nit)
in 1966, due mainly to poor harvest. They are supported by strong domestic
demand and by a modest Government purchase program which aims at stabiliz-
ing producer and consumer prices. The buying price of cotton is fixed by
Government, and has been at present levels since 1958. About four years
ago, when the farm price per unit of seed cotton was only equal to the
then high price of wheat (Af 38-43 or US$76/mt) farmers lost interest in
cotton and national production of seed cotton declined from 110,000 mt in
1963 to 59,000 mt in 1966. Government intends to maintain the present
cotton price as an incentive to increase cotton output.
Producer Benefits and Revenue Generation
6.04      The Project would substantially increase farm income by intensi-
fying and improving production on irrigated farms through use of tractors
and ox-drawn implements, and by providing additional and reliable water
supply through irrigation rehabilitation and pump irrigation. Benefits
have been estimated on the basis of farm models:



- 23 -
Farm Size in ha            4               60          40          5
Pumpset     Minor
Animal-drawn    Tractor and      and    Irrigation
Implements a/ Attachments Dug Well Rehabilitation
------------------------(in Af)---------------------
Model Investment              5,000          476,700    175,000      45,000
Annual Net Income:
Without project         14,594           70,565     12,840     19,177
With project at full
development           18,690         216,396      57,450     30,370
Increment                     4,096         145,831      44,610     11,193
Debt Service                  1,552           95,510     30,000       6,915
Increment after Debt
Service                     2.544           50.321     14,610       4,278
Financial Rate of Return:
As Appraised              a/               31%        23%         22%
6.05      Farm labor has been charged at full rates on the larger pump and
tractor farms.  On 4 ha and 5 ha farms allowances have been made for family
labor by deducting the value of wheat for home consumption, but labor re-
quirements exceeding available supplies of family labor have been charged
at hired labor rates, ranging from Af 30 to Af 50 per day. The higher
rates take into account peak labor periods when demand for hired labor
tends to be high relative to available supplies.
a/   Animal-drawn implements are being introduced together with fertilizer,
high-yielding seed and other improved practices and with concentrated
supervision from extension staff for which the farmers do not pay.
Although an attempt has been made to determine the benefits due to
the polyculteur alone (Annex 5), the underlying assumptions remain
arbitrary until additional input/output studies have been completed
in Afghanistan. The financial rate of return due to the polyculteur
alone has, therefore, not been computed. The total "package of
improved practices would more than double farmers' net value of
production (Annex 5) and would offer adequate incentives.



- 24 -
6.06      All costs, including land tax, water charge for minor irrigation
rehabilitation, and interest on short-term loans were deducted in computing
net incremental income before debt service. For all farm models, net
incremental income after debt service provides adequate incentives to in-
vest under the Project.
6.07      Incremental taxes generated by land and water resource improve-
ment would be negligible. Present land tax rates are very low and, with
the exception of irrigation schemes under HVA, water charges are payable
only to local water users' groups which are responsible for operation
and maintenance. However, if implemented as proposed, the Project would
generate (at full development and under the present tax structure) about
Af 14 million (US$190,000) of annual revenue through the tax on diesel fuel
consumed by pump engines and tractors. In addition, RGA, which together
with the State Bank owns 96% of AGBANK, would realize some Af 8 million
(US$110,000) annually as income tax on AGBANK's net profit and in dividends
it would receive as AGBANK's owner.



- 25 -
VII. BENEFITS AND JUSTIFICATION
7.01      An assessment of overall benefits to the economy cannot be made
with certainty, since the Project's success depends upon participation of
small farmers who would engage in varied cropping patterns. Although tradi-
tional methods are still predominent, Afghan farmers have been remarkably
responsive to modernization efforts by development institutions in regions
where these have been concentrated, generally with bilateral or multilateral
technical assistance. Project investments would be closely associated with
these efforts and thus the probable return from the investments can be esti-
mated witlhin a reasonable degree of confidence. It has been assumed that
farms would reach full development within four years after entering the
Project. The economic rate of return would be 21%.
7.02      The rate of return has been tested to see how sensitive it is to
adverse changes in the factor most subject to uncertainty which is the
physical crop yield. A 10% decline in the incremental yield would reduce
the rate of return to 13%. While this return is still satisfactory, the
test reveals that the Project is sensitive to further yield reductions
without respective declines in costs. The probability of greater yield
reductions is small because incremental vields resulting from the Project
were conservatively estimated. The effect of drought can be ruled out
because all farms are irrigated. If incremental yields were more than 10%
below those assumed in the appraisal, this would be a result of lower input
levels, in which case lower costs would be a compensating factor. Moreover,
domestic prices are substantially below projected 1975 world market prices.
Since it is more likely that domestic prices will exceed rather than fall
short of project values there is potential protection in the event that
yields fall below expectations.
7.03      Annual value of incremental production attributable to the Project
would be about US$12 million equivalent, including direct export earnings
of about US$1 million from cotton exports and US$4.5 million equivalent
of import savings. Additional but non-quantified benefits would result
mainly from institutional improvements of the AGBANK and Ministry of Agri-
culture and Irrigation, and through further project preparation with a view
to a second-stage project.



- 26 -
VIII. RECOMMENDATIONS
8.01      During credit negotiations, assurances were obtained to ensure
satisfactory project performance. The principal assurances cover:
(a) expansion and improvement of extension services, including
establishment of demonstration farms and plots for farmers
investing under the Project (para. 5.05);
(b) evaluation of loans to farmers on the basis of technical
feasibility and incremental returns (para. 5.08); and
(c) transfer of the proceeds from the Credit designated for
credit operations to AGBANK as equity capital (para. 5.09).
8.02      Important conditions of effectiveness would be:
(a) establishment of a Minor Irrigation Section and appointment
of four experts to prepare and execute minor irrigation
rehabilitation and pump schemes (para. 5.02);
(b) establishment of a Project Coordinating Committee (para. 5.04);
and
(c)  adoption by AGBANK of operating policies and procedures,
including loan regulations, acceptable to IDA (para. 5.07).
8.03      The proposed Project is suitable for IDA assistance of US$5 million
under the usual IDA terms.
May 27, 1970



ANNEX 1
AFGHANISTAN
AGRICULTURAL CREDIT PROJECT
_- -
THE AGRICULTURAL DEVEILOPMENT BANK
Organization and Management
1.        The AGBANK was established in 1954 as a joint stock company
subject to the provisions of the Afghan commercial code. Its authorized
capital is Af 150 million; Af 86 million has been subscribed and paid
up of which the Government owns 7%. Da Afghanistan Bank (State Bank) 89%,
Bank Melli Afghan 2.3%, commercial companies 0.6% and private individuals
1.1%. Head office is in Kabul and it has ten branch offices (Map).
2.        Until January 1970, AGBANK was governed by four bodies:
i) the General Assembly of Shareholders;
ii) the Supreme Council (of which the Minister of Agriculture
was Chairman);
Lii) the Board of Directors; and
iv) the Board of Auditors.
It also had a President and two Vice-Presidents who were nominally in
charge of day-to-day operations.
3.        This system of management proved unsatisfactory and in November
1968, the Government requested UNDP/SF technical assistance for the comp-
lete reorganization of AGBANK. As a result, four experts (credit specia-
list, agricultural economist, accountant and supply specialist) took up
their duties with AGBANlK in September 1969 (their terms of reference are
at Appendix 1).
Reorganization
4.        Reorganization is now underway. The four experts hold executive
positions, the credit specialist being the General Manager. In January
1970, the Government approved a revised Charter which should permit more
efficient and flexible management. Under the revision, the chairmanship
of the Supreme Council was transferred to the Minister of Finance and the
President and General Manager of AGBANK became members.  The Board of
Directors was abolished and an Executive Board created, consisting of the
President, the two Vice-Presidents and the four experts. This Board will
be responsible for overall administration under powers delegated to it
by the Supreme Council. The Board of Auditors, elected by the General
Assembly, may delegate its duties to professional auditors of accepted
international standards.



ANNEX 1
Page 
5.        The Supply Department, which is responsible for the importation
and supply of farm machinery, fe-tilizers, pesticides and other farm
inputs, will operate as a separate entity within the framework of AGBA1YK's
general policy. Its finarncial transactions will be separated from
AGBAi'IK's lending activities.
6.        The administrative and operational systems are being revised,
including loan appraisal, supervision and collection, and accounting and
statistics.
Staff
7.        Although the staff is sufficient, numerically (112 at Head Office
and 56 in branches), only 6 are university graduates and very few have
banking or credit experience. Additional assistance in training of tech-
nical staff would be necessary. Two-year fellowships for 3 agricultural
economists, 9 accountants and 6 credit supervisors have,therefore, been
included in the Project and on-the-job training has already started under
the consultant's responsibility.
Agricultural Financing Agency(AFA)
8.        With the view to harmonizing agricultural credit throughout
Afghanistan, the USAID assisted Helmand-Arghandab Valley Authority's
(HAVA) Agricultural Credit Division would be disbanded. It would be re-
established as the Helmand Arghandab Agricultural Finance Agency (AFA),
to be administered by a Board of Directors on which AGBANK's General
Manager would be an ex-officio member with veto power.  USAID would advance
to the RGA the proceeds from US Public Law 480 transactions amounting to
Af 49 million. RGA in turn would use these funds to subscribe in like
amounts to additional capital of AIGBANK. AGBAN'K would simultaneously
apply these funds to subscribe the initial AFA capital. In conjunction
with this subscription .AFA waould immediately deposit the proceeds in
AGBANK. These funds and accrued interest would then be drawn on demand
by AFA for its credit operations and operating cost. AFA would develop
its own lending program in the Helmand and Arghandab Valley in accordance
withl AGBANK policies and procedures. In addition AFA would act as a
branch office of AGBANK for operations not covered under its own lending
program.
Lending Policies and Procedures
9.        Prior to the arrival of the UNDP experts in September 1969, loan
policies and procedures were unsatisfactory. Loan appraisal, supervision
and collection systems were not in existence. The main criterion for
granting a loan was the amount of security an applicant could offer.
Security was limited to mortgages over land which was unsuitable for
short-term production credit. The experts are in the course of drafting
new loan regulations and establishing appraisal, supervision and collec-
tion systems.



ANNEX 1
Page 3
10.       Interest rates charged to borrowers were too low, 4% per annum
for short-term loans, 5-6% per annum for medium-term and 7% per annum for
long-term. They did not cover the cost of lending, were not in accordance
with ruling cammercial rates (9-12% per annum). The whole interest rate
structure is at present being examined.
Use of Resources
11.       Lending 2Perations.  Accurate statistics are not available, but
records indicate that since 1954, AOBANK has made loans totalling Af 225
million (US$3 million). Since 1959, it has confined its operations to
medium- and long-term lending. From 1964 onward, its lending operatiQns
declined steadily and only 15 loans totalling Af 5 mllion (US$70,000) in
1968/69 and to only 12 loans totalling Af 0.8 million (US$1O,600) in the
first seven months of 1969/70.
12.       As of March 1970, after write-off of losses (Af 20 million), the
loan portfolio amounted to Af 91 million (US$1.2 million), of which Af 27
million (3oi) were principal overdue and Af 6 million interest charged and
unpaid. Of the Af 27 million overdue in principal, Af 23 million stam
from loans disbursed before1961. The high percentage of arrears is mainly
due to a complete lack of follow-up and adequate action for loan collection.
A recent survey made by AGBANK consultants and their first efforts of intro-
ducing systematic collection procedures indicate that many debtors are
willing to pay. Based on a 1967 portfolio review, an amount of Af 36 million
overdue, including Af 9 million of unpaid interest, was estimated difficult
or too expensive to collect. In 1969/70, according to the consultants'
review, such losses were estimated at Af 20 million, including Af 7.5 million
of unpaid interest and have been written off. Agreements with cotton
ginneries, sugar beet factories and AGBANK have already permitted to col-
lect an additional Af 22 million through deductions from payments to farmers.
Pending final settlement with farmers and MAI these amounts are kept in a
suspense account. The new Charter requires provision for bad debts to be
made as from 1970/71.
13.       Investments.  AGBANK's investment through capital participation
in firms and agencies engaged in agricultural processing and trade amounted
to Af 20.7 million. Over three-fourths of this was held in three firms:
Spinzar Cotton Company, AC 9.6 million; Pashtany Tedjerati Bank, Af 5 million;
and the Construction Bank, Af 1 million. Af 3 million of the investments
will not be recovered and have been written off. Under the new Charter,
AOBANK is not authorized to engage in further share participation.
14.        upply Activities.  In addition to its lending activities, AGBANK
has been active in agricultural supply transactions (tractors, waterpumps,
fertilizers, pesticides and veterinary drugs). The turnover "or the last
four years reached Af 142 million.  Goods in stock as of Marc.a 1970,
amounted to Af 19.2 million.



IANEX 1
Page 4
Resources
15.       AGEANK's resources at March 1970, amounting to Af 162 million,
(US$2.2 million), consisted of Af 86 million in capital, Af 14 million
in accumulated reserves after write-off of losses, Af 32 million in
borrowings and Af 30 million in other payableaccounts.
16.       Of its Af 150 million (US$2 million) authorized capital,
Af 86 million is paid-up capital, of which 89% is owned by Da Afghanistan
Bank, 7% by Goverment and the remaining 4% by other banks, companies and
private individuals.
17.       Borrowings are limited to one loan from Da Afghanistan Bank,
contracted in 1966 for an amount of Af 16 million, at 4% interest per
annum for five years, under special arrangement with MAU for import of
fertilizer. Af 6 million of this remained unpaid as of March 1970. Other
loans were Af 23 million obtained in 1964 from USSR at 3% per annum for
five years and Af 73 mllnion obtained in 1966 from a UK firm (Massey
Ferguson) at 5.5% per annum for five years for import of tractors. Of
these a balance of Af 26 million remains. AGBANK benefits also from some
short-term Government deposits (Af 17 million) and other payable accounts
(Af 13 million). AGBANK has no access to discounting. Such facilities
do not exist in Afghanistan.
Financial Position
18.       As of March 20, 1970, the liquidity position was satisfactory
(Annex 1, Appendix 5).  Liquid assets of Af 30 million (US$0. million)
represented 18% of total assets (Af 162 million) and covered current
liabilities 1.1 times.  The debt-net equity ratio is 0.54.  Reserves in
March 1970 were Af 14.2 million after covering the losses to be written
off which were Af 28.4 million (Af 20 million from loans Af 3 million
from participation, Af 5.4 million from doubtful debtorsi.
19.       Positive results were achieved in recent years partly because
revenues were generated from operations in preceding years and partly
because proceeds of loan collection were kept in bank deposits earning
6% interest per annum instead of being relent, and also because of
earnings from conmercial transactions and dividends on investnents.
Accounts and Auditing
20.       Records and accounting systems prior to 1970 have been inadequate.
Reorganizing of accounting and strengthening of AGBANK's internal control
are the consultants, major tasks. The new Charter requires auditing of
AOBANK accounts at least once in every fiscal year. The auditor shall be
appointed annually by the General Assembly upon proposal of the Supreme
Council. There is presently no chartered accountant acceptable to IDA in
Afghanistan. An interim audit of AGBANK accounts has been made in 1969
by a German accountant provided by the Ministry of Finance.



.XNNEX   I.
Appendix 1
AFG1ANISTtN
UITDP/SF PLAIl OF OPERATIONS
AGRICULTURAL AND COTTAGE INDUSTRIES BANK
Consultants' Tenms of Reference
I.        OBJECTIVES
The objective is the reorganization and management of the
Agricultural and Cottage Industries Bank (AGEANK) of Afghanistan to make
it an effective lending institution in the field of agriculture. (In
future the Bank will no longer be concerned with Cottage Industries and
the name will be changed accordingly.) To this end the consultants'
team shall:
(a)  advise and assist the Ministry of Finance and the AGBAqK
at all levels concerned in the organization, policy,
administration and development of the AGBANK;
(b) assume managerial and executive responsibilities within
the AGBANK;
(c) train Afghan personnel in all aspects of development
banking; and
(d) undertake such feasibility, economic and evaluation studies
as agreed from time to time by Government, Consultants and
Bank.
II.       ORGANIZATION OF SERVICES, TIi4E SCHEDULES AND REPORTS
A.        Operations and Responsibilities of Consultants, Team
The experts will hold senior executive positions within the
Agricultural Bank for an initial period of three years, during which
time they will not only be responsible for the reorganization of the Bank
and training of staff but also for operations of their respective depart-
ments. The experts will:
(a) assist in redrafting the Charter and By-Laws of the Agric-
ultural Bank (if redrafting is not completed prior to
commencement of their duties);
(b) plan and put into operation a new accounting system;



.ANTEX 1
Appendix 1
Page   2
tc) separate the supply activities from the banking functions
establishing a separate supply organization which wlll be
managed by the Agricultural Bank on an agency basis;
(d) plan and implement an effective loan appraisal and evalua-
tion system, which will include redrafting loan application
forms, instituting farm plans and budgets (where appropriate)
and making on-farm iL spections;
(e) plan and put into operation an effective collection system
for loan payments including existing loans;
(f) arrange for the supervision of loans, including a follow-up
system, to ensure thatloans are properly used and to evalu-
ate the economic results of loans;
(g) undertake studies to determine the technical feasibility
and economic return of projects submitted for consideration;
(h) plan and put into operation a system for the collection,
analysis, and publication of statistical data;
(i) work in close cooperation with the Ministries of Finance,
Agriculture and Planning, Kabul University and other train-
ing and research institutes and local representatives of
bilateral and international aid organizations;
(J) assist in the identification and preparation of investment
projects appropriate for international financing in accord-
ance with Government policy;
(k) train staff in all aspects of agricultural credit and banking-
(1) advise and assist generally in the reorganization and con-
tinued operations of the Agricultural Bank;
(m) be responsible for the operations of their respective
department; and
(n) prepare such instruction manuals as are required to guide
administrative and technical staff in day-to-day operations.
If the Bank and the Royal Government of Afghanistan approve, any
of the experts may be sent on visits to other countries for any purpose
related to their work in Afghanistan and any Afghan staff of the Agricultural
Bank may be sent abroad for periods of academic stucdr or practical training
in agricultural credit and banking.



ANNEX    1
Appendix 1
Page   3
It is anticipated that the reorganization of the Agricultural
Bank, the establishment of sound lending techniques and systems, and the
training of staff, will be completed in about three years, when the
management of the Agricultural Bank should gradually be taken over by
Afghan personnel.
B.        Duties of Team Members
The main duties of the members of the Consultants' team are:
(a) Credit Specialist: responsible for the organizational and
managerial policies of the Agricultural Bank. His duties
will be those of a General Manager;
(b) Agricultural Economist: responsible for (i) planning and
putting into operation a new loan appraisal and evaluation
system; (ii) the economic aspect of the Bank's operations;
(iii) the training of field and other staff involved in
credit operations; (iv) the evaluation of the results of
lending operations; and (v) establishing working relations
with the Ministry of Agriculture and other 'bodies and indi-
viduals engaged in agricultural development;
(c) Suplies Manager: responsible for establishing and operat-
ing a supply organization separate from the banking functions
of the Agricultural Bank. His responsibilities will include
maintaining stock records; ensuring that tractors, punps,
fertilizer, pesticides and other farm inputs are available
at the appropriate times; obtaining such supplies at compet-
itive rates; organizing distribution; ensuring that repair
and spare services are adequate; evaluating the suitability
of various types of equipment to ensure that they are suited
to the country and its needs; and training local staff in
all such duties; and
(d) Accountant: will install a new accounting system and
generally be responsible for all accounting operations
(including those of the supply organization), the provision
of statistical data to management and the training of account-
ing staff.






AFGHAN IS TAN
AORIOUTURAL  VLP0MZIT BANK
REVISED ORGANIZATION CHART
PRES IDENT
General Inager
IRTICE-PRESIDENT                                                                          I       RSD
---  - ------------                       ----------  --------  ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~UPLYMANAGER
Credit     gr                                                                         Account  mger
SECrETARIAT            A]JVI~   [AGRICULTURAL                                                                     GENERAL           ORGANIZATION             ITICS
ISECRETARIAT     LEGAL ALVICE                             PERSONNL        ANT F                                A                  CONTROL AND INS-                                C              SO |A
CHEDIT                             AND FINANCE                          ADNINISTRATION | |    PE5TION        |   AND RESEALRCH  |       PURCHASES  | |RSTORE ATSTLLES
CREDIT                                    EA
ADMINIST|RATION                S            OFFICE 
LIAISON WITH AFA]
LASHKAR GA.r






ANNEX    I
AF GHANI S TAN                                                  Appendix
AGRICULT'JRAL  DEVELOPMENT  BANK
PROJECTED CASH FLOW 1969/70 - 1979/80
(Fiscal Year ending March 20)
(Af Million)
1969/7o  1970/71  1971/72  1972/73  1973/74  1974/75  1975/76  1976/77  1977/78  1978/79  1979/80
Cash at Beginning of Year ...... 40.6    29.9    89.1    64.7    48.8    59.0    84.8    91.1   111.5   119.6   124.3
I N F L O W
Equity Capital .................   --      68 8       --       -           2/   --        --        --       --       -- 
IDA Disbursements ..............             .4     91-8    99.4    59.6 -       __       __
Borrowers' Contribution (20%)       --     12.7    30.1    33.4    19.7          __       __       __        __       _        __
Loan Repayment:
IDA Project ...........--                 --      5.1    16.6    31.0    43.3    50.9    51.7    42.4            29.7    20.7
AGBANK ST Loans .............   -         .0     18.0     27.0    40.0      44.0    49.9    50.8    52.5    52.2    51.2
AFA ST Loans .............               2.1      6.4    14.6    22.3       33.7    35.8    38.3       40.1    38.3    38.3
Old MT Loans .............   17.0    22.0    19.0    15.7           6.5      3.0        -        --       --       --       --
Nfw AGRANK MT Loans .........   --        --      0.5      1.9      5.3     10.0     17.6    27.2    38.9    51.5         63.4
Supply Department ..........     -       0.5      1.0      2.4      3.1      4.0      4.1      4.0      4.0       4.0      4.0
Interest Received:
IDA Project ...........                   --      3.2    10.0    16.8       18.7    14.6    10.1        6.3       3.6      1.8
AGBANK ST Loans .............            0.9      1.7      2.9      4.o      4.9      5.2      5.4      5.4       5.4      5.14
AFA ST Loans ...........--               0.1      0.6      1.1      2.8      3.0      3.9      4.0       3.6      4.0      4.0
AGBANK Old MT Loans ........... 5.1      5.1      2.4      2.3      1.7      0.5       --        --       -        --       --
AGBANK New MT Loans .........   --        --      0.3      0.9      2.5      4.1      6.6       9.5    12.6    16.0    18.7
Sundry Income ..........        2.3      4.0      8.8      6.6      6.0      6.1      6.9      7.7      8.4       8.5    10.0
Total ............. 24.4   171.6   188.9   234.8   221.3    175.3   195.5   208.7   2114.2   213.2   217.5
O U T F L O W
Operating Costs ................  5.5       6.o      7.2      8.6    10.4      12.4    13.6    15.0    16.q    18.1          20.0
IDA Project Loans ..............   --    43.9   105.2   117.5    70.7            --       __  --  --                  --       --
Borrowers' Contribution ........    -      12.7     30.1    33.4    19.7         --       --        --       --       --       --
AGBANK ST Loans ................           15.0    22.0    32.0    45.o    48.0    52.4    52.4    52.14    52.4    52.4
AFA ST Loans ................       --      3.0      8.2    18.2    25.1       39.0    39.0    39.0    39.0         39.0    39.0
AGBANK New MT Loans ....... ..    2.0       3.6      9.0    22.5    30.0    45.0    60.0    75.0          90.0    90.0    90.0
Repayment of Borrowings ........ 15.4    13.9       17.7      _-        --       --       --       --        --       --       -
Interest Paid on Deposits ......  0.1       2.0      1.8      1.8      1.6      1.2      1.2      1.0      0.5       1.0      1.0
Financing Supply Department  ....  8.0      8.6    10.5    13.7        4.2       --     19.3       2.0     .1.0      4.0      4.0
Sundry Payments ................  4.1       3.7      1.6      3.0      4.4      3.9      3.7      3.9       3.7      4.0      4.5
Total ............. 35.1   112.4   213.3   250.7   211.1   149.5   189.2   188.3    0t.l   208.5    213.9
Cash at End of Year ............ 29.9    89.1    64.7    48.8    59.0    84.8    91.1   111.5   119.6  124.3    130.9
Of Which:
Minimum Cash Balance ........   --    20.0    20.0        20.0     20.0    20.0      20.0     20.0     20.0    20.0       20.0
Available for Marketing Scheme
(Grapes, Raisins, Karakul).   --      69.1    44.7    28.8    39.0    64.8    71.1          91.5    99.6   104.3   110.9
1/  Includes Af 1.8 million for purchasing AGBANK's vehicles.
2/  Includes Af 0.7 million for purchasing AGBANK's accounting machine.
May 21, 1970






ANNEX    1
AFGHANISTAN                                           ~~~~~~~~~~~~~Appendix 1,
A F G H A N I S T A N                                                     Apni 
AGRICULTURAL DEVELOPMENT BANK
PROJECTED INCOME AND EXPENSES  1968/69 - 1979/80
(Fiscal Year ending Mrch 20)
(Af Million)
1968/69 -/1969/70  1970/71  1971/72  1972/73  1973/74  19714/75  1975/76  1976/77  1977/78  1978/79  1979/80
TI  C O M E
Interest Collected On:
IDA Loans ........ ............                 --       --       3.2      10.0     16.8      18.7    114.6      10.1       6.3       3.6      1.3
AGBANK Short-Term Loans  .......                        09        1.7       2.9      4.0       14.9      5.2      5.41      5.14      5.14      5.1
AGEANK Medium-Term Loans   .....    5.5        5.1      5.1       2.7       3.2      14.2     14.6       6.6      9.5      12.6      16.o     19.7
Deposits with Banks ..... .....      1.8       2.0      2.5       3-5       1.6      1.5       2.6       3.14     14.2      8.9       5.0      6.5
Dividends from Participations.       1.0       0.3     11.9 -/   5.3        5.0      14.5      3.5       3.5      3.5       3.5       3.5      3.5
Surplus from Supply Dept. d/ ..      1.5       1.5        --       --        --        --       --        --        --       --        --        --
Sub-total ..........      9.8       8.9      20.14    16.4      22.7      31.0     314.3     33.3      32.7     32.7      33.5      35.9
E X P E N D I T U R E
Administrative Expenses .........       5.1       5.5      6.o       7.2       8.6     10.14     12.14     13.6     15.C      16.5      18.1      2C.C
Interest Paid On:
Deposits ......... ............                0.1      2.0       1.8       1.8      1.6       1.2       1.2      1.C       0.5       1.C      1.0
Borrowings e/ ...... ..........      1.8       2.1      2.1       2.5        --       - _       _ _       _ _      __
Other Expensesf/.--                                --        --       --       0.1       0.2      0.3       0.5       0.8      1.0       1.5       2.0
Sub-total ..... .....     6.9       7.7      10.1     11.5      10.5     12.2      13.9      15.3     16.8      18.0      2C.6      23.0
G It 0 S S   P R 0 F I T    .......   2.9       1.2     10.3       4.9      12.2     18.8      20.4      18.0     15.       114.7     12.9     12.Q
L F S S:
Depreciation ....... ..........      o.5      0.7       0.7       0.7      0.8       0.8       0.8      C.9       1.0       1.2       1.3      1._1
Provision for Bad Debts   ......              0.3       2.0       1.0      2.0       3.7       14.O      3.6      3.2       2.        2.6      2.6
Taxes ........................       o.6       0.2      1.3       o.6       1.6      2.14      2.6       2.2      2.0       l.8       1.5      1.9
N E T   P R O F I T ..........       1.8        --      6.3       2.6       7.8     11.9      13.0      11.3      9.7       8.8       7.5      7.L
A P P It 0 P R I A T I 0 N
Reserve for Contingencies  .......       --        --       0.3      0.3       o.8      1.2       1.2       1.0      0.9       C.9       0.7       0.7
Staff Provident Funds.--                           --       0.2      0.1       0.2      0.2       0.3       0.2      0.2       0.2       C.2       0.2
General Reserve ....... ..........       --        --       5.8      2.2      14.7      7.0       7.3       6.5      5.6       5.1       8.3       L.3
Unappropriated Profit .. .........      1.8                                    2.1      3.5      14.2       3.6      3.0       2.6       2.3       2.2
a/  Excludes A.F.A. income and expenses.
b/ Figures for 1968/69 not yet audited.
c/  Includes Af 10.14 million additional shares of Spinzar Co.
d/ Surplus from 1970/71 onwards are not shown because trading activities
would be separated from AGBANK credit operations.
e/ Interest on tractor suppliers' credit and on Da Afghanistan Bank loan.
f/ Fees paid to A.F.A. for administering AGBANK's loans in Helmand Valley.
1-ay 21, 1970






ANNEX     1
A F G H A N I S T A N                                                       Appendix 
AGRICULTURAL  DEVELOPMENT  BANK
PROJECTED BALANCE SHEET 1969/70 - 1979/80
(Fiscal Year ending March 20)
(Af Million)
March 20,
1969  1969/70  1970/71  1971/72  1972/73  1973/74  1974/75  1975/76  1976/77  1977/78  1978/79  1979/80
A S S E T S
Cash on Hand and in Banks .           .........  40.6    29.9  89.1       64.7      48.8       59.0      84.8       91.1     111.5      119.6     124.3      130.9
Investments (Participations) .             17.7    17.7        75.5       75.5      75.5      75.5       75.5       75.5      75.5      75.5       75.5       75.5
IDA Project Loans .--                                  --      43.9    144.0       244.9    284.6       241.3    190.4    138.7          96.3      66.6       45.9
Other Loans (Less Provision for
Bad Debts) .111.7                                 91.3      69.8      59.9       65.5      83.3    114.8    156.1         202.3     250.4      286.5     311.7
Advances to Supply Department .             11.2    19.2       27.3       36.8      48.1       49.2      45.2       60.4      58.4       58.4      58.4       58.4
Other Assets .19.0                                    3.5        5.3       5.3        5.3       6.0       6.o        6.3        6.o       6.0       6.o        6.u
Total .200.2   161.6    310.9    386.2    488.1    557.6                                       567.6    579.5    592.4        606.2    617.3       628.4
L I A B I L I T I E S
Capital Paid Up .86.1    86.1                                 154.9      154.9    154.9    154.9    154.9    154.9    154.9    154.9    154.9    154.9
IDA Disbursements .--                                  --      38.3      125.9     221.0      275.7     275.7      275.7     275.7      275.7     275.7      275.7
Reserves .32.6    14.2                                         20.5       23.1      28.8       37.2      46.0       53.7      60.4      66.6       71.8       77.0
Unappropriated Profits .15.6                           --         --        --        2.1       5.6        9.8      13.4      16.4       19.0      21.3       23.5
48.2 l/
Less Losses to be Written-off   28.4
19.8
Borrowings.. 47.0  31.6   17.7    --    --    --                                                           -- -_ __ __ __ __
Other Liabilities .47.3    29.7                                 79.5      82.3      81.3       84.2      81.2       81.8      85.0       90.0      93.6       97.3
Total .200.2   161.6    310.9    386.2    488.1                                   557.6    567.6    579.5    592.4    606.2    617.3             628.4
1/  Reserves + Unappropriated Profit, Af 48.2 million, have been reduced to Af 42.6 million after
adjustments in 1969/70 (see second Consultants' Progress Report dated March 10, 1970).
May 26, 1970






AIN1 FX 2
PiFGiAANISTAN
AGRICULTURAL CREDIT PROJECT
IYROVE1E1T OF EXISTING SI-LL IRRIGATION SCHEES
A. General
1.        Without irrigation, the people of Afghanistan would find it
difficult, if not impossible, to survive. For this reasmn, they have,
through centuries, brought about U.9 million jeribs (2.4 million ha)
under irrigation by means of canals, springs, "karezes" and shallow wells.
Head works of 4 major projects are nearly completed. Preparation and
development of several medium-sized projects is underway.
2.        Canal systems are the most important, supporting more than 10
million jeribs of farmland.  Most of these systems, built by farmers
decades or centuries ago, lack control or safety structures, such as
gated intakes, spillways, sluices, cross-drainages and gated turnouts.
They frequently overflow causing flood damage to crops and a critical
water shortage later in the growing season.
3.        To overcome these deficiencies, farmers request technical and/or
financial assistance from the Ministry of Agriculture and Irrigation (MAI)
for rehabilitation and improvenent through more durpble diversion struc-
tures, spillways, washout structures and syphons.Ya Depending on scope
and cost, farmers have in the past contributed labor, materials and/or
money. Government has borne the balance of the cost, either by grants or
loans to land owners, and has assisted in planning, design and construction.
4.        The feasibility and effectiveness of such rehabilitation schemes
have been established. Since basic facilities exist and farmers are already
organized for irrigated agriculture, less capital investment per ha is re-
quired than for major works and benefits materialize more quickly.
Government has proved that, with expert advice, it is technically capable
of completing small improvement schemes. Because AI's Irrigation Depart-
ment lacks organization, management, construction equipment and finance,
it cannot satisfy present demands.
B. Criteria and Requirements
5.       AMAI has in the past concentrated its efforts on preparation and
execution of new major works and has accomplished little to rehabilitate
1/  In mid-1969, HAI had 67 such requests from farmers' groups on file.



14EX 2
Page 2
and improve existing small schemes. None of these are at present adquately
prepared.
6.        Requirements for preparing minor schemes are relatively simple.
They can be prepared in relatively short time.  MAI's present staff, though
mostly young and inexperienced, is technically capable. However, to cope
with theserequirements, it is necessary (a) to reorganize MAI by establishing
a Minor Irrigation Department (I1D) (Appendix )., (b) make arrangements
for adequate staffing of MID (Appendix 5) and, (c) assure technical guidance
and management through recruitment of expert services (Appendix 3).  Once
IUD is set up, adequately staffed and managed, and its activities restricted
to rehabilitation of mlnor schemes, there is no reason why these works cannct
be quickly prepared and executed.
Nature and Scope of Irrigation Rehabilitation
7.        Main Purpose.  The efficient use of irrigation water within
existing canal systems should be emphasized. Expansion of command areas
to adjacent land may be incl.uded if it contributes to the overall improve-
ment of agricultural operations in the area served by the system. Nhen
a command area is to be expanded in connection with rehabilitation, the
-'osts of new canals, enlargement of existing canals and facilities should
be financed by the Go'erznment in accordance with appropriate cost alloca-
tion between the portions to be financed by Government and farmers.
a         3Score.  Construction of a diversion dam across a river of con-
.iderable size would not normally be regarded as rehabilitation.  In
exceptional. cases, diversiop clams may be included but only if technically
and economically fea3ible.1' Each canal system should be examined as a
unit and provided with ideqluate structures for control and safety of the
whole .nleTtTqrk.
9.        I2agnitude.  Whidic no limits have been established for projects,
nost- improvement wcrks contemplated under the Project will involve an
ayca of 5.000 jeribs (2 090 i.af which has, therefore, been used as a model
size. Construction costs would be about of Af 9 million or US$120,000 andi
the cost per jerib AS 1,800 or US$24 (US$120/ha) (Table 1).  Simplified
proceaures, as discussed below, can be used for examining and preparing
rehabilitation projects of this size.  More thorough studies of the engi-
neering, agricultural anJ economic aspects would be needed for projects
larger than the model, or for those in which the command area is to be
considerably expanded. The addition of one or two structures or minor
improvements would as a rule not  ensure continued and reliable operation.
of the entire canal network. They should have low priority or be excluded
from the Project.
1/ Masonry structures int-olve high cost, frequently not justified for
small cotmand areas.  I'eirs of stone and brushwood, although requiring
annual repair, are generally more appropriate.



ANN1C 2
Page 3
Project Planning and Feasibility Analysis
10.       Examination of projects, proposed for MAI financing, revealed
that the present policy is to patch up trouble spots rather than to
approach the problem from a project point of view for the irrigation scheme
as a unit. Adequate information on the area to be irrigated, number of
participating farmers and agricultural conditions before and after improve-
ment had not been collected and analyzed. Since MAI does not have enough
experience in project planning, it is recommended that it obtain the
services of (a) one experienced planning engineer as manager of MAI's small
projects wing, and (b) one farm management expert (Appendix 3).
11.       Because the improvement schemes are generally mmall and because
the basic canal network already exists, some shortcuts in project planning
would be in order especially in respect of detailed soil survey and cropping
pattern information. The Guidelines for Preliminary Investigation (Appendix 2
should serve as chekclist and need not be completed in as much detail as
reports for larger works. However, information on acreage of areas to be
irrigated, number of farmers participating, organization, procedures and
cost sharing of operation and maintenance is irportant.
Procedures for Executing Irrigation Rehabilitation
12.       Procedures to be observed would be as follows:
(a) request from farmers' groups ;
(b) preliminary investigation followed by survey, design, cost
estimation and feasibility analysis as appropriate for
small schemes;
(c)  loan agreement between benefiting farmers and AGBANK,
specifying executing agency, arrangements for financing,
security, repayment and organizational requirements; and
(d) assignment of extension agents and establishment of demons-
tration plots and farms.
13.       AGBANK and MAI should encourage groups of farmers to submit re-
quests for technical and financial assistance, prepare appropriate loan
application forms, determine the manner of submitting requests and the
standards for their acceptance.
14.       After acceptance of the Project, in principle, by the Ministry
and AGBANK, the Project staff would proceed with the survey and design.
Generally accepted engineering and economic standards would be observed,
although some simplification for smaller projects would be acceptable.
Guidelines for Project Preparation (Appendix 2), would be used as a check-
list for essential information to be obtained. Imployment of local engi-
neering consultants and construction firms, working under the close supervi-
sion of MLI, would be encouraged.






ANI FM 2
15.       The farmers would also be informed about the things they are
required to do: organizational and loan security requirements, loan re-
payment and provisions for the future operation and maintenance. MAI
would maintain close contact tith the water users' organizations, assign
extension agents and establish demonstration plots or farms.
C. Organizational-Requirements
16.       As AGBANK has no technical staff at present, NAI has to provide
all technical services for rehabilitation schemes: preliminary investi-
gation, survey and design and implementation of improvement works. MAI
has additional responsibilities for the preparation and construction of
large projects, such as Kunduz/Khanabad and Hari Rud for which IDA financ-
ing is eventually contemplated. 1AI is also engaged in the preparation
of 3-4 medium-sized projects for which it will seek financial assistance
from the Asian Development Bank. There have, therefore, been conflicting
claims for staff and equipment. Iinor improvement sehemes, which would
yield returns more quickly than medium and large projects, have in the past
had only intermittent and inadequate support.
17.       Minor improvement schemes proposed for AGBANK/IDA financing
requires the establishment of a Minor Irrigation Department (MID) consistin
of a survey and design section, and a construction section and with a
separate accounting system, to operate under the control of a project
manager (Appendices 3, 4 and 5). MID would have exclusive responsibility
for project execution, from planning to construction. MID should also
establish guidelines for the operation and maintenance of the canal systems
being improved. The number and capability of local and expatriate engi-
neers and surveyors who would be available for work on minor schemes, is
technically adequate to carry out the works planned. However, staff and
engineering potential is not fully utilized at present because of poor
management and inadequate budgets. ilanagement should, therefore, be
strengthened and operational funds for survey and design work would be
provided. MICE should secure the services of two engineers and one farm
management expert who will assume exclusive responsibility for project
planning, feasibility analysis, execution and management of minor irriga-
tion improvements (Appendix 3 gives detailed terms of reference)..
Techincal aspects of engineering and agricultural extension would be
subject to approval by a Project Coordinating Committee (Appendix 6). For
further strengthening of local staff, a fellowship program would be included
for on-the-job training in neighboring countries (Appendix 7).
18.       Inadequate budgetary support for necessary field investigations
has been a problem. The surveyors and engineers available could not be
fully utilized because relatively small sums to purchase fuel for vehicles
or to pay surveyors' small daily field allowances were not at MAI's disposal.
This would be overcome by an initial allocation (Af 1.5 million) to cover
the estimated first year operating cost of the supporting services and
thereafter by annual. budgetary appropriations.



AKNEX 2
Page g
19.       Another difficulty stems from IIAI's inadequate construction
equipment wdhich is old and in poor condition. Equipment needed for
executing improvements, including instruments for survey and design, would
therefore be financed under the Project (Annex 3, Table 1).
WIater Users' Organizations
20.       Water users' associations are not established by law.  However,
many unofficial, traditional organizations exist which operate and main-
tain their own canal systems. They have traditional rules on water
diversion, repairing canal basins, and selecting and rewarding the water
master. The existing organizations, concerned mainly with repairs and
distribution of water in traditional schemes are working fairly well.
However, they are not legal entities and are weak financially, and do not,
therefore, meet AGBANK requirements for credit administration. To be
eligible for AGBANK financing, water users' organizations would be legally
established. The following information would be required: name of the
organization; names of participants; individual and total acreages;
location of the scheme and head office of the organization; purpose of
the project; names of the organization's authorized representatives; budget-
ary and financial information applicable to normal operations and project
execution; and plans for operation and maintenance of the scheme.
D. Improvement Schemes
21.       Twelve improvement schemes (six with technical assistance from M4AI,
and three each under the Helmand-Arghandab Valley Authority (HAVA) and the
Paktia Development Authority (PDA) with US and German technical assistance
respectively) would be executed under the Project during a period of about
3 years. Additional schemes would be prepared with a view to subsequent
financing after termination of this Project. This estimate assumes that
help in Project preparation and execution will be available from various
sources in Afghanistan (USAID/Bu-Rec) and UNDP/FAO and that there will be
an increase in MEAI s staff and equipment, as shown in Appendix 5.
22.       The engineering capabilities of HAVA and PDA do not require
strengthening, they are well supplied with staff and construction equipment.
However, their methods of project preparation and execution should conform,
in general, with that outlined for HIAl improvement schemes.
23.       The strengthening of MAI's organization and management, and the
provision of new equipment, as proposed ..1er the Project, would yield two-
fold benefits: direct benefits would acc .e to farmers in Project areas
through more efficient resource use as a result of improvement works; and
indirect benefits would accrue to farmers elsewhere, particularly in the
future, by making MAl a more efficient organization.



ANNE    2
Appendix 1
AFGHANISTAN
AGRICULTURAL CREDIT PROJECT
MNOR IRRIGATION REHABILITATION
Guidelines for Preliminary Investigation
Summary:
1. Location. Location of project area -- command area, accessibility - map.
2. Present Conditions. Agricultural conditions (number of farmers in the
comm-and area, land use and land holding, major cropping pattern, yields,
costs, farm income) conditions of existing irrigation facilities, diffi-
culties met in irrigating the command area, maintenance and repair
expenses.
3. Climate and Hydrology. Representative data only on temperature, rain-
fall, river discharge (average, minimum and maximumw).
4. Lands. Topography, geology, soil (general description).
5.  Water Requirement and Availability.  Approximate but conservative estimate,
6. Preliminary Plan of Improvements and Costs. Agricultural improvements,
if any construction works (items, number, key dimensions) and costs* --
future operation and maintenance -- other needs (if any, such as drainage.
access roads, related rural development, etc.).
7. xpected Benefits and Economic Feasibility. Increase of agricultural
products, prevention of yield reduction and related damages due to
malfunctioning of existing structures, saving or increase of operation
and maintenance costs, other improvements or losses (in money terms)
-- comparison between investment and benefits -- repayment capability
of farmers.
8.  loose Financing.  Portion of cost to be covered by farmers' cash
contribution and by the AGBANK loan.
9. Related Development Projects.
10. Recommendations.
* Including cost for survey and design.






ANNEX 2
Appendix 2
AFGHANISTAN
AGRICULTURAL CREDIT PROJECT
MINOR IRRIGATION REHABILITATION
GUIDELINES FOR PROJECT PREPARATION
Summary:
1.   Introduction
Scope of project, importance, historical background, defects
of present system.
2.   Background
General economic and agricultural situation of region and project
area, role of irrigation, experience of local people in perennial
irrigation.
3.   The Project Area
3.1  Topography:  of area and description of physical features,
accompanied by map.
3.2 Climatological data: including records of precipitation, tempera-
ture, humidity, evaporation, etc. (average and extreme values).
3.3 Geology of region: with particular reference to availability of
surface and underground water, strength and porosity of foundation
for proposed structures, presence of harmful minerals and location
of suitable construction materials.
3.4 Hydrology: with special emphasis on availability of stream flow
and underground water. Flow records of river to be used as main
water source, with averages and extreme values. Run-off indices
such as rainfall rates, frequency and infiltration.
3.5 Soil and drainage: conditions of agricultural area, major charac-
teristics, irrigability and fertility.
3.6 Present land use: in the project area, covering utilization for
various crops, pasture and fallow, existing rotation systems and
cropping patterns. Farm size, land tenure system, farm ownership
and farm operating pattern. Present farming methods, present
yields.



ANNEX 2
Appendix 2
Page 2
3.7 Water usage: for various crops and for the area as a whole,
existing customs of water use, quality of irrigation water.
3.8 Conditions of existing irrigation facilities: command area,
capacity, working conditions, difficulties in the system,
operation and maintenance, organization.
3.9 Other information: research, extension and training, etc.
4.   Improvement Plan
4.1 Brief general description of project: including location, size,
nature of works and main structures, with information and data
on command area, cropping pattern, water duties, etc.
4.2 Engineering surveys and design: describe the major works backed
up by preliminary studies made in sufficient detail to permit and
calculate work quantities for the major elements of the projects.
Map and drawings must be attached.
4.3 Cost estimates:
a.   Investment cost:  should be prepared within a reasonably
accurate margin of error.
b.   Operating and maintenance cost.
4.4 Construction schedule: indicate key dates and duration of each
step, construction methods, construction equipment and labor.
5.   Increase in Farm Production and Financing
5.1  Increase in farm production and farm income:  main change in land
use and production pattern, estimate of future production, gross
value of farm production under present conditions and in the future,
farm production costs. Farm plan for representative farm showing
cash flow before and after investment, as a basis for loan apprai-
sal and repayment.
5.2 Other benefits.
5.3 Financing and repayment.
6.   Operation and Miaintenance
Organization, general procedures and particular proposals for
0 & H.



ANNEX 2
Appendix 3
AFGHANISTAN
AGRICULTURAL CREDIT PROJECT
TERMS OF REFERENCE FOR EXPERTS
I. MINOR IRRIGATION REHABILITATION
A.   Objectives
The objectives are to provide management expertise so that
the services of the technical staff of the Minor Irrigation Section
(MIS) of MAI may be fully utilized, train staff in management func-
tions, and prepare further sub-projects with a view to financing
a second-stage credit project.
B.   Responsibilities and Duties of the Experts
The experts will hold senior executive positions within MIS.
The experts will:
1.   Project Manager (Design or Planning Engineer)
a.   Have direct access to the Minister of Agriculture and
Irrigation in respect of project execution;
b.   Help establish MIS within MAI, which will have exclusive
responsibility for planning and executing minor irriga-
tion rehabilitation schemes, and manage MIS;
c.   Draft guidelines and rules for the operation and mainte-
nance of minor irrigation schemes;
d.   Recommend projects for AGBANK financing;
e.   Assist MAI and AGBANK in evaluating rehabilitation schemes
proposed for execution by HVA and PDA; and
f.   Coordinate the services of expatriate advisors (U.S. Bureau
of Reclamation experts in the Survey and Design Sub-section
and FAO experts in the Construction Sub-section) to expe-
dite the execution of investment programs and to train
staff.



ANNEX 2
Appendix 3
Page 2
2.   Assistant Protect Manager (Construction or Cost EnRineer)
a.   Be responsible to the Project Manager;
b.   Plan and put into operation a cost accounting system
and be responsible for all project accounting operations;
c.   Supervise project construction carried out by MAI's
Construction Sub-section or private contractors;
d.   Train local staff in the execution of projects for the
rehabilitation of minor irrigation schemes;
e.   Advise and assist in preparing detailed procedures for
the operation and maintenance of minor irrigation schemes
by groups of water users; and
f.   Generally advise and assist the Project Manager.
3.   Farm Management Expert
a.   Be responsible to the Project Manager;
b.   Be responsible, in cooperation with the President of the
Extension Department for the establishment of demonstra-
tion farms and plots and the timely assignment of exten-
sion staff thereto;
C.   Train local staff in feasibility studies for the rehabi-
litation of minor irrigation schemes;
d.   Work in close cooperation with the AGBANK and ensure
coordination between organizations concerned with irri-
gation and water users;
e.   Generally advise and assist the Project Manager particu-
larly in project planning and feasibility studies; and
f.   Advise and assist the Groundwater and Pump Expert and
AGBANK in evaluating pump loan applications.



ANNEX 2
Appendix 3
Page 3
II. GROUNDWATER DEVELOPMENT
A.   Objectives
The objectives are to ensure that policies, priorities and
procedures for groundwater development are soundly developed, and
to train staff in all aspects of groundwater development.
B.   Responsibilities and Duties of the Expert
The expert will hold the executive position within the Ground-
water Development Sub-section (GWD) of the Ministry of Agriculture
and Irrigation. He will:
1.   Be responsible to the Project Manager of MIS;
2.   Help to establish GWD within the Water and Soil Survey Department,
and manage the GWD;
3.   Evaluate available groundwater surveys and observations and
propose and coordinate additional groundwater studies;
4.   Advise MAI and AGBANK on policies, priorities and procedures
for groundwater development and control, including shallow
wells, tubewells, and karezes;
5.   Advise and assist AGBANK in preparing tender documents for pumps,
engines and accessories;
6.   Appraise the technical aspects of pump loan applications and
approve those eligible for AGBANK loans. AGBANK would make no
loans without his approval; and
7.   Train staff and help advise farmers in all aspects of groundwater
development.






AFGHANISTAN
ORGANIZATION OF THE MINISTRY OF AGRICULTURE AND IRRIGATION
MINISTER
DEPUTY MINISTER
SECRETARY DEPARTMENT                                                             FOREIGN RELATION
I                                       I    ~~~~~~~~~~~~~ADMINISTRATION l
PLANNING DEPARTMENT-1                                                             ADEPRMENTIl
DEPARTMN
ECONOMICS  ATISTICS~~               ~ ~~~ETNSONAD EE  RSARH N
CCONSTRUCTION   | | IRRIGATION AND        VETERINARY                    PLANT PROTECTION                   TENSION ANO SERE REAR                 AND       PSTRY
CONSTRUTIONT        WAE    ISURE            EPRMUTDFRTETLTIPLICATION                                                             SOIL ANALYSIS          AND PASTURE
DEPARTMENT         WATER RESDURCES         DEPARTMENT                    DEPARTMENT                      DEPARTMENT              DEPARTMENT             DEPARTMENT
DEPARTMENT                                                               __
MINOR IRRIGATION
SECTION                                                                    .               TO BE ESTABLISHED FOR PROJECT EXECUTION
I 1  .1
SURVEY AND                               GROUND WATER 
DESIGN          ;  CONSUC-S              DEVELOPMENT
SUB-SECTION         SUB-SECTION          SUB-SECTION
.....,    ,,,,u,,,,,,,,. ........., ,..,..... ,,,,,,,,,,.,.,,.   ..........                  r                                               IBRD-4800(4R)






ANNEX 2
Appendix 5
AFGHANISTAN
AGRICULTURAL CREDIT PROJECT
PROJECT COORDINATING COMMITTEE
Objective
1.        The principal objective is to ensure coordinated planuing and
execution of operations under the Project between the Ministries of
Agriculture, Finance and Planning and the AGEANK.
Composition
2.        President, AGBANK, Chairman
Representative, Minister of Agriculture, Member
Representative, Minister of Planning, Member
Design Engineer, MIS, Member
Groundwater and Pump Expert, MIS, Member
The General Manager of AGBANK and a Representative of Minister
of Finance would be invited to all Committee meetings by the Chairman.
Responsibilities
3.        The Committee would have the following responsibilities:
(i) coordinate all aspects of mechanization, irrigation and
agricultural extension with AGBANK's lending program;
(ii)  subject to preliminary evaluation by MIS and AGBANK's
technical staff, approve each minor irrigation and pump
scheme, before construction and credit operations would
be allowed to begin;
(iii) coordinate preparation of sub-projects for financing upon
termination of this Project;
(iv) nominate trainees and develop training programs for AGBANK,
MIS and groundwater development staff for IDA's approval; and
(v) coordinate mechanization and irrigation to be carried out
under supervision of the development authorities in Helmand
and Paktia provinces (HVA and PDA) with AGBANK's lending
program and RGA's overall development program.



ANNEX 2
Appendix 5
Meetings
4.        The Chairman would convene the Committee, at least once every
two months. He would be responsible for preparing an agenda before
and minutes after each meeting. Whenever appropriate, he would in-
vite representatives of HVA, PDA and the Kunduz-based cotton experts.
Establishment
5.        The Project Coordinating Committee, its responsibilities and
powers should be duly established by RGA, as a condition of effec-
tiveness for the IDA Credit.



ANNEX   L
Appendix 6
PROPOSED FELLOWSHIP PROGRAM AND ESTIMATED COST
1.  Phasing                                                     Total
Year  Year  Year   Year  Years of
1      2      3      4    Training
number in training
Agricultural Economist:
MAI .    .    .    ....        1      2      2      1        6
AGBANK  .....     .....        1      2      2      1        6
Design Engineer, MAI   .........  2     4      4      2       12
Construction Engineer, MAI ...   2      4      4      2       12
Groundwater Engineer, MAI ....   1      2      2      1        6
Accountant, AGBANK ...........  3       6      6      3       18
Credit Supervisor, AGBANK  ....  2      4      4      2       12
Total: ............... 12       24    24    12         72
Number of 2-year Feollowships a.............................  36
2. Estimated cost based on Us$ 4,000 equivalent per year including
US$ 400 for travel. b/
$48,000 $96,000 $96,000 $48,000 $288,000
a/ Mainly on-the-job training in countries near Afghanistan (Iran, India,
Pakistan) for 2-year periods.
b/  Based on the following estimates of fellowship cost in Pakistan and
Iran:
PAKISTAN          IRAN      Average
Rupees US $    Rials   US $
Residence Rate, one man/year  12,000  2,520  300,000  3,996  3,252
Travel Rate, one man/year ..  16,080  3.384 336,000  .476  3.948
Average, man/year ............. 2,952            4,236  3,600
Travel Expenses, man/year ........ .                      400
Total estimated cost per man/year .* ..............  4,000






ANNEX 2
Table 1
AFGHANISTAN
AGRICULTURAL CREDIT PRWECT
MINOR IRRIGATION REHA1ILITATION
COST ESTIMATE FOR MODEL SCHEKE
Model Scheme
(a)  Command Area   n      5,000 jeribs = 1,000 ha
a 10 km2 = 2 km x 5 km
(b) Length of Main Canal = 7 k
(c)  Length of Laterals - 14 hm
(d)  Capacity of Intake - 2.0 m3/sec
(e) Major Structures:  (Diversion dam is not included at this stage)
Cost of Construction
Name of Structure      No.          in Af      in  US$
(i) Intake                   1         1,500,000     20,000
(ii)  Spillway                2           500,000      6,660
(iii) Wash-out or Syphon       4         3,000,000     40,000
(iv) Sluice                   2           300,000      4,000
(v) Gated Turnout           10         1.500,000     20,000
vi)  Lateral Turnout         40         1600,000      2,000
7,400,000    98,660
(vii)  Supervision, etc. (22%)           1,600,000     21.340
9 o2  000   120 000
Cost per jerib                        1,800         24
Cost per ha                           9,000        120
Local Labor - 30%                  2,700,000    36,000
Local Materials - 30%              2,700,000    36,000
Inported Materials - 40%          3,600,000    -48,000
9,000,000    120,000
(f) Number of ProJects: 8 under Ministry of Agriculture & Irrigatien
3 under Helmand-Arghandhab Valley Authority
3 under Paktia Development Authority
(g)  Period of Program:   3-1/2 years






ANEX 3
AFGHANISTAN
AGRICUITUIRAL CREDrT PROJECT
AGRlCULTURE -- MODERNIZATION AND INSTITUTIONAL SUPPQRT
1.        Modernization of wheat, maize, grape, and cotton production
and marketing is beginning to have an impact on Afghanistan's traditional
agriculture and will require increasing institutional support.
Accelerated Wheat Program
2.        After the Ministry of Agriculture and Irrigation's (MAI) research
and extension activities were reorganized in 1966, intensive testing of
high-yielding wheat varieties, primarily "Mexipakl from Pakistan began.
In the "tAcceleratedfWheat Program', the extension service has concentrated
on seed selection and multiplication, followed by distribution of t"seed
and fertilizer packages" to farmers, coupled with field demonstrations.
Because of staff limitations, the program has focussed on selected provinces
where it has been well received. More recently, the program has been
broadened to include parallel activities with high-yielding maize.
Research and extension for wheat and maize have been effectively supported
by USAID. Continued efforts under the ttAccelerated Wheat Program" are
essential for the Project's success since virtually all participating
farmers plant the larger portion of their irrigated land to wheat (Annex 51
FAO/SIDA Grape Improvement Program
3.        Modernization of grape production is organized under the IProgram
on Agricultural Credit and Cooperatives in Afghanistan" (PACCA) which
became effective in 1968. Financed by the Swedish International Develop-
ment Authority (SIDA), PACCA is a project of the Royal Government of
Afghanistan (RGA), supported by an internationally recruited UNDP/FAO
expert team for which FAO is executing agency. The objective is to
demonstrate in selected areas how an integrated approach involving applied
research and demonstration, extension training and pilot extension schemes,
input supply and marketing services, can lead to agricultural development.
4.        PACCA has 3 main components, (a) extension education and training,
(b) a pilot project for improving production and marketing of grape and
raisins in the Koh-i-Daman Development Center and (c) a similar pilot
project aiming at improvement of cotton and sugar beet production in the
Baghlan Development Center.
5.        PACCA experts and their local counterparts in the Badam Bagh
Extension Training Center offer 3 courses, ranging from 6 to 12 months, at
intermediate level for extension agents and supervisors, for cooperative
advisors, and for AGBAJK loan officers.



ANNEX 3
Page 2
6.        Activities in the Koh-i-Daman Development Center focus on applied
research and demonstration, in a Government-owned farm and in farmers'
fields. In addition, the Center deploys newly trained extension agents who
guide selected farmers in implementing improved practices. The Center
assists also in establishing grape marketing cooperatives and organizes
the marketing, including exports of fresh grapes and raisins. Quality
improvements, based on the inherent high quality of Afghan grapes and simple
changes in growing and processing techniques, have already led to better
financial results for farmers and promise to expand traditional markets in
India and Pakistan, and to open new markets for raisins in Europe. Addi-
tional PACCA experts, who will be based in a second Development Center near
Baghlan, will establish a similar program in 1970. They will focus on
improved production and marketing of cotton and sugar beets.
7.        Although the "grape improvement program" would not be financed
under the Project, its activities are relevant to the Project in respect
of (a) training intermediate and village level extension staff to be employe.i
for supporting services under the Project; (b) specialized training of AGBAWY
loan officers; (c) extension services to be established by PACCA for small
cotton and wheat farmers in Baghlan province, one of the three provinces
where farmers would be eligible for AGBANK financing of polyculteurs under
the Project.
Cotton Improvement
8.        Another innovation stems fram groundwork done by French experts
and their Afghan counterparts in RGA's Cotton Development Institute at
Kunduz in Northern Afghanistan. It began with applied research, selection
and multiplication of high-yielding seeds of acceptable quality, and train-
ing of village level extension agents. Complementary extension activities
have so far been confined to the guidance and closo supervision of some
50 cotton producers who implement practices recommended by the Institute.
These practices include the use of the polyculteur, a multi-purpose animal-
drawn tool bar with exchangeable attachments which facilitates inter-row
cultivation, fertilizer and improved seed. Increased output of trained
extension agents, coupled with farmerst interest in yield improvements,
and the recently increased buying price of cotton, will facilitate the
establishment of a comprehensive cotton improvement program. It should be
supplemented by the introduction of a grading system through which the
factory or its buyers reward producers of good quality cotton. Reorganizatior
rf cotton marketing will also be required.  Continued French technical assis-
tance is essential for the success of this program,                    wi-ch
is of crucial importance for over 3,000 small farmers expected to purchase
polyculteurs with AGBANK financing and to receive supporting services to be
financed under the Project.



AMTNEX 3
Nu--e 3)
Other Development Programs
9.        Technological improvements in other regions and on a broader
scale rest mainly on the groundwork laid in these 3 programs.  They are
most advanced under 2 regional development authorities which have finan-
cial and administrative autonomy. The first is the Helmand/Arghandab
Valley Authority (HAVA); the second is the Paktia Development Authority
(PDA) in Paktia province.  HPVA has finaneial and technical assistance
from USAID, PDA has similar support from the German Government. Aside from
water resource development and input supply activities, agricultural re-
search and extension services are major components of these regional
development schemes. HAVA will also have a USAID funded credit agency, the
Agricultural Finance Agency (AFA), a semi-autonomous branch of the AGBANK.
A third regional development program, supported by Russian technical and
financial assistance, is confined to the newly irrigated areas in Nangahar
province. This project is planned to irrigate eventually some 30,000 ha.
It will be administered through large, state-owmed farm units of about
3,000 ha. The success of AGBANK's lending program would greatly depend on
supporting services of HAVA, PDA and AFA since it is expected that about
two-thirds of the tractors, some pumps and half of the minor irrigation
schemes to be financed under the Project would be purchased by farmers in
Helmand, Kandahar and Paktia provinces. AFA, which is to be capitalized
by AGBANK with funds received through Government from USAID, would develop
its own lending program and would act as an AGBANK Branch for loans under
the Project (Annex 1).
Institutional Support
10.       Aside from the state farms which have their own institutional
support, modernization will require institutional support. Supply and
distribution of modern inputs and farm machinery will have to be organized
to meet increasing farmer demand. RGA intends to shift these functions
eventually to private sector firms. Initially, however, the AGBANK's
Supply Organization will have to play an important role. Equally important
will be the AGBAHK's role of financing farmers' purchases of machinery,
irrigation improvement and input supplies. The AGBANK's reorganization is
now in progress, with UNDP/SF technical assistance.
II.       To support its marketing structure, RGA has recently built
warehouses in selected provinces and a terminal grain storage in Kabul.
RGA's fertilizer distributio:i and grain purchase program are administered
through some provincial warehouses.
12.       Staff training for research and extension services is organized
at 3 levels -- (a) vocational: in 2 USAID assisted schools for village
level workers and in the French assisted cotton development institute; (b)
intermediate: in the PACCA training center; and (c) professional at Kabul
University, which is the main source for recruitment of AGBANK's technical
and professional staff, subject to further training.



ANUEX 3
Page 4
13.       Research and extension services, except for those supported by
HAVA and PDA, are still inadequate. As of July 1969, some 300 workers were
serving over 2 million farm families. With the increased output of train-
ing centers, ZGA. plans to reduce the ratio of trained extension agents to
farmers from 1:7,000 at present to about 1:1,000 by 1978.  Improvements in
morale and concept of public service will be just as important as the
increase in numbers* This will require substantial improvements in salaries,
especially for technical and professional staff, transport facilities and
budgetary support for operational expenses.
14.       Further strengthening of MAI's extension services will be required
for farmers investing under the Project in:
(a) animal-drawn equipment for cotton and wheat improvement
in Kunduz, Baghlan and Takhar provinces;
(b) irrigation rehabilitation in Northern and Central Afghanistan:
(c) pump irrigation in Southeast and West Afghanistan.
Details of staff and financial requirements are in Table 1.



ANNEX 3
A F G H A N I S T A N                                             Table 1
AGRICULTITAL CREDIT PROJECT
TECHNICAL SERVICES
ESTIMATED COST OF ADDITIONAL PROJECT STAFF, EQUIPMENT AND VERICLES
Total Cost       Year  1   Year  2   Year  3
I t e m                              S u b - p r o j e c t          US  $   Af '000   Af  000   Af '000   Af '000
Staff - Expert Services
Technical & M;anagement Experts       MAI - Irrigation Rehabilitation    315,000   23,625           7,d75       7,875      7,b75
Grotundwater Expert                        - Pumpsets                        !05,000    7,875       2,625      2,625       2,62'9
420,000   31,500    10,500    1C,50'        10,500
Staff - Local Technical Services
Agriculltural Extension -             MAI - Irrigation Rehabilitation         10,b00       760        130        260        390
Agricuitural Extension                     _ Fuissets                         19,200    1,440         255        480         705
Agricultural Extension                     - Animal-drawn Implements          45,800    3,435         050      1,145      1,440
75,400    5,655       1,235      1,865      2,535
Vehicles & Equipment for Technical Services
Jeep-type Vehicles-Mlotorbikes        MAI - Irrigation Rehabilitation         51,610    3,8o0       3,216        336         336
Jeep-type Venicles-Motorbikes              - Pumpsets                         22,400    1,680         720        480       4ao
Jeep-type Vehicles-Motorbikes-
Trucks-Bikes          - Animal-drawn Implements          16,040    1,203       1,105         '14 9,
Jeer-type Vehicles-Motorbikes
Accounting Machine                  AGBANK Credit Services                  34,000    2,550       1,0--                   750
124,280    9,321       6,841        865      1,61c
Irrigation Construction Equipment
Instrunments             b/           MAI - MID-Survey & Ds-ign Seotion    9,000           675        675         __
Construction Equipment -                   - MID-Construction Section        260,000   19,500    19,500            -_ __
269,000   20,175    20,175
Vshic_ I o9rating Cost
Ntension 3taff                       MAI - Animal-drawn Implements           10,187       764         242        2 4        268
'Ytension ,taff                           - Pumpsets                         13,200        990        200        33c        460
Extensiun Staff                           - Irrigation Rehabilitation          7,520       564         94        1 8        282
Lurvey & Design Staff                     - MID-Design ,ection               11,200        814        250        290        2o0
142,107    3,156        816      1, '05_   1,290
Total .930,787 69,809  39,567  li,o  X15,940
Year   Year   Year
1      2       3
a/  Details on Extension Staff             N u m b e r               b/  Details on Construction Equipment
actension Agents                                                     Trucks  3 tons (6 @$5,430)                 32,580
Animal-drawn Implements           28     38      48               Dump Trucks  2.5 tons (6 A$7,750)          46,500
(Cotton Improvement)                                             Bulldozer  D-4 (3 @$12,850)                33,550
Fumpsets                          10     20      30              dA'ater Pumps  16 hp (12 @$1,540)           18,480
Irrigation Rehabilitation          4      8      12              Concrete Mixers  12 CFT (6 $2,540)    15,240
Loader (2) and Crane (1)                   48,600
Supervisory Staff                                                    Spare Parts & After-sale Service           60,790
Animal-drawn Implements            3      4       5
(Cotton Improvement)                                                                                       260,740
Fumpsets                           2       3      4
Irrigation Rehabilitation          1      2       3
48     75    102






ANNE{, It
AFGHANISTAN
AGRICULTJRAL CREDIT PROJECT
FARM MECHANIZATION IN AFOHANISTAN
Mechanization W4ithout Tractors
1.        Traditional Methods. Afghan farmers use a wooden plow (Kholba)
and other native implements. The Kholba penetrates the soil about 10 cm
and 3-5 plowings are required. It merely splits the soil, but does not tuzn
it as required for weed control. The resulting seed bed preparation is poor
because it fails to ensure two conditions essential for success with the new
high-yielding wheat: uniform depth of seeding and sufficient scope for root
development. Moreover, traditional implements are not suitable for inter-
row crop cultivation which is necessary for successful maize and cotton
production.
2.        Improved Animal-Drawn Implements.  The polyculteur is a multi-
purpose tool bar with exchangeable attachments: plow -- ridger -- inter-row
cultivator -- harrow. It permits deeper plowing, at controlled depth levels,
turns the soil and reduces requirements for man and oxen labor by about 50%.
It leads to better seed bed preparation, facilitates row-planting, inter-
row cultivation and irrigation of maize and cotton. The polyculteur, devel-
oped mainly for cotton cultivation in other countries, has been adapted to
conditions in Northern Afghanistan. Manufactured localiy, it is sold to
farmers at Af 5,0oo (US$ 67). Its distribution is linked with the cotton
extension program in three Northern provinces which is supported by French
experts. Distribution of 3,500 polyculteurs, envisaged under the Project
in three years, will require expanded and intensified extension services
(Annex 3, Table 1). Although the target of 3,500 polyculteurs is believed
attainable, it will tax the Ministry's capacity to implement the cotton
and wheat improvement program of which the polyculteur is an essential part.
It would not be realistic to plan distribution of additional units until
the demand for polyculteurs is confirmed in other areas and until the
Ministry's capacity to service additional programs is assured.
Tractor Mechanization
3.        RGA has concentrated on promoting high-yielding varieties of wheat,
maize and cotton, together with necessary technological improvements. Some
results have been achieved without changing farm implements and methods.
Traditional implements are a constraint, however, and do not allow the new
varieties to achieve their level of potential productivity. Since there
are serious limits to accelerated and geographically diffused introduction
of the polyculteur, the only practical alternative is to recognize the role
that tractors can play under current conditions. Advantages of the tractor
can be summarized as follows:
4.        Overcoming-Shortage of Draft Power.  surveys in the Helmand Valley
indicate that the number of draft animals is not adequate for cultivating



ARME 4
Page 2
all the irrigated farm land. The Kabul University survey confirmed that
tractor owners had substantially increased their area cultivated, especially
in maize and cotton, for which tractor cultivation affords the greatest ad-
*7antage in Afghanistan. The tractor farm model, reflecting available evidence,
assumes that the cropping intensity on irrigated land would increase from
about 83% without the Project to about 130% at full development. This will
involve two peak periods for draft power -- one in October-November for timely
land preparation for wheat, some of which must follow cotton, together with
pre-winter plowing of maize and cotton land, the other in April-May-June
involving land preparation and inter-row cultivation of maize and cotton.
Timeliness of these operations is of crucial importance for the success of
these crops, especially the new varieties.
5.        Other Advantages of Tractors. Aside from field work, tractors
are most useful for threshing, water pumping, land leveling and transport.
Threshing is still accomplished by trampling of oxen which leads to grain
losses of up to 20%. Hauling is particularly essential in rural areas because
public transport services are not yet well developed. Land leveling im-
Proves the efficiency of water use on irrigated farms. The versatility of
tractors for such purposes is of extreme importance. Tractors would also
reduce requirements for bullock feed and increase net areas available for
grain production. Although the use of tractors involves a vast jump from
present levels of technology and a substantial investment, their use will
enable Afghan farmers to make better use of increasingly available water
resources in connection with other improved technology.
Survey Results
6.        Some of the major findings of the Kabul University survey, based
on responses of 47 tractor owners, are:
7.       Tractor Use. Overall use per year at about 170 days (1,700 hours)
was relatively high. Half of this time was spent on land preparation, the
balance on cultivating, threshing, land leveling, hauling and custom work.
Hauling or transport (20%) wBas the second most important activity. Note-
worthy is the use of an attached blade for leveling of irrigated land.
Custom work is still of minor importance.
TRACTOR UTILIZATION IN AFGHANISTAN, 1968
Tractor Use in   Utilization
Work Done                  Days per Year         %
Preparing Land ..................       85             50
(plowing and/or disking)
Planting and Cultivating   ........     18             10
Threshing ...........       .11                         6
Land Leveling .....................     13              8
Hauling   .................. * ......   34             20
Custam Work ..... ....................  10              6
Total: ..............      171            100



ANNEX 4
Page 3
8.        Attachments.  Standard attachments were (i) moldboard plow,
(ii) disk harrow, {iii) cultivator, (iv) blade, and (v) trailer.  Additional
equipment that farmers wished to purchase were threshing machines and grain/
fertilizer drills.
i.        Farm Size and Areas Cultivated.  Actual farm size of tractor owners
was apparently not enumerated.  However, the area of irrigated wheat on
owner' s land worked by the tractor ranged from 136 jeribs (17 ha) in the North
to 350 jeribs (70 ha) in the south. Irrigated wheat accounted for 40% of
total cropped farm area in the North and for 75% respectively in Southern
Afghanistan. Other crops of some importance were maize, cotton, barley,
clover and alfalfa.
10.       Impact on Area Cultivated4 Yield and Output.  Tractor owners in
the South increased the area planted to irrigated wheat by 62%, yield by
40% and wheat output by 128%. Percentage increases for maize and cotton
(involving a sm1aU share of cropped area) were even higher than for wheat,
indicating the advantage of tractor use for inter-row crop cultivation.
Farmers in the North attained similarly high increments in outputs, due to
increases in both area cropped and yield. Less favorable were results in
Central Afghanistan where a crop failure in non-irrigated wheat (the main
crop in that area) caused serious financial losses. Southern and Northern
tractor owners realized annual net benefits of Af 85,000 (US$ 1,100) and
Af 145,000 (US$ 2,000) respectively.
11.       Effect of Mechanization on Farm  14ployMent.  On the average farm,
displacement of 2.3 tenants using their bullocks was compensated by the ad-
dition of 1.6 tenants without buIlocks, 0.4 full-time farm laborers and
vidditional (unquantified) seasonal laborers. Displacement of farm laborers
was not significant. Tenants who had previously provided the services of
their oxen lost this source of income on the mechanized farm. The authors
of the study conclude, however, that the tenants' actual crop shares were
larger than before mechanization, due to increased total production. About
six oxen were displaced on average on the owners' farms.
12.       Tractor Owners' M4ain Problems.  Unsatisfactory spare part and
after-sale service was one of the tractor owners' major complaints.  The other
was the AC3ANK's cumbersome and time-consuming procedure for loan request
and application. The proposed project takes these problems into consideration,






MIAXK 5
A FG O  A N IS T A N
AGRICULTURAL CREDIT  PROJECT
PARN    ODELS
Gross   Produc-                                     Net   Produc-           Incremental
Area                 Yield             Price            tion  Value             Production Cost             tisn  Value            Net Value
in jerib a/        in sear/jerib           i   b            in  Af c/                 in  Af                    in  Af
Without  With        Without With         At/seer        Without      With         Without      With        Without      With            in Af
Project              Project                               Project                   Project                   Project
Model:          Tractor farm.
Farm Size:      300 jerib (60 ha).
Labor & Oxen:  Provided by tenants against share of crops.
Investment:    Tractor - 35-45 hp (Af 302,700); Implements (Af 174,008); Total Af 476,708.
Useful Life:   Tractor - 6 years; Implements - 12 years.
Wheat ........   180     200           42      72           35          264,600   504,000
Maize ........    30     125           51       80          25           38,250   250,000
290,155   721,834         70,565   216,396           145,831
Cotton .......    15      30           31      62           68           31,620   126,480
Alfalfa ......    25      35           70     110           15           26,250    57,750
360,720   938,230
Model:          Cotton development with animal-drawn implments on irrigated land.
Farm Size:      20 jerib (4 ha) -- Excludes 5 Jerib cultivated for home consumption.
Labor & Oxen:  Family labor and hired labor for peak periods; draft power supplied by farm-owned oxen.
Investment:    Ox-drawn implements (polycoulteurs) for plowing and inter-row  cultivation at Af 5,000.
Useful Life:   10 years.
Wheat ........    14      14           35      65           35           17,150    31,850
13,496    22,970          15,486    31,176           18,6-
Cotton .......   6         6           29      62           68           11,832    25,296
28,982    57,146
Less inc.ement due to seed, fertilicer
and extension services:        1b,5'b
Net increment due to nolyculteur  only:          L,_96
Xodel:          Pumpsets
FarmeSize:     200 jerib (40 ha) -- Excludes 25 jerib cultivated for home consumption.
Labor & Oxen: Provided by tenants against shart of crops.
Investment:    20 hp pump at Af 175,000.
Useful Life:   Well - 24 years; Pump - 12 years; Engine - 6 years.
Wheat ..         100     200           20       65          35           70,000   455,000
57,160   587,550         12,S41    57,150            L2.6ID
Maize ...        --      100           -        76          25             _       190,000 )
70,000   645,ooo
Yodel:          Irrigation rehabilitation of canal network.
Fae Size:       25 jerib (5 ha) -- Excludes 5 jerib cultivated for hume consumption.
Lacr & Oxen:  Family labor and hired labor for peak season; draft-power supplied by farm_owned oxen.
Investment:    Ar 1,800/jerib or Af 45,000/farm.
Useful Life:   25 years.
Wheat .'''        13      13           30      50           35           13,650    22,750
Maize  .......     6       6           43      76           25            6,450    11,400
Rice ...........   6       6           40      60           40            9,6oo    14,400 )        20,723    34,500         19,177    30,37C            11,193
Cotton ......      6       6           25      40           68           10,200    16,320
39,900    64,870
a 1 er- O = O. 2 ea
D,' 1 _e3r = 7 kg
c' Af 75   = US $1






ANNE. 6
ECONOU C RATE OF RETJiN
1.        Two rates of return from the Project to the economy have been
calculated, as shown in the attached table. These have been made on the
following assumptions:
a)   Inputs.  In both cases, operating costs and investments were
calculated at present costs.  However, investment, costs include
contingencies of 5p for imported goods and of 10p for locally
procured goods. Also, allowance has been made for upward adjust-
ments of present fertilizer prices to farmers to reflect the
economic cost. Farm labor has been charged at full rates on the
larger pump and tractor farms.  On 4 ha and 5 ha farms allowances
have been made for family labor by deducting the value of wheat
for home consumption. Labor requirements exceeding available
supplies of family labor have been charged at hired labor rates,
ranging from Af 30 to Af 50 per day. The higher rates take
into account peak labor periods when demand for hired labor
tends to be high relative to available supplies.
b)   Prices.  The main production to be generated by the Project would
be wheat, maize and cotton. In all three commodities present
farm gate prices are substantially below world market prices
projected for 1975.
Present           1975 Projected
Price           World Market Price
Afghanistan     Adjusted FOB Kabul Basis
~-- -----U$/Mf ---_______-__________
Wheat                    67                    85
Maize                    48                    83
Cotton, Lint            381                   421
2.        Domestic prices of these commodities are below projected 1975
world market prices and domestic demand remains strong. Since it is more
likely that domestic prices will exceed rather than fall short of project
values, there is potential protection against declines of yield. A sensi-
tivity test has, nevertheless, been made for a 10% yield reduction. The
probability of greater yield reductions is small because a) yields were
conservatively estimated; b) the effect of drought can be ruled out because
all farms are irrigated. If yields weremorethan 10% below those assumed
in the appraisal, this would be a result of lower input levels, in which
case lower costs would be a compensating factor. Under the two yield
assumptions the rates of return would be 21% and 13% respectively.
3.        Additional benefits not taken into account are (i) the value of
the straw of wheat; (ii) the demonstration effect on other farmers and,
(iii) the strengthening of AGBANK as a lending instituion. Though not
readily quantifiable, these factors would further enhance the Project's
already adequate rate of return.



ANNX 6
AFGHANISTAN                          Page  2
AGRICULTURAL CREDIT PROJ'ECT
ECCNONIC RATE OF RETURN
Incremental Net Value
Incremental Net Value       of Production at
Year         Investment         of Production         10% Reduced Yields
(in Af million) ..............
1            125.8                16.6                     16.6
2            123.6                38.7                     38.7
3            138.4                70.9                     61.7
4              27.0                83.9                    59.7
5                --               93.9                     73.4
6                -                 99.8                    72.4
7             57.0               101.2                     70.8
8             58.1               101.6                     71.2
9             58.1               101.6                     71.2
10                -               101.6                     71.2
11              2.5               101.6                     71.2
12               5.0              101.6                     71.2
13             69.9               101.6                     71.2
14              61.5              101.6                     71.2
15             61.5               101.6                     71.2
16               --               101.6                     71.2
17               _-               101.6                     71.2
18                --              101.6                     71.2
19             57.0               101.6                     71.2
20             58.1               101.6                     71.2
21             60.6               101.6                     71.2
22              5.0               101.6                     71.2
23             10.0               101.6                     71.2
24               --               101.6                     71.2
Rate of Return     ............     231%                     13%



60-                                                               64"6"I0s    72-
AFGHAN ISTAN                                                                     u s  s R
AGRICULTURAL CREDIT PROJECT                                                                                                                                                                                 US S s R
36-
i                    ._.~~~~~96 ~       F A R|AB          AN                       |        |                  *%                                     f                S
PAK ISTA N
K~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ hk                                K ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~36v
400 *.                                                 Ox-drawn implements for cottonltwheat improvement
H F     At                *                         <          )   V R 0  i        4                 \            *   )                      %                 1 -  R  A                         Symbol represents 250 implements
G .  ;te  \   /            tdro  t                  SC/- H  0   R                                                                        Tractors and attachments
I  I  /  VVAR  DA         ,      A\ /'T~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~'oo ~~Symbol represen,ts 10 tractors
0 F --j                                                                "   + X/---- __  -_XShK A 15 W Z - g _ soty . S       ell pumps
Symbol Repesents 10 pv pp
/Irrigation rehabilitation, schemes, aKg -gv
~~~~    ~ ~ ~~~                              W>~~~~~~~ 5 000 jerl bs 11 000 HAl nooh
.~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~*                                                                               /     Gade                           @*                        Head   o\tti   ofK SAg ricutua  Devlop en  ban
OZ  GA  N   GHA         N  ~~~~~~~~             L   Aof Afghanistan                                                                         B.
<~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~H. Ifo of                                                                                                                                 D-IO50.p-t0r ,}f 
F  0                                                                 GHA~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~*,                ~7jy~~Agricultural Finance Agency
A                                                                                                                                        0  ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~Branches of Agricultural Development Bank
of Afghaenistan
\)                                                                   ,00 feet 5                                                                ten and Io
12-                                                                                                                                                              ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~Isathyets i inmillimeters
A                                                                                                    ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~Main rivers
KAT                                                    ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~Main roads
oR                                                     ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~Provincol boundaries        3
LASHKAR GAH   Kandaho,                                                                                                 ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~International boondanies32
//                                                                             ivi7 ,.~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~  s.~~~~~~~~  ~CHINA
_        50                 'IO             I RAN ''  6F IoiSTANs                     _
FEUKUY0                                                                                  50                                                          IB5 R0-ZB
"'h'                                  \     ~~~~~~~~~~INDIA
FEBRUARY 1970                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                IBRD -2844



