RESTRICTED
FIlE     COPY                     Report No. P-831
This report was prepared for use within the Bank and its affiliated organizations.
They do not accept responsibility for its accuracy or completeness. The report may
not be published nor may it be quoted as representing their views.
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION
OF THE
PRESIDENT
TO THE
EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS
ON A
PROPOSED DEVELOPMENT CREDIT
TO
THE KINGDOM OF AFGHANISTAN
FOR
THE AGRICULTURAL DEVELOPMENT BANK PROJECT
May 27, 1970



INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
REPORT AND REC011ENDATION OF THE PRESIDENT TO THE
EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS ON A PROPOSED DEVELOPiENT CREDIT
TO THE KINGDOM OF AFGHANISTAN FCR THE AGRICULTURAL
DEVELOPMENT BANK PROJECT
1.       I submit the following report and recommendation for a proposed
Development Credit to the Kingdom of Afghanistan in an amount in various
currencies equivalent to $5.0 million.
PART I - HISTORICLL
2.       The proposed Credit would be the first financing provided by either
the Bank or IDA for agriculture in Afghanistan where to date the Association
has made two credits. The first credit (68-AF), $3.5 million for an
education project, was signed in 196[. This project has suffered serious
delays. It became effective only in March 1966; then disagreements between
the consultants and the Government on project design and delays in the
acquisition of land held up the project further. Tendering was attempted
twice. The first failed as only two bids were received, both of which exceeded
the consultants cost estimates by about 100 percent. At the second tendering
in December 1968 six bids were received and five were within the consultants
cost estimates.  However, the GovernmXent was still unable to award a contract,
largely because it had become doubtful about the appropriateness of the
project. Since 1964, several bilaterally financed education projects
had been completed, which made the Government feel that part of the IDA project
might be unnecessary. In addition, the Government continued to have doubts
about the construction standards for the proposed buildings. For these
reasons the Government requested at the end of 1969 that the project be
re-examined and revised in accordance with current priorities. The new
Administration which assumed office in December 1969 is now expected to
request cancellation of the credit.
3.       A second credit for $5.0 million (158-AF) was extended in May 1969
for the improvement of highway maintenance operations.  Its effectiveness
has been delayed because of the need for Parliamentary ratification which
was completed only on May 12, 1970. The credit should become effective
within a few days. The delay did not affect the implementation of the
project significantly. Consultants, under a prcgram financed by UNDP with the
Bank as Executing Agency, have been engaged in preparing the project since
last August, and their work is on schedule.
4.        The Association's interest in agriculture dates from 1967 when a
mission visited Afghanistan and reported that the Agricultural Development
Bank of Afghanistan needed to be reorganized. In 1968 the Government re-
quested of the UNDP/Special Fund assistance in obtaining experts required.



- 2 -
The request was approved in 1969 with the Bank serving as Executing Agency
and Dr. Hendrikson Associates were appointed as consultants. The Association
sent a mission in the fall of 1969 when the present proposals were worked out.
5.       Negotiations regarding the proposed Credit for the lending program
of the Agricultural Development Bank of Afghanistan (AGBANK) took place in
Washington during May 7 - 15, 1970. Representing the Borrower wzere H.E.
Abdul Hakim (iMinister of Agriculture and Irrigation), and Messrs. A.A. Khorram
(President, Department of Planning and Economic Analysis, Ministry of Planning),
Yar Mohammed (Representative, Ministry of Finance), A. Afzal (President,
AGBANK) and U. Linck (General lYanager, AGBANK). Mr. Linck is employed by
Dr. Hendrikson Associates whose Managing Director, Dr. Hendrikson, was
also present at the negotiations during May 11 - 14.
6.       The present status of credits to Afghanistan at April 30, 1970
is summarized below:
Amount (US$ Million)
Year     No.    Borrower            Purpose          IDA       Undisbursed
1964    68-AF   Afghanistan    Education              3.5          3.2
1969   158-AF   Afghanistan    Highway Plaintenance   5.0          5.0
Total             8.5          8.2
PART II - DESCRIPTION OF THE PROPOSED CREDIT
7.       Borrower:                 Kingdom of Afghanistan.
Amount:                   The equivalent in various currencies of
US$5.0 million.
Purpose:                  To help finance the credit program of
the Agricultural Development Bank of
Afghanistan, procure equipment and finance
expert service and fellowships.
Amortization:             Through semi-annual instalments of half
of 1 percent from June 15, 1970 through
December 15, 1989 and of one and a half
percent from June 15, 1990 through
December 15, 2019.
Service Charge:           3/4 of 1 percent per annum.
Estimated Economic
Return:                   21 percent per annum.



- 3 -
PART III - TRE PROJECT
8.        A detailed appraisal of the project (Report No.PA-46a of May 27,
1970) is attached.
9.        The AGBANK has been in operation since 1954 and has an authorized
capital of Af.150 million ($2 million); of the Af.86 million which has been
subscribed and paid up, the Government owns 7 percent, Da Afghanistan Bank
(central Lard) 89 percent, Bank Melli Afghan 2.3 percent, commercial companies
0.6 percent and private individuals 1.1 percent. The headquarters are in Kabul
and there are ten branch offices. It is the main source of institutional
credit for farmers, but has suffered from a lack of experienced and trained
management and staff. 'Since 1954 AGBANK has made loans totalling Af.225
million ($3 million). In recent years, however, its lending has declined
steadily; only 15 loans were made in 1968/69 totalling Af.5 million ($70,000),
and only 12 loans in the first seven months of 1969/70 totalling Af.0.8
rmllion ($10,600).  The portfolio as of March 1970 was about Af.91 million
($1.5 million) after eliminating Af. 20 million of doubuful. accounts.
Most of the latter stem from loans made prior to 1961.   It appears that large
arrears (about 30 percent) have been due to inadequate collection procedures
rather than debtors' unwillingness to pay. Initial improvements have been
recorded and are expected to continue.
10.       AGBANK expects to make loans for investment made by farmers over the
next three years equivalent to about $5.8 million, of which $3.7 million
would be lent from funds provided by IDA, $0.8 million from AGBANK's own re-
sources and $1.1 million from the farmers themselves. The amount provided by
IDA for relending by AGBANK would be used for the following purposes:
Imported equipment such as
tractors, attachments and pumpsets   $2,705,000
Locally made farm equipment          $  111,000
Minor irrigation works               $   81ho 0oo   $3,656?000
This amount will be transferred to AGBANK as a contribution to its permanent
capital. AGBANK would charge borrowers not less than 8 percent per annum for
medium- and long-term loans and not less than 10 percent per annum for short-
term loans. Part of the proposed Credit will be used for tractor spares which
will be purchased by farmers as required in an amount of
$ 227,000
11.       The balance of the proposed Credit would be used by the
Ministry of Agriculture and Irrigation and AGBANK for:
Vehicles, irrigation design
and construction equipment           $ 393,000
Technical services and fellowships    $  724,000    $1,117,000



12.      All equipriient to be financed under tle Credit would be procured by
AGBANK through international competitive bidding with two exceptions, office
and design equipment costing less than $20,000 and locally made animal-
drawn implements and threshers. Local competitive bidding only is required for
irrigation rehabilitation schemes, as these labor intensive works are not
expected to attract foreign bidders.
13.      Of the total project cost estimated at $7.2 million, the IDA
participation would be $5.0 nmllion or 70 percent. $4.8 million would cover
the foreign exchange cost of the project. The equivalent of about $220,000
would finance expenditures in local currency of which about $160,000 would
be for minor irrigation works and the remainder for local extension services.
1h.      As a result of the Credit, AGBANK's annual lending operations are
expected to increase from an estmliated $0.3 million equivalent in 1970/71
to about $1.9 million in 1973/74. Tne project would substantially increase
farm income by intensifying and improving production on irrigated farms
through the use of tractors and ox-draw7n implements, and by providing addi-
tional and reliable water supply through irrigation rehabilitation and pump
irrigation. Returns to farmers are estimated to range from 22 percent on
irrigation rehabilitation to 31 percent on tractors; the overall rate of
return to the economy is estimated at 21 percent. Additional benefits
wiould result from institutional improvements of the AGBANK and the Ministry
of Agriculture. The estimated value of annual production attributable to the
project would be about $12 million equivalent, including about $4.6 million
of import savings and about $1 million in direct annual export earnings.
PART IV - LEGAL INSTRUMENTS AND AUTHORITY
15.      The draft Development Credit Agreement (Agricultural Development
Bank Project) between the Association and the Kingdom of Afghanistan, the
Recommenx1ion of the Committee provided for in Article V, Section 1(d) of the
Articles of Agreement and the text of a Resolution approving the proposed
Development Credit Agreement are being distributed to the .51ecutive Directors
separately. The draft Development Credit Agreement includes provisions for
(a) transfer of the proceeds from the Credit designated for credit operations
to AGBANK as equity capital (Section 4.02); (b) the establishment of a separate
Minor Irrigation Section (MIS), and a Groundwater Development Sub-Section (GWBD)
within the IllS to deal with work arising from the Project and for provision
of expert services, with the experts being responsible for the HIS and G,D
(Section 4.03); and (c) adoption by AGBANIK of operating policies and proce-
dures, including loan regulations, satisfactory to the Association (Section
4.06).



PART V - TITW ECONOfY
16.      The most recent economic report "Current Economic Position and
Prospects of Afghanistan" (SA-6a) dated May 27, 1969 was distributed to the
Executive Directors on June 3, 1969 (R69-110). an economic mission is in
Afghanistan at the present time; its report is expected by September.
17.      Afgha:-iistan is one of the least developed countries in the world.
In spite of considerable investment in the last decade, economic growth is
probably still barely keeping pace with the increase in population, if it
does at all. Investments, three-fourths of which were financed from foreign
sources, have been mainly concentrated in large infrastructure projects,
which have not yet begun to contribute significantly to the growth of the
economy. The financing of development is constrained by very low domestic
savings and rising debt service payments, and there is a critical need for
skilled and experienced manpowqer at all levels.
18.      In recent years, there have been signs of modest improvement in
Afghanistan's economic prospects. In agriculture, self-sufficiency in wheat-
a major food crop - may be reached as a result of an increase in the irri-
gated acreage, application of fertilizer and introduction of a new high-
yielding variety of seeds. In industry, the response to the 1967 Private
Investment Law aimed at stimulating private investment, has been encouraging;
as of the end of 1969 some 80 of 130 project applications had been approved
(mostly to small industrial and handicraft enterprises), involving an esti-
mated total investment of about $30 million. Progress in actual investment,
hovever, has been slow; in part because of a lack of credit.   A proposal
for the establishment of an industrial bank has been before Parliament for
some time and action on it is expected this year.
19.      The Government has begun to recognize that there is room in many
sectors for increasing output by making better use of existing facilities
and by improving techniques of production. The most important of these
sectors is agriculture, which accounts for over 50 percent of gross domestic
product and 75 percent of the labor force. It appears that the total output
of staple food has not kept pace with dernand. While the results of the
recent introduction of modern practices are encouraging, farming practices
are generally primitive, and productivity is low. Two of the main factors
inhibiting progress are inadequate extension services and the lack of agri-
cultural credit, both long and short term, at reasonable interest rates.
20.      Over the next several years it should be possible to achieve modest
improvement in several sections of the economy. The Government is attempting
to complete on-going infrastructure projects and does not intend to invest
in new projects of a similar nature. Their aim is to emphasize investment
in the productive sectors and on quick yielding and export-oriented projects



- 6 -
J--.r of yahich are oqite small. Domestic resource mobilization for development
wall cont_nue to be an acute problem, and the chronic deficit on the balance
of payments is likely to remain for some time. These, together with the
fact that total overseas aid has been declining, meant that Afghanistan
will continue to be in great need of external capital if even a modest
development program is to go forward.
PART VI - COMPLIANCE I=TH ARTICLES OF AGREEMENT
21.      I am satisfied that the proposed Credit complies with the Articles
of Agreement of the Association.
P.rRT VII - RECOTNMENDATIOi
22.      I recommend that the Executive Directors approve the proposed
Credit.
Attachments                            Robert S. McNamara
President
May 28, 1970



