CONFORMED COPY
CREDIT NUMBER 202 AF
Project Agreement
(Agricultural Development Bank Project)
BETWEEN
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
AND
AGRICULTURAL DEVELOPMENT BANK
OF AFGHANISTAN
DATED JUNE 24, 1970


﻿CONFORMED COPY
CREDIT NUMBER 202 AF
Project Agreement
(Agricultural Development Bank Project)
BETWEEN
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
AND
AGRICULTURAL DEVELOPMENT BANK
OF AFGHANIST"AN
DATED JUNE 24, 1970


﻿froject Agrumrnt
AGREEMENT, dated June 24, 1970, between INTERNA-
TIONAL DEVELOPMENT AssocIATION (hereinafter called the
Association) and the AGRICULTURAL DEVELOPMENT BANK OF
AFGHANISTAN (hereinafter called the AGBANK).
WHEREAS by a development credit agreement of even date
herewith (hereinafter called the Development Credit Agree-
ment) between the Kingdom of Afghanistan (hereinafter
called the Borrower) and the Association, the Association
has agreed to make available to the Borrower a develop-
ment credit in various currencies equivalent to five million
dollars ($5,000,000), on the terms and conditions set forth
in the Development Credit Agreement, but only on condi-
tion that the AGBANK agrees to undertake certain obli-
gations to the Association as hereinafter in this Project
Agreement set forth; and
WHEREAS the AGBANK, in consideration of the Associa-
tion's entering into the Development Credit Agreement
with the Borrower, has agreed to undertake the obligations
hereinafter set forth;
Now THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as
follows:
ARTICLE I
Definitions
SECTION 1.01. Wherever used in this Agreement, unless
the context shall otherwise require, the several terms de-
fined in the Development Credit Agreement shall have
the respective meanings therein set forth.
ARTICLE II
Particular Covenants of the AGBANK
SECTION 2.01. The AGBANK shall carry out Parts I, II
and III of the Project with due diligence and efficiency


﻿4
and in conformity with sound administrative, agricultural
and financial practices, and shall provide, or cause to be
provided, promptly as needed, the funds, facilities, services
and other resources required for the purpose.
SECTION 2.02. (a) The operating policies and procedures
of the AGBANK in respect of the Project shall be as set
forth in Schedule 1 to this Agreement and as the same may
be amended from time to time by agreement among the
Borrower, the Association and the AGBANK.
(b) The AGBANK shall promptly revise its procedures
and raise its interest rates so that it can follow lending
terms, criteria and procedures uniform to those set forth
in Schedule 1 to this Agreement with respect to its lending
activities under the Project. Except as the Association
shall otherwise agree, with respect to its other lending
activities, the AGBANK shall follow lending terms, criteria
and procedures consistent with those set forth in said Sched-
ule 1 until the date of the final disbursement under the
Development Credit Agreement.
SECTION 2.03. The AGBANK shall: (i) establish and
maintain separate accounts in respect of all funds disbursed
and received on account of the Project; (ii) have such ac-
counts audited annually by an independent auditor accept-
able to the Association; and (iii) promptly after the prep-
aration of the audit, and not later than four months after
the close of its financial year, transmit to the Association
certified copies of such audited accounts and a signed copy
of the auditor's report.
SECTION 2.04. The AGBANK shall maintain or cause to
be maintained records adequate to identify the goods and
services financed out of the proceeds of the Credit, to dis-
close the use thereof in the Project, to record the progress
of the Project (including the cost thereof) to show the re-
sults achieved by the Project and to reflect in accordance


﻿5
with consistently maintained sound accounting practices
the operations and financial condition of the AGBANK;
shall enable the Association's representatives to inspect
such goods and any relevant records and documents; and
shall furnish or cause to be furnished to the Association
all such information as the Association shall reasonably
request concerning the Project, such goods and services,
and the operations, administration and financial condition
of the AGBANK.
SECTION 2.05. (a) The AGBANK and the Association
shall cooperate fully to assure that the purposes of the
Credit will be accomplished. To that end, the AGBANK
and the Association shall from time to time exchange views
through their representatives with regard to matters relat-
ing to the purposes of the Credit, the Project and to the
performance by the AGBANK of its obligations under
this Agreement.
(b) The AGBANK shall promptly inform the Associa-
tion of any condition which interferes with, or threatens
to interfere with, the accomplishment of the purposes of
the Credit or the performance by the AGBANK of its
obligations under this Project Agreement.
SECTION 2.06. The AGBANK shall at all times charge
interest on all of its loans at rates sufficient to enable it
to: (a) cover all operating expenditures and charges in-
cluding taxes (if any) and interest payments on borrow-
ings; (b) maintain adequate provisions for bad and doubt-
ful debts; and (c) maintain adequate general reserves.
SECTION 2.07. The AGBANK shall insure the imported
goods to be financed out of the proceeds of the Credit
against marine, transit and other hazards incident to the
acquisition, transportation and delivery thereof to the place
of use or installation, and for such insurance any indem-
nity shall be payable in a currency freely usable by the
AGBANK to replace or repair such goods.


﻿6
SECTION 2.08. Except as shall be otherwise agreed be-
tween the Association and the AGBANK: (i) the AGBANK
shall cause all goods purchased under the Project to be
used in the territories of the Borrower exclusively in con-
nection with the Project; and (ii) the AGBANK shall
cause title to all such goods as are sold to third parties to
be obtained free and clear of encumbrances to third parties.
SECTION 2.09. The AGBANK shall ensure that prior to
the expiry of the current UNDP/SF Project it shall make
arrangemenV, acceptable to the Association and the Bor-
rower, for continuing its operations and conducting its
affairs in accordance with sound business, economic and
financial practices, under the supervision of experienced
and competent management. In addition, the AGBANK
shall recruit at least ten qualified University graduates
on its staff within two years from the date of this Project
Agreement.
SECTION 2.10. (a) The AGBANK shall effect no changes
in the positions of the President, or any of the Vice Presi-
dents, without prior consultation with the Association.
(b) The AGBANK shall adopt Loan Regulations and a
Policy Statement as to the AGBANK's operational and
lending policies, satisfactory to the Association. Such Loan
Regulations and Policy Statement may be amended from
time to time with the prior approval of the Association.
SECTION 2.11. (a) The AGBANK shall not establish,
acquire or take over any subsidiary except on terms and
conditions satisfactory to the Association.
(b) The AGBANK shall cause each of its subsidiaries,
if any, and each of the subsidiaries established, acquired or
taken over, after the date of the Development Credit Agree-
ment, if any, to observe and perform the obligations of
the AGBANK hereunder to the extent to which such obli-


﻿7
gations shall or can be applicable thereto, as though such
obligations were binding upon each of such subsidiaries.
ARTICLE III
Effective Date; Termination
SECTION 3.01. This Project Agreement shall enter into
force and effect on the Effective Date. If the Development
Credit Agreement shall terminate pursuant to Section 10.04
of the General Conditions, the Association shall promptly
notify the AGBANK of this event and, upon the giving of
such notice, this Project Agreement and all obligations of
the parties hereunder shall forthwith terminate.
SECTION 3.02. This Project Agreement shall terminate
and all obligations of the parties hereunder shall determine
on a date twenty-five years from the date of this Agreement
or upon termination of the Development Credit Agreement,
whichever is earlier.
ARTICLE IV
Miscellaneous Provisions
SECTION 4.01. No delay in exercising, or omission to
exercise, any right, power, or remedy accruing to either
party under this Project Agreement upon any default shall
impair any such right, power or remedy or be construed
to be a waiver thereof or an acquiescence in such default;
nor shall the action of such party in respect of any default
or any acquiescence in any default, affect or impair any
right, power, or remedy of such party in respect of any
other or subsequent default.
SECTION 4.02. Any notice, demand or request required
or permitted to be given or made under this Project Agree-
ment shall be in writing. Such notice or request shall be
deemed to have been duly given or made when it shall be


﻿8
delivered by hand or by mail, telegram, cable or radiogram
to the party to which it is required or permitted to be given
or made at its address hereinafter specified, or at such
other address as such party shall have designated by notice
to the party giving such notice or making such demand or
request. The addresses so specified are:
For the Association:
International Development Association
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America
Cable address:
Indevas
Washington, D.C.
For the AGBANK:
Agricultural Development Bank of Afghanistan
P.O. Box 414
Kabul,
Afghanistan
Cable address:
AGBANK
Kabul
Afghanistan
SECTION 4.03. Any action required or permitted to be
taken, and any documents required or permitted to be
executed, under this Project Agreement on behalf of the
AGBANK may be taken or executed by its President or
such other person or persons as he shall designate in
writing.
SECTION 4.04. The AGBANK shall furnish to the Asso-
ciation sufficient evidence of the authority of the person


﻿or persons who will, on behalf of the AGBANK, take any
action or execute any documents required or permitted to
be taken or executed by the AGBANK pursuant to any of
the provisions of this Agreement and the authenticated
specimen signature of each such person.
SECTION 4.05. This Agreement may be executed in sev-
eral counterparts, each of which shall be an original and
all collectively but one instrument.
IN VITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through
their representatives thereunto duly authorized, have
caused this Agreement to be signed in their respective
names and to be delivered in the District of Columbia,
United States of America, as of the day and year first
above written.
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
By /s/ J. BURKE KNAPP
Vice President
AGRICULTURAL DEVELOPMENT BANK
OF AFGHANISTAN
By /s/ M. S. DANESHJO
Authorized Representative


﻿10
SCHEDULE 1
Operating Policies and Procedures
1. Technical Feasibility of Minor Irrigation Investments:
To help assure technical feasibility of minor irrigation
investments, all pumpsets and tubewell loans should have
the approval from the technical standpoint of the Ground-
water and Pump Expert referred to in Section 4.03(b) of
the Development Credit Agreement, and loans for minor
irrigation rehabilitation schemes should be technically eval-
uated by MIS and should have approval of the Project
Coordinating Committee referred to in Section 4.03(d) of
the Development Credit Agreement.
2. Financial Feasibility of Farm Investments:
To help assure financial feasibility of individual farm
investments or of cooperative societies:
(a) All investments in tractors, pumpsets and tubewells
and farm mechanization would be evaluated in terms of
the incremental returns from the additional investment on
a case by case basis. The AGBANK would prescribe and
adopt satisfactory methods of evaluation.
(b) Loans for tractor purchase would be granted to a
farmer (group of farmers, contractors or cooperative so-
cieties) when engaged in cultivating about 40 ha of irri-
gable land or upon reasonable evidence that there will be
at least 1,000 hours' productive work in agriculture per
year for the tractor in respect of which application for
loan is made.
(c) Farmers cultivating about 4 ha of irrigable land in
provinces where adequate extension, input supply and mar-
keting services exist, initially in areas served by the cotton
improvement center in Kunduz, would be sold animal-drawn
implements (polyculteurs) on credit upon certification from
the appropriate extension officer that the farmer concerned


﻿11
is participating in MAI's cotton and wheat improvement
program.
(d) The AGBANK's financing of the minor irrigation
rehabilitation schemes would be initiated in regions of
Northern and Central Afghanistan and the financing of
tubewell investments in South-East Afghanistan and in
Helmand, Farah and Herat Provinces.
(e) Construction costs in respect of minor irrigation re-
habilitation schemes would be financed by the AGBANK
which would recover such costs from cash contributions of,
and by making medium- or long-term loans to, farmers,
groups of farmers or legally established associations of
water users. For such construction costs payments would
be made by the AGBANK to contractors or to the appro-
priate agency (MAI, HVA and PDA) carrying out such
construction.
(f) The AGBANK would supplement its medium- and
long-term loans to farmers under the Project with short-
term loans from its own resources for farmers' purchase
of seasonal inputs.
3. Lending Terms from the AGBANK to Farmers/Con-
tractors and Associations of Water Users:
(a) Loan Amounts: Medium- and long-term loans would
not exceed, on the average, 80% of the cost of tractors and
attachments, implements, pumps and minor irrigation reha-
bilitation and 50% of the cost of well-digging and pump
installation.
(b) Charges on Loans: Charges on loans including inter-
est and other charges will be not less than 8% per annum
for medium- and long-term loans and 10% per annum for
short-term loans. A penalty rate of 2% per annum will be
charged for payments made after due date.
(c) Loan Maturity: The maturity of loans would in no
case exceed the useful life of the asset to be financed and


﻿12
should take the repayment capacity of borrowers into con-
sideration. Specifically, under the Project, loans for (i)
tractor purchase would be for a period not exceeding five
years; (ii) polyculteurs purchase for a period not exceed-
ing three years; (iii) pumpsets for a period not exceeding
six years; and (iv) minor irrigation rehabilitation schemes
for a period not exceeding nine years.
(d) Security Arrangements: Loans for tractors and
pumpsets would be secured by mortgages or other appro-
priate securities as specified in the AGBANK's Loan Reg-
ulations or Policy Statement referred to in Section 4.06
of the Development Credit Agreement.


