CONFORMED COPY
0
CREDIT NUMBER 202 AF
Development Credit
Agreement
(Agricultural Development Bank Project)
BETWEEN
KINGDOM OF AFGHANISTAN
AND
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
DATED JUNE 24, 1970


﻿CONFORMED COPY
CREDIT NUMBER 202 AF
Development Credit
Agreement
(Agricultural Development Bank Project)
BETWEEN
KINGDOM OF AFGHANISTAN
AND
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
DATED JUNE 24, 1970


﻿AGREEMENT, dated June 24, 1970, between KINGDOM OF
AFGHANISTAN (hereinafter called the Borrower) and INTER-
NATIONAL DEVELOPMENT AssoCIATION (hereinafter called the
Association).
WHEREAS the Borrower and the Agricultural Develop-
ment Bank of Afghanistan (hereinafter called AGBANK),
a joint-stock company organized under tbc laws of the
Borrower, have requested the Association to assist in the
financing of a program for agricultural development, which
will, inter alia, facilitate farm mechanization and irriga-
tion rehabilitation;
WHEREAS the Borrower and the AGBANK shall respec-
tively carry out parts of the said program on terms and
conditions as provided herein and in a project agreement of
even date herewith between the Association and the
AGBANK and as the Borrower shall assist the AGBANK
in carrying out its part of the program by investing part
of the proceeds of the credit in AGBANK's share capital;
and
WHEREAS the Association, on the basis of the foregoing,
has agreed to make a credit to the Borrower upon the
terms and conditions hereinafter set forth;
Now THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as
follows:
ARTICLE I
General Conditions; Definitions
SECTION 1.01. The parties to this Development Credit
Agreement accept all the provisions of the General Condi-
tions Applicable to Development Credit Agreements of the
Association, dated January 31, 1969, with the same force
0


﻿4
and effect as if they were fully set forth herein, subject,
however, to the following modifications thereof (said Gen-
eral Conditions Applicable to Development Credit Agree-
ments of the Association, as so modified, being hereinafter
called the General Conditions) :
(a) The following subparagraph is added to Section
2.01:
"13. The term 'Project Agreement' shall have the
meaning set forth in the T.evelopment Credit
Agreement."
(b) Section 6.06 is amended by inserting the words ", the
Project Agreement" after the words "the Development
Credit Agreement."
(c) Section 8.02 is amended by inserting the words "or
under the Project Agreement" after the words "the De-
velopment Credit Agreement."
SECTION 1.02. Wherever used in this Development Credit
Agreement, unless the context otherwise requires, the sev-
eral terms defined in the General Conditions have the
respective meanings therein set forth and the following
additional terms have the following meanings:
(a) "AGBANK" means Agricultural Development Bank
of Afghanistan, a joint-stock company organized under the
laws of the Borrower;
(b) "Charter" means Charter of the AGBANK as ap-
proved by the Royal Afghan Government, Cabinet Resolu-
tion No. 2911 of January 19, 1970, (Afghan Calendar: Jaddi
29, 1348) confirmed by Royal Decree No. 1032/3768 of Janu-
ary 21, 1970, (Afghan Calendar: Dalw 1, 1348) approved
by the AGBANK's Extraordinary General Assembly of
Shareholders on February 1, 1970 (Dalw 12, 1348) and
published in the Official Gazette No. 150 of February 11,
1970 (Dalw 22, 1348) and as the same may be amended
from time to time;


﻿5
(c) "Project Agreement" means the project agreement
between the Association and the AGBANK of even date
herewith, providing for the carrying out of part of the
Project by the AGBANK, as the same shall be amended
from time to time by agreement among the Borrower, the
Association and the AGBANK;
(d) "UNDP/SF Project" means the project provided
for in the Plan of Operation for the Agricultural Develop-
ment Bank of Afghanistan Project signed by the Kingdom
of Afghanistan, the United Nations Development Pro-
gramme (Special Fund) and the Bank on August 28, 1969;
(e) "Budget" means the Borrower's budget for each
fiscal year and includes any supplementary budget for such
fiscal year;
(f) "MAI" means the Ministry of Agriculture and Irri-
gation of the Borrower;
(g) "MIS" means the Minor Irrigation Section of the
MAI referred to in Section 4.03(a) of this Agreement;
(h) "GWD" means the Groundwater Development Sub-
Section of the MIS referred to in Section 4.03(a) of this
Agreement;
(i) "subsidiary" means any company or entity of which
a majority of the outstanding voting stock or other pro-
prietary interest is owned, or which is effectively controlled,
by the AGBANK or by any one or more subsidiaries of
the AGBANK or by the AGBANK and one or more of its
subsidiaries;
(j) "Loan Regulations" means the Loan Regulations of
the AGBANK adopted pursuant to Section 4.06 of this
Agreement, as the same shall be amended from time to time
with the prior approval of the Association;
(k) "Policy Statement" means the AGBANK's Policy
Statement on its operational and lending policies, adopted


﻿6
pursuant to Section 4.06 of this Agreement, and as the
same shall be amended from time to time with the prior
approval of the Association;
(1) "HVA" means the Helmand-Arghandab Valley Au-
thority of the Borrower;
(m) "PDA" means the Paktia Development Authority
of the Borrower; and
(n) "Afghani" and the letters "Af" mean the currency
of the Borrower.
ARTICLE II
The Credit
SECTION 2.01. The Association agrees to lend to the
Borrower, on the terms and conditions in this Development
Credit Agreement set forth or referred to, an amount in
various currencies equivalent to five million dollars
($5,000,000).
SECTION 2.02. (a) The Association shall open a Credit
Account on its books in the name of the Borrower and shall
credit to such Account the amount of the Credit.
(b) The amount of the Credit may be withdrawn from
the Credit Account as provided in, and subject to the rights
of cancellation and suspension set forth in, this Develop-
ment Credit Agreement and in accordance with the alloca-
tion of the proceeds of the Credit set forth in Schedule 1 to
this Agreement, as such allocation shall be modified from
time to time by further agreement between the Borrower
and the .Association.
SECTION 2.03. The Borrower shall be entitled to with-
draw from the Credit Account in respect of the reasonable
cost of goods or services required for the Project and to
be financed under this Development Credit Agreement:


﻿7
(i) such amounts as shall have been paid (or, if the
Association shall so agree, shall be required to meet
payments to be made) for goods or services in-
cluded in Categories I, II, V, and VI of the alloca-
tion of 'the proceeds of the Credit referred to in
Section 2.02 of this Agreement;
(ii) the equivalent of forty per cent (40%) of such
amounts as shall have been paid (or, if the Asso-
ciation shall so agree, shall be required to meet pay-
ments to be made) for goods or services included
in Category III of the allocation of the proceeds
of the Credit referred to in Section 2.02 of this
Agreement, which percentage represents the esti-
mated foreign exchange component of the cost of
such goods or services; provided, however, that no
withdrawals shall be made without certification by
the AGBANK that such goods and services have
been sold or extended, as the case may be, against
loans to farmers;
(iii) the equivalent of fifty per cent (50%) of such
amounts as shall have been paid (or, if the Asso-
ciation shall so agree, shall be required to meet
payments to be made) for goods or services in-
cluded in Category IV of the allocation of the pro-
ceeds of the Credit referred to in Section 2.02 of
this Agreement; provided, however, that no with-
drawals shall be made without certification by the
AGBANK that necessary arrangements have been
made to cover the cost of works under said Cate-
gory IV by cash payments from and loans to farm-
ers, groups of farmers or water users' associa-
tions; and
(iv) the equivalent of fifty per cent (50%) of such
amounts as shall have been paid (or if the Associa-
tion shall so agree, shall be required to meet pay-


﻿8
ments to be made) for goods or services included
in Category VII of the allocation of the proceeds
of the Credit referred to in Section 2.02 of this
Agreement;
provided, further, that if there shall be an increase in the
estimate of such payments for goods or services included in
any of the Categories III, IV and VII, the Association
may by notice to the Borrower adjust the stated percentage
applicable to such Category as required in order that with-
drawals of the amount of the Credit then allocated to such
Category and not withdrawn may continue pro rata with
the payments remaining to be made for goods or services
included in such Category.
SEcTIoN 2.04. No withdrawals from the Credit Account
shall be made under Categories I, V and VI of the alloca-
tion of the proceeds of the Credit referred to in Section
2.02 of this Agreement on account of payments in the cur-
rency of the Borrower, or for goods produced in, or services
supplied from, the territories of the Borrower.
SECTION 2.05. The currency of the United States of
America is hereby specified for the purposes of Section
4.02 of the General Conditions.
SECTION 2.06. The Borrower shall pay to the Association
a service charge at the rate of three-fourths of one per cent
(%  of 1%) per annum on the principal amount of the
Credit withdrawn and outstanding from time to time.
SECTION 2.07. Service charges shall be payable semi-
annually on June 15 and December 15 in each year.
SECTION 2.08. The Borrower shall repay the principal
amount of the Credit withdrawn from the Credit Account in
semi-annual installments payable on each June 15 and De-


﻿9
cember 15 commencing June 15, 1980, and ending Decem-
ber 15, 2019, each installment to and including the install-
ment payable on December 15, 1989, to be one-half of one
per cent (1/2 of 1%) of such principal amount, and each
installment thereaftel to be one and one-half per cent
(11/%) of such principal amount.
ARTICLE III
Use of Proceeds of the Credit
SECTION 3.01. The Borrower shall apply the proceeds
of the Credit or shall cause the proceeds of the Credit to
be applied in accordance with the provisions of this Devel-
opment Credit Agreement to expenditures on the Project
described in Schedule 2 to this Agreement.
SECTION 3.02. Except as the Association shall otherwise
agree, (i) the goods and services to be financed out of the
proceeds of the Credit (other than technical services and
fellowships) shall be procured on the basis of international
competitive bidding in accordance with the Guidelines for
Procurement under World Bank Loans and IDA Credits,
published by the Bank in Augult 1969, ex,ept for goods
referred to in paragraphs 3 and 4 of Schedule 3 to this
Agreement and in accordance with such other procedures
supplemental thereto as are set forth in Schedule 3 to this
Agreement or as shall be agreed between the Borrower and
the Association, and (ii) contracts for the procurement of
all goods and services to be financed out of the proceeds
of the Credit shall (except as otherwise provided in such
Schedule) be subject to the prior approval of the Asso-
ciation.
SECTION 3.03. Except as the Association may otherwise
agree, the Borrower shall cause all goods and services
financed out of the proceeds of the Credit to be used ex-
clusively in the carrying out of the Project.


﻿11
proceeds of the Credit; and (ii) in Afghanis in amounts
equivalent to amounts so withdrawn.
(b) Whenever in connection with this Section it shall be
necessary to value such subscriptions in terms of Afghanis,
such valuation shall be made on the basis of the Da
Afghanistan Bank free rate of exchange. If, at any time,
the Borrower or the Association considers that circum-
stances have arisen as a result of which such valuation has
ceased to be possible, the parties shall consult together
about what action is necessary for valuation of subscrip-
tions.
(c) The Borrower shall make available the proceeds
under Category V of the allocation of the proceeds of the
Credit set forth in Schedule 1 to this Agreement to the
AGBANK on terms and conditions satisfactory to the
Association.
(d) The operating policies and procedures for the carry-
ing out of the Project by the AGBANK shall be as set forth
in Schedule 1 to the Project Agreement and as the same
may be amended from time to time by agreement among
the Borrower, Association and the AGBANK.
SECTION 4.03. (a) The Borrower shall promptly estab-
lish and maintain: (i) a Section of MAI to be designated
Minor Irrigation Section (MIS) to prepare and execute
minor irrigation rehabilitation schemes; and (ii) a Sub-
Section of MIS to be designated Groundwater Development
Sub-Section (GWD) to assist the AGBANK in appraising
applications for pump and Karez loans and in preparing
tender documents for pumpsets, on terms and conditions
satisfactory to the Association.
(b) The Borrower shall: (i) take all necessary steps not
later than January 1, 1971 to provide MIS and GWD with
staff, facilities and other resources required for the carry-
ing out of their responsibilities; (ii) establish (A) within
MIS, positions of a Construction Engineer, a Farm Man-


﻿12
agement Expert and a Design Engineer who shall be en-
trusted with the executive responsibility for the MIS, and
(B) within GWD, the position of a Groundwater and Pump
Expert; and (iii) appoint qualified and competent persons
to the positions referred to in sub-paragraphs (A) and
(B) of this Section for a period of three years on terms
and conditions satisfactory to the Association.
(c) The Borrower shall ensure that until the completion
of the Project, the staff, equipment and resources of MIS
shall be used exclusively for the purposes of the Project.
(d) The Borrower shall establish and maintain in a man-
ner satisfactory to the Association a Project Coordinating
Committee satisfactory to the Borrower and the Associa-
tion to ensure close coordination and cooperation among
Borrower's Ministries of Agriculture, Finance and Plan-
ning and the AGBANK on all matters relating to the
Project.
SECTION 4.04. (a) The Borrower shall expand and im-
prove extension services for farmers eligible for loans
under the Project for the purchase of animal-drawn imple-
ments, minor irrigation rehabilitation schemes and for pump
irrigation. To this end, the Borrower undertakes to add at
least one hundred extension agents within a period of three
years from the date of this Agreement in areas where the
AGBANK is financing such investments.
(b) The Borrower shall:
(i) establish demonstration farms or plots in irrigated
areas; and
(ii) take all steps necessary including legislative meas-
ures to establish water users' associations to enable
,such associations to benefit from the AGBANK's
lending operations under the Project.
SECTION 4.05. The Borrower shall ensure:


﻿13
(i) that minor irrigation rehabilitation schemes shall
be carried out in a manner consistent with most effi-
cient use of water in each canal system;
(ii) that in exceptional circumstances only such schemes
shall be carried out in respect of Government land;
and
(iii) that costs for the carrying out of any such scheme
under paragraph (ii) of this Section are borne by
the Borrower.
SECTION 4.06. The Borrower shall cause the AGBANK
to adopt Loan Regulations and a Policy Statement as to
the AGBANK's operational and lending policies, satisfac-
tory to the Association.
SECTION 4.07. The Borrower shall take all action which
shall be necessary on its part to enable the AGBANK to
perform all its obligations under the Project Agreement
and shall not take or permit any of its agencies to take any
action which would prevent or interfere with the perform-
ance of any such obligations of the AGBANK.
SECTION 4.08. (a) The Borrower and the Association
shall cooperate fully to assure that the purposes of the
Credit will be accomplished. To that end, each of them shall
furnish to the other all such information as it shall reason-
ably request with regard to the general status of the
Project and the Credit. On the part of the Borrower, such
information shall include information with respect to finan-
cial and economic conditions in the territories of the Bor-
rower and the international balance of payments position
of the Borrower.
(b) The Borrower and the Association shall from time
to time exchange views through their representatives with
regard to matters relating to the purposes of the Credit
and the maintenance of the service thereof. The Borrower
shall promptly inform the Association of any condition


﻿14
which interferes with, or threatens to interfere with, the
accomplishment of the purposes of the Credit or the main-
tenance of the service thereof.
(c) The Borrower shall afford all reasonable opportunity
for accredited representatives of the Association to visit
any part of the territories of the Borrower for purposes
related to the Credit.
SECTIoN 4.09. The Borrower shall insure, or cause to
be insured, the imported goods to be financed out of the
proceeds of the Credit against marine, transit and other
hazards incident to acquisition, transportation and delivery
thereof to the place of use or installation and for such
insurance any indemnity shall be payable in a currency
freely usable by the Borrower to replace or repair such
goods.
SECTION 4.10. The principal of, and service charges on,
the Credit shall be paid without deduction for, and free
from, any taxes, and free from  all restrictions, imposed
under the laws of the Borrower or laws in effect in its
territories.
SECTION 4.11. This Development Credit Agreement and
the Project Agreement shall be free from any taxes that
shall be imposed under the laws of the Borrower or laws
in effect in its territories on or in connection with the exe-
cution, delivery or registration thereof.
ARTICLE V
Remedies of the Association
SECTION 5.01. If any event specified in Section 7.01 of
the General Conditions or in Section 5.02 of this Agree-
ment shall occur and shall continue for the period, if any,
therein set forth, then at any subsequent time during the
continuance thereof, the Association, at its option, may by
notice to the Borrower declare the principal of the Credit


﻿15
then outstanding to be due and payable immediately to-
gether with the service charges thereon and upon any such
declaration such principal, together with such charges, shall
become due and payable immediately, anything in this
Development Credit Agreement to the contrary notwith-
standing.
SECTION 5.02. For the purposes of Section 7.01 of the
General Conditions, the following additional events are
specified:
(a) The Charter shall, without the prior approval of the
Association, have been amended, suspended, abrogated, re-
pealed, waived, or shall cease to be enforced, or any other
action taken, -so as to materially affect the organization,
operations or financial condition of the AGBANK.
(b) The AGBANK shall have failed to perform any of
its obligations under the Project Agreement and such event
shall continue for a period of sixty days from the date
of notice.
ARTICLE VI
Effective Date; Termination
SECTION 6.01. The following events are specified as addi-
tional conditions to the effectiveness of this Development
Credit Agreement within the meaning of Section 10.01 (b)
of the General Conditions:
(a) That the AGBANK shall have submitted to the Asso-
ciation financial statements for the financial years ending
March 20, 1969, and March 20, 1970, as audited by a firm
or auditor acceptable to the Association.
(b) That the Project Coordinating Committee referred
to in Section 4.03 (d) of this Agreement, MIS and GWD
shall have been duly established.
(c) That the Design Engineer, Construction Engineer,
Farm Management Expert and the Groundwater and Pump


﻿0
16
Expert referred to in Section 4.03 (b) of this Agreement
shall have been appointed.
(d) That the Loan Regulations and the Policy Statement
referred to in Section 4.06 of this Agreement shall have
been adopted by the AGBANK.
SECTION 6.02. The following are specified as additional
matters, within the meaning of Section 10.02 (b) of the
General Conditions, to be included in the opinion or opin-
ions to be furnished to the Association:
(a) That the Project Agreement has been duly authorized
or ratified by, and executed and delivered on behalf of,
the AGBANK and constitutes a valid and binding obligation
of the AGBANK in accordance with its terms.
(b) That the Project Coordinating Committee referred
to in Section 4.03(d) of this Agreement has been duly and
validly established.
SECTION 6.03. The date of October 20, 1970, is hereby
specified for the purposes of Section 10.04 of the General
Conditions.
SECTION 6.04. The obligations of the Borrower under
Sections 4.01, 4.02(d), 4.03(c), 4.05, 4.07, 4.08 and 4.09 of
this Agreement shall terminate on the date on which this
Development Credit Agreement shall terminate or on a
date 25 years after the date of this Development Credit
Agreement, whichever shall be the earlier.
ARTICLE VII
Miscellaneous
SECTION 7.01. The Closing Date shall be December 31,
1974, or such other date as shall be agreed between the
Borrower and the Association.


﻿17
SECTION 7.02. The Minister of Agriculture and Irriga-
tion of the Borrower is designated as representative of the
Borrower for the purposes of Section 9.03 of the General
Conditions.
SECTION 7.03. The following addresses are specified for
the purposes of Section 9.01 of the General Conditions:
For the Borrower:
Ministry of Agriculture and Irrigation
Kabul
Afghanistan
Cable address:
Ministry of Agriculture 'and Irrigation
Kabul, Afghanistan
For the Association:
International Development Association
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America
Cable address:
Indevas
Washington, D.C.
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through
their representatives thereunto duly authorized, have
caused this Development Credit Agreement to be signed in
their respective names and to be delivered in the District


﻿18
of Columbia, United States of America, as of the day )nd
year first above written.
KINGDOM OF AFGHANISTAN
By /s/ M. S. DANESHJO
Authorized Representative
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
By /s/ J. BURKE KNAPP
Vice President


﻿19
SCHEDULE 1
Allocation of the Proceeds of the Credit
Amounts Expressed
Category                          in Dollar Equivalent
I. Imported Farm Equipment
e.g., tractors and attachments        2,225,000
II. Pumpsets                               480,000
III. Locally-made farm equipment
including animal-drawn implements
and stationary threshers               111,000
IV. Minor irrigation rehabilitation schemes  840,000
V. Vehicles, office equipment, construc-
tion and design equipment, and
initial set of spare parts for
imported equipment                      620,000
VI. Technical Services and Fellowships      666,000
VII. Local Extension Services                 58,000
TOTAL          5,000,000


﻿20
SCHEDULE 2
Description of the Project
The Project is a lending program by the AGBANK to
finance farmers' investment in mechanization and irriga-
tion rehabilitation, to strengthen the AGBANK's capacity
to meet farmers' credit needs and to assist the MAI to
cope with farmers' demand for improving small irrigation
schemes and for groundwater development, during and
beyond the Project's disbursement period. Specifically the
Project includes:
Part I. Provision of farm equipment including tractors,
attachments and pumpsets for sale to farmers on medium-
and long-term loans;
Part II. Medium- and long-term loans to farmers for
minor irrigation rehabilitation schemes;
Part III. Procurement of vehicles, office, design and con-
struction equipment and of an initial set of spare parts
for imported equipment;
Part IV. The carrying out of minor irrigation rehabilita-
tion schemes, groundwater development and additional ex-
tension services;
Part V. The training of AGBANK and MAI staff through
fellowships 'and provision for expert services.


﻿21
SCHEDULE 3
Procurement Procedures
The AGBANK would undertake procurement in accord-
ance with the following procedures:
1. Tractors, Spares and Attachments
(a) The AGBANK      would procure over a three-year
period about 450 tractors (including spare parts
equal to 15/o, or to such other percentage, as may
be agreed between the AGBANK and the Associa-
tion, of the c.i.f. value of tractors) and such attach-
ments as determined by the AGBANK. Two bids will
be invited: (i) for a lot of 150, and (ii) for a lot of
450 tractors, with the AGBANK having the option
to accept bids either under paragraph (i) or para-
graph (ii) above. In case the AGBANK accepts the
bid for a lot of 150 tractors referred to above, the
AGBANK will invite bids for the balance at the ap-
propriate time. Any supplier not providing assur-
ances satisfactory to the AGBANK as to after-sales
services will be disqualified. Such after-sales serv-
ices will include, among others, stocks of spare parts
equivalent to about 10%/o of the c.i.f. value of the
tractors.
(b) Invitations to bid, specifications, conditions of con-
tract, all other tender documents, quotations and
the description of the method and places of adver-
tising will be submitted to the Association for its
review and approval prior to the issuance of invi-
tations to bid.
(c) The time interval referred to in Section 3.1 of the
Guidelines for Procurement between the invitation
to bid and bid opening would be equal to at least
45 days.


﻿22
(d) After bids have been received and analyzed, the
analyses of bids and the proposals for awards, to-
gether with the reasons for such proposals, will be
submitted to the Association for its review and
approval prior to making any award of contract or
issuing any letter of intent.
(e) As soon as a letter of intent has been issued or a
contract has been executed, a copy thereof will be
sent to the Association.
2. Pumpsets
The AGBANK would undertake the procurement of
pumpsets in accordance with the following procedures:
(a) About 430 pumpsets will be procured in lots esti-
mated to involve amounts of $50,000 equivalent or
more.
(b) The AGBANK would require all suppliers submit-
ting bids to give full particulars as to after-sales
service arrangements. Any supplier not providing
assurances satisfactory to the AGBANK as to after-
sales service will be disqualified.
(c) With respect to all contracts for pumpsets, for the
purpose of evaluating bids, bid prices will be deter-
mined in accordance with the following rules:
(i) The term Local Bid means a bid submitted by
a manufacturer, established in the territories
of the Borrower, for pumpsets manufactured
to a substantial extent (as reasonably deter-
mined by the Association) in the territories of
Borrower; any other bid will be deemed to be
a Foreign Bid.
(ii) The bid price under a Local Bid will be the
ex-factory price of the pumpsets.
(iii) The bid price under a Foreign Bid will be the
sum of:


﻿23
(A) an amount representing the c.i.f. Kabul
price of the pumpsets net of any taxes on their
importation; and (B) any such taxes, as gen-
erally apply to pumpsets or their components
if imported into the territories of the Bor-
rower by non-exempt importers, or 15o of
the amount specified in (A) above, whichever
will be lower.
(d) Provisions of paragraphs 1(b) through 1(e) of this
Schedule will be applicable to procurements made
under this paragraph.
3. Locally Made Equipment
With respect to goods included in Category III of the
allocation of the proceeds of the Credit referred to in
Section 2.02 of this Agreement, the AGBANK would obtain
quotations from established suppliers and would submit
contracts involving $50,000 equivalent or more to the Asso-
ciation for its approval prior to the award of any such
contracts.
4. Minor Irrigation Rehabilitation
For minor irrigation rehabilitation schemes the
AGBANK would require local competitive bidding. "Local
competitive bidding" in this connection means inviting the
local contractors to make bids for each scheme or a sub-
stantial part thereof. Contracts involving $100,000 equiva-
lent or more would be submitted to the Association for its
approval prior to the award of any such contracts. If
minor irrigation rehabilitation schemes are to be carried
out inter-departmentally and in the aggregate involve
$100,000 equivalent or more, such schemes will be submitted
to the Association for approval prior to their execution.
5. Vehicles and Construction Equipment
Identical or similar items will be grouped together when-
ever practicable to ensure that the estimated cost of items


﻿24
included in each bid will be the equivalent of $50,000 or
more. In addition, all procurements of vehicles and con-
struction equipment will be made in accordance with the
provisions of paragraphs 1(b) through 1(e) of this Sched-
ule.
6. With respect to the procurement of office and design
equipment, no international competitive bidding will be
required if the contracts involve $20,000 equivalent or less.
7. Whenever for procurements under paragraphs 3, 4 and
5 of this Schedule the procedure specified under said para-
graphs is inapplicable because of exceptional circumstances,
the following procedure will be followed:
(i) in respect of procurements in paragraph 4 of this
Schedule estimated to involve amounts less than
$100,000 equivalent; and
(ii) in respect of procurements in paragraphs 3 and
5 of this Schedule estimated to involve amounts
not less than $20,000 and not more than $50,000
equivalent,
copies of the bid analyses and evaluation (except for pro-
curements in paragraph 3) and a copy of the signed con-
tract will be sent to the Association promptly after the
execution of any such contract and prior to the submission
to the Association of the first application for withdrawal
from the Credit Account in respect of such contract.


