Document of
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Report No. 4773-PAK
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
PAKISTAN
INTEGRATED HILL FARMING DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
March 26, 1984
General Agriculture Division
South Asia Projects Department
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



BASIC DATA
CURRENCY EQUIVALENT
US$1.00    =       PRs 13
PRs1.0O    =       US$0.077
WEIGHTS AND MEASURES
The metric system has been used.
PRINCIPAL ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONnIS USED
AJK          Azad Jammu and Kashmir
AKLAS        Azad Kashmir Logging and Sawmill Corporation
AO           Agricultural Officer
ATI          Agricultural Training Institute
DFO          Divisional Forest Officer
DOA          Department of Agriculture
DOAH         Department of Animal Husbandry
:CNEC        Executive Committee of the National Econonic Committee
FA           Field Assistant
FD           Forest Department
GOAJK        Government of Azad Jammu and Kashmir
GOP          Government of Pakistan
TIFTDP       Hill Farming Technical Develoment Project
'[HFDP       Integrated Hill Farming Development Project
LGRDD        Local Government and Rural Development Departure
NPS          National Pay Scale
P'ARC        Pakistan Agriculture Research Council
PCU          Project Coordination Unit
PDC          Project Development Connittee
E'FRI        Pakistan Forestry Research Institute
PDD          Planning and Development Department
PWD          Public Works Department
SMS          Subject Matter Specialist
TI&V         Training & Visit Extension System
WAPDA        Water and Power Development Authority
GLOSSARY
Kharif               -     Summer season (mid-March to end-August)
Rabi                 -     Winter season (mid-October to early March)
Shamlat              -     Community owned land for comnunal use
Khalsa               -     State owned land presently used by local population.
Ilulkiyat            -     Privately owned land
Tlarkaz council      -     Group of union councils
TJnion council       -     Group of villages
Dehi council         -     Village council



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
PAKISTAN
INTEGRATED HILL FARMING DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
Table of Contents
Page No.
I.  INTRODUCTION ...........                                      .         .   1
II.   BACKGROUND .....         ............                      ...               2
A.  General  ,. ...........,.  .....                                        2
B.  Agriculture 3.............3
C.  Livestock ............                                . .....           4
D. Forestry..             ...                              ........   6
F.  Institutions and Support Services .....................                 7
General ..............    ........                                  7
Department of Agriculture ...........7...............                7
Department of Animal Husbandry...                           .    8
Forest Department ...... * .......... ................              8
Public Works Department .............................               9
Planning and Development Department .................                9
Support Services .....                    .   . ....... *..         9
Research and Training            ... ....... ...........           10
Agricultural Credit           ............  ............... .      10
Marketing ............................              ...            10
G.  Development Activities ..........................4                     11
Livestock...........................                               11
Fo re s try    ............................ ............           I11
The Hill Farming Technical Development Project .11
H.  Development Policies ..................................                13
Hill Management Strategy .......................13
III.  THE PROJECT ..................................4 *        ............    15
A. Project Area.                                                           15
B. Project Components...                                                   15
Project Objectives and General Description                         15
C.  Detailed Features  ...                                                 18
Agriculture Component              ... o..              o .....    18
Forestry Component                  ......                         20
Livestock Component .* ................................23
Feeder Road Component .        .     .     ...................    24
Project Coordination Unit                                          25
D. Cost Estimates and Financing                 ....25
E.  Procurement . ... ........ .........................             .    28
F.  Disbursement ........................................                 29
G.  Accounts and Audits 31..         ..       . .. . . .........    31
J This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of I
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



-2-
Page No.
IV. PROJECT IMPLEMENTATION                           . . .                       31
A. Organization and Management .,                                         31
Project Development Committee .           .....................    31
Project Coordination Unit ....... .............                    32
Line Departments ...................                       .       32
Peoples' Participation                ....... 34
B. Monitoring and Evaluation .......  34
Project Monitoring..........                                       35
Project Evaluation  .       ................. . . ....             35
V.    PRODUCTION, MARKETING, FARM INCOME AND COST RECOVERY                       36
Yields and Production                 . . .                               36
Marketing and Prices                    . ..37
Farm Incomes.                                        .                    37
Cost Recovery                          ......  38
VI.   BENEFITS, JUSTIFICATIONS AND RISKS.. .                              .      39
A. Benefits                        ...........  39
Environment ...   .. .... ........  ..........    39
Production and Beneficiaries .39
Employment .........         ............ .   .. .*...             40
IDA Involvement .....................................    40
B.  Economic Analysis . ......... ........               . ......         41
IRR and Sensitivity Analysis . .                                   42
C. Risks   .              ... .................  43
Attitude of Farmers.....   43
Project Coordination                     ....44
VII.  AGREEMENTS REACHED .................                      ... . .    44
ANNEX I          Design Standards -- Fair Weather Unpaved Road
ANNEX 2          Summary of Project Costs
ANNEX 3          Estimated Schedule of Disbursements
ANNEX 4  T-1   Financial Analysis: Cropping Pattern - Farm Model A
T-2   Financial Analysis: Cropping Pattern - Farm Model B
T-3   Financial Analysis: Yield Projections
T-4   Financial Analysis: Input Requirements



-3-
T-5   Financial Analysis: Input/Output Prices
T-6   Financial Analysis: Farm Budget - Model A
T-7   Financial Analysis: Farm Budget - Model B
T-8   Financial Analysis: Rate of Development of Improved Food and
Fodder Production
ANNEX 5  T-1   Economic Analysis: Input/Output Prices
T-2   Economic Analysis
ANNEX 6        Related Documents to be Found in Project File
CHART          Project Management Organization
MAPS            IBRD 17501
IBRD 17502






PAKISTAN
INTEGRATED HILL FARMING DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
I. INTRODUCTION
"Rural development presents a colossal challenge. It is more
than a simple issue of finding more money and using local
institutions. It involves changes in age old attitudes and
would require creating enthusiasm along with a strong sense
of responsibility."
-- Sixth Five Year Plan
1.01    The hill areas of Azad Jammu and Kashmir (AJK) are undergoing
serious and continuous degradation. Farm productivity is decreasing,
forests are diminishing and erosion now threatens most of AJK's
countryside. The basic problem is that increases in crop, livestock and
forestry production have not kept pace with increases in human population.
Poor food and cash crop yields tie up most of the cultivable lands and
leave too little for the production of animal feed, resulting in overgraz-
ing and thus increased erosion of hillsides. This downward spiral must be
stopped, and a balance between the population and the environment
restored. Hence, the principal objective of the Integrated Hill Farming
Development Project (IHFDP) would be to conserve AJK's environment while
at the same time improve the welfare of its people.
1.02    Although Government has been aware of the problems AJK is facing,
past actions aimed at arresting the deteriorating trend were limited,
mainly concentrated on soil and forest conservation. Ilhatever little has
been done to tackle the underlying causes of degradation was carried out
in a rather haphazard manner. The on-going Hill Farming Technical
Development Project (HFTDP), however, and the proposed project indicate
GOAJK's determination to address its rural development problems in a more
systematic fashion in the future -- a determination which is also
reflected in the greater importance given to rural development in the
Sixth Five Year Plan.
1.03    GOAJK's interest in obtaining IDA assistance dates back to 1978.
Following visits by Bank missions to AJK during the period of 1974-76, it
was agreed that a technical development project was necessary in order to
prepare the ground for a major follow-up investment project. A three year
project, the HFTDP became operational in March 1978 (para 2.29-2.36).
Despite considerable delays, valuable lessons have been learned during
the implementation of this project and, most importantly, GOAJK has recog-
nized that a lasting solution to its problems can only be attained by
carrying out a number of activities in an integrated way. This recogni-
tion has led GOAJK to request IDA participation in its first integrated
rural development scheme: the Integrated Hill Farming Development



-2-
Project. GOAJK began project preparation in early 1982 and with the
assistance of FAO/CP, the preparation report was completed in early 1983.
After preliminary discussions with GOAJK in March 1983, a Bank mission
visited AJK in June 1983 and appraised the proposed project. The mission
consisted of Messrs. H. Sanger, M. Naseem, 0. Baykal, M. Crawford (IDA),
El. Kidane (FAO/CP), N. Cossins and G. Sinkinson (Consultants).
II. BACKGROUND
A. General
2.01    Azad Jammu and Kashmir is located in the foothills of the
Himalayas. Its boundaries are the Gilgit Agency in the north, the North
West Frontier Province in the west, the Punjab Province in the south and
the line of control in the east (see IBRD Map 17501). Its population is
currently 2 million (1981); it is estimated to have doubled during the
last 20 years and to be growing at 2.7% per annum. With an area of about
11,680 per sq. km, AJK's population density is about 170 per sq. km, but
when related to the limited amount of arable land available, it increases
to 960 per sq. km.
2.02    Administratively, AJK is divided into four districts, Muzaf-
farabad, Poonch, Kotli and Mirpur. The districts are further sub-divided
into thirteen tehsils. The state capital is Muzaffarabad. The public
administration is supported by a number of local councils: 4 district
councils, 30 markaz councils (a group of union councils), 129 union coun-
cils (a group of villages), and 1,036 dehi village councils. The function
of the local councils includes the development of social infrastructure
within their communities and participation in development planning.
2.03    AJK has a wide range of climatic and ecological conditions.
C:Limate varies from sub-tropical in the valley bottoms to temperate at
higher elevations. Rainfall ranges from 1,000 to over 2,000 mm and is
well distributed across the year. At elevations above 1,500 m, lasting
winter snows and frosts occur. Altitude varies from about 300 m in the
plains of the southern district of Mirpur to more than 2,500 m on the
outlying foothills of the Himalayas in the north. The terrain in Kotli
and Mirpur Districts is relatively flat, while that in the other two
d:Lstricts is of a rugged nature with narrow valleys and steep flanks
forming a complex system of sub-watersheds most of which drain into the
Jhelum and Poonch Rivers. Because of the difficult terrain, transporta-
tion and communication in AJK is limited and the only mode of transporta-
tiLon is by road. Muzaffarabad is a bridging point across the Neelum and
Jhelum rivers and is linked by all weather roads with the other provinces
of- Pakistan. In the interior, however, existing village access roads are



-3-
impassable during rainy seasons and on higher elevations snow often iso-
lates villages for some months during winter.
2.04    About 50% of the land in AJK is classified as demarcated forest
land and the remainder is equally divided between range/waste land and
private farm land. Of the private farm land only 205,000 ha or about 18%
of the total area is suitable for agriculture. The range and waste lands
are hillside grazing areas adjacent to villages and consist of shamlat
(community owned), mulkiyat (privately owned) and khalsa (state owned)
lands made available for farmers' use. The demarcated forest land
includes vast grasslands and poorly stocked forest areas.
2.05    AJK falls within the Himalayan orogenetic belt.  Soils can be
broadly grouped into those found on hill plateaux, hill slopes and
alluvial valley soils. Hill plateaux soils are generally leached and
relatively infertile. Because of widespread erosion, soils in general are
skeletal or truncated and mature profiles are rare. While some spon-
taneous natural erosion occurs in the mountain areas of AJK, most of the
serious erosion which has taken place in AJK is man-made as a result of
(a) deforestation and overgrazing; (b) cultivation of steep land; and (c)
construction of roads without appropriate soil conservation measures.
B. Agriculture
2.06    The terrain dictates agricultural practices in AJK.  The
predominantly flat fertile lands found on the south (Kotli and Mirpur
districts) are used for intensive cereal growing. In the northern dis-
tricts of Muzaffarabad and Poonch, the never ending succession of steep
valleys restricts crop growing to bench terraces dug from fertile pockets
of soil on the hillsides. Practically all farms are small and the average
farm size is about 1.4 ha, made up of 0.8 ha of bench terraced cultivable
land plus 0.6 ha of unterraced steep hillside grazing.
2.07    Maize, the main crop, is grown in the summer (kharif) season and
occupies about 70% of the total cropped area. Wheat, grown in the winter
(rabi) season, is the second major crop and accounts for about 20% of the
total cropped area. Other crops grown include rice, millet and pulses.
Most farmers also have small areas of vegetables and some tree crops.
Apples, the most important fruit crop, is a major source of cash income,
especially on farms situated at higher elevations. Figures in the follow-
ing table give an estimate of areas and average yields for the principal
crops in 1981-82.



-4-
Production Estimates of Main Crops 1981/82 1/
Average
Crop                           Area        Yield          Production
T(ha)       (kg/ha)            (tons)
Maize                        124,500         790             98,400
Wheat                         79,700         640             51,000
Rice                           7,100       1,400              9,900
Millet                        15,500         500              8,800
Pulses                         6,700         750              5,000
AJK is deficient in food production and Government regularly procures
wheat from Punjab.
2.08    With some exceptions in the flat areas where farm machinery is
being introduced, land preparation is done by bullocks. A simple
multi-purpose wooden plough is used for tillage and planting. Little
chemical fertilizer is used, but farm yard manure is normally applied to
maize. Farmers keep their own seed from local low yielding varieties,
which is generally broadcast and then ploughed in. The common crop rota-
tion is maize - wheat - maize or maize - fallow - maize. The latter is
prevalent at higher elevations. In the larger valley bottoms, some fields
are irrigated and the prevalent crop rotation is rice - parL wheat and
part clover - rice. The cropping intensity in the State is given as 118%,
about 85% in kharif (April-September) and 33% in rabi (October-March).
The lack of any yield increasing technology in AJK's agricultural sector
explains why yields have remained low and why with an ever increasing
population more and more hillside land has been brought under cultivation.
C. Livestock
2,09    For many farmers, livestock are as important as crops in terms of
income generation. As can be seen from the figures below, cattle and
buffaloes are the most widely kept animals in AJK.
1/ Source: Department of Agriculture.



-5-
1972 1/         1976 1/          1980 2/
Cattle           414,315          425,234           350,200
Buffalo          258,613          256,123           267,800
Sheep            176,446          230,617            61,800  3/
Goat             386,523          504,820           288,400  3/
Cattle are kept for draught purposes and buffaloes for milk production.
Stock are generally nondescript local breeds, providing low offtake and
poor milk yields. The slight increase in the number of buffaloes during
recent years is probably due to an increase in demand for milk in town-
ships. In contrast, the reduction in cattle numbers reflects the growing
tendency whereby families in villages share oxen for ploughing. Sheep and
goats are essentially kept for meat purposes except for a small number of
sheep, known as kail, which are bred for wool. The entire livestock
population is held by small farmers. About 60% of the farmers have less
than two head of cattle and 80% have less than two buffaloes.
2.10    While all animals suffer from a high incidence of disease, espe-
cially Haemorraghic septicaemia and worm infestation, shortfalls in the
quantity and in particular the quality of available feed constitute the
most serious constraint to improving livestock performance. Hay cut from
hillsides counts for about 60% of the fodder available to animals, while
crop residues, weeds and some green maize thinnings make up the rest. In
spite of the large animal population, little fodder is grown in farmers'
fields.  The main problem of grazing occurs in spring.  After the inade-
quate winter feeding, and as soon as temperatures rise, animals are turned
out onto the hillsides to eat the first "green pick" of grass growth.
This period of grazing is potentially the most damaging, as pastures
suffer a setback by being grazed before they reach maturity. Moreover,
the hoofs of animals may inflict considerable damage to the ground while
it is still wet. It is, in fact, the growing grazing pressure of live-
stock which is the major cause for hillsides showing signs of increasingly
severe erosion.  As long as hillsides remain a critical source of animal
feed in the present farming system, efforts to introduce any program of
1/ Livestock census.
2/ 1980 Socio-economic study. Figures must be used with caution.
3/ Decline in smallstock cannot be explained.



-6-
hillside conservation are likely to fail. Thus, the key to hill conserva-
tion would be measures to provide a complementary source of livestock
feed. The main challenge of the project would be the introduction of
fodder crops into the present farming system capable of providing feed,
especially protein feed which would sustain farmers' livestock throughout
the winter period.
D. Forestry
2.11    The area of demarcated forest in AJK is about 583,000 ha.  It is
owned by the Government and managed by the Forestry Department. This area
consists of about 27% productive forest, 32% potentially productive but
currently poorly stocked forest, 6% protection forest and 35% permanent
range. Of the potentially productive forest, most is situated close to
village settlements and consists of understocked remnant forests. Timber
on Shamlat (community owned) and Khalsa (state owned) land is practically
exhausted.
2.12    The natural forest can be broadly divided into two types;
sub-tropical forest between 600 and 1,700 m elevation, consisting largely
of chir pine (Pinus roxbourghii) as the main commercial species and mixed
evergreen shrubs; and temperate zone forest above 1,700 m elevation,
reaching to 3,000 m, with cedar (Cedrus deodora), blue pine (pinus
walichiana), fir (Abies pindrow) and spruce (Pices smithiana) as the main
species, interspersed with some associated broad leaved species (walnut,
naple, oak, etc.). Above the tree line the land is covered with natural
Dgrass.
2.13    Natural forests are one of the main sources of income to the
Government. In 1980/81, Government revenues from forestry, were about PRs
88 million (US$ 7.3 million). Timber extraction is about 100,000 m3 per
year. Moreover, local people have traditional rights of timber extraction
for house construction, free removal of deadwood and branches from trees
and free grazing and collection of fodder. In the absence of appropriate
planting programs, the increasing population has left little chance for
natural regeneration. As a result, large areas are completely denuded,
while in areas where trees still exist branches are lopped to such an
extent that only the top crowns are left. As forests disappear, people
exceed their user rights and encroach on forest areas closed for regenera-
tion, often resulting in increasing conflicts between the Forestry Depart-
ment and the population.
E. Socio-Economic Situation
2.14    The economy of AJK primarily depends on agriculture, forestry and
more recently on remittances from workers outside the State. As the
resource base has deteriorated, the traditional life of the Kashmiri



-7-
people has become threatened. This situation has led to off-farm employ-
ment both within and outside the country, which now has become the main
source of family income. According to the Socio-Economic Survey conducted
in 1980, one adult family member is permanently working outside the farm.
As a result of these off-farm activites average household income in the
State is about PRs 9,720 (US$ 810), yielding a per capita income of about
PRs 1,390 (US$ 116), assuming a household composition of 7 people, com-
pared to a national average of US$ 310 (1981). Average household income
from agriculture is about PRs 2,800 or 29% of total income. Remittances
of earnings into the rural areas have created a special and complex situa-
tion in AJK, raising the question whether farmers' interest in foodcrop
production is declining, in favor of tree crop planting or whether they
will become part-time farmers in the future. While it is difficult at
this stage to predict what pattern of agricultural development will emerge
in the long term future, there is a growing awareness among the Kashmiri
people that major efforts will have to be made by themselves and the
Government to preserve their environment.
F. Institutions and Support Services
General
2.15    The State of AJK is headed by a President and the Government by
a Chief Executive, who is responsible for the overall policy and executive
matters within the state. At present, both these functions are being
performed by the President. The Chief Executive is assisted by two
advisers for overall policy matters and by a Chief Secretary, a civil
servant, who heads the Public Administration. The line departments are
headed by Secretaries who are responsible to the Chief Executive through
the Chief Secretary. The line departments are responsible for the plan-
ning and execution of their respective development programs. The Planning
and Development Department is responsible for coordinating and evaluating
line departments' activities. So far, line departments have been very
much used to working independently with little cooperation among them.
Thus, implementation of the IHFDP, requiring close cooperation and sharing
of responsibility among departments, would represent a great challenge to
GOAJK in changing present attitudes and administrative procedures.
Department of Agriculture
2.16    The Department of Agriculture (DOA) was established in 1956,
primarily to provide extension services and organize input distribution.
Since then it has been growing on an ad hoc basis as new programs have
been attached to it. It is presently responsible for the overall develop-
ment of food and fodder crops, horticulture and tree crops. The DOA is
headed by a Director who is responsible to the Secretary of Agriculture
and Animal Husbandry. It is organized into three main sections (exten-
sion, horticulture and input procurement), and several smaller sections.



-8-
The Department has a total staff of about 870, of whom 80% are low level,
grade 5 and below. The Department's working capacity has been
strengthened under the HFTDP.
2.17    The DOA is also responsible for managing the Agricultural Training
Institute (ATI), where the Department's staff are given in-service train-
ing. The ATI has done good work, but is operating under difficult condi-
tions because of a shortage of instructors, equipment and adequate build-
ings.
Department of Animal Husbandry
2.18    The Department of Animal Husbandry (DOAH) has overall respon-
sibility for livestock development. It is headed by a Director, who is
responsible to the Secretary of Agriculture and Animal Husbandry, and is
assisted by three Deputy Directors for animal health, livestock production
and poultry development respectively. Total supervisory and technical
staff amount to about 370. Professional staff are veterinarians by train-
ing so that the Department's activities are heavily biased towards animal
health, with little emphasis on production. Even in the field of animal
health, activities are concentrated on providing treatment free of charge
at the veterinary hospitals, dispensaries and first aid centers, mostly to
farmers living close to them. In fact, the lack of medicine, veterinary
equipment and transport facilities, and especially an inadequate travel
allowance policy, have hindered animal health services from becoming
widely diffused. In contrast to the rather unsatisfactory animal health
situation, the poultry development program has been very successful in
supplying day-old chicks to rural areas as well as providing health serv-
ices to them (para 2.27).
Forest Department
2.19    The Forest Department (FD) is responsible for the development,
protection and exploitation of forests, conservation of catchment areas,
,development of range land, tourism, and conservation of wildlife. It is
headed by a Chief Conservator of Forests, who reports to the Secretary of
Forests. The FD is organized into two territorial circles, Mirpur Circle
for the districts of Mirpur, Kotli, and Poonch and Muzaffarabad Circle for
the district of Muzaffarabad. In addition, a third overlapping
non-territorial Circle, the Reafforestation Circle, is responsible for
soil conservation and forestry development throughout the State. Each
of the three forest circles is headed by a Conservator of Forests. The
Rteafforestation Circle carries out its activities through the territorial
circles. It also is in charge of research and management of the Forest
Training School.



-9-
2.20    FD's permanent and operations staff is about 1,600 of whom about
80% are low level staff. Since 1927, AJK has operated a system of manage-
ment aimed at maintaining a sustained yield from the forests. This system
is based on selective felling of trees at suitably long intervals and
relies on natural regeneration for renewing forest reserves, which has
become increasingly difficult because of uncontrolled grazing within
demarcated forests. The intensity of forest management is low and FD's
main efforts are geared toward protecting remaining forests, albeit with
little success.
Public Works Department
2.21    The Public Works Department (PWD) is responsible for the construc-
tion and maintenance of primary and secondary roads, the construction of
major government buildings and other infrastructure facilities. The PWD
is headed by a Chief Engineer, who is answerable to the Secretary of
Public Works, and is assisted by three Superintending Engineers who are
heads of the three operational circles and by F Deputy Director for plan-
ning and design. The highway circle consists bf three divisions and each
is headed by an Executive Engineer assisted by an Assistant Engineer and
three Overseers. These three divisions are responsible for the supervi-
sion of road construction and maintenance.  Staff is inadequate for the
amount of work they have to carry out.  PWD normally prepares the
engineering designs, contracts and bills of quantities for all its
projects, which are then carried out by private contractors. Overall,
inadequacy of design and construction work -- indiscriminate use of heavy
earthmovers -- have greatly contributed to destabilizing the environment
in AJK. Roads maintenance is poor because of a lack of funds and staff.
Planning and Development Department
2.22    The Planning and Development Department (PDD) is responsible for
identifying development priorities and preparing fund allocations among
different government departments. In addition, PDD scrutinizes develop-
ment project proposals and carries out some monitoring and evaluation
activities. It is headed by a Development Commissioner, who is answerable
to the Chief Secretary, and is assisted by two Additional Development
Commissioners, a Deputy Director for statistics and a Deputy Secretary for
administration. Because of the amount of routine work, PDD monitoring and
evaluation activities are very limited often confined to approving
progress and completion reports from line departments.
Support Services
2.23    Extension and Input Supply.  DOA's extension service employs 134
Field Assistants (FAs) (1 for about 2,000 - 2,500 families), who are
supervised by 13 Agricultural Officers at the tehsil level, and four
District Agricultural Officers.  Given the difficult terrain, the present



-10-
number of extension staff is inadequate. Moreover, while most FAs are
working with the extension wing of the DOA, others are employed in spe-
cialized services (apple, vegetable, potato programs) with their own line
of command, leading to differences in extension approaches. Most of FAs'
time is devoted to input distribution, leaving little for actual field
work. The situation is further compounded by lack of transport. GOAJK
has recognized these deficiencies and has decided to free the extension
service from their responsibility of selling inputs, which would be trans-
ferred to the private sector in the near future. However, DOA would
continue to procure fertilizer and agro-chemicals at the wholesale level
for distribution to rural areas. It would also continue to be responsible
for supplying maize and wheat seed produced by seed growers and apple
seedlings produced in its nurseries.
Research and Training
2.24    The present research activities of DOA and DOAJ are those carried
out by the HFTDP and consist of maize, wheat and fodder trials by DOA and
crossbreeding, using two exotic breeds, by DOAH. The HFTDP also included
a comprehensive forestry research program, which because of a lack of
staff, and an effective research set-up within FD, failed to be imple-
mented. Training, mainly in-service, is provided by DOA at its Agricul-
tural Training Institute; by FD at its Forest Training School and by DCAH
at its headquarters in Muzaffarabad.
Agricultural Credit
2.25    Agricultural credit is available through five commercial banks,
the Agricultural Development Bank of Pakistan (ADBP) and the Cooperative
Bank. The ADBP offers medium and long-term loans, the commercial banks
offer short, medium and long-term loans, while the Cooperative Bank lends
only short term. Small farmers cultivating below one hectare are eligible
for interest free production credit up to PRs 6,000. However, borrowers
are not forthcoming mainly due to the low level of cash inputs presently
used and the cash availability within the rural community. In fact,
remittances from workers are an important source of private investment
funds explaining why credit distribution in AJK has remained very limited
so far.
Marketing
2.26    With the exception of input distribution by DOA and procurement
and distribution of wheat and other main food items by the Food Depart-
ment, marketing is in the hands of the private sector. However, because
of limited marketable surplus, domestic trade in agricultural commodities
consists mainly of retailing wheat collected from depots of the Food
Department. Some vegetables and fruit are purchased by merchants along
roadsides in villages and sold in Muzaffarabad and other parts of AJK and



-11-
Pakistan. Surplus meat and milk are usually marketed by farmers themsel-
ves.
G. Development Activities
Livestock
2.27    Except for the ongoing HFTDP, development activities in the rural
sector have been limited in recent years. However, noteworthy is the
successful poultry development program, which started in 1979 with the
assistance of UNDP/FA0. Since then, hatcheries, poultry development
centers and disease diagnostic units have been established in all dis-
tricts of AJK. The sale of hatching eggs increased from 40,000 in 1979 to
248,000 in 1982. The number of vaccinations has increased every year such
that at present most birds distributed under the project are covered. The
project has generated enthusiasm and support from the farming community
and a large number of economically viable poultry enterprises have been
initiated.
Forestry
2.28    A reafforestation program was launched by the FD in 1967.  Under
this program, about 50,000 ha of poorly stocked demarcated forest areas
have been planted mainly with pine. Activities outside the demarcated
forest are very limited and little attention has as yet been paid to
meeting farmers' needs for fuel, fodder and timber. Recently, however, FD
has started plantations outside demarcated forests with the cooperation of
the people and assistance from the World Food Program. The project aims
at protecting and developing an area of about 5,600 ha of privately owned
uncultivable hillsides. The project pays for all expenses and the
beneficiaries' contribution is limited to making land available for the
project works. Although plantation work has proceeded without major
difficulties so far, initial indications are that plant mortality is high.
In fact, protecting plantations against animals appears to be difficult,
raising the question of whether tree planting in AJK is possible without
first providing a supplementary source of fodder for animals and an over-
all hill management plan (paras 2.38-2.40).
The Hill Farming Technical Development Project (HFTDP)
2.29    The HFTDP is an experimental pilot project, which aims at develop-
ing agricultural technical packages and strengthening government depart-
ments' implementation capacity. The project includes a number of com-
ponents which can be broadly divided into four categories: crop develop-
ment, livestock improvement, forestry trials and fuelwood plantation and
strengthening agricultural services.



-12-
2.30    The HFTDP has been under implementation since 1978.  Originally
intended as a 3-year project, its closing date has been extended twice
and has now been set for the end of September 1984. Extension of the
closing date has been mainly due to initial delays in project implementa-
tion. Delays were caused by the newness of the project -- the first
IDA-financed project in AJK -- and its experimental nature with regard to
its technical and institutional content. Delays particularly occured in
recruiting foreign technical assistance and procuring equipment and other
materials. Overall, project implementation was handicapped by cumbersome
and rigid administrative procedures and lack of rapid decision making.
Since 1980 project implementation has improved and overall project
progress has been satisfactory.
2.31    Under the crop development program, the project has achieved most
of its objectives. Four experimental and demonstration farms have been
established and trials on maize, pulses and fodder have been carried out.
Besides these, trials on farmers' fields were laid out, using recommended
techniques to measure crop increases under farmers' conditions. A small
maize seed production program using farmers' groups was established.
Thus, the project has successfully developed improved technical packages
for these crops, in particular for maize. It has also successfully imple-
mented the apple development program. Three apple nurseries were
upgraded, about 140,000 grafted plants distributed to farmers and about
450 ha of apple orchards were established. The vegetable program,
'however, has only been partially successful in that it upgraded an 8 ha
government seed farm and established a seed processing plant, as a result
of which current demand for vegetable seed is fully met. However, the
project failed in organizing farmers to produce vegetable seed on their
own farms mainly because of the high degree of management skill required.
2.32    Project activities in livestock improvement consisted of cattle
breeding through artificial insemination using two exotic breeds, Brown
Swiss and Welsh Black, and improved forage utilization by introducing
silage making. The long term objective of the breeding program was to
develop a dual purpose animal which would replace both the buffalo and
local cattle. Preliminary observations indicate that the genetic poten-
lial of first crossbred animals has not been fully achieved due mainly to
iinadequate feed. In fact, the results of the breed improvement program
are directly linked to the inability of farmers to provide adequate quan-
tities of fodder for the crossbred offspring. Too little attention was
paid to whether the selected farms were capable of providing the level of
feed and management required.
2.33    The forage utilization program also failed, because of the
emphasis on silage making. Silage making on small farms was found imprac-
tical because of high wastage. Larger communal silage pits proved to be
socially unacceptable.



-13-
2.34    Project forestry activities were (a) to set up pilot fuelwood
plantations over an area of 1,300 ha of private and public land, (b) to
establish four nurseries for conducting experimental trials and (c) to
collect data and carry out a number of studies for the preparation of a
follow-up project. The plantation component has been successful -- plan-
tations have been raised over 2,000 ha of which 46% were established on
privately owned land, 10% on communal lands (shamlat) and the remaining
44% on demarcated forests and Khalsa lands. In contrast, the experimental
trials and studies have not been implemented mainly due to a lack of staff
and an organizational set-up to carry out these types of activities within
the FD.
2.35    To strengthen agricultural services, the project provided training
and technical assistance, conducted studies, undertook aerial photography,
established a land use planning unit and strengthened the DOA's soil
laboratory and entomology section through the provision of equipment and
staff. Training has been successful and most programs/courses will be
completed by mid-1984, so that the proposed IHFDP would be fully staffed
from the outset of project implementation.
2.36    Overall, the HFTDP has enabled GOAJK and IDA to gain valuable
experience in defining technical packages and institutional arrangements
for solving the multiple problems of rural development in AJK.
H. Development Policies
2.37    Because of the difficult terrain, most of GOAJK's past development
efforts concentrated on providing physical and social infrastructure such
as roads, water supply, electricity, education and health services to
rural areas. Meanwhile, development expenditures on agriculture, forestry
and livestock in the period 1970-80 accounted for only about 12% of the
total allocation. However, the emphasis as reflected in the Sixth Five
Year Development Plan is now changing and GOAJK is putting higher priority
on rural development, in particular on protecting the hills from defores-
tation and erosion.
Hill Management Strategy
2.38    The key to conservation and the optimal use of hillsides in AJK
lies in the definition and acceptance of a Hill Managenent Plan by its
present users: the individual farmer, the village community and the
Government. This would require changes in present agriculture practices
and usage of forest and grazing areas. The first step would be to reduce
the growing pressures on hillsides caused by man and animals and thus
allow regeneration of the protective cover. Natural grass and shrub cover
would provide substantial protection against further water run-off and
erosion. The main constraint, however, is the present lack of fodder and
fuelwood. Hence, first priority would be to increased maize, fodder and



-14-
fuelwood production. Improvements in maize production would be essential
in order to make room for introducing fodder crops and legumes into the
present cropping system. Thus, increased animal feed would be obtained
through (a) using land released through improved crop yields (mainly
maize) and (b) by better use of existing waste lands for fodder produc-
tion. At the same time, seedlings of fuelwood species would be dis-
tributed to farmers for planting close to their homesteads. Thus, once
the pressures for fodder and fuel on hillsides have been reduced, a
management program which combines the conservation of hillsides with
sustained yields of animal feed and timber for fuelwood and commercial
purposes can be established.
2.39    The second phase of the Hill Management Plan would be to demarcate
different areas for commercial forests, fuelwood plantations, conservation
works and grazing. The Land Use Planning Unit would play an essential
part in this process. After completion of the demarcation process, plant-
ing and conservation programs would begin and a fodder management scheme
for grazing areas would be established. This would constitute the third
phase of the Hill Management plan. Technical knowledge of how to imple-
ment these various phases exists, although the precise package has to be
tailored to meet the requirements of each hillside/catchment and its human
population.
2.40    While solutions to the technical problems of hill management are
well known, overcoming the social constraints to a systematic hill
development program would constitute the real challenge. Hillsides are
presently controlled under three different tenure systems: shamlat or
community lands, mulkiyat or private lands, and Governnent owned forests.
On any one hillside, these three tenure groups are intermixed. However, a
hillside is an ecosystem entity and must be treated as such. It is
generally of little use to implement conservation and production measures
on one part when run-off from another part is not checked at the same
time. Hence, a management package must be designed and implemented for a
hillside as a whole.
2.41    It would therefore be required that all interested parties come
together and agree to a hill/catchment management plan. GOAJK would have
to play the critical role of catalyst in this strategy. Once agreement is
reached between individuals, the village community and Government, the
actual implementation of hill development programs (planting and conserva-
tion works) would be carried out by Government departments. Any agreement
would, therefore, include a benefit-sharing arrangement betveen villagers
and Government. (para 5.04). Thus, Hill Management would require close
cooperation between Government and farmers.



-15-
III. THE PROJECT
A.  Project Area
3.01    The proposed IHFDP would be GOAJK's first attempt at applying the
Hill Management Strategy in a limited geographical area. Considering the
complexity of the problems to be tackled, and the limited experience and
resources of GOAJK, the proposed project would be implemented in the two
northern districts of Muzaffarabad and Poonch (see IBRD Map 17501). 1/ The
project would cover 113,000 ha with most of the terrain being broken,
consisting of steep hills and narrow valleys forming a complex system of
watersheds and sub-watersheds separated by steep ridges. Altitudes range
from about 700 m in the valley of the Jhelum River to 4,000 m in the upper
reaches toward the eastern boundary. The geology, soils and climate in
the project area are described in Chapter II.
3.02    The population in the project area is currently estimated at about
312,600 or about 15% of the total population in the State. There are
about 47,000 households of which 95% are farm households. Overall popula-
tion density is some 280 per sq. km (990 per sq. km of cultivable land)
which is slightly higher than the State average (para 2.01). Farm land
consists of 54,500 ha, of which cultivable land accounts for 31,550 ha.
Average farm size is about 1.2 ha and the cultivable portion is 0.7 ha.
Over 90% of the cultivable area is under food crops, mainly rainfed maize
and wheat cultivated on terraces, with some irrigated rice grown in valley
bottoms. A small portion of the project area is under tree crops,
primarily apples. Average household income is slightly lower than the
State average. Cropping patterns, yields and cultural practices in the
project area are similar to those described in Chapter II and so are the
livestock and forestry situations.
B. Project Components
Project Objectives and General Description
3.03    The proposed five-year project would conserve AJK's environment
while at the same time improve the welfare of its people (para 1.01). To
achieve the above mentioned goals, a number of programs would have to be
implemented at the same time or in a certain time sequence as described in
the Hill Management Strategy (paras 2.39 -- 2.40). As shortages of fodder
and fuelwood are widespread, the core of the project would consist of
programs to (a) improve agricultural productivity and introduce farm
1/ The project area ends ten km before the line of control.



-16-
fodder production and (b) to foster tree planting on private and public
land. These programs would be supplemented by a livestock improvement
component aimed at reducing animal numbers in the long run and feeder road
development to improve communications in the project area. To assist in
implementation the project would provide for the establishment of a
strong, unified agricultural extension service, timely supply of farm
inputs, training of project staff, technical assistance and research.
Finally, it is understood that the implementation of a project of this
nature would rely heavily on the active cooperation of the people.
3.04    Project components comprise:
-- development of increased food (maize/wheat) and fodder crop
production through the provision of inputs and support
services;
-- development of 1,380 ha of apple orchards through the pro-
vision of grafted seedlings and support services;
=- strengthening of DOA's extension and input distribution
services through the provision of infrastructure, vehicles,
equipment and financing of operating costs;
-- afforestation of 5,680 ha in demarcated forests and hill-
side planting for fuelwood on 3,800 ha of communal, state
and privately owned lands and distribution of 12 million
seedlings to farmers;
-- construction of soil conservation measures mainly consist-
ing of check dams;
-- establishment of a forest research program and a seed
center to procure, process and distribute forest tree seed;
-- general support to FD by providing infrastrncture, vehicles,
equipment and technical assistance;
-- strengthening of DOAH's animal health services through the
provision of medicines, vaccines and veterinary equipment
and establishment of a Livestock Development Center;
-- construction and maintenance of 117 km of feeder roads;
-- support to implementing departments, through the provision of
additional staff, vehicles, equipment, housing and technical
assistance;



-17-
-- setting up of a Project Coordination Unit and strengthening
of the Land Use Planning Unit;
-- provision of funds to carry out studies and experimental work.
3.05    The project would be carried out over a period of five years
FY84/85 to FY88/89. Implementation has been designed to coincide with
GOAJK's annual budget procedures and for ease of incorporating programs
into Government Annual Development Plans. Because of preparatory work
under the ongoing HFTDP, most production programs (agriculture, livestock
and forestry) under the proposed project would start during the first year
and continue with a gradual build up until the completion of the project
as illustrated in the table below.
Table 3.1
-----------Project Years---------
Component/Program            Unit         1       2       3        4       5
Maize Development             ha        2,900   6,900  11,800  14,500  15,200
Wheat Development             ha          870   2,180   3,980   5,160   6,640
Fodder Crop Development 1/   ha                   220      770   1,770   2,600
Apple Development             ha          220     540      920   1,170   1,380
Afforestation                 ha          640     640   1,000   1,200   1,200
Seedling Distribution to
Farmers ('000)              no.         500   1,000   2,000   3,500   5,500
Fuelwood Plantations          ha          260     410      800   1,440   1,890
Feeder Road Construction      km           15      22       28      30      22
1/ Mainly maize and oats.
Maize and wheat production being the extension of existing programs would
build up more quickly, while fodder crop production is likely to lag
behind food crops by about one year. Reafforestation programs carried out
by FD would also start earlier and build up more rapidly than fuelwood
plantations as more time would be required to convince and organize
farmers. Detailed preparation of the livestock (animal husbandry) and
forestry research programs would be completed within one year, so that
research work in these fields would start in the second project year.
Project activities are expected to be completed by mid-1989.



-18-
C. Detailed Features
Agriculture Component
3.06    The development programs for food, fodder and apple production
would extend the scope of ongoing activities under the HFTDP over a larger
area within an improved institutional framework.
3.07    Food Crops:  The project would introduce improved production
technology on 15,000 ha of maize and 7,000 ha of wheat. A successful
technical package for maize has already been developed under the on-going
HFTDP. Three suitable maize varieties have been identified and with
appropriate dosages of fertilizers and pesticides farmers are able to more
than triple their yields. With regard to wheat, GOAJK has maintained
close coordination with the Government of Punjab in conducting research
trials whose results have been encouraging. These trials would continue
under the proposed project and a proven technical package is expected to
be ready for adoption by farmers early in the project period. Finally,
experimental work for rice would be initiated to develop an appropriate
technical package including relay cropping with clover species. One
agronomist and one entomologist would be provided under the project,
together with the necessary support staff and facilities, to conduct
experiments on the above crops at the three agricultural stations in the
project area and trials on farmers' fields. The technical package
developed at these locations would subsequently be tested and demonstrated
by extension staff.
3.08    Fodder Crops:  The project would improve the supply of fodder at
the farm level. It would be a prerequisite that improved food crop pack-
ages had gained wide acceptance among farmers and that the land so freed
would then be used for fodder crop production. While a substantial change
in farmers' attitude would be required, it should be noted that this
change may be facilitated by the fact that (a) farmers already produce
some fodder (maize, hay) and stable animals during the winter period and
(b) the growing awareness among them of the increasing damage done by
their animals to the environment. The project would extend the area under
fodder maize by 2,500 ha, swedes by 1,100 ha and oats by 1,400 ha. Tech-
nical packages for these crops have been developed under the ongoing HFTDP
and maize as a fodder crop is already being successfully grown under the
HFTDP as are oats as a winter crop replacing wheat. Moreover, con-
siderable land remains fallow during the winter season which could be used
for fodder production (i.e., swedes, turnips). Finally, there is the
possibility of improving grasslands on "cultivable waste" lands, by
reseeding with suitable grass species. Experimental work would also be
initiated on clovers (berseem and shaftal) as a source of fodder. The
project agronomist would be responsible for carrying out these experiments
and refining existing technical packages. He would be assisted by a
consultant to be recruited for two years. The average manmonth cost



-19-
including salary, allowances and international travel is expected to be
US$ 10,000.
3.09    Seed Multiplication:  The project would support a seed multiplica-
tion program to ensure a supply of pure and good quality seed to farmers.
The program would select suitable varieties, multiply them at the three
Agricultural Stations (Bagh, Danna and Ghari Dopotta) and distribute seed
to selected farmers who would further multiply the foundation stock.
Farmers would receive foundation seeds, fertilizers, and pesticides and
their produce, once certified as seed, would be purchased by the Procure-
ment Wing of the Agriculture Department at a premium price. Assurances
were obtained that seed growers would receive a premiun price of at least
30% over prevailing market prices for their produce and that the present
subsidy on inputs would be withdrawn in line with GOP policy.
3.10    Apple Production:  Building on the success of the apple production
program of the ongoing project, the project would plant an additional
1,380 ha during the project period. Under the ongoing HFTDP, the Agricul-
ture Department imported 750 plants of clonal root stock from East Mall-
ing, England. These are now being multiplied to produce 100,000 dis-
ease-free root stock plants for distribution to farmers. Apple trees
would be planted on farms situated above 1,200 m of altitude. Initially,
each family would be restricted to planting 0.1 ha, or 30 trees, in order
to spread project benefits among a wider population. Apple seedlings
would be sold to growers and main varieties to be planted would be
Golden-, Starking- and Red Delicious. To promote the above program the
project would support a nursery expansion program and provide staff
facilities, transport, tools and equipment. The project would also
provide for four manmonths of technical assistance in apple husbandry and
nursery management, on an intermittent basis.
3.11    Extension Service:  To support the development activities of the
DOA, extension services in the project area would be reorganized and
strengthened. Field Assistants (FAs) would be relieved from carrying out
non-extension duties and a unified extension service based on the T&V
system would be introduced. Under the supervision of the Deputy Project
Director Extension, the project would operate 13 Extension Circles and 90
Extension Centers in the project area. Each Extension Circle would be
headed by an Agricultural Officer (AO) and would cover about 3,500 farm
families. FAs would be located at Extension Centers and each would work
in an area comprising about 500 farm families. The project would also
provide 6 Subject Matter Specialists (SMSs) (food crops, horticulture,
fodder production, plant production, livestock/fodder utilization and
forestry/soil conservation) and a training officer. SlISs would be respon-
sible for training AOs and FAs and for carrying out adaptive research
trials. The SMSs would regularly -- once a month -- train AOs at the
training institute at Ghari Dopotta, while FAs would be trained fort-
nightly alternately by SMSs at Ghari Dopotta and by AOs at Extension



-20-
Circles. FAs would regularly visit their respective areas and for this
purpose identify contact farmers within the farming community and estab-
lish a schedule of fortnightly visits. To carry out extension work and
training programs, the project would provide incremental staff, housing,
office facilities for all extension staff and classroom/meeting room
facilities at Ghari Dopotta and at the Extension Circles together with
necessary teaching aids. SMSs and AOs would be provided with motorcycles.
Finally, FAs would receive a project allowance of Rps 70 in line with the
Punjab Extension Project. Assurances were obtained that a unified exten-
sion service based on the Training and Visit System would be introduced by
September 30, 1984 to ensure that extension workers do not carry out
non-extension duties after September 1985 at the latest.
3.12    Input Supply:  The sale of agricultural inputs to farmers would be
transferred to the private sector, thus relieving FAs from carrying out
these duties. However, the Procurement Wing of the Department of Agricul-
ture would continue to be responsible for bulk handling of agricultural
inputs as well as delivering fertilizer to sale agents by employing
private trucking firms. Handling of pesticides would also be transferred
to the private sector, but distribution of seed would continue to be a
responsibility of DOA. Considering the increased demand for fertilizer in
tlhe project area, the project would construct 7 additional bulk stores
with a total storage capacity of 900 tons and provide additional staff.
Assurances were obtained that distribution of fertilizers and pesticides
would be transferred to the private sector not later than June 30, 1985.
Forestry Component
3.13    The five-year forestry development program would increase the
effectiveness of the forest resources in protecting the environment and
expand the resource base through planting fuel and fodder trees on both
public and private lands. The implementation of this program would
require a gradual reorientation of the FD from "a tree to a people
oriented" service.  The forestry component would have the following
sub-components.
3.14    Plantation Establishment:  5,680 ha within the demarcated state
forest areas would be planted to coniferous species (4,680 ha) and broad
leaf species (1,000 ha). These plantations would provide vegetative cover
for watersheds and produce fuelwood and fodder for local communities in
accordance with existing rules and regulations. In addition, an area of
3,800 ha, planted mainly with fast-growing broad leaf trees would be
established on community (shamlat), privately-owned (mulkiyat) and
state-owned (khalsa) lands to improve the hydrological condition of
selected hillsides/watersheds. This program would be part of a Hill
Management Plan and carried out by FD which would bear the cost of estab-
lishment and protection during the first rotation. A management agreement
between the FD and all members of the community involved would be a



-21-
precondition for carrying out this activity (para 2.40). This agreement
would also specify the mode of cost recovery for FD (para 5.04).
3.15    Farm Forestry:  Farmers are increasingly seeking seedlings for
planting within or near to their homesteads. Robinia pseudoaccacia would
constitute about 70% of all seedlings to be distributed.  The balance
would be made up of Ailanthus, Prunes, and Melia species. Seedling dis-
tribution would take place twice every year; containerized seedlings would
be distributed during the monsoon season and bare rooted seedlings
together with containerized seedlings in the winter planting season. For
recording purposes a nominal price of 5 paisa would be charged for each
seedling. About 12 million seedlings would be distributed during the
project implementation period.
3.16    Seedling Production:  The proposed plantation and distribution
programs would require production of about 39 million seedlings over a
5-year period. To achieve this, the FD would establish 35 ha of new
nurseries in addition to existing ones (16 ha). Nurseries would be estab-
lished on rented land with irrigation facilities at suitably dispersed
locations. Two thirds of all seedlings produced would be containerized
and 13 million would be bare-rooted seedlings. Chir pine (P.roxburgii)
and blue pine (P.walichiana) would be planted and raised to restock demar-
cated forests. Robinia pseudoaccacia and Ailanthus spp. would be raised
for establishing fuelwood and soil conservation plantations. During the
first year, the seed required would be procured by the current collection
method. Beginning with the project's second year, the Seed Center would
be responsible for supplying seed to nurseries.
3.17    Establishment of a Forestry Seed Center:  A Seed Center, as a
division of the Forest Department, would be established to secure the
supply of viable and selected seed required for afforestation activities
within the State. The center would collect, procure test, process, store
and distribute seed. To this effect, the Center would identify and
develop local seed sources from individual seed trees and permanent seed
stands as well as procure seed from other internal and external sources.
At full capacity the Center is expected to handle 20 tons of seed per
year. The project would finance all necessary houses, offices and stores,
vehicles (3) and laboratory equipment as well as the operating costs of
the Center. The detailed design of the Center and the selection of equip-
ment would be carried out with the assistance of an expatriate specialist
to be recruited under the project. Additional assistance would be
obtained from other Seed Centers (Lahore and PFRI) in the country.
3.18    Engineering Measures for Soil Conservation:  Existing land use
patterns within the project area, especially land under cultivation, would
limit the establishment of permanent vegetative cover as a measure against
erosion and run off. Hence, some limited engineering measures would be
required at critical locations to check erosion and gully formation. The



-22-
project would, therefore, provide for the construction of 300,000 m3 of
loose check dams and about 1,800 m3 of masonry dams. Rock is abundantly
available within the project area and FD has gained considerable
experience in this field during past years. This program would not be
carried out throughout the project area, but limited to those hillsides
where development and conservation activities are part of a Hill Manage-
ment Plan.
3.19    Forestry Research:  A five-year forestry and soil conservation
research program would be implemented with the technical assistance of
PFRI. The objectives would be to develop appropriate nursery and field
planting methods, select improved tree provenances and test appropriate
soil conservation methods. In addition, studies on plantation management
and the development of efficient wood burning stoves would be carried out.
The project would provide equipment, vehicles and additional staff. A
detailed work program would be prepared, specifying the responsibilities
of both parties involved. Assurances were obtained that not later than
September 30, 1984 a contract between FD and PFRI, satisfactory to IDA,
had been signed spelling out research programs and respective respon-
sibilities for carrying out research activities under the project.
3.20    Training:  The project would provide for a comprehensive training
program for technical staff employed under the project. A total of 44
manmonths of overseas training, consisting of four scholarships, would be
provided to train staff in nursery techniques, seed center management and
soil conservation. In addition, 1,128 manmonths of local training through
existing institutions would be financed under the project. Bachelor's
and Master's degree level training would be given in the Pakistan Forest
Institute. Training of Foresters and Forest Rangers would be provided by
the Forestry School in Muzaffarabad.
3.21    Technical Assistance:  Nursery and planting practices need sub-
stantial improvement. To provide the required knowhow and on-the-job
training, 24 months of technical assistance would be financed by the
project. An expatriate plantation specialist would be recruited for this
purpose. He would also assist Seed Center staff in designing the Center
and the research unit in carrying out the plantation research program.
The average manmonth cost including salary, allowances and international
travel is expected to be US$ 10,000.
3.22    Infrastructure Facilities, Vehicles and Equipment:  To support the
above programs, the project would, in addition to the establishment of the
Seed Center, provide for the construction of one residential building for
Project Forestry staff, office facilities as well as sheds for vehicles.
The project would purchase office furniture and equipment and twelve
4-wheel drive vehicles. All operating costs would also be covered.



-23-
Livestock Component
3.23    The principal constraint to livestock development in AJK is an
acute shortage of animal feed. The fodder development program is expected
to increase on-farm fodder production. Given this, there are two areas
which should complement the improved fodder situation: animal health and
animal husbandry.
3.24    Animal Health:  Effective veterinary service would require that
hospitals/dispensaries/first aid centers change their present orientation
from being static centers, where staff wait for farmers to bring animals
in, towards being a base from which all veterinary staff work out of.
This change in orientation would be initiated in the 10 hospitals and 13
dispensaries and first aid centers that are located in the project area.
This reorientation, however, can only be carried out if the present jus-
tification for travel allowance payments is changed from a mileage to a
"nights out" basis, to motivate veterinary staff to make three/four day
field trip circuits on foot. The present qualification for travel
allowance payments is based on a requirement to travel more than ten miles
from the center. Considering the rugged and mountainous terrain in the
project area, this policy has acted as a major disincentive to all veteri-
nary staff to bring services closer to farmers. GOAJK has proposed a new
travel policy for veterinary staff based on a fixed monthly travel
allowance. This new policy would be tried for about a year and thereafter
reviewed by GOAJK and IDA to see whether it had achieved the desired
result of encouraging veterinary staff to travel to the field. Disburse-
ments would not continue under the livestock component if the review
concluded that (a) the policy was unsatisfactory and (b) agreement could
not be reached on a new policy.
3.25    With the exception of those months with high rainfall/snowfall,
all field officers (including veterinary officers) would be expected to
spend a minimum of 15 working days a month in the field. Vaccination
campaigns would be held twice a year, with the principle activity occuring
during the monsoon. Vaccinations would gradually increase to a 70% cover
by the end of the project period. Control of worm infestation would also
be carried out. However, the past rather ad hoc coverage would be aban-
doned and a process of selective treatment would be adopted. At project
completion, 20% of all animals are expected to be covered. To carry out
the above programs and other occasional treatments, the project would
provide for veterinary equipment, especially field kits, medicine, vac-
cines and transport facilities for veterinary officers (10 motorcycles).
3.26    Animal Husbandry:  The results of the ongoing crossbreeding
program have been unsatisfactory, mainly because it failed to preceed the
introduction of crossbreeds with improvements in on-farm feed production
(see para 2.32). The program needs to change its priorities moving first
into the testing of nutrition/health packages on a comparative indigenous



-24-
Desi/crossbreed basis, and also to widen its options. The overall objec-
tive of the animal husbandry program would be to provide improved animal
types and production options better able to use the increases in high
quality fodder provided by the project. A carefully designed field test-
ing program is required to assess the initial risks and to find the
optimum animal production "package" to suit any particular area. To
attain this, the project would establish a "Livestock Development Center"
(LDC) which would act as the focus of the animal husbandry field testing
program and would carry out trials of "best bet" options.
3.27    The project would establish the LDC, including the construction of
offices, houses, stores, yards, crushes, etc., the purchase of veterinary
and office equipment, experimental animals as well as motorcycles (6) and
4-wheel drive vehicles (4). It would also cover all additional staff and
operating costs. Because of the rigorous demands of designing and operat-
ing the Center and the various trials and field testing programs, these
tasks would be contracted out to an appropriate field research organiza-
tion through the offices of the Pakistan Agricultural Research Council.
The day to day administration of the LDC, however, would be the respon-
sibility of the DOAH. Assurances were obtained that by June 30, 1985 a
draft contract would be prepared between the DOAH and an appropriate
research organization spelling out in detail the programs to be carried
out and the responsibilities of the parties involved. However, funds for
the animal husbandry program would only be disbursed, if an agreement had
been reached to continue the veterinary component (Para 3.24).
3.28    Training:  Provision of training has been made for both livestock
programs. Training would mostly be of an in-service or local short course
nature, where such aspects as the techniques of using new equipment are
explained to junior officers. With the establishment of the LDC, all
veterinary officers would receive training at the Center in basic animal
nutrition and feeding in order to broaden their perspective. Travel to
local and overseas organizations would also be organized where similar
activities, in particular with regard to animal husbandry and feed
improvement are carried out.
Feeder Road Component
3.29    The internal road communication network between villages and
market centers in the project area is inadequate to facilitate distribu-
tion of farm inputs, provide mobility for extension staff, and transport
farm products to markets. The project would address this problem by
constructing 39 km of new roads, improving 78 m of very low standard
existing roads, and funding the subsequent maintenance during the project
duration. The roads would be constructed to a fair-weather feeder road
specification. Construction would be planned and supervised by the Public
Works Department. Design standards and construction techniques would be
such as to minimize soil disturbance and reduce the risk of inducing land



-25-
slip and soil erosion problems (Annex 1). The specifications would
facilitate and encourage labor intensive construction methods in
preference to machine operations. Maintenance also would be entirely
manual. A schedule of individual roads has been prepared. Assurances
were obtained that feeder roads would be properly maintained by PWD after
project completion.
Project Coordination Unit
3.30    The project would finance the investment and operating costs of
the PCU including: construction of an office building, purchase of office
equipment, vehicles (6) as well as special land use planning equipment.
A study-cum-experiment fund (PRs 6.5 million) to finance studies and
experiments as may be justified during project implementation would also
be established. These would include studies and experiments in tree crop
diversification, range management, marketing studies, project evaluation,
etc. (see details Chapter IV).
D. Cost Estimates and Financing
3.31    Total project cost over the period July 1984 to June 1989 is
estimated at PRs 344.4 million (US$ 26.5 million) including duties and
taxes estimated at PRs 8.45 million (US$ 0.65 million) (Annex 2). The
foreign exchange component amounts to PRs 52.2 million (UJS$ 4 million)
representing 15% of total project cost. Estimated costs are based on
price levels prevailing in May 1983 adjusted for expected domestic and
international inflation to expected end 1983 levels. Physical contingen-
cies (6.3%) and price contingencies (22.9%) over the project period amount
to about 29 percent of project base cost. This amount is considered to be
adequate to cover future price increases and other project uncertainties.
Project costs are summarized below in Tables 3.2 and 3.3. Detailed cost
tables are kept in the project file.



-26-
Table 3.2:   Summary of Project Costs
Component              Local    Foreign   Total        Local   Foreign    Total        % of Total
(PRs million) -(US$ million)------
A.  Agriculture         49.0       16.8       65.8      3.8       1.3        5.1          24.9
B.  Forestry           98,3       10.5      108.8       7.6       0.8        8,4          40.9
C.  Livestock           23.7        6.7      30.4       1.8       0.5        2.3          11.2
D.  Feeder Roads        42.3        3.1      45.4       3.2       0.3        3.5          17.1
E.  Project             11.5        4.4       15.9      0.9       0.3        1.2           5.9
Management
Total Base Cost       224.8       41.5      266.3      17.3       3.2       20.5         100.0
Physical                14.5        2.7       17.2      1.1       0.2        1.3         106.3
Contingencies I/
Price                   52.9        8.0      60.9       4.1       0.6        4.7         122.9
Contingencies 2/
Total Project Cost   292.2        52.2      344.4      22.5       4.0       26.5         129.2
1/  10% for civil works and 5% for all other items (excluding studies).
2/  Price increase on foreign costs: year 1 - 7.25%; year 2 - 6.5%; years 3-5 - 6%;
Price increase on local costs:  year 1 - 7%; year 2 - 6.5%; years 3-5 - 6%.  (FY basis)



-27-
Table 3.3: Summary of Project Costs by Expenditures
Category                Local    Foreign    Total       Local    Foreign    Total    % of Total
(PRs million) -(US$ million)--
Civil Works              65.1      13.0        78.1      5.1        1.0        6.1        29.8
(including roads)
Vehicles                  5.5       5.4        10.9      0.4        0.4        0.8          3.9
Materials, Equipment,    4.2        2.9         7.1      0.3        0.2        0.5          2,4
Furniture, Livestock
Forestry Plantations   33.3        --         33.3      2.6        --         2.6         12.7
and Soil Conservation
Works
Training and Studies      4.0       3.0         7.0      0.3        0.2        0.5          2.4
Technical Assistance      4.6       6.9        11.5      0.3        0.6        0.9         4.4
Operating Costs         108.1      10.3       118.4      8.3        0.8        9.1        44.4
Total Base Costs        244.8      41.5       266.3     17.3        3.2       20.5       100.0
Physical Contingencies  14.5        2.7        17.2      1.1        0.2        1.3        106.3
Price Contingencies      52.9       8.0        60.9      4.1        0.6        4.7       122.9
Total Project Cost      292.2      52.2       344.4     22.5        4.0       26.5        129.2
3.32    The proposed IDA credit of US$ 21.0 million would cover about 81%
of project cost net of duties and taxes. It would cover all foreign
exchange expenditures (US$ 4 million) and 78% of all local costs (US$ 17.0
million) exclusive of duties and taxes. The balance of US$ 5.5 million
including duties and taxes would be financed by GOP. Funds for the
project would be provided to GOAJK as part of the federally financed
Annual Development Program. The special revolving fund under the ongoing
HFTDP would continue to operate and be administered by the Project Coor-
dination Unit to finance local development expenditures. The fund would
be replenished at monthly intervals to a level equivalent to the estimated
requirements for the next two calendar months. Establishment of the above
revolving fund and the deposit of an initial sum of Rps 2 million into the
fund as well as the approval of the PC 1 by the Executive Committee of the



-28-
National Economic Committee (ECNEC) would be conditions of credit effec-
tiveness.
E. Procurement
Table 3.4: Procurement (US$ million)
-----Procurement Method-----
Project Element                    ICB      LCB      Other    N.A.    Total Cost
Civil Works                                7.10                           7.10
(including roads)                        (6.40)                         (6.40)
Vehicles                           0.83                                   0.83
(0.40)                                 (0.40)
Motorcycles                                          0.06                  0.06
(0.03)               (0.03)
Tree Plantations and                                 3.00                 3.00
Soil Conservation Works                            (2.70)               (2e70)
Equipment, Furniture, Tools,               0.15      0.45                 0.60
Livestock and Materials                  (0.11)   (0.34)                (0.45)
Training and Studies                                         0.70         0.70
(0.70)       (0.70)
Technical Assistance                                 1.00                  1.00
(1.00)               (1.00)
Operating Costs                                             11.60        11.60
(7.70)       (7.70)
Unallocated Funds                                             1.60         1.60  1/
(1.60)       (1.60)
TOTAL PROJECT COST                 0.83   7.25       4.51   13.90        26.50
(Total IDA Financing)             (0.40) (6.51)   (4.07) (10.00)        (21.00) 2/
1/ Physical contingencies in current terms.
2!  Figures in parentheses are the respective amounts financed by IDA.
3.33    Contracts for feeder roads and other civil works (office build-
ings, staff housing, stores, sheds, etc.) would not be suitable for ICB



-29-
because the work would be too scattered and remote to attract interna-
tional interest. Designs would be simple and construction methods labor
intensive. Hence, contracts would be let following local competitive
bidding procedures satisfactory to IDA. The tendering would be carried
out by the Public Works Department. A large number of qualified contrac-
tors exist in AJK and surrounding provinces. Vehicles would be purchased
under ICB procedures. Local manufacturers would be allowed a preference
of 15% of the c.i.f. bid price of imported goods or the actual customs
duties and import taxes, whichever is less. Adequate naintenance and
availability of spare parts would be of great importance for bid evalua-
tion. Motorcycles would be sold to relevant project staff on a hire pur-
chase basis. They would be procured consistent with the preference of the
people to whom they are to be provided. Price quotations would be invited
from local and foreign manufacturers who have a service network in Pakis-
tan and are from member countries. Choices given by them would be col-
lated and orders placed by GOAJK. As equipment and materials would be
very heterogeneous and mostly required in small lots, all over the project
area, it would not be suitable for ICB procedures. Equipment, furniture,
tools and other small items would be grouped, whenever possible, in pack-
ages above US$ 10,000 and procured through LCB. Items which cannot be so
grouped and valued at less than US$ 10,000 would be purchased by prudent
shopping. They would amount to a total of approximately US$ 480,000. FD
would establish plantations and carry out soil conservation works by force
account. Consultants for technical assistance would be selected in
accordance with Bank guidelines. All works contracts over US$ 500,000 and
contracts for equipment and goods over US$ 50,000 would be subject to
prior Bank review. Other contracts would be subject to selective post
award review.
F. Disbursement
3.34    Disbursements under the credit would be made as follows:
A. Civil Works:
(i) Construction of feeder roads. 90% of local expenditures
(US$ 3.40 million);
(ii) Construction of office buildings, staff houses and sheds,
veterinary facilities and stores; 90% of local expenditures
(US$ 3.00 million);
B. Forestry establishment and soil conservation works; 90% of local
expenditures (US$ 2.70 million);
C. Vehicles and motorcycles, office equipment and furniture, veterinary
and agricultural equipment, road maintenance equipment, materials,
livestock, (US$ 0.88 million):



-30-
(i) directly imported; 100% of foreign exchange;
(ii) locally mantufactured; 100% of ex-factory cost;
(iii) locally procured (off the shelf); 70% of local expenditures;
D. Training and studies; 100% of expenditures (US$ 0.70 million);
E. Technical assistance; 100% of expenditures (US$ 1.0 million);
F. Incremental operating cost:
staff salaries (US$ 3.2 million) and other operating costs
(US$ 4.5 million) on a declining basis - 1984/85 - 90%;
1985/86 - 80%; 1986/87 - 70%; 1987/88 - 60%; 1988/89 - 55%.
G. Unallocated: (US$ 1.60 million).
Disbursements for forestry plantations and soil conservation works (B)
and recurrent costs (F) would be made against statements of expenditures,
certified by the Project Coordinator. Documentation supporting these
statements would be retained by the Project Coordination Unit for review
by supervision missions. All expenditures disbursed against certified
statements of expenditures would be audited annually by auditors, accept-
a'ble to IDA. Disbursements against civil works (A), purchase of vehicles
and equipment (B), training and studies (D) as well as technical assis-
tance (E) would be fully documented.  Disbursements would extend over a
period of six years or twelve months longer than the expected project
implementation period. Experience in Pakistan has shown that on average a
delay of about six to nine months occurs between the time local expendi-
tures are made and reimbursement is claimed from IDA. Disbursements
differ from the Bank's historical disbursement profiles as (a) GOAJK is
now fully familiar with IDA disbursement and procurement requirements, (b)
GOAJK has learnt valuable lessons in carrying out rural development
schemes during the ongoing HFTDP, (c) remaining funds of the ongoing
project would be used to lay the groundwork for a speedy start-up of the
IHIFDP (training and setting-up of nurseries) and (d) GOAJK is fully aware
of the urgency to carry out conservation measures in AJK. For these
reasons, disbursements are expected to be made at a faster pace than
indicated in past Bank profiles (see Annex 3).



-31-
G. Accounts and Audits
3.35    All participating departments (Departments of Agriculture, Live-
stock, Forestry, Public Works and Coordination Unit) would maintain
separate accounts for their respective project activities. They would
then be consolidated by the Project Coordination Unit. The Accountant
General's Office would second an adequate number of accountants to par-
ticipating departments to keep project accounts and handle all other
financial matters. Project accounts would be audited annually by inde-
pendent auditors and certified copies of the audited accounts and
auditor's report be submitted to IDA within nine months of the close of
the fiscal year. Assurances reflecting the foregoing were obtained from
GOAJK and satisfactory audited accounts of the ongoing HFTDP up to
FY1982/83 were sent to IDA.
IV. PROJECT IMPLEMENTATION
A. Organization and Management
4.01    The project would have a three level organization and management
structure. Responsibility for policy matters would be assigned to a
Project Development Committee (PDC), overall project coordination to a
Project Coordination Unit (PCU) and actual implementation to the line
departments (see Annex 8).
Project Development Committee (PDC)
4.02    The overall responsibility for the project would be with GOAJK
on whose behalf a specially constituted body, the Project Development
Committee (PDC) would exercise powers on all policy and other important
implementation matters. All relevant ministries would be represented in
the PDC, which would be chaired by the Secretary, Planning and Develop-
ment.  Members of the Committee would be as follows:
-- Secretary, Planning and Development
-- Secretary, Finance
-- Secretary, Agriculture and Livestock
-- Secretary, Forests
-- Secretary, Public Works
-- Secretary, Project Coordination Unit
-- Secretary, Local Government and Rural Development Department
-- District Council Representatives
The PDC would have regular meetings -- at least twice a year -- but would
also hold special meetings to dispose of urgent business. The Secretary
PCU would act as the Member-Secretary of the Committee. To ensure the



-32-
active cooperation of the population it would be essential that repre-
sentatives of the district councils of the two districts covered by the
project become members of the PDC (see para 2.02). It would therefore be
a condition of effectiveness that the PDC had been set up and arrange-
ments, satisfactory to IDA, had been made by GOAJK to appoint two repre-
sentatives of relevant district councils as members of the PDC.
Project Coordination Unit (PCU)
4.03    An officer of the rank of a full Secretary would be responsible
for coordinating project activities, and for this purpose would be
assisted by a Project Coordination Unit (PCU). The PCIJ would be comprised
of three sections, finance and administration, monitoring, and land use
planning. The latter would be located within the FD for administrative
purposes but would service all concerned departments and would be respon-
sible to the PCU. The function of the PCU would be to:
-- coordinate the preparation of annual plans of operation
of the participating line departments to ensure that
the proposed activities for each year are in line with
the project concept and design and are also integrated
with each other;
-- coordinate and monitor project activities during project
implementation, assemble relevant data and prepare progress
reports;
-- consolidate project accounts, and arrange for reimbursements;
-- expedite procurement matters; and
-- coordinate provision of services of the Land Use Planning
Unit.
The Project Coordinator would be fully versed in all aspects of project
implementation and play the role of liaision officer vis-a-vis GOP, IDA
and other agencies. Most importantly, with regard to the introduction
of the Hill Management Strategy, the Project Coordinator would be the
principal motivator and catalyst between farmers, village communities and
line departments. The appointment of a Project Coordinator, satisfactory
to IDA, and the setting up of a Project Coordination Unit would be a
condition of credit effectiveness.
Line Departments
4.04    The line departments would be responsible for implementing project
components pertaining to them. The Secretaries and heads of these depart-
ments would have the overall responsibility for the project and would have



-33-
technical, administrative and financial control, in line with existing
Government rules and procedures. All departments concerned would assign
full-time senior officials and other staff to look exclusively after their
respective activities in the project.
4.05    Agriculture:  The Director of Agriculture would be assisted by an
Additional Director Project in carrying out the project. Agronomy and
Entomology Sections would be set up under the project, headed by an
Agronomist and an Entomologist respectively. Both would be responsible
for the food and fodder crop programs including seed multiplication. A
Horticulture section under a Horticulturist would implement the apple
production programs. All three section heads would report directly to the
Additional Director Project. For extension services a separate post of
Deputy Director would be established, to be responsible for introducting
and operating the Training and Visit (T&V) extension system (para 3.11).
4.06    Livestock:  The animal health and animal husbandry programs would
be both under the direct control of a Deputy Director (Project) assigned
from within the DOAH. At the LDC, the cattle breed improvement/traction
and smallstock improvement/village poultry programs would be under the
supervision of the Livestock Officers who are currently responsible for
the crossbreeding program under the HFTDP. Ancillary staff in the form of
Livestock Assistants and Stock Attendants would also be reassigned from
the present program, or upgraded or recruited as required.
4.07    Forestry:  A new post of Conservator of Forests (CF) would be
established to be exclusively responsible for implementing the forestry
component of the project. The Conservator in charge would report directly
to the Chief Conservator of Forests (CCF). With regard to the project's
field operations, the project area would be divided into two Divisions
within the existing territorial boundaries. Each Division would be headed
by a Divisional Forestry Officer (DFO) who would be in charge of nursery
operations, field plantings, soil conservation work, protection of planta-
tions and all administrative work within his Division. An assistant
engineer at Headquarters would provide technical assistance and supervi-
sion for the soil conservation works. The Seed Center would be headed by
an Assistant Conservator of Forests (ACF). The Center would maintain
close liaision with the Pakistan Seed Certification Directorate in Lahore,
and the International Seed Testing Organization through PFRI in Peshawar.
The center would operate as an integral part of FD. This would also be
true for the research program, which would be carried out in close
cooperation with PFRI.
4.08    Feeder Roads:  Because of the current high work load of the PWD
and the specialized nature of the work, a self-contained Divisional Unit
within PWD would be established to implement the project. The unit would
be under the administrative control of the Muzaffarabad district, but



-34-
located centrally within the project area. The unit would be fully
staffed and equipped and headed by a divisional officer.
Peoples' Participation
4.09    An important factor of success would be the cooperation of the
people acting through their local representative bodies (village and union
councils) with project management (para 2.02). Farmers are genuinely
preoccupied by their ever deteriorating environment and are willing to
make their contribution to its future restoration. Project management
would translate farmers' willingness to act into concrete development
actions by closely involving them in the planning and implementation of
the project, in particular all those actions required to carry out the
Hill Management Strategy. Farmers' representatives would be members of
the PDC (para 4.02) and thus participate in the overall planning and
orientation of the IHFDP.  However, most important would be farmers'
pasrticipation at the village level, where through their representative
bodies (village and union councils) all villagers have to arrive at an
agreement on the conservation measures to be carried out in their area
(para 2.41). Local councils would be responsible for ensuring farmers'
participation in planning and determination of priorities, implementation
of proposals and protection and maintenance of structures developed. To
achieve this, it would be essential for project management, supported by
extension services, to play a leadership role at all stages of hillside
detvelopment in order to (a) take the initiative, motivate, mobilize and
bring all interested parties together, (b) discuss the proposed Hill
MaLnagement Strategy with the residents in each village, (c) prepare con-
crete action plans, (d) reach formal agreement on these proposals, and (e)
implement the proposed development programs and ensure people's coopera-
tion in protecting project works. In other words, hill management would
very much depend on an interaction between village communities and project
management in a spirit where the interest of the community/country would
be placed over that of the individual and where public administration
actively assumes its developmental role. Assurances were obtained that
not later than September 30, 1984 GOAJK would prepare and furnish to IDA
for its review, proposals for the formal arrangements/agreements to be
made between GOAJK and villagers participating in Hill Management Plans.
B. Monitoring and Evaluation
4.11    As the project concept and its development programs are somewhat
innovative and experimental in nature, they would require constant review
and adjustment during project implementation. Strong monitoring and
evaluation would therefore be an essential feature of the IHFDP. The M&E
system is expected to provide guidance to those responsible for project
implementation and permit a realistic assessment of the effects and
results achieved by it.



-35-
Project Monitoring
4.12    The Socio-economist in the PCU would be responsible for project
monitoring. He would organize and coordinate all data collected from
participating departments and then prepare regular progress reports for
transmittal to all parties involved.  Moreover, he would also use basic
information prepared during the project design phase and continue
throughout the project's lifetime comparing the data collected against the
original objectives. Monitoring would thus help in alerting project
management and policy makers to implementation problems requiring correc-
tive action and also provide information for project evaluation.
Assurances were obtained that GOAJK would submit to IDA six-monthly
progress reports in accordance with a format to be agreed with IDA.
Project Evaluation
4.13    Evaluation would assess the impact of the project's major com-
ponents, covering technical, institutional and behavioral aspects. Tech-
nical evaluation would focus on the impact of the technical packages.
Institutional evaluation would analyze the institutional set-up of the
project (project coordination) and the performance of the T&V system.
Behavioral evaluation would primarily be concerned with peoples' response
to proposed technical recommendations and their participation in project
planning and implementation. This data would provide an additional in
depth dimension to the information gathered under the nlonitoring system,
enabling project management and policy makers not only to adjust policies
and programs during project implementation, but also to prepare future
projects.
4.14    The GOP Planning and Development Division (PDD) (Implementa-
tion/Monitoring) would be responsible for project evaluation. PDD would
arrange, if required, assistance from other organizations for this. The
project would provide funds for this purpose from its study/evaluation
fund.  Assurances were obtained that GOP and GOAJK would prepare a
detailed program for project evaluation to be submitted for IDA review by
December 31, 1984. Thereafter, it would forward to IDA for review all
relevant evaluation reports and special studies carried out. A mid-term
review of project activities would be conducted by IDA in early 1987, to
determine whether project objectives, particularly in relation to the Hill
Management programs are being achieved.



-36-
V. PRODUCTION, MARKETING, FARM INCOME AND COST RECOVERY
Yields and Production
5.01    The project would, besides deriving benefits from erosion control,
increase production of food crops, meat, milk, apples, fuelwood and tim-
ber. In agriculture, in addition to yield increases due to (Annex 4) the
use of inputs and extension services, further production would result from
an increased cropping intensity and a gradual shift from local to improved
varieties. While maize would continue to dominate cropping patterns, some
change would occur in the relative importance of crops. In fact, the
project would aim at gradually reducing the area under maize and fallow
in favor of fodder, wheat and apple production. At full development (year
8), the cropped area would have increased from 26,580 ha to 38,240 ha
reflecting an increase in cropping intensity of 43%. Yield estimates and
projections varying according to soil conditions are based on field sur-
veys in the project area and are considered to be conservative. At
project completion, (1988/1989) about 60% (25,800) of the total farm
population (43,000) is expected to participate in the project at various
stages of development. As a result of the above factors, project produc-
tion at full development (year 8) would have reached the following levels:
Table 5.1: Present and Future Average Yields per ha and Production Levels
in the Project Area
Yields kg/ha            Production (tons)
Without      With         Without      With       Incre-
Project     Project       Project      Project   mental
Maize         800         2,000         15,400      30,900    15,500
Wheat         600         1,600          3,300      12,200     8,900
Apple      4,500         10,000            621     14,221    13,800
Milk          900         1,800         23,200     43,300    20,100
Meat           55            78          1,419      1,899        480
The above table indicates that production of agricultural products would
aLmost or more than double at full development. In particular, apple
production would become a new and important venture in AJK. Also notewor-
thy would be the increases in milk and meat, resulting from the project's
fodder development efforts and improved veterinary services. In fact, at
full development, on-farm fodder production would provide between 70 to
80% of the required animal feed, thus reversing the present situation
where about 60 to 70% of the fodder comes from the hills. It has been
assumed that only about 60% of all participants would fully use the recom-
mended fodder packages, whereas the remaining 40% would use less, result-
inig in about half of the above projected milk and meat yields/ha. Fuel-
wood, and to a lesser extent, timber would be the main output of the



-37-
project's forestry component. At year ten, fuelwood production from
plantations would be about 50,000 m3/year reaching 340,000 m3/year in year
15. Timber would be harvested at ages 15, 25, 40 and 60 by thinning of
plantations. Final felling would occur at age 80. Tinber production
during the first 30 years would be minimal and has therefore been excluded
from financial and economic calculations.
Marketing and Prices
5.02    The incremental maize, wheat, milk and meat production would
largely be consumed within the farm family. As AJK is a food deficit
area, no difficulties are expected in selling small marketable surpluses
in local markets. Incremental fuelwood production would also be mainly
for family consumption. The bulk of apples produced would, however, be
sold outside the State mainly in Islamabad, Rawalpindi, Lahore and Karachi
markets. At present apples from AJK are already shipped to these markets
and project produce would enter the same marketing channels in the future.
Market prospects for apples in Pakistan are good. In fact, total demand
is expected to reach 422,440 tons in 1992/93 compared to only 136,000 tons
in 1980/81. 1/ Hence no major difficulties are expected in selling 13,800
tons of project output per year by the end of the 1980's. Prices of
agricultural products in AJK are largely determined by supply and demand
and vary between locations, seasons and from one year to another. The
Government, however, intervenes in foodgrain marketing primarily by sell-
ing wheat at a predetermined price (see para 2.07). On the input side,
GOP continues to subsidize fertilizers, albeit at a declining rate and
with the intention to eliminate subsidization in the near future. Sub-
sidies on pesticides have already been eliminated. The development of a
free market system for inputs would greatly facilitate the introduction of
private traders into the marketing system as foreseen under the proposed
project.
Farm Incomes
5.03    The impact of the project on farm incomes was analyzed on the
basis of two farm models, typical of the target group smallholders within
the project area. These models primarily reflect ecological conditions in
the project area which can be subdivided into two different regions --
above 1,500 m altitude and below 1,500 m altitude. Farms situated below
1,500 m average 1.0 ha of cultivable land (0.6 uncultivable land) while
those above 1,500 m average only 0.8 ha of cultivable land. While maize
and wheat are the staple crops in both regions, rice is grown in valley
bottoms, and apples are grown at higher elevations only. Whlile the
1/ Source: Apple Marketing Study, Investment Advisory Center of Pakis-
tan, May 1982.



-38-
project is not expected to have any major effect on the Kashmiri peoples'
trend to search for employment outside their country, it would greatly
increase the contribution farm activities would make to their income in
the future as shown in the table below:
Table 5.2: Project Impact on Farm Net Income
(PRs)
With the Project-
Without      At Full
Project       Development       Incremental       X
Model A          6,680           11,950             5,270 1/        79
Model B          6,550           16,680            10,130 2/      155
1/ At year 5.
2/ At year 9.
increases in farm incomes would vary from 79 to 155 percent. The addi-
tional income achieved in Model B is mainly attributable to apple produc-
tion. Both models exclude incomes from fuelwood. Financial returns to
farmers exceed 100% in both models, despite the fact that yields have been
conservatively estimated and fertilizer inputs priced at full cost from
1985 onwards to reflect GOP's policy. These high rates of return reflect
the high potential productivity of the proposed technical packages and
their immediate effect on crop yields. Technical packages would be intro-
duced to farmers over a three to four-year period before reaching their
full recommended level; yields would increase accordingly. After this
period participating families would not only become fully self-supporting
In grain and milk production, but would also earn an increasing cash
surplus from their farm activities. The above table clearly indicates the
great potential for AJK's farmers to improve their agricultural production
and income, while at the same time establishing the basis for hillside
conservation through improved food and fodder production. Thus, the
incentives to the future beneficiaries are considered to be fully adequate
to ensure their active participation in the project.
Cost Recovery
5.04    At project completion farmers are expected to pay full cost for
all farm inputs except seedlings. GOP would bear the full cost of all
project activities without any mechanism for direct recovery, except for
the investment cost incurred by FD to establish private and/or communal
fuelwood plantations and the future revenues obtained from public planta-
tions. As discussed in the Hill Management Strategy section (para 2.40),
the land use rights of hillsides are vested in private persons and/or
village communities. Hence, the consent of owners would be a precondition
for FD to carry out planting operations. It would also be a precondition
that owners/users agree on a sharing arrangement with FD, to enable it to



-39-
recover its direct investment costs at harvest. The present average
esta1lishment cost is estimated to be Rs 2,905Zha, representing about
10 m fuelwood at current prices. Hence, 10 m fuelwood/ha would be FD's
share of the first harvest of fuelwood in the future (year 10). Once FD
has recovered its initial investment outlays, its rights to a share of the
produce would end. Assurances were obtained that as a part of the Hill
management arrangements, proposals for a sharing arrangement between FD
and private/communal plantation owners would be prepared and furnished to
IDA for its review not later than September 30, 1984. Admittedly, only a
small part of GOP's contribution to the project would be recovered in this
way; the bulk of project outlays would have to be recovered through
Government taxes on the incremental cash income generated by the project
in the future. Lack of data, however, prohibits any meaningfull quantita-
tive assessment of GOP's return on the project.
VI. BENEFITS, JUSTIFICATIONS AND RISKS
A. Benefits
Environment
6.01    The primary benefits of the project would come from the protection
of hillsides through afforestation, increases in fuelwood plantations,
soil conservation measures and increased on-farm fodder production. Lit-
tle data are currently available to evaluate the economic effects of
controlling erosion and flooding. It is certain, however, that without
the project deterioration of the land and of assets donmstream from the
project area would continue with detrimental effects on agricultural
productivity, not to mention the overall socio-economic environment of
AJK. The project would not only provide the technical expertise required
to protect the environment, but more importantly would also act as a
catalyst in bringing those groups together whose cooperation would be
essential in attaining the project's conservation goal.
Production and Beneficiaries
6.02    Conservation and production programs of the IHFDP are closely
interrelated, the latter programs establishing the basis for future con-
servation activities. In addition to their conservation role, these
programs would generate tangible benefits to project participants in terms
of additional production of maize, wheat, apples, milk, meat and fuelwood
(see para 5.01). Increased production of maize and wheat would contribute
towards reducing the food deficit in the State while incremental milk and
meat production would supplement existing home consumption and improve
present nutritional levels. Increased apple production would provide
additional cash income to farmers and promote the cash economy in rural
areas. At full development (year 8), the project would generate about



-40-
PRs 200 million in net agricultural income (expressed in 1983 constant
economic prices), which would directly benefit smallholders in the project
area (see para 5.03). As landownership in AJKC is evenly distributed,
project benefits would be equitably shared by project participants.
Employment
6.03    Increased agricultural activity as well as other project develop-
ment programs would lead to additional employment in the project area.
The more intensive land and input use under the project would create
additional labor requirements estimated at between 25 to 35 mandays per
year per farm family totalling about 800,000 mandays at full development,
providing more year-round activities for presently underemployed farm
family members. Most important would be the creation of temporary employ-
ment as a result of project road construction, civil works and plantation
activities, estimated at 2.7 million mandays over the five year project
period. On the basis of 225 workdays a year, this would be the equivalent
of providing 2,400 workers with full-time jobs during project implementa-
tion. Finally, secondary employment would be generated by project
activities, such as marketing, transportation, processing, etc. Due to
migration, labor shortages may occur during project implementation. It
is, however, expected that any increases in effective demand for labor
would result in increases in wage levels that would be adequate to attract
sufficient labor to the project area.
IDA Involvement
6.04    Since 1978 IDA has been closely associated with GOAJK in introduc-
ing new technologies and institutional approaches, to assist GOAJK in
finding solutions to the country's rural development problems. The
proposed project -- its strategy and programs -- is based on lessons
Learnt during the implementation of the HFTDP and a long debate between
GOAJK and IDA, during which alternative scenarios were examined, i.e.,
larger project area, more components, different institutional/management
airrangements, etc. The outcome -- the proposed IHFDP -- is considered to
be an optimal combination of a core production program and a limited
number of supplementary programs all being essential and/or highly
desirable elements for carrying out the Hill Development Strategy for AJK.
Wihile thus the project has greatly benefitted from past experience and has
gone through a thorough preparation process, it can by no means be con-
sidered to provide a final and proven answer to solving AJK's rural
development problems in the future. In fact, in particular with regard
to its social and institutional aspects, it remains very much an
experimental venture. It is in this light that further Bank involvement
and assistance are justified. It is also in this light that the following
economic analysis and discussions of risks must be viewed.



-41-
B. Economic Analysis
6.05    The economic analysis has been carried out for the project as a
whole (Annex 5), based on the following assumptions:
(a) Prices: All values have been expressed in constant 1983
prices. For internationally traded goods, prices were derived
from the Bank's (July 7, 1983) projected world market prices.
Appropriate adjustments were made for freight, handling and
processing. Farmgate prices for wheat and maize have been
derived from their respective Karachi export parity prices,
whereas fertilizer import prices were derived from their
Karachi import parity prices. Local costs and locally valued
benefits were expressed in border rupees by applying a stand-
ard conversion factor of 0.90. The wage rate of unskilled
labor was assumed to be equal to the financial wage rate,
because of the favorable employment situation in AJK. Fuel-
wood has been valued on the basis of the presently used alter-
native source of energy, kerosene. Year specific prices have
been calculated for inputs and outputs over 1984-1990, after
which 1990 prices were assumed to remain unchanged. The
exchange rate has been taken at a constant PRs 13 = US$ 1.
(b) Benefits: Project benefits would be derived mainly from
additional output of agricultural and livestock products as
well as fuelwood (see para 5.01). It is assumed that the
planting program would not lead to any material loss of fod-
der, as farmers would still be able to cut grass on planta-
tions and use it as fodder. Without the project, continued
soil erosion would result in lower yields. However, as it is
very difficult to estimate the extent of the decline, yields
without the project have been kept unchanged for the purpose
of this analysis.
(c) Investment Costs: After deducting price contingencies, taxes
and duties, all investment costs have been included in the
economic analysis, except outlays for forestry and livestock
research, soil conservation measures and studies, as the
benefits of these programs are largely uncertain and
non-quantifiable at this stage. Provisions have been made for
the replacement of vehicles (year 5) and equipment (year 10)
over the period of analysis.
(d) Institutional Support Cost: All operating costs of par-
ticipating departments, including the Project Coordination
Unit, have been included in the analysis. However, it is
assumed that operating costs would gradually decline by 50%
from year 5 (project completion) to year 8 (full development).



-42-
With regard to forestry plantation programs, all operating
costs would cease after project completion.
(e) Farm Production Cost: Production costs include all incremen-
tal input requirements as well as incremental family labor
valued at the full financial cost of unskilled labor, because
of the favorable employment conditions in AJK.
]RR and Sensitivity Analysis
6.06    Based on the above assumptions and a period of analysis of 26
years, the best estimate for the IRR is 22% and for the NPV (at the oppor-
tunity cost of capital at 12%) PRs 256 million. The switching values show
that a reduction in benefits by 27% or an increase in costs by 38% would
bring the economic rate of return down to the opportunity cost of capital,
estimated to be 12%.
Table 7.1: Sensitivity Analysis
Switching Values
Total benefits, output prices or
yields                                                   27%
Total costs                                                38%
Economic Rate of Return (Base Case)                        22.3%
Total benefits, output prices or yields
down 10%                                                   18.9
down 20%                                                   15.2
lagged one year                                            17.2
lagged three years                                         11.7
Total costs
up 10%                                                     19.2%
up 20%                                                     16.4%
Sensitivity tests indicate that the project is mildly sensitive with
respect to most variables. Returns are somewhat more affected by changes
in yields and output prices rather than changes in costs, underlining
again the importance of efficient support services for successful project
implementation. As the above table shows, the project would be most
affected by delays in the flow of benefits. Should these be delayed by
more than three years, the rate of return would fall to the level of the
opportunity cost of capital. Such a delay, however, would be most



-43-
unlikely. Overall, even for a combination of possible adverse circumstan-
ces the project maintains an economic rate of return well above the oppor-
tunity cost of capital, thus providing a reasonable cushion against pos-
sible project risks.
C. Risks
6.07    The proposed project would be the first attempt at implementing
on a meaningful scale, a number of interdependent and interacting com-
ponents designed to minimize the further deterioration of AJK's environ-
ment while at the same time improve the welfare of the population. Thus,
it would be subject to the risks and uncertainties that are usually
associated with projects which require major changes in farming tech-
nologies, social attitudes and Government procedures -- not to mention the
normal risks associated with rainfed agriculture everywhere. Technical
packages are available to tackle the production and conservation problems
AJK is facing. These packages would be reinforced and supplemented by
research activities under the project. Thus, while solutions to the
technical problems are to a large extent known, overcoming the present
social and administrative constraints would constitute the real risks and,
hence, challenges of the THFDP.
Attitude of Farmers
6.08    Remittances of earnings into rural areas create a special and
rather complex situation in AJK. Off-farm employment is estimated to
generate more than half of the income of AJK's population. Thus, given
the high remittances, and the ready availability of food commodities,
particularly wheat, farmers have less incentive to strive for higher food
crop production and participate in development programs. Although there
are signs that employment opportunities in the Middle East may level off
in the future, it is probably realistic to assume that the present situa-
tion will prevail during the project implementation period. To what
extent this situation would affect farmers' responsiveness to project
recommendations is obviously difficult to predict at this stage.
6.09    Project conservation measures can only be carried out in an effec-
tive manner, if all interested parties come together and agree to a hill
management plan. Considering the often different interest groups in
present village communities, it is not certain whether effective coopera-
tion among villagers would always be forthcoming.
6.10    Nevertheless, the major assurance against farmers' eventual lack
of responsiveness and cooperation is their growing awareness of the ever
deteriorating environment and growing signs of their willingness to make a
contribution to its restoration in the future. The project is so designed
that people would have full opportunities through their representative
bodies in planning and participating in all project activities. Finally,



-44-
the project would emphasize the role and responsibility of project manage-
ment and extension staff to motivate, mobilize and bring together all
parties to achieve the goal of the project.
Project Coordination
6.11    Project implementation would require a reorientation of Govern-
ment's attitude from an administrative to a more development oriented
approach. As the project would be carried out by a nunber of departments,
effective coordination would be most important for successful project
implementation. However, sharing responsibility among departments has so
far rarely been practiced by GOAJK, as departments have been accustomed to
working independently. Similar caveats apply to present administrative
procedures and regulations, which are very rigid and cumbersome, thus
handicapping rapid project implementation and stifling personal initiative
and sense of responsibility. It is expected that the establishment of
the Project Coordination Unit, continuous monitoring and evaluation of
project activities and the growing recognition of GOAJK of its new
developmental role would help minimize this risk.
6.12    The IHFDP would include a number of measures to help reduce the
above risks. However, in the final analysis, it would depend on GOAJK
and the Kashmiri people to rise up to the challenge the IHFDP would repre-
sent in terms of personal motivation, enthusiasm and responsibility.
Considering the importance of the project for the development, if not
survival, of AJK, the risks are worth taking.
VII. AGREEMENTS REACHED
7.01    The following assurances were obtained:
(a) That seed growers would receive an adequate premium price
of at least 30% over prevailing market prices for their pro-
duce and that the present subsidy on inputs be withdrawn in
line with GOP policy (para 3.09);
(b) That a unified extension service based on the Training and
Visit System be introduced by September 30, 1984 to ensure
that extension workers do not carry out non-extension duties
after September 30, 1985 at the latest (para 3.11);
(c) That distribution of fertilizers and pesticides would be
transferred to the private sector not later than June 30,
1985 (para 3.12);
(d) That not later than September 30, 1984, a contract between
FD and PFRI, satisfactory to IDA, had been signed, spelling
out research programs and respective responsibilities for



-45-
carrying out research activities under the project
(para 3.19);
(e) That by June 30, 1985 a draft contract would be prepared
between the DOAH and an appropriate research organization
spelling out in detail the programs to be carried out and
the responsibilities of the parties involved. However,
funds for the animal husbandry program would only be dis-
bursed, if an agreement had been reached to continue the
veterinary component (para 3.27).
(f) That GOAJK prepare and furnish to IDA for its review not
later than September 30, 1984 proposals for formal
arrangements/agreements to be made between GOAJK and
villagers participating in Hill Management Plans
(para 4.09);
(g) That GOAJK as part of the overall Hill Management arrange-
ments/agreements would prepare and furnish to IDA for its
review not later than September 30, 1984 proposals for a
sharing arrangement between FD and private/communal planta-
tion owners (para 5.04);
7.02    Conditions of credit effectiveness would be:
(a) That the PC 1 had been approved by the Executive Committee
of the National Economic Committee (ECNEC) (para 3.32);
(b) That a revolving fund had been established and an initial
deposit of Rps 2 million had been made (para 3.32);
(c) That the PDC had been set up and GOAJK had appointed two
representatives of district councils, covering the project
area, as members of the PDC (para 4.02);
(d) That a Project Coordinator, satisfactory to IDA, had been
appointed and a Project Coordination Unit had been set up
(para 4.03);
7.04    Condition of disbursement would be:
(a) That after a one-year trial period GOAJK's new travel policy
for veterinary staff had been found satisfactory by IDA, or
if not, a new policy had been agreed upon. Only after a
satisfactory solution had been found would disbursements on
veterinary programs continue and disbursements on animal
husbandry programs start (para 3.24).
7.05    With the above conditions and assurances, the project would be
suitable for a credit of US$ 21 million to GOP on standard IDA terms.



-46-
ANNEX 1
PAKISTAN
INTEGRATED HILL FARMING DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Specification for Improvement and New Construction of Feeder Roads
Formation width                   4 m imp, 4.5 m new
Effective width                   3.3 m imp, 3.8 m new
Max grade                          13 imp, 12-1/2 new
Desirable max grade               10% imp and new; 10% imp and new
Minimum grade                     1% imp and new
Passing places                    As convenient to topography minimum 2 per
km or as inter-visable
Width at passings                 5.5 m all
Length of passings                12 m all
Rad of curves                     Max possible improvement; 20 m min new
Side drain                        300 mm x 150 mm all
Relieving culverts                300 mm dia. pcc pipes 0; 60 m intervals
climbing; 80 m intervals rolling
Nullah crossings                  Irish bridges. Minimum size paving 400 mm x
400 mm x 150 mm.
Parapet                           300 mm x 300 mm x 150 mm stones at 300 mm
interval.
Road surface                      All in-situ rock or stone in the top 325 mm
of subgrade to be reduced to "passing
100 mm."
Camber                            100 mm.
Batters                           All "soft" cut slopes to be max 2 vert to
1 hriz. Ease to 2:1-1/2 where feasible



ANNEX 2
-47-
PAKISTAN
INTEGRATED HILL FARMING DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Summary of Project Costs 1/
(PRs '000)
Total
Total   Foreign    F.E.
Components               Year 1  Year 2   Year 3   Year 4   Year 5    Cost    Exchange    %
A.  Agriculture          26,220   24,044   15,274    8,099    8,621    82,258   19,644          24
B.  Forestry             18,357   22,172   27,587   35,040   38,300   141,457   13,862          10
C.  Livestock             2,905   10,255    9,817    8,706    7,784    39,467    8,578          21
D.  Feeder Roads          7,438    9,608   13,977   16,581   13,738    61,342    4,200           7
E.  Project Management   4,625    3,682    3,226    4,064    4,306    19,903    5,414           27
Total Project Cost       59,545   69,761   69,881   72,751   71,513   344,427   51,698          15
1/ Figures are rounded and include physical and price contingencies.



ANNEX 3
-48-
PAKISTAN
INTEGRATED HILL FARMING DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Estimated Schedule of Disbursements
IDA Projects   IDA Projects
South Asia       Pakistan       IHFDP Project   IHFDP Project
Years from               Agriculture    Agriculture          Estinate         Estimate
Board Approval                                x      _          x             US$ M
Year 1
I                           --             2.7                3.2              0.7
II                          3.7           10.3               11.5              2.4
Year 2
I                           7.3           17.5               20.8              4.9
II                         12.0           25.0               28.6              5.9
Year 3
I                          17.8           33.3               37.8               7.8
II                         24.4           42.0               49.5             10.2
Year 4
I                          31.8           50.9               61.1              12.6
II                         39.6           59.5               70.1              14.4
Year 5
I                          47.6           67.4               80.0              16.5
II                         55.6           74.5               89.0              18.3
Year 6
I                          63.3           80.7               94.0              19.4
II                         70.6           86.1              100.0             21.0



-.49-
ANNEX 4
Table 1
PAKISTAN
INTEGRATED HILL FARMING DEVELOPlENT PROJECT
Financial Analysis:  Cropping Pattern - Farm Model A 1/
(ha)
Without       -----------------With Project-----------------
Project       Year 1    Year 2    Year 3        Year 4      Year 5
A. Area
Total Farm Area                     1.60           1.60        1.60      1.60        1.60        1.60
Cultivable Terraces                 1.00          1.00         1.00     1.00         1.00        1.00
Hillside Grazing                    0.60          0.60         0.60     0.60         0.60        0.60
B. Kharif Crops
Maize (grain)                       0.82          0.82        0.76      0.72         0.70        0.70
Maize (fodder)                       -             -          0.05      0.10         0.12        0.12
Rice                                0.04          0.04        0.04      0.04        0.04         0.04
Other Crops 2/                      0.02          0.02        0.02      0.02        0.02        0.02
Uncultivated Terraces 3/           (0.12)        (0.12)      (0.12)    0.12         0.12         0.12
Total Kharif Cropping               0.88          0.88        0.88      1.00         1.00        1.00
C. Rabi Crops
Wheat                               0.25          0.25         0.27     0.29         0.30        0.30
Oats                                 -             -          0.02      0.04        0.06         0.06
Berseem/Shaftal                     0.04          0.04        0.04      0.04         0.04        0.04
Swedes/Turnips                       -             -           -        0.01        0.03        0.05
Other Crops 2/                      0.01          0.01        0.01      0.01        0.01        0.01
Uncultivated Terraces 3/           (0.12)        (0.12)      (0.12)    0.12          0.12        0.12
(Fallow)                           (0.58)        (0.58)      (0.54)   (0.49)       (0.44)      (0.42)
Total Rabi Cropping                 0.30          0.30        0.34      0.51        0.56         0.58
D.  Cropping Intensity %            118           118          122      151          156         158
1/  Farmers living below 1,500 m.
2/ Including mainly mung (pulse) during the kharif reason and rape during the rabi season.
3/ Cultivable waste lands expected to be used for improved grass production starting in
year 3.



-50-
ANNEX 4
Table 2
PAKISTAN
INTEGRATED HILL FARMING DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Financial Analysis: Cropping Pattern - Farm Model B 1/
(ha)
Without       -----------------With Project-------------------
Project       Year 1    Year 2    Year 3       Year 4      Year 5
A. Area
Total Farm Area                     1.40          1.40       1.40       1.40        1.40        1.40
Cultivable Terraces                0.80           0.80      0.80       0.80        0.80        0.80
Hillside Grazing                   0.60           0.60      0.60       0.60        0.60        0.60
B. Kharif Crops
Maize (grain)                       0.68          0.64       0.60       0.57        0.51       0.51
Maize (fodder)                       -             -         0.02      0.05        0.08        0.08
Other Crops 2/                     0.01           0.01      0.01       0.01        0.01        0.01
Apples                              0.01          0.05       0.07      0.07        0.10        0.10
Uncultivated Terraces 3/           (0.10)        (0.10)    (0.10)      0.10        0.10        0.10
Total Kharif Cropping              0.70           0.70      0.80       0.80        0.80        0.80
C. Rab LCrops
Wheat                               0.18          0.18       0.20       0.24        0.26        0.26
Oats (fodder)                       -              -         0.02      0.04        0.05        0.05
Swedes/Turnips                      -              -         -         0.01        0.03        0.04
Other Crops                        0.01           0.01      0.01       0.01        0.01        0.01
Apples                              0.01          0.11       0.11      0.11        0.11        0.11
Uncultivated Terraces 3/           (0.10)        (0.10)    (0.10)       0.10        0.10       0.10
(Fallow)                          (0.50)         (0.40)    (0.36)    (0.29)       (0.24)      (0.23)
Total Rabi Crop                    0.20           0.30      0.34       0.51        0.56        0.57
D.  Cropping Intensity              112           125        130         163         170        171
1/ Farmers living above 1,500 m altitude.
2/ Including mainly mung (pulse) during kharif season and rape during rabi season.
31 Cultivable waste lands expected to be used for improved grass production starting
in year 3.



-51-
ANNEX 4
Table 3
PAKISTAN
INTEGRATED HILL FARMING DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Financial Analysis: Yield Projections
(kg/ha)
Without       --With Project-------------------
Project       Year 1    Year 2    Year 3        Year 4      Year 5
A. Food Crops
Maize                               800          1,500       1,800      2,000       2,000       2,000
Wheat                               600          1,000       1,300      1,600       1,600        1,600
Apples                            4,500          4,500       4,500      4,500       4,500       6,000 1/
Rice                              1,000          1,000       1,000      1,000       1,000       1,000
Other Crops
(Mung)                            500            500         500        500         500         500
(Rape)                           250             250         250        250         250         250
B. Fodder Crops
Maize (green)                    15,000         15,000      25,000    33,000       40,000      40,000
Maize (stover)                    2,400          4,500       5,400      6,000       6,000       6,000
Wheat (straw)                       900          1,500       1,950      2,400       2,400       2,400
Oats (green)                        -              -        18,000    25,000       30,000      30,000
Swedes/Turnips                                     -           -       25,000      35,000      40,000
Cultivated Grassland              5,000          5,000       5,000      9,000      12,000      15,000
C. Livestock
Buffalo Milk (liters/year)          900            900       1,100      1,600       2,100       2,100
Meat (kgs/year)                      55             55          65          72          78          78
1/ Would reach 10,000 kg/ha'at full development in year 9.



-52-
ANNEX 4
Table 4
PAKISTAN
INTEGRATED HILL FARIING DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Financial Analysis: Input Requirements
(kg/ha)
Without       -----------------With Project-------------------
Project       Year 1    Year 2    Year 3       Year 4      Year 5
A. Food Crops
1. Maize
Seed                                40             40        30         20          20          20
FYM                              4,500         4,500      4,500      4,500       4,500       4,500
Nitrophos                                         200        300       375         375         375
Urea                                               60        100       125         125         125
Pesticides (Furadan 3%)                            20         20        20          20          20
2,. Wheat
Seed                                80             90       100        100         100         100
FYM                                900            900       900        900         900         900
NLtrophos                                         200        300       375         375         375
Urea                                               75        125       175         175         175
3. Apples
Seedlings                                         334
FY1M                                            2,000
Nitrophos                                         150       150        300         300         300
Sulphate of Potash                                 50       50         100         100         100
Pesticides (liter per ha):
1st Spray (Gusathion 20% EC)                    3.6      3.6         3.6         3.6         3.6
2nd Spray (Thiodan 35% EC)                      2.4      2.4         2.4         2.4         2.4
B. Fodder Crops
1. Maize
Seed                                                        40          40          40          40
FYM                                                      4,500       4,500       4,500       4,500
Urea                                                        125        200         250         250
2. Oats
Seed                                                        60          80          80          80
900        900         900         900
Urea                                                       125         200         250         250
3. Swedes/Turnips
Seed                                                                      3
FYM                                                                    900         900         900
Nitrophos                                                              200         300         375
Urea                                                                    60         100         125
Sulphate of Potash                                                      60         100         125
4. Grasslands
Seed                                                                    30
Nitrophos                                                              200         300         375
Urea                                                                    150        200         250



-53-
ANNEX 4
Table 5
PAKI1TAN
INTEGRATED HILL FARMING DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Financial Analysis: Input/Output Prices 1/
(in constant 1983 prices)
Unit   -     1984        1985 2/    1990 2/
(PR)       (PR)        (PR.s)
A. Output
Maize                             kg           2.00         2.00      2.00
Wheat                             kg           1.80         1.80      1.80
Other Crops                       kg           3.00         3.00      3.00
Apples                            kg           5.00         5.no      5.00
Milk                            liter          5.00         5.00      5.00
Meat                              kg          11.00        11.00     11.00
Fuelwood                        cu. a        205.00       205.00    205.00
3. Inputs
Seeds/Seedlings
Maize 3/                          lkg         .3.00         3.00      3.00
Wheat 3/                          kg           2.00         2.00      2.00
Oats 37                           kg           2.00         2.00      2.00
Swedes/Turnips                    kg          80.00       80.00      80.00
Apples                          plant          5.00         5.00      5.00
Fertilizers
Nitrophos                                      1.94         3.70      5.30
Urea                                           2.36         3.30      4.30
Sulphate of Potash                             0.70         1.90      2.20
Pesticides
Furadan                          kg            8.00         8.00      8.00
Follidol                       liter          50.00       50.00      50.00
C.  Labor                    man/day           30           30        30
1/  All financial prices have been kept ufchanged, except for fertilizer inputs
to reflect GOP's decision to eliminate all subsidies by 1985.
2/ Prices between 1985 and 1990 are expected to increase at an equal annual
percentage rate.
3/ At a premium over grain price.



-54-
ANNEX 4
Tabfe 6
PAKISTAN
INTEGRATED HILL FARMING DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Financial Analysis: Farm Budget - Model A 1/
(PRs)
Without         -------------------With Project-------------------------------
Project         Year 1 3/ Year 2   Year 3   Year 4   Year 5   Year 6   Years 7-10   Year 11
INFLOWS
Gross Value of Production
Maize                       1,312           1,312      2,460    2,736    2,880    2,800    2,800            2,800        2,800
Wheat                         270             270        450       632       835       972        972         972          972
Other Crops 2/                128             128        128       128        128       128       128         128           128
Milk                        4,500           4,500      4,500    5,500    8,000   10,500   10,500           10,500       10,500
Meat                          605             605        605       715       792        858       858         858           858
Total Inflows               6,815          6,815       8,143    9,711    12,635   15,258   15,258          15,258       15,258
OUTFLOWS
Cash Production Cost 4/    139                139        847     1,783    2,420    2,826       3,307        3,307        3,307
Incremental Working
Capital 5/                                 425         562       412       214       289                              (1,902)
Total Outflows                139             564      1,40 9    2,195    2,684    3,115    3               3,307        1,405
Net Benefit
Total                       6,676           6,251      6,734    7,516    9,951    12,143   11,951          11,951       13,853
Incremental                                (425)          58       840    3,275    5,467    5,275           5,275        7,177
1/  Farmers living below 1,500 m altitude.                                  IRR > 100
2/ Mainly vegetables, pulses and rice.
3/ For the purpose of the financial rate of return calculations, all benefits and costs are deferred
by one year and an incremental working capital stream is introduced. These adjustments are made
to alLow for the tine lags occuring between incremental costs and benefits in farming systems.
4/ Full cost for fertilizers charged starting year 3.
5/ Assumilng two cropping seasons, working capital is estimated to amount to 60% of incremental
operating costs of the following year. Working capital is recovered at the end of the projection
period as part of project salvage value.



-S5-
ANNEX 4
PAXISTAN
INTEGRATED HILL FARIIING DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Financial Analysis: Farm Budget - Model B I/
-(PRs)
Without         ----------------------------------------------With Project-----------------------------------_
Project         Year 1 3/ Year 2   Year 3   Year 4   Year 5   Year 6   Year 7   Year 8    Year 9   Year 10   Year 11
INFLOWS                                           5
Gross Value of Production
Maize                     1,088           1,088      1,920    2,160    2,280    2,040   2,040    2,040    2,040          2,040    2,040       2,040
Wheat                       194             324        468      691       749       749     749       749       749        749       749        749
Apples                      225             225        225      225       225       225   3,225    3,725    4,225        4,725    5,225       5,225
Other Crops 2!               45              45         45       45        45        45      45        45        45         45        45         45
Milk                      4,500           4,500     4,500    5,500    7,000    8,000  10,500   10,500   10,500          10,500   10,500    10,500
Meat                        605             605       605       715       792       858     858       858       858        858       858        858
Total Inflows             6,657           6,657     7,619    9,068   11,033   11,917  17,417   17,917   18,417          18,917   19,417    19,417
OUTFLOWS
Cash Production Cost 4/   111               111     1,473    2,123    2,363    2,737   2,737    2,737    2,737           2,737    2,737       2,737
Incremental Working Costs 5/                460       358       390       144      224                                                       (1,576)
Total Outflows              111             571    _1235    1,863    2,267    2,587   2,737    2,737    2,737            2,737    2,737       1,161
Net Benefit
TOTAL                    6,546            6,086     6,384    7,205    8,766    9,330  14,680   15,180   15,680          16,180   16,680       18,256
INCREMENTAL                              (460)       (162)      659    2,220    2,784   8,134    8,634    9,134          9,634   10,134       11,710
1/  Farmers living above 1,500 m altitude.                                      IRR > 100
2/  Mainly vegetables and pulses.
3/  For the purpose of the financial rate of return calculations, all benefits and costs are deferred
by one year and an incremental working capital stream is introduced. These adjustments are made
to allow for the time lags occuring between incremental costs and benefits in farming systems.
4/  Full cost for fertilizers charged starting year 3.
5/ Assuming two cropping seasons, working capital is estimated to amount to 60% of incremental
operating costs of the following year. Working capital is recovered at the end of the projection
period as part of project salvage value.



-56--
ANN'EX 4
PAFKISTAN                                                                Table 8
INTEGRATED HILL FARMING DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Finasciol Analystis
Rate of J)evelopment of Improved Food aod Fodder Productlon
----Year 1-----  -----Year 2-----  -----Year 3-----  -----Year 4-----  -----Year 5               -----   ----Year 6r-----  -----Yer 7a-----  -----Y-r 8
No. of              No. of              No. of              No. of              No. of 1/           No. of              No. of              N.. of
Farmers  area/ho  Farm,er   area- ha  Farmers  area/ha  Fsrmers  area/ha  Farmers  area/ha  Farmers  area/ha  Farmers  area/ha  Farmers  area/ha
Iabize Grals
Mlodel A                 1,900       1,558    4,500      3,576    8,000      6,214     10,200   7,666   12,000    8,818        12,000   8,552    12,000    8,436    12,000    8,400
Model 8                  2,200       1,408    5,400    3,368    9,200    5,606         11,700   6,826    13,800    6,421       13,800   7,377    13,800    7,164   13,800    7,038
Total                    4,100      2,966    9,900    6,944   17,200   11,820    21,900  14,492   25,800   15,239    25,800  15,929    25,800   15,600   25,800   15,438
Wheat
MIodel A                 1,900         475    4,500    1,163    8,000    2,128    10,200   2,819   12,000            3,409     12,000   3,524    12,000      3,582    12,000    3,600
Ilodel B                 2,200         396    5,400    1,010    9,200    1,852    11,700   2,350   13,800    3,149    13,800   3,412    13,800               3,546    13,800    3,588
Total                    4,100         871    9,900    2,179   17,200    3,980    21,900   5,169   25,800    6,603             25,800   6,936    25,800    7,128   25,800         7,188
Apples
Nodel 8                  2,200         220    5,400        540    9,200        920    11,700   1,170   13,800        1,380     13,800   1,380    13,800       1,380   13,800      1,380
Ifafie Fodder
Mlodel A                                       1,900        35    4,500        320      8,000      663   10,200      1,000     12.000   1,270    12,000    1,404   12,000    1,440
Model B                                       2,200         44    5 400        174      9,200       50   11,700        672     13,800      913     13,800     1,141    13,800     1,104
Total                                         4,100        139    9,900        494    17,200   1,171   21,900        1,672    25,800   2,173    25,800    2,445   25,800    2,504
Oats
Mtodel A                                      1,900         38    4,500        128    8,000        288   10,200        454    12,000       604    12,000        684   12,000        720
Model B                                       2,200         44    5,400        152    9,200        314   11,700        472    13,800       602     13,800       469   15,800        690
Total                                         4,100         82    9,900        280   17,200        602   21,900        926    25,800   1,206       25,800     1,353   25,800      1,410
Swedea/T.r.Lps
Ilodel A                                                           1,900        19    4,500         83    8,000        208    10,200       352     12,000       484   12,000        564
Model 8                                                           2,200         22       540        98    9,200        222    11,700       355     13,800       464   13,800        531
Total                                                              4,100        41    9,900        181   17,200        430    21,900       707     25,800        948   25,800    1,095
1/ 60S of total farm populatIon in project arer is e-pected to participate in development activities at pro-ect completios.



-57-
ANNEX 5
Table 1
PAKISTAN
INTEGRATED HILL FAU11ING DEVELOPlENT PROJECT
Economic Analysis: Input/Output Prices
(In constant 1983 prices)
Unit       1984      ' 1985       1990-95
(PR8)      (PRs),      (PRs)
A. Outputs
Maize 1/                           kg         1.20       1.15        1.30
Wheat T/                           kg        1.70        1.60        1.90
other Crops 2/                     kg        2.70        2.70        2.70
.Apples 2/                         kg        4.50        4.50        4.50
Mtilk 2/                         liter       4.50        4.50        4.50
Meat 2/                            kg        9.90        9.90        9.90
Fuelvood 5/                       m3          246         246         246
3. Inputs
Seeds/Seedlings
Maize 3/                           kg         1.60       1.50        1.70
Wheat 3/                           kg        2.20        2.10        2.50
Oats                               kg        1.80        1.80        1.80
Swedes/Turnips                    kg          72          72          72
Apples 4/                                      9           9           9
Fertilizers 1/
Urea                               kg        2.70        3.30        4.30
Nitrophos                         kg         3.40        3.70        5.30
Sulphate of Potash                kg         1.80        1.90        2.20
Pesticides 2/
Furadan                           kg         7.20        7.20        7.20
Follidol                        liter       45.00       45.00      45.00
C. Labor 2/                     manday        27          27          27
1/  Economic prices of internationally traded comodities besed on Bank
coaodity price forecasts dated July 7, 1983. Export parity price
basis for maize and wheat; import parity price basis for fertilizers
adjusted for internal handling and transportation.
2/  Local prices converted into border rupees by applying Standard Conversion
Factor (SCF) of 0.90.
3/  At a premium over grain prices.
4/  Mission estimate of full cost for apple seedlings.
5/  Based on kerosene equivalent.



-58-
ANNEX S
Table 2
PARISTAN
INTEGRATED HILL FARMING DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Economic Analysis 1/
Incremental and      Project Operating    Farm Production         Working          Total          Total             Net
Replacement Costs           Costs                  Costs           Capital          Costs          Benefits          Benefits
YEAR 1               31,514                  9,413                                   3,398         44,325                             (44,325)
YEAR 2               31,825                 10,420                  5,664            6,208         54,154             3,027           (51,127)
YEAR 3               29,554                 11,162                 16,011           10,199         66,926            11,383           (55,543)
YEAR 4               28,115                 11,498                 33,010           11,130         83,753           31,920            (51,833)
YEAR 5               25,718                 11,707                 51,561           12,135        101,121           63,904            (37,217)
YEAR 6                   770                 5,541                 71,786            6,061         84,158          102,564             18,406
YEAR 7                    14                 4,292                 81,889            8,106         94,301          143,803             49,502
YEAR 8                                       3,646                 95,399            2,785        101,830          174,945             73,115
YEAR 9                                       3,646                100,041              103        103,790          192,952             89,162
YEAR 10                                      3,646                101,755                         105,401          203,887             98,486
YEAR 11                1,470                 3,646                101,755                         106,871          219,488            112,617
YEAR 12                  414                 3,646                101,755                         105,815          229,956            124,141
YEAR 13                  100                 3,646                101,755                         105,401          248,684            143,183
YEAR 14                                       3,646               101,755                         105,401          275,852            170,451
YEAR 15                                       3,646               101,755                         105,401          294,843            189,442
YEAR 16                  770                 3,646                101,755                         106,171          217,919            111,748
YEAR 17                   14                 3,646                101,755                         105,415          217,919            112,504
YEAR 18                                      3,646                101,755                         105,401          219,050            113,649
YEAR 19                                      3,646                101,755                         105,401          219,690            114,289
YEAR 20                                      3,646                101,755                         105,401          219,690            114,289
YEAR 21                1,470                 3,646                101,755                         106,871          226,283            119,412
YEAR 22                  414                 3,646                101,755                         105,815          232,974            127,159
YEAR 23                  100                 3,646                101,755                         105,500          249,628            144,127
YEAR 24                                      3,646                101,755                         105,401          275,852            170,451
YEAR 25                                      3,646                101,755                         105,401          294,843            189,442
YEAR 26                                      3,646                101,755          (60,125)        45,276          222,519            177,243
IRR = 22.3
1/ For the purpose of the economic analysis, all benefits and costs, except investnents, are deferred one year and an
incremental working capital stream is introduced. These adjustnents are made to allow for a time lag occuring
betweeni incremental costs and benefits in different farming systems.



-59-
ANNEX 6
PAKISTAN
INTEGRATED iIfrL FARMING' DEVtLPMENt PROJECT
Related Documents Available ii' Project File
(a) FAO/CP Preparation Report dated January 14, 1983
(b) Four Sector Reports:
(i) Feeder Roads
(ii) Agriculture
(iii) Livestock
(iv) Forestry
(c) Supporting Tables for Financial and Economic Analysis
(d) Detailed Cost Tables for Project Components



-60-
PAKISTAN
INTEGRATED HILL FARMING DEVELOPING PROJECT
Project Management Organization
ChieLf Scretary/ 
Development Committee
1) Development Commissioner
2) Secretory of Finance
3) Secretory Forests                                                                                  Project Coordination
4) Secretary Agriculture                                                                                      Unit
5) Secretary Public Works                                                      _                       i Headed by Secretary
6) Secretary Local Government &                                                                            (NPS 20)
Rural Development Department
7) District Council Representatives
|Secretary Agrculture   1                            
& Secretary Animal                                Secretary Forests                                  Secretary
.  Husbandry                                                                                    Public Works
F   Dilrectr       |        Director       |         r Chief Conservator                                   Chief Engineer
Agriculture               Animal Husbandry                     of Forests
World Bank-25491



IBRD 17501
OCTOBER 1983
PAKISTAN
INTEGRATED HILL FARMING DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
PROJECT LOCATION
Project Area                                                         t
Main Roads                                                           N
65@      National Capitol                                                     I
a      Other Cities, Towns and Villages                     0                20               40
Rivers                                                          KILOMETERS
To Karora                                             To Chilas                7
<                           ~~~~~~~Kagan;                                 eo    /           .
~~~~~~~~~~~Kgan                                                                                  ...... ......
Bgram                                            /
Bgalakot// ~9
T anse rauzff br abody
The Worl honk ustaff aKohenol
f/r \ . - - . aChathe c.............  Approxinante i,ne of Control
and'   t                                    -      -t: na sn;                                                   34e-
mood and th bonriahut ah,w
partofThe Wo/d Bank  a  t
.,tetrnba F-nane Crortion,
oasterr,fTheory or Be ,
endorheoreet orl ase-ace o
-dk d h~ boundase                                                                                               33-
\nth.-p dIT  Go rnha
p.!0The World Bank Id sthXexcuiey\'vg..., ... 
hor--  Ae  convmneOtte\p  :<..N..,. 
used and &e ~~~~~~TwoGunrarshon \                            ~         4_                               -JS.  






IBRD 17502
733O                                                     73045                                           OCTOBER 1983
Muzoffarabod                                             PAKISTAN
INTEGRATED HILL FARMING DEVELOPMENT
PROJECT
PROPOSED ROAD SECTIONS
-34015' \0t                                                                     5           10                                3415'
Garhi                             KILOMETERS
Chatar Kalas      K
t~~~~~~~~~~~~69                                     RI VER
~tfoaa 't                                                                  _ 
\   '\la   *.      < \           j,/f  \.8\i Ga                                      Khhn0 '924           oim
Mir ~ ~ ~       ~       ~       ~      ~ ~ Pranh~ 
o00' ~~~~~~~a                                                         996-
Proposed Road Sections                        -      -   Watershed  Boundaries
Existina Roads:                  ~'~                       Rivers
Paved Roads                                           ~LNullahs and Streams
Fair Weather Roads                                   *       Spot Elevation in Feet
5582
-Paved  Road  Under Construction            T                                       A
This map has been Prepared by The World Bank's staff exclusivelY for the conveenence of
the readers and is exclusivelY for the intemnal use of The World Bank and the International
Finance Corporation Thee denom,nat,ons used and the boundaries shown on this map do not
rnply, on the part of The World Bank and the Intenational Finance Corporaion, any judoment
on the lgal status of any territory or anY endorsement or acceptance of ssch boundares
730 30~                                                   73045                                                    7 400'
Exsi    Rods                                                     River



