Document of
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
rI  E  0py
ReportNo. P-3759-PAM
REPORT AND RECOMKENDATION
OF THE
PRESIDENT OF THE
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
TO THE
EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS
ON A
PROPOSED CREDIT
IN AN AMOUNT OF SDR 20.1 MILLION (US$21 MILLION EQUIVA
TO THE
ISLAMIC REPUBLIC OF PAKISTAN
FOR AN
INTEGRATED HILL FARMING DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
March 26, 1984
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
Currency Unit = Pakistan Rupee (Rs)
US$1          = Rs 13.0
Rs 1.00       = US$0.077
FISCAL YEAR
July 1 - June 30
ABBREVIATIONS
AJK     -       Azad Jammu and Kashm,ir
ECNEC   -       Executive Committee of the
National Economic Committee
FA      -       Field Assistant
FD      -       Forest Department
GOAJK   -       Government of Azad Jammu and Kashmir
GOP     -       Government of Pakistan
HFTDP   -       Hill Farming Technical Development Project
IHFDP   -       Integrated Hill Farming Development Project
LDC     -       Livestock Development Center
PCU     -       Project Coordination Unit
PDC     -       Project Development Committee



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
PAKISTAN
INTEGRATED HILL FARMING DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
CREDIT MND PROJECT SUMMARY
Borrower:                Islamic Republic of Pakistan
Amount:                  SDR 20.1 million
(US$21 million equivalent)
Terms:                   Standard
Proiect
Description:           The project would prevent furtner deterioration of the
environment of Azad Jammu and Kashmir and raise
farmer incomes by providing support for a Hill
Management Strategy. It would include measures to
improve agricultural productivity, introduction of
fodder crops, afforestation, livestock improvement
and feeder road construction. For this purpose,
it would provide extension services, farm inputs,
training, technical assistance, research and
support for project management. Some 28,000 farm
households, whose average annual family income is
US$810, would benefit directly from the project.
The remainder of the population in the two project
districts would also benefit from conservation
measures. The main risks stem from the innovative
nature of the project which would seek to change
farming technology, social attitudes and govern-
ment procedures. The importance of cooperation -
among government agencies, between Government and
farmers and among farmers - to project success
presents an added risk. The main factors mitigat-
ing the risks are the widespread local awareness
of the problem and careful project design drawing
upon experience under an ongoing Hill Farming
Technic:al Development Project (Credit 751-PAR).
- 4hmAioument has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of
their official-duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



Estimated Cost: a!
(US$ millions)
Item                        Local        Foreign        Total
Civil Works
(including roads)                      5.1            1.0          6.1
Vehicles                                 0.4           0.4            0.8
Materials, Equipment,
Furniture, Livestock                    0.3           0.2           0.5
Forestry Plantations
and Soil Conservation Works             2.6          --             2.6
'Training and Studies                     0.,3          0.2           0.5
'Technical Assistance                     0.3           0.6           0.9
Operating Costs                          8.,3           0.8          9.1
Total Base Costs                         17.3           3.2          20.5
Physical Contingencies                    1.1           0.2           1.3
Price Contingencies                       4.1           0.6           4.7
Total Project Cost                       22.5           4.0          26.5
a/ Includes duties and taxes of US$0.65 million.
Financing Plan:                                   (US$ millions)
LocaLl       Foreign        Total
IDA                    17.0           4.0          21.0
GOP/GOAJK               5.5          --             5.5
22.7          4.0           26.5
Estimated                                 (US$ millions)
Disbursements:  IDA FY        FY85    FY86    FY87   FY88   FY89  FY90
Annual          2.4      3.5      4.3     4.2     3.9   2.7
Cumulative      2.4      5.9    10.2   14.4   18.3  21.0



-iii-
Rate of Return:    About 22%.
Appraisal Report:  No. 4773-PAK, dated February 15, 1984.
Maps:   IBRD 17501 and 17502.



A



INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION OF THE PRESIDENT TO THE EXECUTIVE
DIRECTORS ON A PROPOSED CREDIT TO THE ISLAMIC REPUBLIC OF
PAKISTAN FOR AN INTEGRATED HILL FARMING DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
1.      I submit the following report and recommendation on a proposed
development credit to the Islamic Republic of Pakistan (GOP) for SDR 20.1
million (US$21 million equivalent) on standard IDA terms to help finance
an Integrated Hill Farming Development Project in Azad Jammu and Kashmir
(AJK).
PART I - THE ECONOMY
2.      The most recent economic report "Pakistan:  Review of the Sixth
Five-Year Plan" (No. 4706-PAK, dated October 20, 1983) was distributed to
the Executive Directors on October 20, 1983.
3.      Economic developments during FY83 were generally favorable.  GDP
grew by 5.8%, with value added in agriculture rising by 4.8% and in
industry by 8.3%. Continued stagnation in (fixed) investment, which
declined slightly from 13.6% of GNP in FY82 to 13.3% of GNP in FY83, was
among the few unfavor- able events. National savings, on the other hand,
rose sharply from 10.7% to an estimated 14% of GNP. The declining trend
in the rate of inflation continued; as measured by the consumer price
index, the rate of inflation slowed from 9.7% in FY82 to 4.2% in FY83.
4.      There was a dramatic turnaround in the balance of payments in
FY83. The current account deficit, at US$429 million (1.4% of GNP), was
less than half the size of deficits in recent years. This outcome
reflected three main factors: a resumption in the growth of exports fol-
lowing a substantial decline in FY82; a slight decline in the value of
imports; and buoyant remittances from migrant workers. The 13% growth in
exports, which enabled exports to nearly regain their FY81 level, was all
the more impressive because the value of all major exports except raw
cotton and cotton yarn declined. The striking feature of the export
performance was the growth of non-traditional exports, which increased by
over a third.  The drop in imports reflected, inter alia, higher domestic
production of oil and import-substitution in some key commodities. The
incipient recovery in world trade and delinking of the exchange rate from
the U.S. dollar in January 1982, with its subsequent depreciation, con-
11 Parts I and II are substantially the same as Parts I and II of the
President's Report P-3704-PAK (Industrial Investment Credit Project),
dated January 3, 1984.



-2-
tributed significantly to the improved balance of payments picture. Given
the favorable outcome on the current account, normal levels of net inflows
of long-term capital, and net IMF purchases, Pakistan's reserves more than
doubled. At the end of FY83, gross official reserves stood at US$1,927
million, the equivalent of 3.5 months' of imports of goods and non-factor
services.
5.      Notable progress was made in many areas during the Fifth Five-Year
Plan Period (FY79-83). Real growth rates in national output (6.3%),
agriculture (4.4%), industry (9.1%) and exports (9.2%), though below Plan
targets, were all substantially above the rates achieved during 1970-78
and very respectable compared to the performance of other LDCs over the
same period. This growth - coupled with increased inflows of migrant
remittances - benefited large segments of the urban and rural population.
The output of all major crops reached record levels and self-sufficiency
in wheat and sugar was achieved. Encouraged by improved government
policies, private investment in manufacturing expanded by 8% p.a. in real
terms; this expansion was more than offset by the declining public invest-
ment in the sector, however. The balance of payments performance was
quite satisfactory: the current account deficit declined significantly
relative to GDP and foreign exchange reserves rose from the equivalent of
1.2 months of imports to 3.5 months. Government fiscal and credit
policies reduced budget deficits and monetary expansion and inflationary
pressures gradually subsided. This progress was made despite a number of
unforeseen events: (a) world recession; (b) a 30% decline in the external
terms of trade after 1979; (c) the Afghan crisis, which necessitated
increased outlays for defense and refugee assistance; and (d) a continued
decline in real net aid flows.
6.      The economy's good performance since 1977 has been aided by
several factors, including favorable weather and higher domestic demand
associated with better crops, rising rural incomes and workers' remittan-
ces from the Middle East. Improvements in agricultural, industrial and
fiscal and credit policies contributed significantly to better economic
performance.
7.      In recent years the Government has taken a number of initiatives
to improve agricultural production. Particular attention has been given
to improving farmer incentives and input supplies. Support prices for all
major crops have been raised so that they are now closer to world prices.
At the same time, steps have been taken to reduce the fertilizer subsidy
(which has been creating budgetary problems) and to separate it from the
development budget for agriculture in order to protect allocations for
other priority agricultural projects and programs. An Agricultural Prices
Commission has been set up to make recommendations on appropriate changes
in crop support and input prices on a consistent and timely basis.
8.      The Government has formulated and begun to implement a new
agricultural policy based on the main recommendations of a UNDP study on



-3-
irrigated agriculture which emphasizes the need to improve the efficiency
of the water delivery system through the rehabilitation of distributaries
and better scheduling of water deliveries to the farmer; and to expand the
role of the private sector, for example, through the promotion of private
tubewell development in sweet groundwater areas. Other programs--in
pesticides, seeds, agricultural credit, extension, research and farm
power--have also been strengthened. These initiatives are still at an
early stage and a breakthrough from the problems of low productivity at
the farm level is yet to take place.
9.      Major changes have also been made during the past five years in
government policies in the industrial sector. The policies pursued in the
early and mid-1970s of extensive nationalizations, tight restrictions on
the private sector, and rapid expansion of the public sector to spearhead
industrial investment and growth have been gradually reversed. Most
agricultural processing and some industrial units have been
denationalized; constitutional safeguards have been provided to private
industry against further arbitrary government acquisitions; and the areas
open to the private sector have been widened. A wide range of fiscal
incentives have been granted to encourage private investment and exports.
These have been supplemented by a liberalization of imports which has
improved the availability of inputs. The investment sanctioning procedure
has been streamlined. These measures have led to an improvement in
private sector confidence and stimulated private investment, mainly in
small and medium-scale projects.
10.     At the same time, the Government has embarked on the difficult and
inevitably long process of reforming the public industrial sector, which
has been plagued by low efficiency and profits. Major studies have been
completed of the management and organization of the public sector, and the
performance of individual enterprises. In accordance with the recommenda-
tions of these studies, the Board of Industrial Management (BIM) has been
abolished, the number of sector holding corporations has been reduced, and
boards of directors have been established which have helped to increase
autonomy at the enterprise level. Some public sector units which have
little prospect of improved financial performance have been closed down.
These measures, together with additions to capacity and steps to retain
skilled technical personnel through salary adjustments, for example in
the fertilizer sub-sector, have helped to increase production and capacity
utilization substantially in the public sector.
11.     Fiscal performance imrproved significantly over the Fifth Plan
period. The overall budget deficit and government borrowing from the
banking system, which stood at 8.8% and 4.3% of GDP in the first year of
the Plan, fell to 6.4% and 1.7%, respectively, by the final year. Reduced
levels of government borrowing from banks, together with overall credit
restraint, led to lower rates of growth of the money supply and lessened
inflationary pressures; prices rose by 4% in the final year of the Plan as
compared with 7% in the first year. The improvement in fiscal performance



-4-
was, however, largely the result of expenditure restraint rather than
better revenue performance. Real expansion in current expenditures on
economic and social services barely kept pace with population growth and
development expenditures declined relatively to GDP. At the same time,
government revenues remained constant at 16% of GDP and public savings,
having risen in the first half of the Plan period from 1% to 3.8% of GNP,
amounted to only 1.6% in the last year of the Plan. Greater resource
mobilization by the public sector will be critical for the implementation
of the Sixth Plan.
12.     The developments in the Pakistan economy since 1977 represent
welcome steps towards the solution of a set of problems which are essen-
tially structural and long term in nature. Notwithstanding these
improvements, further wide-ranging measures to address the basic issues
which would limit long-term economic growth are necessary if Pakistan is
to sustain its recently improved economic performance over the Sixth
Five-Year Plan period (FY84-88) and bring about a continuing modest
improvement in the living standards of its population. These issues
include the farm-level factors affecting low productivity in agriculture;
the structure and competitiveness of the industrial sector; the need to
restrain the growth of energy demand and improve the exploitation of
domestic energy resources; the factors lying behind continued rapid growth
in population; the need to redirect social service expenditures; and the
problems of resource mobilization.
13.     Agriculture remains the economyIs mainstay, accounting directly
for roughly a third of GDP, employing about 55% of the labor force and,
directly or indirectly, providing nearly two thirds of total exports.
Except in the important case of wheat, agricultural growth since the
mid-1970s has been the product of acreage expansion with little improve-
ment in yields. Because of the diminishing supply of uncultivated land,
as well as the high cost of extending the irrigation system, a switch to
more intensive agriculture is essential. The achievement of higher
productivity will require improved agricultural services and increased
efficiency of the irrigation system as well as continued attention to
producer incentives. Toward the latter part of the Fifth Plan, some
progress was made in reorienting expenditures towards projects designed to
rehabilitate and improve the operation and maintenance of the irrigation
system, increase the efficiency of water use, improve quality of research
and extension, and increase the supply of complementary agricultural
inputs. These efforts will need to be accelerated during the Sixth Plan
period. At the same time, to limit budgetary requirements in the water
sector, private investment in irrigation and drainage in fresh groundwater
areas must be further encouraged. To encourage greater agricultural
yields, the Government must also continue to rationalize prices of
agricultural outputs and inputs.  In recent years, pricing decisions have
been taken in a more systematic and timely fashion based on recommenda-
tions by the newly formed Agricultural Prices Commission; procurement
prices have been brought more nearly in line with international prices and



-5-
subsidies for fertilizers and pesticides substantially reduced. These
efforts, too, will need to be continued during the Sixth Plan period.
14.     Manufacturing contributes about 15% of GDP and during much of the
1950s and 1960s provided a major stimulus to growth. After a period of
stagnation during the period 1970-77, manufacturing growth has again
accelerated averaging about 9% p.a. over the past six years. To provide a
solid economic basis for continued rapid growth, incentives for greater
private and public manufacturing enterprise efficiency will have to be
implemented. Despite some success in reviving the private sector and
improving the performance of public enterprises, much remains to be done
to bring about a major restructuring of industry and place it on a com-
petitive basis. The efficient long-term development of the industrial
sector will require both a relaxation of government controls and
rationalization of industrial incentives. While incentives for manufac-
tured exports have been improved, the trade system still provides a very
wide variation in incentives for the domestic manufacture of various
exportables and import substitutes. To encourage industrial growth more
in line with Pakistan's comparaitive advantage, the process of import
liberalization initiated over the past few years must be continued. In
addition, the differential rates of protection given to various domestic
products need to be substantially narrowed. To provide further encourage-
ment for private investment as well as to attract risk capital, the number
of administrative regulations must be reduced. In addition, the scope of
price controls should be substantially narrowed, especially the use of
cost-plus pricing which discourages improvements in efficiency and energy
conservation. Further strong measures to increase efficiency and self-
financing capacity in the public sector are also essential; the perfor-
mance standards expected of public enterprises must be more clearly
specified and managers given more responsibility and incentives for meet-
ing them. The implementation of the Public Enterprises Signaling System
in FY84--which will set performance objectives for individual enterprises
and provide bonus incentives for managers--will be a major step toward
reaching these objectives.
15.     Energy shortages have become a significant constraint to rapid
economic growth in Pakistan. Power and gas shortages are common and the
country imports 90% of its petroleum needs costing over 26% of total
imports. Energy investments to improve the energy situation total over
33% of public investment in the Sixth Five Year Plan. The Government's
efforts to deal with the energy situation by adjusting domestic oil
prices, and by encouraging the substitution of other energy forms and the
exploration and development of domestic oil resources, have met with some
success.  Growth of petroleum consumption has been restrained by the
development of hydroelectricity and natural gas resources as well as by
petroleum price adjustments. At the same time, activity in the oil sector
has been stepped up, in some instances through joint ventures with foreign
private companies. Nevertheless, due to a variety of technical, geologi-
cal and other reasons, progress on exploration of new fields as well as



-6-
the development of existing fields has been slow and Pakistan's con-
siderable potential in the oil and gas sector has yet to be realized.  The
Government has begun to implement a number of reforms relating to such
matters as energy planning, pricing and organization in order to
accelerate progress.
16. While it is clearly vital to sustain rapid growth in the commodity-
producing sectors, it is also necessary to contain the rapid growth in popula--
tion, currently running at about 2.8% p.a., which has seriously hand-
icapped capped the country's ability to improve living standards. Family
planning programs have so far had little effect and there have been few
changes in the socio-economic environment of a type that usually accompany
declines in fertility. Rapid population growth places severe burdens on
government resources simply to maintain education and health programs at
their current inadequate standards. However, without higher literacy
rates, improved health facilities and a reduction in child mortality, it
is doubtful that population growth rates can be much reduced.
Expenditures on social services have been low and undue emphasis has been
given to higher education and urban health facilities. The Government has
recently shown more awareness of this probLem; a new and more promising
population program is in the initial stages of implementation, and several
special programs to improve basic health and education facilities, espe-
cially in the rural areas, were introduced in the FY83 budget.
17.     Policies that face the longer-term issues in both the productive
and the social sectors will take time to have an appreciable effect and
will have to be implemented in the context of continued domestic and
external resource constraints. National savings, which averaged 12% of
GNP over the Fifth Plan Period, are substantially above the levels of the
early and mid-1970s, but are still low for a country at Pakistan's per
capita income level and stage of development. To improve the budget and
the balance of payments, a fundamental improvement is required in the
overall savings levels in the economy, particularly in public savings.
Given the size of the public sector's domestic resource requirements, a
comprehensive strategy that utilizes all available instruments, including
taxation policy, greater reliance on user charges, curtailment of open and
implicit subsidies and improved self-financing of investment by public
enterprises, will be needed.
18.     The Sixth Five-Year Plan, initiated on July 1, 1983, represents a
pragmatic overall strategy for Pakistan's continued rapid development.
The Plan puts heavy stress upon improvements in economic policies as well
as on a public expenditure program. Recognizing the importance of a
dynamic private sector for rapid economic growth and the limitations on
public sector resources, it calls for reduced regulations on the private
sector, increased emphasis on market incentives for greater production and
efficiency and for increased participation in sectors where the Government
has previously played a large role. The size and composition of the
public sector development program is appropriate. While public develop-



-7-
ment expenditures would expand only as rapidly as gross domestic product,
this is a realistic target given projected available resources and the
demands for improved public services. To achieve such an expansion - a
reversal of the declining trend experienced under the Fifth Plan - and to
finance an increasing share from domestic resources will require a major
mobilization effort. The largest increases in sectoral allocations have
gone to energy, agriculture and irrigation, and the social sectors. The
shift in the composition of the public sector development program is
justified because of the threat to future growth posed by energy
shortages, the need to increase agricultural yields by improvements in
agricultural and irrigation/drainage services, and the past neglect of the
social sectors.
19.     Although, as described above, the Pakistan economy continues to
face a number of difficulties, the improvements over the past few years in
demand management and in planning, incentives and government programs in
agri- culture, industry and energy have helped to create a climate more
conducive to rapid economic growth and better international trade
performance, and have established an improved framework within which
further reforms can be effectively pursued. The Sixth Plan represents an
important indication of the Government's intention to continue these
improvements. These policy initiatives have improved Pakistan's credit-
worthiness for commercial borrowing and for a blend of Bank and IDA
borrowing.
20.     At the end of calendar 1982, Pakistan's external public debt
(excluding the undisbursed pipeline) stood at US$9.2 billion, of which
US$4.8 billion was owed to bilateral members of the Pakistan Consortium,
US$1.3 billion to OPEC and US$1.8 billion to multilateral agencies and the
balance to other bilateral and private lenders. In 1982, the Bank Group's
share in Pakistan's external public indebtedness was 15.2% and in external
debt service was 12.1%. According to Bank forecasts, provided recent
policy improvements are sustained, Pakistan's debt service ratio (debt
service divided by exports of goods and factor and non-factor services),
which was about 13.6% in FY82, is likely to remain below 15% during the
1980s, even assuming substantial commercial borrowing.
PART II - BANK GROUP OPERATIONS_IN PAKISTAN
21.     The cumulative total of Bank/IDA commitments to Pakistan
(exclusive of Loans and Credits or portions thereof which were disbursed
in the former East Pakistan) now amounts to approximately US$2.9 billion.
During its long association with Pakistan, the Bank Group has been
involved in almost all sectors of the economy. This has included its
involvement with other donors, over a 20-year period, in the major program
of works to develop the water resources of the Indus Basin. Approximately
30% of total Bank/IDA commitments to Pakistan have been for agriculture
and irrigation; 26% for industry including import program credits; 21% for
transport, telecommunications and public utility services; 14% for energy



-8-
including power, gas pipelines and petroleum; 4% for social programs in
education, population and urban development; and 5% for a SAL.
22.     Lending operations in Pakistan have three main objectives:  first,
to support the directly productive sectors of the economy; secondly, to
support the expansion of, and to improve the institutions which are
responsible for, the principal public services supporting economic growth;
and thirdly, to meet basic needs in the areas of rural and urban
development.
23.     In pursuit of these objectives, the Bank Group has placed special
emphasis on lending for agriculture, which is the mainstay of the Pakistan
economy. Projects in this sector are aimed at augmenting the supply of
essential inputs, principally irrigation water, fertilizer, seeds and
credit; strengthening research, extension and other agricultural support-
ing services; improving water management; reclaiming land by controlling
salinity and waterlogging; and providing essential facilities including
tubewells, livestock development and dairy processing. An important
purpose of this lending is to assist the Government's program to increase
the productivity of available land and water resources in the Indus Basin
through quick-yielding investments, as recommended recently in a
UNDP-financed study for which the Bank was executing agency.
24.     In industry, lending through DFCs and other financial inter-
mediaries which has been mainly for the private sector totals US$438.5
million. This includes eleven Loans/Credits for the Pakistan Industrial
Credit and Investment Corporation (PICIC), two Credits for the Industrial
Development Bank of Pakistan (IDBP), one Credit for the National
Development Finance Corporation (NDFC), a Credit for Small Scale
Industries through five commercial banks, and a Loan/Credit for industrial
investment through five participating financial institutions including two
commercial banks. Direct lending for industry has also included assis-
tance to three large fertilizer plants and a refinery engineering loan.
As of September 30, 1983, IFC had made investments in 16 Pakistan
enterprises for a total of US$182.0 million, of which US$170.4 million was
by way of loans and US$11.6 million by equity participations (these are
shown in Annex II). About US$55.7 million of these investments remained
outstanding. The enterprises assisted by IIFC include three in the field
of pulp and paper products, two each in textiles, food and food
processing, and petrochemicals, and one eaclh in cement, steel,
fertilizers, plastics, and wood processing. IFC is also a shareholder in
PICIC.
25.     The Bank has had a long standing involvement in the energy sector.
In power, the Bank Group has assisted the Karachi Electric Supply
Corporation (KESC) and the Water and Power Development Authority (WAPDA)
with four and three projects respectively; the sector has also been
assisted by the construction under the Indus Basin Development Program of
Mangla and Tarbela Dams. In petroleum, the two Sui gas transmission
companies have been assisted with five projects, while the Bank group is
financing two petroleum projects, for production and exploration, and is
playing an important role in strengthening the public Oil and Gas)



-9-
Development Corporation. An IDA credit to support a Coal Exploration
Project was recently approved. These efforts are assisting in the effi-
cient development and utilization of Pakistan's domestic energy resources
and in establishing a policy and institutional framework for increased
private investment in the sector. In addition, IFC has made three loans
in the petroleum sector.
26.     The focus of Bank Group lending for transport and communications
has shifted increasingly towards assisting Pakistan to better utilize
existing capacity by improving the efficiency of operations and
strengthening the institutions responsible for these services, especially
the Karachi Port Trust, Pakistan Railways, the Telephone and Telegraph
Department, and federal and provincial highway agencies. IDA has financed
four projects in the urban and water supply sector, three of which are
currently being implemented. Five credits for education, totaling US$62.5
million, have assisted in upgrading primary, post-secondary and higher
technical and agricultural education, middle-level training of primary
teachers and agricultural extension agents. A first population project
was recently approved.
27.     In addition to financing specific high-priority projects in key
sectors of the economy, the Bank has from time to time supported
Pakistan's development through program assistance. A first structural
adjustment lending operation (SAL) was approved by the Executive Directors
in June 1982. This SAL program consists of a number of significant
reforms in government development planning and in policies and programs in
the agriculture, energy and industrial sectors.
28.     Annex II contains a summary statement of Bank Loans and IDA Credits
as of September 30, 1983. Credit and loan disbursements have been generally
satisfactory. Some projects have experienced initial delays due to protracted
government procedures for project approval, which are being addressed, and
to slowness in the procurement of goods and services. Rapid turnover of
managerial and technical staff, in part due to migration to the Middle East,
and budgetary constraints have been problems in the case of some projects.
29.     A number of further projects for Bank Group financing are currently
under appraisal or being prepared in Pakistan. These include projects for
power transmission and generation, direct and indirect industrial investments,
oil and gas development, irrigation, agriculture and education. Pakistan
continues to have domestic resource constraints for the reasons set out in
Part I. To assist the Government to finance agricultural and other high-
priority projects which have a low foreign exchange component, financing
of some local expenditures in specific cases is justified.
30.     In addition to lending, economic and sector work provides the
basis for a continuing dialogue between the Bank Group and the Government
of Pakistan on development strategy, and for the coordination of external
assistance within the Pakistan Consortium.



-10-
PART III - THE SECTOR
Azad Jammu and Kashmir
31.     The hill areas of AJK are undergoinig serious and continuous
degradation. Farm productivity is decreasi1.ng, forests are being destroyed
and erosion now threatens most of AJK's countryside. Increases in crop,
livestock and forestry production have not kept pace with increases in
human population. Food and cash crops, with low yields, occupy most of
the cultivable lands and leave too little f-or the production of animal
feed, resulting in overgrazing and thus increased erosion of hillsides.
The principal objective of the Integrated Hlill Farming Development Project
(IHFDP) would be to interrupt this downwarc spiral and restore the balance
between the population and its environment.
32.     Located in the foothills of the Himalayas, AJK has a population
of 2 million (1981) which is estimated to have doubled during the last 20
years and to be growing at 2.7% per annum. With an area of about 11,680
per sq. km, AJK's population density is about 170 per sq. km, or 960 per
sq. km of arable land. Administratively, AJK is divided into four
districts, Muzaffarabad, Poonch, Kotli and Mirpur. AJK's climate and
ecological conditions range from sub-tropical in the valley bottoms to
temperate at higher elevations. Altitude varies from about 300 m in the
plains of the southern district of Mirpur to more than 2,500 m on the
outlying foothills of the Himalayas in the north. Transportation and
communication are severely limited by the difficult terrain.
33.     The economy of AJK depends primarily on agriculture, forestry and,
more recently, remittances from workers outside the state. Increasing
population pressure and a declining resource base have prompted AJK's male
population to seek wage employment elsewhere in Pakistan and outside the
country, which subsequently has become the main source of family income.
As a result of these non-agricultural activities, the average household
income in the State is about Rs 9,270 (US$810), yielding a per capita
income of about Rs 1,390 (US$116), compared to a national average per
capita income of US$350 (1981).
Agriculture
34.     The terrain dictates agricultural practices in AJK.  The
predominantly flat fertile lands found in the south (Kotli and Mirpur
districts) are used for intensive cereal growing. In the northern dis-
tricts of Muzaffarabad and Poonch, cultivation is restricted to bench
terraces dug from fertile pockets of soil in the hillsides. Only about
205,000 ha, or 18% of the total area, is suitable for sustained rainfed
cropping. The remaining area consists of demarcated forests and
range/waste lands which provide some low quality forage and grazing.
Practically all farms are small, averaging 1.4 to 1.6 ha. Maize, the main



-11-
crop, is grown in the summer (kharif) season and occupies about 70% of the
total cropped area. Wheat, grown in the winter (rabi) season, is the
second major crop and accounts for about 20% of the total cropped area.
Other crops grown include rice, pulses, vegetables and fruit. With some
exceptions, land preparation is done by bullocks.  Little use is made of
chemical fertilizer or high yielding seed varieties. Lacking modern yield
increasing technology, the increasing population has brought more hillside
land under cultivation, causing degradation of the environment. While a
number of Government institutions provide agricultural credit, farmers
in AJK have tended not to take advantage of these programs owing to the
availability of cash from remittances and the minimal use of modern
agricultural inputs.
Livestock
35.     For many farmers, livestock is as important as crop production.
The entire livestock population is held by small farmers. Cattle are kept
for draught purposes and buffaloes for milk production. Stock are
generally local breeds, providing low offtake and poor milk yields. Sheep
and goats are kept essentially for meat purposes. While all animals
suffer from a high incidence of disease, shortfalls in the quantity and in
particular the quality of available feed constitute the most serious
constraint to improved livestock performance. About 60% of the fodder
available to animals is hay cut from hillsides, while crop residues, weeds
and some green maize thinnings make up the rest. Little fodder is grown
in farmers fields. The growing pressure of livestock has become the
major cause of hillside erosion. As long as hillsides constitute a criti-
cal source of animal feed in the farming system, efforts to introduce a
program of hillside conservation are likely to fail. Thus, the key to
hill conservation is the provision of alternative sources of animal feed,
especially high protein varieties to sustain animals throughout the winter
period.
Forestry
36.     About 50% of the land in AJK is classified as demarcated forest,
owned by the Government and managed by the Forestry Department (FD). The
natural forests are one of the main sources of income to the Government.
In addition, local people have traditional rights of timber extraction for
house construction, free removaL of deadwood and branches from all trees
and free grazing and collection of fodder. The increasing population has
put pressure on the forests, leaving little opportunity for natural
regeneration. Scarcity of timber and fuelwood has induced people to
exceed their user rights and encroach on forest areas closed for
regeneration, resulting in increasing conflicts between FD and the
population.
37.     The destruction of forests through excessive tree cutting, over-
grazing and overcultivation has caused pervasive soil erosion. As the



-12-
situation has become increasingly serious and widespread, the people of
AJK have become aware that they and GOAJK will have to make a major effort
to preserve their environment.
Government Policy and Bank Involvement
38.     Because of the difficult terrain, most of GOAJK's past development
efforts sought to provide physical and social infrastructure, including
roads, water supply, electricity, education and health services to rural
areas. Development expenditures for rural development, mainly con-
centrated on soil and forest conservation, were limited. Little was done
lto tackle the underlying causes of degradation.  However, the ongoing Hill
Farming Technical Development Project (HFTDP - Credit 751-PAK) and the
proposed project reflect GOAJK's determination to address its rural
development problems in a more systematic fashion in the future - deter-
mination which is also reflected in the greater importance given to rural
development in Pakistan's Sixth Five-Year Plan.
39.     Financed with an IDA Credit for US$3.0 million, the HFTDP is an
experimental development scheme which became operational in March 1978
and has a revised closing date of September 30, 1984. Despite con-
siderable initial delay, mainly due to the experimental nature of the
project, GOAJK has learned valuable lessons from it. The project has
successfully developed technical packages for food and fodder crops, which
will provide the basis for agricultural extension work under the proposed
project. Similarly, the project has been successful in its reforestation
program where original planting targets were exceeded. However, farmer
participation in the forestry program was less than originally
anticipated, suggesting a need to design a new sharing arrangement between
farmers and FD under the proposed project (see paras. 59 and 65). The
HFTDP was less successful in its livestock improvement program, mainly
because of farmers' inability to provide adequate quantities of fodder for
their crossbred offspring. This experience ihas prompted the emphasis on
fodder production and a new approach to livestock improvement under the
proposed project. Most important has been the lesson learned concerning
project management. The setting up, under the ongoing project, of a
project entity with its owII staff, budget and procedures, together with
the appointment of a line department secretary as project director to
coordinate the work of other line departments, has proven to be an
unsatisfactory solution to project management. The project director, who
is also the Secretary of Agriculture, has not: obtained sufficient coopera-
tion from FD, and the special status of seconded project staff is resented
by those in the line agencies from which they were seconded.
Consequently, GOAJK and IDA agree that under the proposed project, manage-
ment of the various programs should be left to the line departments whose
activities would be coordinated, but not administered, by a Project
Coordination Unit (see para. 58). Project maLnagement would be further
facilitated by the fact that the HFTDP has been quite successful in train-
inCg staff at all levels so that the proposed project would be almost fully



-13-
staffed from the start. Finally, the HFTDP has contributed to the recog-
nition that rural development problems in AJK can only be addressed in an
integrated way as formulated in the Hill Management Strategy.
Hill Management Strategy
40.     The key to conservation and the optimal use of hillsides in AJK
lies in the acceptance of a Hill Management plan by its users: the
individual farmer, the village community and the Government. The first
step in Hill Management would be to reduce the growing pressure on the
hillsides caused by man and animals and thus allow an immediate regenera-
tion of the protective cover. For this reason, the highest priority must
be given to fodder and fuelwood production. Once the pressures on the
hillsides had been reduced, the second step would be to demarcate dif-
ferent areas for commercial forests, fuelwood plantations, conservation
works and grazing areas. The third step would be to carry out planting
and conservation programs and establish a fodder management scheme.
41.     While the technical aspects of hill management are well known and
were tested under the HFTD Project, successful implementation of the Hill
Management Strategy in AJK will require a social commitment on the part of
the Government and people of the area which has not been tested under the
HFTD Project. Hillsides are presently controlled under three intermixed
tenure systems: shamlat or community lands, mulkiyat or private lands,
and Government-owned forests. Since a hillside is a single ecosystem,
preparation of the proposed project has sought to design an arrangement
whereby all interested parties on a single hillside would join together
and agree to a hill/catchment management plan, including GOAJK participa-
tion and benefit sharing (see para. 59).
PART IV - THE PROJECT
42.     The proposed project was prepared by GOAJK, with assistance from
the FAO Cooperative Program, and appraised in June 1983. Negotiations
were held in Washington from January 23 to 30, 1984. The Government of
Pakistan was represented by a delegation led by M. Z. A. Temuri,
Additional Secretary in Charge, Kashmir Affairs and Northern Affairs
Division, Government of Pakistan. A staff appraisal report (Report No.
4773-PAR) is being distributed separately to the Executive Directors.
Special conditions of the credit are listed in Annex III.
43.     The proposed project would be carried out in AJK, an area over
which India and Pakistan have been in dispute since 1947. The proposed
project would be a follow-up to the HFTDP approved in 1977. In making the
proposed credit to Pakistan, IDA does not intend to prejudice the final
determination of the claims of the parties involved.



-14-
Project Objectives and Scope
44.     The project objective would be to prevent further deterioration
of AJK's environment and raise farmer incomes. In view of the complexity
of the problems to be tackled and the limited experience and resources of
GOAJK, the proposed project would be implemented in the two northern
districts only. The total area is about 113,000 ha with an estimated
population of 312,600 people or about 15% of the total population of the
State. The area contains about 47,000 households, of which 95% are farm
households; 60% of these households are expected to participate in the
project.
Proiect Description
45.     During the five-year project period (FY84/85 to FY88/89), a number
of programs would be implemented simultaneously or in sequence as
described in the Hill Management Strategy (para. 40). As the chief con-
straints in the project area are the shortages of fodder and fuelwood,
the core of the IHFDP would be the programs to (a) improve agricultural
productivity; (b) introduce fodder crops and (c) foster tree planting on
private and public land. These programs would be supplemented by
(d) livestock improvement measures and (e) feeder road development. To
carry out these programs, the project would provide for the establishment
of a strong, unified extension service, timely supply of inputs, training
of project staff, technical assistance, research and, most importantly,
coordination among the different implementing departments and cooperation
with local people.
A. Agriculture
46.     Food Crops.  The project would introduce improved production
technology on 15,000 ha of maize and 7,000 ha of wheat. A successful
technical package for maize has already been developed under the ongoing
HFTDP, and experimental work is underway to firm up a technical package
for wheat.
47.     Fodder Crops.  The success of the project would hinge on the
replacement of a portion of the present animal fodder provided by hillside
grazing with fodder produced on the farm. The project would test and



-15-
motivate farmers to extend the area under cultivation of fodder crops such
as maize, turnips and oats, making use of, and refining, the technical
packages which have already been developed under the ongoing HFTDP.
48.     Apples.  Building on the success of the apple production program
of the ongoing project, farmers would plant an additional 1,380 ha of
apples under the project, and the nurseries would be expanded.
49.     Support Services and Input Supply.  Under the project's seed
multiplication program, suitable improved varieties would be multiplied at
the three agricultural stations and distributed to selected farmers who
would further multiply the foundation stock for distribution to farmers.
While under the ongoing HFTDP seed growers received subsidized inputs,
under the proposed project, all farmers, including the seed growers, would
purchase inputs at market prices. The improved seed would be purchased by
the Department of Agriculture from the selected growers at a premium over
the prevailing market price for grain (Section 3.09 of the draft
Development Credit Agreement). Extension services in the project area
would be reorganized and strengthened. A unified extension service based
on the training and visit system would be introduced by September 30, 1984
so as to ensure, inter alia, that Field Assistants would no longer perform
non-extension duties after September 30, 1985 (Section 3.16 of the draft
Development Credit Agreement). The Procurement Wing of the AJK Department
of Agriculture would continue to be responsible for bulk handling of
agricultural inputs. However, by June 30, 1985, GOAJK would transfer
retail sales of fertilizer and pesticides to the private sector (Section
3.10 of the draft Development Credit Agreement), as is already the case in
the rest of Pakistan.
B. Forestry
50.     Plantations & Farm Forestry.  Within the demarcated state forest,
5,680 ha would be planted with coniferous species (4,680 ha) and broad
leaf species (1,000 ha) to provide both vegetative cover for watersheds
and fuelwood and fodder for local communities. In addition, under the
Hill Management Plan, 3,800 ha of fast-growing, broad leaf trees would be
planted on community, privately-owned and state-owned lands to improve the
hydrological condition of selected hillsides/watersheds. Finally, about
12 million seedlings would be distributed to farmers to plant within or
near their homesteads to help alleviate the fuelwood shortage.
51.     Seedling and Seed Production.  To meet the increased needs of the
proposed plantation and distribution programs, FD would establish 35 ha of
new nurseries in addition to existing ones (16 ha). A Seed Center, to be
established under the project as a new division of FD, would procure,
test, process, store and distribute seed.
52.     Engineering Measures for Soil Conservation.  To check erosion and
gully formations, the project would provide for the construction of



-16-
300,000 m3 of loose rock check dams and about 1,800 m3 of masonry dams.
This program would be limited to those hillsides where development and
conservation activities were part of a Hill Management Plan.
53.     Forestry Research.  A five-year forestry and soil conservation
research program would be implemented by FD and the Pakistan Forestry
Research Institute. Not later than September 30, 1984, FD and the
Research Institute would sign a contract, satisfactory to IDA, setting out
a detailed work program and the respective responsibilities of the two
institutions in carrying out the research (Section 3.18 of the draft
Development Credit Agreement). The objective of the research program
would be to develop appropriate nursery and field planting methods, select
improved tree provenances and test appropriate soil conservation methods.
In addition, studies on plantation management and the development of
efficient wood burning stoves would be carried out.
C. Livestock
54.     Animal Health.  The project would seek to motivate veterinary
staff to move out from the hospitals, dispensaries and first aid centers,
where they currently spend most of their time, and visit the farmers in
the field more frequently. The Government has recently issued a new
travel policy for veterinary staff in AJK which provides for a monetary
inicentive to staff who travel an agreed number of days each month. This
new policy would be tried for a year and thereafter reviewed by GOAJK and
IDA to see whether it had achieved the desired result of encouraging
veterinary staff to travel to the field. Disbursements would not continue
urider the livestock component if the review concluded that (a) the policy
was unsatisfactory and (b) agreement could not be reached on a new policy
(Sections 3.19, 6.01 and Schedule 1 para. 4(b) of the draft Development
Credit Agreement). The project would also provide veterinary equipment,
medicine, vaccines and transport facilities for veterinary officers.
55.     Animal Husbandry.  The animal husbandry program would provide
improved animal breeds to maximize benefits from the higher quality fodder
provided by the project. In order to improve the output of power per
animal and increase production of milk, meat and wool, field tests would
be made to design an optimum animal production "package". For this
purpose, a Livestock Development Center (LDC) would be established and
receive support from an appropriate research institution. Day-to-day
administration of the LDC would be the responsibility of the Department
of Animal Husbandry. Funds for construction of the LDC would not be
disbursed until agreement had been reached to continue the veterinary
component after the one-year trial period (see para. 54; Sections 3.19 and
Schedule 1 para. 4(b) of the draft Development: Credit Agreement). In the
expectation that the outcome of the review would, in fact, be
satisfactory, not later than June 30, 1985, a draft contract would be
prepared by the Department of Animal Husbandry and the selected research
institution spelling out the programs to be carried out and the respon-



-17-
sibilities of the parties involved (Section 3.17 of the draft Development
Credit Agreement).
D. Feeder Roads
56.     The road network between villages and market centers in the
project area needs to be improved to facilitate distribution of farm
inputs, provide mobility for extension staff and transport farm products
to markets. The project would construct about 39 km of new roads, improve
some 78 km of very low standard existing roads and fund maintenance during
the project period. After completion of the project, feeder roads would
be properly maintained by GOAJK (Section 3.12 of the draft Development
Credit Agreement).
E. Training. Technical Assistance and Other Support
57.     An individual training program, tailored to the needs of the
project component, would be implemented within each of the participating
agencies. While most of the training would be on the job or in short
courses at local institutions, overseas training would also be provided,
particularly in animal husbandry, nursery techniques, seed center manage-
ment and soil conservation. One technical expert in fodder production and
one in forestry management would be recruited internationally for two
years each. Short-term technical assistance in apple husbandry and nurs-
ery management would also be provided. The average manmonth cost of
technical assistance, including salary, allowances, and international
travel, would be US$10,000. Finally, the IEFDP would finance all
infrastructure facilities, vehicles, materials and equipment required
under the above development programs as well as all incremental staff and
operating costs, including project management, project evaluation and
studies.
Management and Implementation
58.     Overall responsibility for the project would rest with the GOAJK
acting through a Project Development Committee (PDC) which would determine
policy and other important implementation matters. All relevant
departments, as well as representatives of the District Councils would be
represented on the PDC, which would be chaired by the GOAK Secretary,
Planning and Development. Coordination of project activities would be
carried out by a Project Coordination Unit (PCU) headed by a full
Secretary. The PCU would (a) coordinate preparation of annual operating
plans by the concerned line departments; (b) coordinate and monitor
activities during project implementation; (c) procure imported goods and
(d) consolidate project accounts and arrange for reimbursements. Line
departments (Agriculture, Forestry, Livestock and Public Works) would be
responsible for the day-to-day implementation of the project, including
technical, administrative and financial control over their respective
activities. The establishment of the PDC and appointment of the Project



-18--
Coordinator would be conditions of effectiveness (Sections 3.03, 3.04, and
5.01(b&c) of the draft Development Credit Agreement).
59.     Farmer Participation.  Farmers would be involved from the start
in project planning and implementation with emphasis on measures required
to carry out the Hill Management Strategy.  Through their respective
bodies (village and union councils), farmers would agree upon the develop-
ment activities to be carried out by the project in their local area. The
respective responsibilities of the villagers and the project for
implementing hill conservation measures would be spelled out in a formal
agreement between all parties involved. The project would not interfere
with existing land tenure arrangements, but it would require the owners of
all land on a given hill, be it communal, private or public, to reach
agreement with the Government on the use of the land.  By September 30,
1984, the GOAJK would prepare proposals, for review by IDA, for formal
arrangements to be made between GOAJK and villagers participating in Hill
Management Plans (Section 3.13 of the draft Development Credit Agreement).
650.    Monitoring and Evaluation.  As the project concept and its
development programs are innovative and experimental in nature, they would
require constant review and adjustment during project implementation.
Strong monitoring and evaluation would therefore be an essential feature
of the IHFDP. The socio-economist in the PCU would be responsible for
project monitoring while the GOP Planning and Development Division
(Implementation/Monitoring) would be responsible for project evaluation.
By December 31, 1984, GOAJK/GOP would prepare for IDA review a detailed
program for project evaluation (Section 3.15 of the draft Development
Credit Agreement).
Cost Estimates and Financing
61.     Total project costs are estimated at: Rs 344.4 million (US$26.5
million) including duties and taxes estimated at Rs 8.45 million
(US$650,000). The foreign exchange component amounts to Rs 52.2 million
(US$4 million) representing 15% of total project costs. Physical (6.3%)
and price (22.4%) contingencies total about 29% of the base cost. IJ The
proposed IDA credit of US$21.0 million would cover 81% of project costs
net of duties and taxes. It would cover alL foreign exchange costs (US$4
million) and 78.1% of local costs (US$17.0 million) exclusive of duties
and taxes. The balance of US$5.5 million including duties and taxes would
be financed by GOP.
1/ Physical contingencies: 10% for civil works and 5% for all other
items (excluding studies), price increases on foreign costs: year
1-7.25; year 2-6.5%; years 3-5 - 6%; price increase on local costs:
year 1-7%; year 2-6.5%; years 3-5 - 6%.



-19-
62.     As under the ongoing HFTDP, a Project Revolving Fund would be
established into which the Government would advance funds to prefinance
project costs. Establishment of this fund, with an initial deposit of
Rs 2.0 million, would be a condition of effectiveness (Sections 4.03 and
5.01(d)) of the draft Developmenl: Credit Agreement). To further ensure
that Government support would be forthcoming, as under most loans and
credits to Pakistan, approval of the project document (PC-I) by the
Executive Committee of the National Economic Committee (ECNEC) would be a
condition of effectiveness (Section 5.01(a) of the draft Development
Credit Agreement).
Procurement (US$ million)
---- Procurement Method ------
Project Element                    ICB       LCB        Other    N.A.         Total Cost
Civil Works                                  7.10                                7.10
(including roads)                         (6.40)                              (6.40)
Vehicles                           0.83                                          0.83
(0.40)                                       (0.40)
Motorcycles                                             0.06                     0.06
(0.03)                   (0.03)
Tree Plantations and                                    3.00                     3.00
Soil Conservation Works                              (2.70)                   (2.70)
Equipment, Furniture, Tools,                 0.15       0.45                     0.60
Livestock and Materials                   (0.11)    (0.34)                    (0.45)
Training and Studies                                              0.70           0.70
(0.70)         (0.70)
Technical Assistance                                    1.00                     1.00
(1.00)                  (1.00)
Operating Costs                                                  11.60          11.60
(7.70)         (7.70)
Unallocated Funds                                                 1.60           1.60 a/
(1.60)         (1.60)
TOTAL PROJECT COST                 0.83      7.25       4.51    13.20           26.50
(Total IDA Financing)             (0.40)   (6.51)    (4.07)  (10.00)           (21.00) h]
a/ Physical contingencies in current terms.
b/ Figures in parentheses are the respective amounts financed by IDA.
63.     Contracts for feeder roads and other civil works (office
buildings, staff housing, stores, sheds, etc.), which would be too scat-



-20-
t:ered and remote to attract international interest, would be let following
local competitive bidding procedures satisfactory to IDA. The tendering
would be carried out by the AJK Public Works Department. A large number
of qualified contractors exist in AJK and surrounding provinces. Vehicles
would be purchased under ICB procedures. Local manufacturers would be
aLllowed a preference of 15% of the c.i.f. bid price of imported goods or
the actual duties and taxes, whichever is less. Motorcycles would be sold
to project staff on a hire-purchase basis. The individuals receiving the
motorcycles would be permitted to select themL on the basis of price quota-
tions invited from local and foreign manufacturers from IDA-eligible
countries who have a service network in Pakistan. GOAJK would collate and
place their orders. Equipment, furniture, tools and other small items
would be grouped, whenever possible, in packages above US$10,000 and
procured through LCB procedures satisfactory to IDA. Items under
US$10,000 which could not be so grouped would be purchased by prudent
shopping. They would amount to a total of approximately US$480,000. FD
would establish plantations and carry out soil conservation works by force
account. Consultants for technical assistance would be selected in
accordance with IDA guidelines. All works contracts estimated to cost
US$500,000 or more and contracts for equipment and goods estimated to cost
US$50,000 or more would be subject to prior 'IDA review. Other contracts
would be subject to selective post-award review.
Disbursement
64.     Disbursements under the credit would be made as follows:
A. Civil Works:
(i) construction of feeder roads (US,$3.4 million): 90% of local
expenditures;
(ii) construction of office buildings, staff houses and sheds,
veterinary facilities and stores (US$3 million): 90% of local
expenditures;
B. Forestry establishment and soil conservation works (US$2.7 million):
90% of local expenditures;
C. Vehicles and motorcycles, office equipment and furniture, veterinary
and agricultural equipment, road maintenance equipment, livestock and
other materials (US$0.88 million):
(i) directly imported: 100% of foreign exchange;
(ii) locally manufactured: 100% of ex-factory costs;
(iii) locally procured (off the shelf): 70% of local expenditures:



-21-
D. Training and studies (US$0.70 million): 100% of expenditures;
E. Technical assistance (US$1.0 million): 100% of expenditures;
F. Incremental operating costs:
staff salaries (US$3.2 million) and other operating costs
(US$4.5 million) on a declining basis - 1984/85 - 90%; 1985/86 -
80%; 1986/87 - 20%; 1987/88 - 60%; 1988/89 - 55%; and
G. Unallocated (US$1.6 million).
Disbursements against forestry plantations and soil conservation works (B)
and recurrent costs (F) would be made from statements of expenditures,
certified by the Project Coordinator. Documentation in support of such
statements would be retained by the PCU for review by IDA. All expendi-
tures disbursed against certified statements of expenditures would be
audited annually by independent auditors, acceptable to IDA.
Disbursements under (A), (C), (D) and (E) would be fully documented.
Cost Recovery
65.     Farmers would pay for all farm inputs - except tree seedlings,
which would be sold at a nominal price. GOP would bear the full cost of
all other project activities. The only direct recovery by GOP would be
(a) the revenue it received from public plantations and (b) repayment, in
the form of wood, of the investment cost incurred by FD to establish
private and/or communal fuelwood plantations. As a precondition for FD to
carry out planting operations on a given hill, the owners/users would
agree to enable FD to recover its direct investment costs at harvest.
Once FD had recovered its initial investment, its rights to a share of the
produce would end. GOAJK would, not later than September 30, 1984,
prepare and furnish to IDA for its review proposals for cost sharing
between FD and private/communal plantation owners (Section 3.14 of the
draft Development Credit Agreement).
Benefits and Risks
66.     Benefits.  The primary benefit of the project would come from the
protection of hillsides through afforestation, increases in fuelwood
plantations, soil conservation measures and increased on-farm fodder
production. These activities would reduce pressure on hillsides and
enable natural grass and forest cover to re-establish itself, thereby
reducing soil erosion and improving the resource base in the project area.
In addition to their conservation role, production programs would generate
tangible benefits to project participants. Increased production of maize
and wheat would help reduce the food deficit in the State while incremen-
tal milk and meat production would supplement existing home consumption
and improve nutritional levels. Increased apple production would provide



-22-
additional cash income to farmers and promcte the cash economy in rural
areas. At full development (year 8), the project would generate about Rs
200 million in net agricultural income (expressed in 1983 constant
economic prices), which would directly benefit smallholders in the project
area who on average would double their farm income. Increased agricul-
tural activity, as well as other project development programs, would lead
to additional employment, estimated at 3.5 million mandays, or the equiv-
alent of 2,400 full-time jobs. The overall rate of return of the project
is estimated at 22%.
67.     Risks.  Although the proposed IHFDP was preceded by a pilot
project, it is still essentially a new venture in AJK. Hence it would be
subject to the risk3 and uncertainties that are usually associated with
projects requiring changes in farming technologies, social attitudes and
Government procedures. In addition, given the flow of remittances to AJK
and the ready availability of food commodities, there is a risk that
farmers will have little incentive to increase food crop production and
participate in development programs. Moreover, project conservation
measures can only be carried out in an effective manner if all interested
parties agree to a hill management plan. Considering the various interest
groups in present village communities, it is not certain whether effective
cooperation among villagers will always be forthcoming.
68.     The major assurance against lack of responsiveness and cooperation
by farmers is their growing awareness of the deteriorating environment and
signs of their willingness to make a contribution to its restoration in
the future. Project design has sought to mobilize their interest by
providing for farmer participation in planning all project activities.
Moreover, the project would emphasize the role and responsibility of
project management and extension staff to motivate, mobilize and bring
together all parties concerned to achieve the goals of the project.
69.     Since the project would be carried out by a number of departments
which are used to working independently, efi ective coordination would be
most important for successful project implementation. It would also
require streamlining of existing rigid and cumbersome administrative
procedures. Project design features, including the establishment of the
PCU, will reduce this risk. Added insurance against such risks will come
from continuous monitoring and evaluation of project activities, closer
than usual IDA supervision in the early stages and the growing recognition
by GOAJK of its new developmental role.
PART V - LEGAL INSTRUMENTS AND AUTHORITY
70.     The draft Development Credit Agreement between the Islamic
Republic of Pakistan and the Association ancl the Recommendation of the
Committee provided for in Article V, Section l(d) of the Articles of
Agreement are being distributed to the Executive Directors separately.
]Establishment of the PDC; appointment of a Project Coordinator satisfac-



--23-
tory to IDA; establishment of a Project Revolving Fund with an initial
deposit of Rs 2.0 million; and approval by ECNEC of the PC-1 documents for
the project would be additional conditions of effectiveness. An addi-
tional condition of disbursement for construction of the LDC would be a
satisfactory outcome of the review of the veterinary staff travel policy.
71.     Special conditions of the project are listed in Section III of
Annex III.
72.     I am satisfied that the proposed credit would comply with the
Articles of Agreement of the Association.
PART VI - RECOMMENDATION
73.     I recommend that the Executive Directors approve the proposed
credit.
A. W. Clausen
President
by Ernest Stern
March 26, 1984



-24-
ANNEX I
T A B L E  3A                                          PAGE 1
PAKISTANT                - SOCIAL INDICATORS DATA SHEET
PAKISTAN                                REFERENCE GROUPS (WEIGHTED AVERAGES) Ia
MOST                        (MOST RECENT ESTIMATE) /b
lb          lb  RECENT  /b           LOW INCOME              MIDDLE INCOME
960-       1970   ESTIMATB-            ASIA & PACIFIC           ASIA & PACIFIC
AREA (THOUSAND SQ. KN)
TDTAI                                803.9        803.9        803.9
ASRICULTURAL                          228.8        243.3        253.2
GNP PER CAPITA (US$)                      70.0        140.0        350.0               276.7                      1028.6
ENERGY CONSUOFTION PER CAPITA
(KILOGRAMS OF COAL EQUIVALENT)        143.0        209.0        224.0               398.4                       792.8
POPULATION AND VITAL STATISTICS
POPULATION,MID-YEAR (THOUSANDS)   45851.0        60449.0      84501.0
URBAN POPULATION (2 OF TOTAL)          22.1         24.9         28.7                21.5                        32.9
POPULATION PROJECTIONS
POPULATION IN YEAR 2000 (MILL)                                148.1
STATIONARY POPULATION (MILL)                                 410.6
YEAR STATIONARY POP. REACHED                                 2150
PEOPILATION DENSITY
PER SQ. KM.                          57.0         75.2       102.1                161.7                       260.7
PER SQ. KM. AGRI. LAND              200.4        248.4       324.1                363.1                     1696.5
EPOPULATION ACE STRUCTURE (%)
0-14 YRS                            43.8         46.3        46.3                 36.6                        39.4
15-64 YRS                            51.8         50.5        50.9                 59.2                        57.2
65 AND ABOVE                          4.4          3.2          2.8                 4.2                         3.3
POPULATION GROWTH RATE (Y)
TOTAL                                 2.3          2.8          3.0                 1.9                         2.3
URBAN                                 4.6          4.0          4.3                 4.0                         3.9
CRUDE BIRTH RATE (PER THOUS)           51.3         47.4         45.5                29.3                        31.3
CRUDE DEATH RATE (PER THOUS)           24.3         19.9         15.8                10.9                         9.6
GROSS REPRODUCTION RATE                 3.7          3.5          3.1                 2.0                         2.0
PAMTLY PLANNING
ACCEPTORS, ANNUAL (THOUS)              ..       1908.1      1244.0
USERS (7 OF MARRIED WOMEN)             ..           ..          6.0                48.1                        46.6
FOOD AND NUTRITION
INDEX OF FOOD PROD. PER CAPITA
,'1969-71=100)                         89.0        102.0       106.0                111.4                       125.2
PER CAPITA SUPPLY OF
CALORIES (1 OF REQUIREMENTS)         88.0         97.0        106.0                98.1                       114.2
PROTEINS (GRAMS PER DAY)             58.0         60.0         65.0                56.7                        57.9
OF WHICH ANIMAL AND PULSE           23.0         20.0        20.0/c               13.9                        14.1
CINLD (AGES 1-4) DEATH RATE            25,4         21.5         17.3                12.2                         7.6
HEALTH
LIFE EXPECT. AT BIRTH (YEARS)          43.3         46.2         50.2                59.6                        60.2
INFANT MORT. RATE (PER THOUS)         161.5        143.0       123.2                 96.6                        68.1
ACCESS TO SAFE WATER (%POP)
TOTAL                                  ,,         21.0         29.0/d              32.9                        37.1
URBAN                                  ..         77.0         60.077              70.8                        54.8
RURAL                                  ..          4.0         17.0/d              22.2                        26.4
ACCESS TO EXCRETA DISPOSAL
(% OF POPULATION)
TOTAL                                  ..          3.0          6.0/e              18.1                        41.4
UREAM                                  .,         12.0         21.07W              72.7                        47.5
RURAL                                  ..           ..           ..                 4.7                        33.4
POPULATION PER PHYSICIAN             5400.0       4300.0/f    3480.0/f             3506.0                      7771.9
POP. PER NURSING PERSON             16960.0      10580.67T    5820.07o             4797.9                      2462.6
POP. PER HOSPITAL BED
TOTAL                              1790.0       1860.0      1900.0/r             1100.6                      1047.2
URBAN                               510.0        650.0        710.0/c             298.4                       651.1
RURAL                             22850.0      12480.0     11860.07o             5941.6                      2591.9
ADYISSIONS PER HOSPITAL BED              ..           ..           ..                  ..                        27.0
HOUSING
AVERAGE SIZE OF HOUSEHOLD
TOTAL                                 5.4          5.3
URBAN                                 5.6          5.5
RURAL                                 5.4          5.2           ..
AVERAGE NO. OF PERSONS/ROOM
TOTAL                                 3.1          2.8/g
URBAN                                 3.1          2.7/..
RURAL                                 3.1          2.87          .
ACCESS TO ELECT. (% OF DWELLINGS)
TOTAL                                 **          17.9/g
URBAN                                 ..          54.4 /g
RURAL                                              4.9 /a
- - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - --  -- - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - --_ _- -_- -_- -_- -_- -_ _-_ _-_ _-_ _-_ _-_ _-_-_ _-_ _-__ _ _ _ _ _-_ _-_ _-_ _-_-_   _ _   _ _   _  _ _ _   _ _ 



-25-
ANNEX I
T- ABfi -L E-3A                                         PACE 2
PAKISTAN                 -        ' r, T:A.I  ATCRS DATA c'EVPT
PAR-1'TAN                               RrrER o: EPL>UrL (GE AGHTED A%.TRAoES) h
MOST                        (POSf RECEINT ESTIMATE) /b
RECENT               LOY4 INCOMF             MIDDLE INoCrRE
196O0_   1970'   ESTIMATF--             ASTA & PACIFIC            ASIA & PACIFIC
?.ODICATION
ADJUSTED EGROLIMENT RATIOS
PRIMARY:   TOTAI                     30.0         40.0         57.0                96.1                       101.2
MALE                     46.0         57.0         81.0               107.8                        106.0
FSYAL,.                  13.0         22.0         30.0                82.9                         97.5
SECONDARY: TOIAL                     11.0         13.0         15.0                30.?                        44.9
M_F.                     18.0         20.0         22.0                37.3                ,        50.0
FEMALE                    3.0          5.0          8.0                22.2                        44.6
VOCATIONAAL ( OF SECONDARY)            1.0          1.5          1.3/h               2.3                         18.5
PCPIt-TEACHER RATIO
PRIMARY                              39.0         41.0         45.0                34.4                        32.7
SECONDARY                            24.0         20.0         17.0                18.4                        23.4
ADULT LITERACY RATE (1)                15.4         20.7/i       24.0                53.5                         72.9
CONSUM'PTION
PASSENGER CARS/TO(SAMZT' POP            1.5          2.6          4.5/c               1.6                         9.7
RADIO RECEIVSRSSI'TOSAND POP            6.0        1l.l          67.0                96.8                       113.7
TV RECEIVERS/THOUSA\D POP                ..          1.6          9.7                 9.9                         50.1
NEWSPAPER (tDA!LY Gr NFRAL
INTEREST ) CRCCtLATIOS
PER THOUSAND POP'ILATION              13.2           *-         13.7                16.4                         54.0
CINEMA ANNUAL ATTENDANCE/CAPITA         1.7          3.0/i        2.2                 3.6                         3.4
LABOR FORCE
TOTAL LABOR FORCE (THOUS)           14448.0      17364.0      23375.0
FEFMALE (PERCENT)                     8.6          9.3         10.3                33.3                        33.6
AGRICUI TURE (PERCENT)               61.0         59.0         57.0                69.0                        50.9
INDUSTRY (PERCENT)                   18.0         19.0         20.0                15.8                        19.2
PARTICIPATION RATE (PERCENT)
TOTAL                                31.5         28.7         27.7                42.5                         38.6
MALE                                 55.2         50.4         47.2                54.4                        50.7
fEiALE                                5.7          5.5          6.0                29.8                         26.6
ECONOMIC DFPED'.PDrN'Y PATIO            1.5          1.7          1.8                 1.0                          1.1
INCOKE DISTRIBUTION
PERCENT OF FRIVATE INCOME
RECEIVED BY
HIGHEST 52 (IF RALSFltELDS           20.3/        17.8           .                 36.5                        22.2
HIGHES- 'Z  OF HO,SEH(hDS           45.3/j       41.8           ..                43.5                        48.0
LOR.'ST 20Z OF HlOUSEHOL'DS           6.41j        8.0           ..                 6.9                         6.4
LOWEST 40- OF HO!SEHOLDS             17.57        20.2           ..                 17.5                        15.5
POVERTY TARGET GROUPS
ESTIMATED ABSOLUTE POVERTY INCOME
LEVEL (USS PER CARISA)
URBAN                                   . .       68.0/t      176.0               133.9                        194.5
RURAL                                  ..         47.07i      122.0               111.6                       155.0
ESTTMATED RELATIVE POVERTY ISCOME
LEVEL (USS PER CAPITA)
RPBA':                                 ..         34.0/1       88.0                   ..                       178.0
RURAL                                  ..         22 071       58.0                   ..                      164.8
ESTIMATE;' POP. BFLOW ABSOLtTE
POVSERT' INCUOE LEVEL (I)
URBAN                                  ..         42.,0/f      32.0                43.8                        24.4
RURAL                                  ..         43.0oT       29.0                51.7                        41.1
NOT AVAILABLE
NOT APPL ICABLE
N O T E S
/n  The group averages for each indicator arc population-,elghted rrithcetLc means.  Coverage of covntreEr  among the
indicators depends on avatlabilitty of data and is not uniform.
Ih  Vnlees otherwEse noted, -lsta for 1960" refer to 4r.v year betreer. 1959 And 1961; "Tart for 1970" between 1969 and
1971; and data for THost Recent Esntlwte" between 1979 and 1981.
Ic  1977; /d 1976; /e 1975; /f Fegfst,red, not all practicin. In the country; /g 1973; Ih 1978; /i 1972; /. 1964.
Mny 1951



-26-                                                                                ANNEX I
DEtFINITICtS IF SOC1AL lnjnCal( ci
Nt-'s    c       hi.- .. .tbdraen.c..  .r..       esg 'tnldrtc                    t iae......e.s-a'ls bnta    htnessutbctrci'l
eappul   ecue       h  lc  a   scdd            ceddipcnuadcocpt ti  adui-d'cre    c.    lecn    icd-a    n  dt  ac   anecls   ueu
deLr.b .    dac.u. can..de  Idcetrnsad    aucE.iecracau .ifer..a   heuc   cu'Iicre
Theefrecegoapanel   nrancnsrgcuctesblctaocycul   aceecgrisscenthuhuacna-Icu    cancrcaIrpccp    cn
sejceonnartep   cnPp                i-cee   Jilh taccsgcpbee'ln --acNntargn,    cdIttcc..csan  ca.n  ctr.ctrnccu-clrc
efuicisi. Innerieooc   grup   acibscerue   arccplacunslgeearlh-atc-sscs   c'eccdecscttacunencannnaarevah-hcctccest.-
tgill-e  Iiddaa                                                                                     Popatcanco -       rcn   neandPa         icictided bp rakr.             ten.oce
PItP PEP CAPlId (100,   GNIP pe   actusasr   a   apt eI'e'pcs,naib-,  , c1-c pubic and ribciyPl  n   pcatedhsia   c
calculatd bysepnnricrnla.rcBack                                  -rk- 111-i utcz_hblrtcneto,    tope la aePetai-u-e-nIs pennaenrl  cratde
hl, 1910                                                                 bs,;_'1    I  B1,endl 1991 de7a9-ha ac  leac  on p1besocc-d  .i-         realaunscoingi- principall  ec-cda
ENERG  C"N:etP, aNd  il   eb.                                                                              bnRa  coaAla a   I   cnid       cn'yl'aeu  hoptas  and Ian
PP -nlhN alYTIITA  btP-iTPi be'_lled-osota'llrcunydran.   de   ecal
1ctal 1970 in,        I-ea   tcsnc     P   PdpI   l'  .7,ed10                                          dnnl epnPtI  rH1 f be   - ,To   nanhe.  of..  jdtlucia_sccnctcagti                d
196', 1971. sal li~t date.                                            Ocenape Pose cc pausenald 9 peccant pro1nouns bald)--ca9al,Sunbar,-and-n-nu
PepisluIa cetan                                                                                         -Isl-   P"auoi --alsst d -c a , po _ap ci  calodua   acshare lta_gh.aner
Payuieobcctnycac  lJll-Cecpcts~~~~ ectibc y-   ctasaabsdc  ltd"                             sad'   "'Pill:as  nelsd.  atnndno   tage   upa  spna hdreardI
"aPta  Iene  led,  ndCrttal  life            i eaarao   seklsn    t1.                                alns    epccsy                n.rlnieeutsu-sreeerotnit
ocebtnatiansutecstcalctyand~~~~fccnilleoetd _cpaecitupcs.c   cal,   Idaf,  -ntenidueiintcrt.                                             cc.sl.
..et..r.  ap..    ttn-inscY iscucyN Iae.ai- tec  i  ngr,
cenpe tkr birth russ it stual cc nbc death cans, and also sIc age           It CuTICh~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ Fl'f P , , ~ L_-b
strucure  s.eais casoer  .   lsI   clccal   fc   csltycssaiadncletPtc
lclcta sralaerc   lns    nttsenctolcpe,he                                                         nc'yccltca,aladnlerctec,acPtts
ratgnrocaicccpaelrity   inrl. Poecgcay                                                                ccies    t_lcrs.kerta d.esa                           ccnagefepet
dsaclnlcectIae  a   l   ae                      h   susteoaatn I                                     ttscnlueue.tca;n"a'yicue                              lde   gdni
lsslncfcbypaasln  I  sb  cac lI~,actdtk   car a  deiin  a           cus   a  adesod tr dffeecs.rnbhec  cieeprdeatuc;fa
naet area12 tii I91P, and    J     YP,,a 1990  ust,pupI coaal   i  1t   aIr-b-aeecPtaoncc,tsc
esannc10,ITIl  and rlida, Pace.        -uiin'ob    taI  -pTraa,an   e-ndItTaalstdens n-lieda
nplaicans  hurI  i-I,16-0an11-P1apacet.go  taldubypulairlnaa   I   er  adoe
ycac papatanunt   1961,  1970,Ih and  ll  data.                                         Cl-dJhyplicny                               'r-,
lii 1.                                                                                          cocn,e' -7 pelcecs in--renaccnesarattlinPyear  abe-s repII      u  onc   aI
tsntyaleni~-Inteacpsgecui(coacnds9Innastaatecf    neceonssee   cunrifon    an   t.nnpe-  prrdanp                                                     Iabdonpri bielrcyae
ac-cenatonild~~~~~~~hccnrngee   (Ills paucatub(1-1 ytrs) -.etn kc,na,ac,   5            1-nt-cn' - .tcI             r.h.   s.  c'ctctlaeu-nt,t
eatrduninan         (6 b'a -,t   prpasaaelc                                                                           g,cauappac d                    h'aurbe  aat-a1
~IllccibIl PUS                                                                                     cc'tc ai  t ccanl c-dce 1981.n' ,c5ledaa-tdc-
PlnPecatiulca  aust.;ais(i19'c 6a    'r    c 197,                                                              I  isna.c       .I-s   .   'c't t            n       c.
annale    huc'n -   lcc -anadunnI    -palu-t.cclduedn                                            uad.pti'pettecfucncas
aestic'calndntubals    Lnndtisoec   ntlepg-dlcd.hlr-dtalutrd-err'a-ireP1cTsddttrncbn
cugsccaneanec    190sudu   196"7C -oatboacdb.ad .nnnu9    ctn7rtt8le..                            ceet             ilbna cldtnkeadnise-1,-ctcdrc-h-lIIelhceue
Pcifee an  ota Ir  eeade.   gpecc   nnItcn  5eahoasan  a                                                n
aPort         96edaan1c970sok    tct.plesdlecnia ed98ddecytee   16,ihIlltll.Plde
etnlicy  nd halt  canl decog  tc cancntalseepstaarn,led   ecltes                            ilsarg   s pseenagu   f tual ibcelana; 191, 170  nd tnpiIata
cchutcol  lce;  ib-t,  90  sd-9-    dne -aed  icenc19                                                       .an197can-d  and  atu   cpssAgeal          nallhs  arp    0
nderensfr  l   ance   etlabdb  cu   tol   tpnntnanacn                                                     caecpar   stnl  cult,j_   f           h and if-arelai- fcc leat
allcaanns nibigant nt  asal prteic  pedapandlpceesntnlcc   s-                          pstsfasagsat-aa-,na.fnlteca-'-pnlanuoPfai-gesrrepecinJ lp
Passe ycni,n---hIpcnsil  P   sla  ptci.Int                                                            iO    9 b, rcliPit dsa          IhIIaebte   n  l'  pari-iad.n..
tsnar5r5.rr'r.n.srnI. .                scn .cniosaIf ad   gr-aa                                       IctnsE" st.ntea.se     .-c,ndagtaernh
Phind Intil ~cclPustory;199.-t d ti and  uPIdet,nnoa   eednyPnc-P ap  pnalcdn   'ttc.  and 67                                                                          , anc rt d
derccd   tie annealsdatdP--- puse  inpen   rcdn;llt,  it  nf11
a, 'a.                                                                                       I'll tt   UPi 71
,,a-aniscaodcar   rnlietbes                   h91  lK  tc6d65 lidI     , -seu  9                         cea1
n-tuLIP                                                                              yLlnPh~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~-p df,  -     POPitI -Pp.11111 
anblnn "itOb, 1910Jand  --ri dac.                           Inn.  be.natplte  actousiearle   aunac
haebecnlpreplst(tanal,achan, andcaca~~~~~~~pp (ac   raashcrcsca'eaindc
-doc sppl  (Inclde   p--cae   saad eaclrs atII       ter   a                                  ctnur   eainPcs.  Ioseiscl(P    e  capta  -  rs                        tadcsa
aaoannaecnard aanereucaanhanfran.tnonrenecbaenclcs,sypns,ato                               PunacelaciarydacnutPeccclcel  Isaac-nhcdrf..                crr. p   pestosylI
nalapnlcacr      rstaectnistae'aryclatn.   nnissci  nce trdtbbreea970-cd191. ltbtcesdcncfen                                                                            aa
ura-   ae  apbic,,ntnarsanps  lnnryc  tarn-Inba--idu'lP ceraslla                                             cte   stn   mrr hlgb eccf u  utlnigInab    ret
rncnanauserap  bc'cstsldcnelaebcic1autb~ttceacnaie1  eacds  oinhat,                    tsan-rplnotlabuacrctprnecelrynre,,r                                        -urban
Ic-bc     1decPbcn         65sn 197d do c 19'an   dosyen   dL,cabrtcreeprrat                            o
fre-ni     n Idn r th  -allstaeNee~dt,                                                              .d"                  I,-
p'.cies and smIler  inscalial~-on.,  d                                                                                                            itt- 1993-_' "-I _11,-1,   df-l



-27-
ANNEX I
Page 4
ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT DATA
GROSS NATIONAL PRODUCT IN 1981/82                                ANNUAL RATE OF GROWTH (%, constant prices)
US$ billion    %                   1969/70-1974/75  1975/76-1980/81  1981/82
GNP at Market Prices               31.68      100.0                      3.5               6.3             5.0
Gross Domestic Investment           5.14      16.2                     -5.5                5.4           11.9
Gross National Saving               3.70       11.7                     -2.1               8.2            8.0
Current Account Balance           -1.53       -4.8
Resource Gap                      -3.48      -11.0
OUTPUT, LABOR FORCE AND PRODUCTIVITY IN 1980/81 Ia
Value Added          Labor Force         V.A. Per Worker
US$ million    %    US$ million    X    US$ million    %
Agriculture                        7,825       29        13.5       51          580        58
Industry                          6,827       26          5.2       20        1,313       131
Services                         12,053       45          7.9       29        1,526       152
Total/Average                  26,705      100         26.6      100        1,004       100
GOVERNMENT FINANCE
General Goverment                                Central Government
(Rs billion)            Z of GDP                 (Rs billion)            % of GDP
1981_/82      1981/82   1977/78-1981-82          1981/82       1981/82   1977/78-1981/82
Current Recepts                    51.2           15.9           15.8               39.0           12.1            12.4
Current Expenditures                44.4          13.8           14.1                34.1          10.6            10.6
Current Surplus/Deficit              6.8           2.1            1.7                 4.9           1.5             1.8
Capital Expendtures                 27.0           8.4            9.3                21.2           6.6             7.4
External Assistance (net)            6.3           2.D            2.8                 6.3           2.0             2.8
MONEY, CREDIT AND PRICES
1974/75  1975/76  1976/77  1977/78  1978/79  1979/80  1980/81  1981/82 b/
Money and Quasi Money                          33.1     41.6      51.7      63.7      76.5      90.7    103.5    114.4
Bank Credit to Public Sector (net)            17.5      22.7      29.5      34.3      43.1      48.1     54.1      59.9
Bank Credit to Private Sector (gross)         19.7      23.1      30.1      35.7      42.7      50.6     58.7      70.7
Money and Quasi Money as X GDP                29.5      31.5      34.6      36.7      39.0      38.3     37.0      35.5
Wholesale Price Index (1969/70=100)          211.3    229.4    255.3    271.4    289.7    316.7    358.8    398.6
Annual Percentage Change in:
Wholesale Price Index                          23.6      8.6      11.3       6.3       6.7       9.3     13.3      11.1
Bank Credit to Public Sector (net)            21.2      29.4      18.8      16.6      25.6      11.6     12.5      10.7
Bank Credit to Private Sector (gross)          26.3     17.3      30.3      18.6      19.6      18.5      16.0     20.4
/a  Labor force data are official figures of the Ministry of Finance and Planning.
Serious underenumeration may exist, especially of women.
/b Provisional
February 1983



-28--
ANNEX I
Page 5
BALANCE OF E'AYMENTS
(us$ million)                                    MERCHANDISE EXPORTS (AVERAGING 1978/79-1981/82)
1976/77  1977/78  1978/79  1979/80  1980/81 /a  1981/82                                            USS million          X
Exports of Goods, NFS                1,404     1,651     2,107      2,955     3,461         2,966         Raw Cotton                       260.5           11.5
Imports of Goods, NFS               2,877    3,297       4,485      5,709     6,466         6,613         Cotton Yarn                      181.3            8.0
Cotton Cloth                     230.4           10.2
Resource Gap (deficit = -)         -1,473    -1,646   -2,378    -2,754   -3,005            -3,847         Rice                             382.7           17.4
All Other Commodities          1,196.9           52.9
Interest Payments                    -172       -183      -261       -285      -357          -453           Total                        2,261.8          100.0
Workers' Remittances                   578     1,166     1,395      1,748     2,097         2,225
Other Factor Payments (net)             15        62        134       151       274           345                  EXTERNAL DEBT, DECEMBER 31, 1981
Net Transfers                           ..         ..        ..
US$ million
Balance on Current Account         -1,052       -601   -1,110    -1,140        -991        -1,530
Public Debt, Including Guaranteed           8,813.9
Direct Foreign Investment               ..         ..        ..        ..         ..           ..         Non-guaranteed Private Debt /e
Net MLT Borrowing
Disbursements                        961       841       813     1,134        956         1,102           Total Outstanding and Disbursed           8,813.9
Amortization                       -175       -122      -235      -310       -516          -492
DEBT SERVICE RATIO FOR 1981/82 /f
Sub-Total                           786        719       578        824       440           610                                                    Percentage
Transactions with IMF/b                 44        41       -14         78       315           358
Public Debt, Including Guaranteed              12.2
Other Items rn.e.i. /c                  24       163       238        600       527           364         Non-guaranteed Private Debt
Increase in Reserves (-)               198      -322        308      -362      -291           198           Total                                        12.2
Gross Reserves (year end)/d            372       694        386       748     1,039           841         IBRfD/IDA LENDING (DECEMBER 1981) (US$ million)
IBRD    IDA
Official Gold (year end;
million ournces)                     1.6       1.7       1.8        1.8       1.8           1.8        Outstanding and Disbursed                310.1   908.8
Undisbursed                              32.1   505.3
Outstanding, Including Undisbursed 342.2 1,414.1
Fuel and Related Materials
Petroleum Imports                      413       497        539     1,237     1,602         1,683
Petroleum Exports                       27        63         61       178       160           185
Rate of Exchange
Through May 11,  1972    May 11, 1972-Feb. 15, 1973    Feb. 15, 1973-Jan. 7, 1982                January 8-Aug. 31, 1982 Average
US$ = Rs 4.7619                 US$ - Rs 11.00                      US$ - Rs 9.90                         US$   Rs 11.46
Rsl - US$0.2100                 Rsl - US$0.0909                     Rsl - US$0.1010                       Rs  - 0.087
/a Government estimate.
7 Including Trust Fund.
Tc Including net short-term borrowing and errors and omissions.
7- Foreign exchange and SDR holdings of the State Bank.
7e  Private debt is negligible.
71 Ratio of clebt service to exports of goods, non-factor services and worker's remittances;
not including short-term or IMF changes.
/g Since Janutary 8, 1982, value of rupee is being managed with reference to a
weighted basket of currencies.
Not available.



-29-
ANNEX II
Page 1
STATUS OF BANK GROUP OPERATIONS IN PAKISTAN
A. STATEMENT OF BANK LOANS AND IDA CREDITS (as of September 30, 1983) /a
(USs million)
Loan/                                                    (Amount net of cancellations)
Credit    Fiscal                                                                  Undis-
Number      Year    Purpose                               Bank   TW        IDA    bursed
Ninety-three loans and credits fully disbursed /b    781.4  32.0    936.1/f
620        1976   Seed Project                            --               23.0    5.2
630        1976   Second Lahore Water Supply              --               26.6    2.2
648        1976   Irrigation & Drainage (Khairpur)        --               14.0    6.0
1366T      1977   Punjab Livestock Development            --    10.0       -       5.5
678        1977   Third Education                         --               15.0    4.7
751        1977   Hill Farming Tech. Development          --                 .0    1.1
754        1978   Salinity Control & Reclamation          --               70.0   68.2
755        1978   Hazara Forestry                         -                 1.7    1.2
813       1978   Punjab Ext. & Agric. Dev.                --               12.5    6.7
877        1979   Salinity Control & Recl. (Mardan)                        60.0   57.7
892        1979   Primary Education                       --               10.0    5.7
922        1979   Sind Agricultural Extension             -                 9.0    8.4
968        1980   Third WAPDA Power                       --               45.0   24.3
974        1980   Third Highway                           -                50.0   33.3
1019      1980   PICIC Industrial Development             --               40.0    9.4
1109/e    1981   Vocational Training                      -                25.0   24.4
1113/e    1981   Small Industries                         --               30.0   26.5
11577We   1981   Grain Storage                            --               32.0   30.0
1158/e    1981   Agricultural Research                    --               24.0   23.7
11637Te    1981   On-Farm Water Management                --               41.0   33.5
1186/e    1982   Industrial Development (IDBP II)         --               30.0   25.9
2122       1982   Fourth Telecommunication                40.0             -      35.7
2172       1982   Fertilizer Industry Rehabilitation   38.5                --     36.8
2247/c    1983   Reservoir Maintenance Facilities         10.2             -      10.2
23057T    1983   Agricultural Dev. (ADBP V)               10.0             --     10.0
2324/c    1983   Fifth Sui Northern Gas Pipelines         43.0             --     43.0
12397e    1982   Irrigation Systems Rehabilitation    --                   40.0   38.3
1243Te7   1982   Baluchistan Minor Irrig. & Agr.          -                14.0   14.0
12567e    1982   Technical Assistance                     --                7.0    6.3
12787W    1982   Eleventh Railway Project                 --               50.0   49.8
13487W    1983   Lahore Urban Development                 --               16.0   16.0
13507     1983   Population                               -                18.0   18.0
13557W    1983   Coal Engineering                         --                7.0    7.0
13747W    1983   Karachi Water Supply                     -                25.0   25.0
13757W    1983   Fourth Drainage                          --               65.0   65.0
13807Wc   1983   Agricultural Development (ADBP V)    -                    47.8   47.8
2218      1983   Refinery Engineering Project             12.0             -      10.8
Total                                                    871.9  42.0  1,608.9  W  7-
of which has been repaid                               473.1   0.4       34.7
Total now outstanding                                    398.8  41.6  1,787.7
Amount sold                   23.9
of which has been repaid    23.9                        --      --       --     --
Total now held by Bank and IDA/d                         -98.8  -41.6
Total undisbursed                                        146.5   5.5    685.3  837.3
/a  The status of the projects listed in Part A is described in a separate report
on all Bank/IDA financial projects in execution, which is updated twice yearly
and circulated to the Executive Directors on April 30 and October 31.
/b  Excludes the disbursed portion of loans and credits wholly or partly for projects
in the former East Pakistan which have now been taken over by Bangladesh.
/c  Not yet effective.
7U  Prior to exchange adjustment.
7e  IDA Credits under the 6th Replenishment denominated in SDRs.  The principal
is shown in US$ equivalent at the time of negotiation. Disbursed amounts are
computed at the market rate on dates of disbursements.
/f  By using the market rate on dates of disbursements, the current principal
for Credit 1066-PAK and Credit 1255-PAK (both fully disbursed) is
$42.5 and $77.5, respectively.



-30-
ANNEX II
Page 2
B. STATEMENT OF IFC INVESTMENTS (as of September 30, 1983)
Fiscal                                                Amount  In US$   Million
YeaLr    Obligor               Type of Business       Loan   Equity    Total
1958,    Steel Corp of          Rolled Steel
Pakistan Ltd.         Products               0.63      --        0.63
1959     Adamjee Industries
Ltd.                  Textiles               0.75      -         0.75
1962-    Gharibwal Cement
1965     Industries Ltd.        Cement                 5.25    0.42       5.67
1963-    PICIC                  Development
1969-                           Financing               --      0.52      0.52
1975
1965     Crescent Jute
Products              Textiles               1.84    0.11        1.95
1965-
1980-    Packages Ltd.          Paper Products        19.37    0.84      20.21
1982
1967-    Pakistan Paper
1976     Corp Ltd.              Paper                  5.38    2.02       7.40
1969     Dawood Hercules
Chemicals Ltd.        Fertilizers            1.00    2.92        3.92
1969     Karnaphuli Paper
Mills Ltd.            Pulp and Paper         5.60    0.63        6.23
1979     Milkpak Ltd.           Food and Food
Processing            2.40    0.37        2.77
1979     Pakistan Oilfields
Ltd. and Attock       Chemicals and
Refinery Ltd.         Petrochemicals        29.00    2.04       31.04
1980     Fauji Foundation       Woven Polypropy-
lene bags             1.78      --        1.78
1980     Premier Board
Mills Ltd.            Particle BoaLrd        2.70      --        2.70
1981     Habib Arkady           Food and Food
Processing            3.15    0.17        3.32
1982     Asbestos               Cement                 4.10     --        4.10
1983     Pakistan Petroleum   Chemical and
Ltd.                  Petrochemicals        87.46    1.56       89.02
Total Gross Commitments                    170.41   11.60    182.01
Less: Cancellations, Terminations,
Repayments and Sales               125.34    1.02    126.36
Total Commitments Now Held by IFC           45.07   10.58       55.65
Undisbursed (including participants)        95.37    0.34       95.71



-31-
ANNEX III
Page 1 of 2
PAKISTAN
INTEGRATED HILL E'ARMING DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
SUPPLEMENTARY PROJECT DATA SHEET
Section I:          Timetable of Key Events
(a) Time taken bv the Borrower to prepare the proiect
Ongoing HFTDP (Credit 751-PAK), approved 1977, served
as pilot and prepared project.
(b) The agency which has prepared the project
GOAJK with assistance of FAO/Cooperative Program.
(c) Date of first presentation to IDA and date of
the first IDA mission to consider the project
See (a) above.
(d) Date of departure of appraisal mission
May 1983
(e) Date of completion of negotiations
January 30, 1984
(f) Planned date of effectiveness
September 1, 1984
Section II:    Special IDA Implementation Actions
Frequent and close supervision in early stages.
Section III:   Special Conditions of Effectiveness
(a) Establishment of the PDC and appointment of a Project
Coordinator satisfactory to IDA (para. 58);
(b) Establishment of a Project Revolving Fund with an
initial deposit of Rs 2.0 million (para. 62); and



-32-
ANNEX III
Page 2 of 2
(c) ECNEC approval of the PC-ls (para. 62).
Special Condition of Disbursement
Funds for construction of LDC to be disbursed only
after review of veterinary travel policy (para. 55).
Other Special Conditions
(a) Transfer of retail sales of agricultural inputs to
private sector by June 30, 1985 (para. 49);
(b) GOAJK to prepare by September 30, 1984 proposals for
formal arrangements between GOAJK and villagers par-
ticipating in Hill Management Plans (para. 59);
(c) GOAJK to prepare by September 30, 1984 proposals for
cost sharing between FD and private/communal plantation
owners (para. 65).



IBRD 17501
OCTOBER 1983
PAKISTAN
INTEGRATED HILL FARMING DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
PROJECT LOCATION
Project Area                                                            t
Main Roads                                                              N
1      National Capital                                                         I
a       Other Cities, Towns and  Villages                     0                20                40
Rivers                                                             KILOMETERS
T Xo KRarone                                       /is 1T. ChiAs >74'
Kogon
Batgram/
Balakot
Mansehra                            Muzaffrabd
Kohatol
Cfaoth          pmine  Line of Coorrol
34'         /                    0 ) <                    "'( g -; >34-
Murree ~ ~      ~       ~                       >ahiAa
)slamobad                                
l                 <~~~~~~~~~~-~~~~~                  0~~~~~~            <        )     ;R~~~~~~~~~o/tli   '4>
r~ ~ ~~~~~~~~~                     d   \,                                           /           -1-t '. th
mhs mae Sas been prepared by\'                               -j,--
Thdes Wddand   s sEalexsius.vse l \C                      . be_
nt-r1si use af The Wsrid ne:k
and the inhees Coral F-ane    \
Coepora bn The denomi.snat-
bee asd Ste b-ed ..essbse-
n thsm -P db 0ot-Pty.   eth\                                   Mr:
ioterraf.osa, France Ooresrabloe.y                          
a-y jdg-sei onthe ?al siatvs
endsrse,aeet or accbebasce si'9
eaOh  Grussoe           N               74335
Is Gs4yanaeala               ~~~~~~~~~~~~74'






IBRD 17502
73030.                                                       73045'                                              OCTOBER 1983
/ k>Muzaffaroabd                                                    PAKISTAN
INTEGRATED HILL FARMING DEVELOPMENT
PROJECT
PROPOSED ROAD SECTIONS
34015' \                                                                                          10                                 34I5'-
ritt 9   >                      a,Yrhi                           KILOMETERS
Chatar Kalos
0
\7   5\              \                                                  7 Maito Thb  m/ate .
34o'      9tfX                 * \<  (1                                                                              Line of Con /rf
Salian            Dhir To         Rnl                                                          /09
Koh       Shw
Proposed  Road Sections                 ..   -    Watershed  BouJndaries
r ~~~~~~Existing Roads:                                                                             Rivers
Paved  Roads                                                  Nullahs and  Streams
-   Pair Weather Roads                                         A3      Spot Elevation in  Feet
Paved  Road  Under ConstruJction                  ~Cte,TwsadVlae
This mrap has been prepared by The World Bank s staff ex<clssivefr far the convenience of
the readers and is necissicety for the internal use of The World Hank and the frlternahonal
Finance Corporacori The Oenurri,,,at,ons used and the boundaries shown oen this map do not
ipy, on the part of The World Bank and the International Ffinance Corporation, any judgment
on the legal status of any territory or any endorsement or acceptance of such boundaries
7330'                                                       73045'                                                       74000'
1                                                     [  _ I~~ha






