OFFICIAL       CREDIT NIMBER 1461 PAK
DOCU ME NTS
Development Credit Agreement
(Integrated Hill Farming Development Project)
between
ISLAMIC REPUBLIC OF PAKISTAN
and
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
Dated                              , 1984


﻿CREDIT NUMBER 1461 PAK
DEVELOPMENT CREDIT AGREEMENT
AGREEMENT, dated         e/                   , 1984, between
ISLAMIC REPUBLIC OF PAKISTAN acting by its President (hereinafter
called the Borrower) and INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
(hereinafter called the Association).
ARTTCLE I
General Conditions; Defiuitions
Section 1.01. The parties to this Agreement accept all the
provisions of the General Conditions Applicable to Development
Credit Agreements of the Association, dated June 30, 1980, with
the same force and effect as if they were fully set forth herein
(said General Conditions Applicable to Development Credit Agree-
ments of the Association being hereinafter called the General
Conditions).
Section 1.02. Wherever used in this Agreement, unless the
context otherwise requires, the several terms defined in the
General Conditions and in the Preamble to this Agreement have the
respective meanings therein set forth and the following addi-
tional terms have the following meanings:
(a) "Project Development Committee" means the committee
referred to in Section 3.03 of this Agreement; and
(b) "Project Coordination Unit" means the unit and "Project
Coordinator" means the coordinator, all as referred to in Section
3.04 of this Agreement.
ARTICLE II
The Credit
Section 2.01. The Association agrees to lend to the Bor-
rower, on the terms and conditions set forth or referred to in
this Agreement, an amount in various currencies equivalent to
twenty million one hundred thousand Special Drawing Rights (SDR
20,100,000).
Section 2.02. The amount of the Credit may be withdrawn from
the Credit Account in accordance with the provisions of Schedule
1 to this Agreement, as such Schedule may be amended from time to


﻿- 2 -
time by agreement between the Borrower and the Association, for
expenditures made (or, if the Association shall so agree, to be
made) in respect of the reasonable cost of goods and services
required for the Project and to be financed out of the proceeds
of the Credit.
Section 2.03. Except as the Association shall otherwise
agree, procurement of the goods and civil works required for the
Project and to be financed out of the proceeds of the Credit
shall be governed by the provisions of Schedule 3 to this Agree-
ment.
Section 2.04. The Closing Date shall be March 31, 1990 or
such later date as the Association shall establish. The Associa-
tion shall promptly notify the Borrower of such later date.
Section 2.05. (a) The Borrower shall pay to the Association
a commitment charge at the rate of one-half of one per cent (1/2
of 1%) per annum on the principal amount of the Credit not with-
drawn from time to time. The commitment charge shall accrue from
a date sixty days after the date of the Development Credit Agree-
ment to the respective dates on which amounts shall be withdrawn
by the Borrower from the Credit Account or shall be cancelled.
(b) The commitment charge shall be paid: (i) at such places
as the Association shall reasonably request; (ii) without re-
strictions of any kind imposed by, or in the territory of, the
Borrower; and (iii) in the currency specified in this Agreement
for the purposes of Section 4.02 of the General Conditions or in
such other eligible currency or currencies as may from time to
time be designated or selected pursuant to the provisions of that
Section.
Section 2.06. The Borrower shall pay to the Association a
service charge at the rate of three-fourths of one per cent (3/4
of 1%) per annum on the principal amount of the Credit withdrawn
and outstanding from time to time.
Section 2.07. Commitment charges and service charges shall
be payable semiannually on February 1 and August 1 in each year.
Section 2.08. The Borrower shall repay the principal amount
of the Credit in semiannual installments payable on each Febru-
a y 1 and August 1 commencing August 1, 1994, and ending Febru-
-y 1, 2034, each installment to and including the installment


﻿- 3 -
payable on February 1, 2004, to be one-half of one per cent (1/2
of 1%) of such principal amount, and each installmeat thereafter
to be one and one-half per cent (1-1/2%) of such principal
amount.
Section 2.09. The currency of the United States of America
is hereby specified for the purposes of Section 4.02 of the
General Conditions.
ARTICLE III
Execution of the Project
Section 3.01. The Borrower declares itg commitment to the
objectives of the Project as set forth in Schedule 2 to this
Agreement, and to this end, shall carry out the Project or cause
the Project to be carried out with due diligence and efficiency
and in conformity with appropriate administrative, financial,
engineering and agricultural practices, and shall provide,
promptly as needed, the funds, facilities, services and other
resources required for the purpose.
Section 3.02. The Borrower shall make available to the
implementing authorities the proceeds of the Credit under proce-
dures, and terms and conditions satisfactory to the Association.
Section 3.03. The Borrower shall establish and maintain, or
cause to be established and maintained, a Project Development
Committee, with functions and membership satisfactory to the
Association, for taking action on all policy and implementation
matters.
Section 3.04. The Borrower shall establish and maintain, or
cause to be established and maintained, a Project Coordination
Unit with functions, responsibilities, and terms of reference
satisfactory to the Association, which unit shall coordinate the
functions of the agencies responsible for the implementation of
the Project and shall consist of a Project Coordinator and his
staff.
Section 3.05. (a) In order to assist in carrying out the
Project, the Borrower shall employ, or cause to be employed, con-
sultants whose qualifications, experience and terms and condi-
tion,- of employment shall be satisfactory to the Association,
such consultants to be selected in accordance with principles and


﻿-4-
procedures satisfactory to the Association on the basis of the
"Guidelines for the Use of Consultants by World Bank Borrowers
and by the World Bank as Executing Agency" published by the Bank
in August 1981.
(b) Without limitation on the foregoing subsection (a), the
Borrower shall employ, or cause to be employed, in accordance
with a schedule satisfactory to the Association one agriculturist
(for approximately 24 man-months), one silviculturist (for
approximately 24 man-months) and consulting services for apple
development (for approximately 4 man-months).
Section 3.06. (a) The Borrower undertakes to insure, or make
adequate provision for the insurance of, the imported goods to be
financed out of the proceeds of the Credit against hazards inci-
dent to the acquisition, transportation and delivery thereof to
the place of use or installation, and for such insurance any
indemnity shall be payable in a currency freely usable by the
Borrower to replace or repair such goods.
(b) The Borrower shall cause all goods and services financ-
ed out of the proceeds of the Credit to be used exclusively for
the purposes of the Project.
Section 3.07. (a) The Borrower shall furnish to the Associa-
tion, promptly upon their preparation, the plans, specifications,
reports, contract documents and work and procurement schedules
for the Project, and any material modifications thereof or addi-
tions thereto, in such detail as the Association shall reasonably
request.
(b) The Borrower shall: (i) maintain records and procedures
adequate to record and monitor the progress of the Project
(including its cost and the benefits to be derived from it), to
identify the goods and services financed out of the proceeds of
the Credit, and to disclose their use in the Project; (ii) enable
the Association's representatives to visit the facilities and
construction sites included in the Project and to examine the
goods financed out of the proceeds of the Credit and any relevant
records and documents; and (iii) furnish to the Association at
regular intervals all such information as the Association shall
reasonably request concerning the Project, its cost and, where
appropriate, the benefits to be derived from it, the expenditures
of such proceeds and the goods and services financed out of such
proceeds.


﻿- 5-
(c) Upon the award by the Borrower of any contract for
goods, works or services to be financed out of the proceeds of
the Credit, the Association may publish a description thereof,
the name and nationality of the party to whom the contract was
awarded and the contract price.
(d) Promptly after completion of the Project, but in any
event not later than six months after the Closing Date or such
later date as may be agreed for this purpose between the Borrower
and the Association, the Borrower shall prepare and furnish to
the Association a report, of such scope and in such detail as the
Association shall reasonably request, on the execution and ini-
tial operation of the Project, its cost and the benefits derived
and to be derived from it, the performance by the Borrower and
the Association of their respective obligations under this Agree-
ment and the accomplishment of the purposes of the Credit.
Section 3.08. The Borrower shall take or cause to be taken
all such action as shall be necessary to acquire through purchase
or lease, as and when needed, all such land and rights in respect
of land as shall be required for the construction and operation
of the facilities included in the Project and shall furnish to
the Association, promptly after such acquisition, evidence satis-
factory to the Association that such land and rights in respect
of land are available for puroses related to the Project.
Section 3.09. With respect to Part B of the Project, the
Borrower shall ensure that growers of seed will pay market prices
for their inputs and that seed will be purchased from them at a
premium over the prevailing market price.
Section 3.10. The Borrower shall ensure that by June 30,
1985, distribution of fertili?ers and pesticides in the Project
Area is handled by the private sector.
Section 3.11. The Borrower shall cause the feeder roads
under the Project to be constructed or improved in accordance
with the specifications set forth in Schedule 4 to this Agree-
ment.
Section 3.12. The Borrower shall properly maintain or cause
to be properly maintained, the feeder roads referred to in Part D
of the Project including the provision of necessary funds, facil-
ities and services.


﻿- 6 -
Section 3.13. In order to implement the hill management
strategy, the Borrower shall furnish, or cause to be furnished,
to the Association by September 30, 1984, for comment the formal
arrangements to be made between the farmers and relevant local
authorities, and thereafter implement such arrangements, taking
into consideration the Association's comments.
Section 3.14. The Borrower shall furnish, or cause to be
furnished, to the Association by September 30, 1984, for comment,
the proposals for cost sharing between the Forest Department and
the private and communal plantation owners, and thereafter imple-
ment such proposals taking into consideration the Association's
comments.
Section 3.15. The Borrower shall prepare, or cause tc, be
prepared by December 31, 1984 for comment by the Association a
detailed program for evaluating the various Parts of the Project,
and thereafter implement such program taking into consideration
the Association's comments.
Section 3.16. The Borrower shall introduce, or cause to be
introduced, by September 30, 1984, a unified extension service
based on the training and visit extension system, so as to en-
sure, inter alia, that extension workers do not carry out non-
extension duties after September 30, 1985.
Section 3.17. With respect to Part C.2 of the Project, the
Borrower shall furnish, or cause to be furnished, to the Associa-
tion, for comment, by June 30, 1985, a draft contract between the
Department of Agriculture and Animal Husbandry and an appropriate
research institution, setting forth the responsibilities and pro-
grams to be carried out.
Section 3.18. The Borrower shall cause the Forest Department
and the Pakistan Forestry Research Institute, not later than
September 30, 1984, to enter into an agreement, satisfactory to
the Association, setting forth a detailed work program, including
the responsibilities of the Forest Department and the Pakistan
Forestry Research Institute, for carrying out forestry and soil
conservation research under Part B of the Project.
Section 3.19. The Borrower and the Association shall, at the
end of one year from the date of this Agreement, review the per-
formance of veterinary field staff under Part C.1 of the Project
and, if such performance is not satisfactory to the Association,


﻿-7-
the Borrower shall take such measures as the Borrower and the
Association may consider appropriate to bring said performance up
to the requirements of the Project.
ARTICLE IV
Financial Covenants
Section 4.01. (a) The Borrower shall maintain records and
accounts adequate to reflect in accordance with consistently
maintained appropriate accounting practices its operations and
financial condition with respect to respective Project imple-
menting agencies, including, without limitation to the foregoing,
separate accounts reflecting all expenditures on account of which
withdrawals are request,d from the Credit Account on the basis of
statements of expenditure.
(b) The Borrower shall retain, until one year after. the
Closing Date, all records (contracts, orders, invoices, bills,
receipts and other documents) evidencing the expenditures on
account of which withdrawals are requested from the Credit
Account on the basis of statements of expenditure, and shall
enable the Association's representatives to examine such records.
Section 4.02. The Borrower shall:
(a) cause the accounts referred to in paragraph (a) of
Section 4.01 to be combined into a consolidated account through
the Project Coordination Unit;
(b) have the consolidated account and related financial
statements for each fiscal year audited, in accordance with
appropriate auditing principles consistently applied, by indepen-
dent auditors acceptable to the Association;
(c) furnish to the Association as soon as available, but in
any case not later than nine months after the end of each such
year, (i) certified copies of its financial statements for such
year as so audited, and (ii) the report of such audit by said
auditors, of such scope and in such detail as the Association
shall have reasonably requested, including, without limitation to
the foregoing, separate opinions by said auditors in respect of
the expenditures and records referred to in Section 4.01 (b) of
this Agreement, as to whether the proceeds of the Credit made
available to it and withdrawn from the Credit Account on the


﻿- 8 -
basis of statements of expenditure have been used for the purpose
for which they were provided; and
(d) furnish to the Association such other information con-
cerning said accounts, financial statements, records and expendi-
tures, as well as the audit thereof, as the Association shall
from time to time reasonably request.
Section 4.03. (a) Without limitation upon the provisions of
Section 3.01 of this Agreement, the Borrower shall establish or
cause to be established, a revolving fund (hereinafter referred
to as the Project Revolving Fund). The Project Revolving Fund is
to be used exclusively to make payments for the cost of goods and
services required on the part of the Borrower to carry out the
Project. The Borrower shall deposit or cause to be deposited in
the Project Revolving Fund amounts as shall be, from time to
time, required on the part of the Borrower to permit the payments
heretofore specified to be made, promptly as needed, out of the
Project Revolving Fund.
(b) Without limitation upon the provisions of paragraph (a)
of this Section, the Borrower shall make or cause to be made an
initial deposit in the Project Revolving Fund in an amount of two
million Rupees (Rs 2,000,000) and thereafter shall on a monthly
basis make or cause to be made such deposits in the Project
Revolving Fund as are required so that on the first day of each
calendar month there shall be available in such Fund amounts suf-
ficient to meet payments for the operating costs of the Project
required on the part of the Borrower during the forthcoming two
months as estimated on the basis of the work schedules relating
thereto.
ARTICLE V
Effective Date; Termination
Section 5.01. The following events are specified as addi-
tional conditions to the effectiveness of the Development Credit
Agreement within the meaning of Section 12.01 (b) of the General
Conditions:
(a) the Executive Committee of the National Economic Coun-
cil shall have approved the PC-1 documents with respect to the
Project;


﻿-9-
(b) a Project Coordinator, satisfactory to the Association
shall have been appointed;
(c)  the Project Development Committee referred to in Sec-
tion 3.03 shall have been established; and
(d) the Project Revolving Fund shall have been established
and the initial deposit in the Fund shall have been made as pro-
vided in Section 4.03 (b) of this Agreement.
Section 5.02. The date     /Lt1/         19      , is hereby
specified for the purposes of Secti n 12.04 of the General Condi-
tions.
Section 5.03. The obligations of the Borrower under Section
3.12 of this Agreement shall cease and determine on the dcte on
which the Development Credit Agreement shall terminate or on a
date twenty years after the date of this Agreement, whichever
shall be the earlier.
ARTICLE VI
Remedies of the Association
Section 6.01. For the purposes of Section 6.02 of the Gen-
eral Conditions, the following additional event is specified pur-
suant to paragraph (h) thereof with respect to the right of the
Borrower to make withdrawals for Part C of the Project, namely,
that the Borrower shall have failed to take the measures referred
to in Section 3.19 of this Agreement.
ARTICLE VII
Representative of the Borrower; Addresses
Section 7.01. The Secretary to the Government of Pakistan,
Economic Affairs Division, is designated as representative of the
Borrower for the purposes of Section 11.03 of the General Condi-
tions.
Section 7.02. The following addresses are specified for the
purpose of Section 11.01 of the General Conditions:


﻿- 10 -
For the Borrower:
The Secretary to the Governme7at
of Pakistan
Economic Affairs Division
Islamabad, Pakistan
Cable address:                        Telex:
ECONOMIC                            ECDIV-05-634
Islamabad
For the Association:
International Development Association
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America
Cable address:                        Telex:
INDEVAS                            440098 (ITT)
Washington, D.C.                   248423 (RCA) or
64145 (WUI)
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their
representatives thereunto duly authorized, have caused this
Agreement to be signed in their respective names in the District
of Columbia, United States of America, as of the day and year
first above written.
ISLAMIC REPUBLIC OF PAKISTAN
By $                 aP
Authorized Representative
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
Re ional Vice President
South Asia


﻿- 11 -
SCHEDULE 1
Withdrawal of the Proceeds of the Credit
1.   The table below sets forth the Categories of items to be
financed out of the proceeds of the Credit, the allocation of the
amounts of the Credit to each Category and the percentage of
expenditures for items so to be financed in each Category:
Amount of the
Credit Allocated            % of
(Expressed in        Expenditures
Category              SDR Equivalent)      to be Financed
(1) Civil Works                                 90% of local
expenditures
(a) Livestock              500,000
Development
Center
(b) Other                5,610,000
(2) Forestry establish-       2,580,000         90% of local
ment and soil                              expenditures
conservation works
(3) Equipment, vehicles,        840,000         100% of foreign
furniture, materials                       expenditures,
and livestock                              100% of local
expenditures
(ex-factory
cost) and 70%
of local ex-
penditures for
other items pro-
cured locally
(4) Training and                670,000         100%
studies
(5) Consultants'                960,000         100%
services


﻿- 12 -
Amount of the
Credit Allocated            % of
(Expressed in       Expenditures
Category               SDR Equivalent)     to be Financed
(6)  Staff salaries and      7,350,000          90% of expen-
other operating                            ditures incurred
costs                                      on or before
June 30, 1985;
80% of expendi-
tures incurred
from July 1, 1985
through June 30,
1986; 70% of
expenditures
incurred from
July 1, 1986
through
June 30, 1987;
60% of expendi-
tures incurred
from July 1, 1987
through June 30,
1988; and 55% of
expenditures in-
curred from
July 1, 1988
through June 30,
1989
(7) Unallocated               1,590,000
TOTAL        20,100,000
2.   For the purposes of this Schedule:
(a) the term "foreign expenditures" means expenditures in
the currency of any country other than that of the Borrower for
goods or services supplied from the territory of any country
other than that of the Borrower; and
(b)  the term "local expenditures" means expenditures in the
currency of the Borrower or for goods or services supplied from
the territory of the Borrower.


﻿- 13 -
3.   The disbursement percentages have been calculated in com-
pliance with the policy of the Association that the proceeds of
the Credit shall not be disbursed on account of payments for
taxes levied by, or in the territory of, the Borrower on goods or
services, or on the importation, manufacture, procurement or
supply thereof; on this basis, if the amount o,f any such taxes
levied on or in respect of items in any Categ3ry decreases or
increases, the Association may, by notice to the Borrower, in-
crease or decrease the disbursement percentage then applicable
to such Category as required to be consistent with the afore-
mentioned policy of the Association.
4.   Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1 above, no
withdrawals shall be made in respect of:
(a) expenditures made prior to the date of this Agreement;
and
(b) expenditures under Category (1) (a), unless the Asso-
ciation has advised the Borrower about its satisfaction with the
performance of veterinary field staff under Part C.1 of the Proj-
ect or, failing that, with the measures taken by the Borrower to
bring such performance up to the requirements of the Project, all
following the review carried out pursuant to Section 3.19 of this
Agreement.
5.   Notwithstanding the allocation of an amount of the Credit or
the disbursement percentages set forth in the table in paragraph
1 above, if the Association has reasonably estimated that the
amount of the Credit then allocated to any Category will be in-
sufficient to finance the agreed percentage of all expenditures
in that Category, the Association may, by notice to the Borrower:
(i) reallocate to such Category, to the extent required to meet
the estimated shortfall, proceeds of the Credit which are then
allocated to another Category and which in the opinion of the
Association are not needed to meet other expenditures, and (ii)
if such reallocation cannot fully meet the estimated shortfall,
reduce the disbursement percentage then applicable to such expen-
ditures in order that further withdrawals under such Category may
continue until all expenditures thereunder shall have been made.
6.   If the Association shall have reasonably determined that the
procurement of any item .n any Category is inconsistent with the
procedures set forth or referred to in this Agreement, no expend-
iture for such item shall be financed out of the proceeds of the


﻿- 14 -
Credit, and the Association may, without in any way restricting
or limiting any other right, power or remedy of the Association
under the Development Credit Agreement, by notice to the Bor-
rower, cancel such amount of the Credit as, in the Association's
reasonable opinion, represents the amount of such expenditures
which would otherwise have been eligible for financing out of the
proceeds of the Credit.


﻿- 15 -
SCHEDULE 2
Description of the Project
The objective of the Project is, within Azad Jammu and
Kashmir, to prevent deterioration of the environment and to raise
farmer incomes by providing support for a Hill Management Strate-
gy, including improved agricultural productivity, introduction of
fodder crops, afforestation, livestock improvement and construc-
tion of feeder roads. The Project will be carried out in the Dis-
tricts of MuzaEfarabad and Poonch and consists of the following
Parts:
Part A:
1.    Increasing maize/wheat and fodder crop production through
the provision of inputs and support services.
2.   Development of about 1,400 ha of apple orchards through pro-
vision of grafted seedlings and support services.
3.   Strengthening the Department of Agriculture's extension and
input distribution services through provision of infrastructure,
ve,hicles, equipment, technical assistance and operating cost
financing.
Part B:
1.   Afforestation of about 5,700 ha in demarcated forests, and
hillside planting for fuelwood on about 3,800 ha of private,
state and communal owned lands.
2.   Distribution of about twelve million seedlings to farmers.
3.   Establishment of soil conservation measures including con-
struction of check dams.
4.   Establishment of a forest research program and a seed center
to procure, process and distribute forest tree seed.
5.   Strengthening of the Forest Department by the provision of
infrastructure, vehicles, equipment, technical assistance and
operating cost financing.


﻿- 16 -
Part C:
1.   Strengthening of the Department of Animal Husbandry's animal
health services through provision of medicines, vaccines, vet-
erinary equipment and other operating costs.
2.   Establishment of a Livestock Development Center.
Part D:
Construction and maintenance of about 120 km of feeder
roads.
Part E:
1.   Construction of office facilities and provision of equipment
and vehicles for a Project Coordination Unit.
2.   Carrying out of experimental work on tree crop diversifica-
tion and range management, various project-related studies and
project evaluation.
The Project is expected to be completed by September 30,
1989.


﻿- 17 -
SCHEDULE 3
Procurement
A.   International Competitive Bidding
1. *Except as provided in Part C hereof, goods shall be procured
under contracts awarded in accordance with procedures consistent
with those set forth in the current edition of the "Guidelines
for Procurement under World Bank Loans and IDA Credits" published
by the Bank in March 1977 (hereinafter called the Guidelines), on
the basis of international competitive bidding as described in
Part A of the Guidelines.
2.   For goods to be procured on the basis of international com-
petitive bidding, in addition to the requirements of paragraph
1.2 of the Guidelines, the Borrower shall prepare and forward to
the Association as soon as possible, and in any event not later
than 60 days prior to the date of availability to the public of
the first tender or prequalification documents relating thereto,
as the case may be, a general procurement notice, in such form
and detail and containing such information as the Association
shall reasonably request; the Association will arrange for the
publication of such notice in order to provide timely notifica-
tion to prospective bidders of the opportunity to bid for the
goods in question. The Borrower shall provide the necessary
information to update such notice annually so long as any goods
remain to be procured on the basis of international competitive
bidding.
3.   Contracts for goods shall be grouped so as to achieve effi-
ciency in procurement, consistent with appropriate technical and
procurement practices.
4.   For the purpose of evaluation and comparison of bids for the
supply of goods to be procured on the basis of international com-
petitive bidding: (i) bidders shall be required to state in their
bid the c.i.f. (port of entry) price for the imported goods, or
the ex-factory price or off-the-shelf price of other goods,
offered in such bid; (ii) customs duties and other import taxes
levied in connection with the importation, or the sales and simi-
lar taxes levied in connection with the sale or delivery,pursuant
to the bid, of the goods shall not be taken into account in the


﻿- 18 -
evaluation of the bids; and (iii) the cost of inland freight and
other expenditures incidental to the delivery of the goods to the
place of their use or installation shall be included.
B.   Preference for Domestic Manufacturers
In the procurement of goods in accordance with the proce-
dures described in Part A of this Schedule, goods manufactured in
Pakistan may be granted a margin of preference in accordance
with, and subject to, the following provisions:
1.   All bidding documents for the procurement of goods
shall clearly indicate any preference which will be granted, the
information required to establish the eligibility of a bid for
such preference and the following methods and stages that will be
followed in the evaluation and comparison of bids.
2.   After evaluation, responsive bids will be classified in
one of the following three groups:
(1) Group A: bids     offering goods manufactured   in
Pakistan if the bidder shall have established to
the satisfaction of Pakistan and the Association
that the manufacturing cost of such goods includes
a value added in Pakistan equal to at least 20% of
the ex-factory bid price of such goods.
(2) Group B: all other domestic bids.
(3) Group C: bids offering any other goods.
3.   In order to determine the lowest evaluated bid of each
group, all evaluated bids in each group shall first be compared
among themselves, without taking into account customs duties and
other import taxes levied in connection with the importation, and
sales and similar taxes levied in connection with the sale or
delivery, pursuant to the bids, of the goods. Such lowest eval-
uated bids shall then be compared with each other, and if, as a
result of this comparison, a bid from group A or group B is the
lowest, it shall be selected for the award.
4.   If, as a result of the comparison under paragraph 3
above, the lowest bid is a bid from group C, all group C bids
shall be further compared with the lowest evaluated bid from
group A after adding to the evaluated bid price of the imported


﻿- 19 -
goods offered in each group C bid, for the purpose of this fur-
ther comparison only, an amount equal to: (i) the amount of cus-
toms duties and other import taxes which a non-exempt importer
would have to pay for the importation of the goods offered in
such group C bid; or (ii) 15% of the c.i.f. bid price of such
goods if said customs duties and taxes exceed 15% of such price.
If the group A bid in such further comparison is the lowest, it
shall be selected for the award; if not, the bid from group C
which as a result of the comparison under paragraph 3 is the
lowest evaluated bid shall be selected.
C.   Other Procurement Procedures
1.   Contracts for civil works may be awarded in accordance
with the Borrower's local competitive bidding procedures satis-
factory to the Association.
2.   Contracts for packages of equipment and materials esti-
mated to cost more than $10,000 eolivalent may be awarded in
accordance with the Borrower's local competitive bidding proce-
dures satisfactory to the Association.
3.   Contracts for equipment and materials estimated to cost
$10,000 equivalent or less each may be awarded through prudent
shopping on the basis of at least three responsive quotations,
provided however, that such contracts shall not in the aggregate
exceed $500,000 equivalent.
4.   Motorcycles may be procured consistent with the pre-
ference of the people to whom they are provided and contracts
therefor may be awarded in accordance with the Borrower's pro-
curement procedures satisfactory to the Association.
5.   Soil conservation works may be carried out by force
account.
D.   Review of Procurement Decisions by the Association
1.   Review of invitations to bid and of proposed awards and
final contracts:
With respect to all contracts for works estimated to cost
the equivalent of $500,000 or more and all contracts for goods
and vehicles estimated to cost the equivalent of $50,000 or more:


﻿- 20 -
(a) Before bids are invited, the Borrower shall furnish to
the Association, for its comments, the text of the invitations to
bid and the specifications and other bidding documents, together
with a description of the advertising procedures to be followed
for the bidding, and shall make such modifications in the said
documents or procedures as the Association shall reasonably
request. Any further modification to the bidding documents shall
require the Association's concurrence before it is issued to the
prospective bidders.
(b) After bids have been received and evaluated, the Bor-
rower shall, before a final decision on the award is made, inform
the Association of the name of the bidder to which it intends to
award the contract and shall furnish to the Association, in suf-
ficient time for its review, a detailed report on the evaluation
and comparison of the bids received, together with the recom-
mendations for award and such other information as the Associa-
tion shall reasonably request. The Association shall, if it
determines that the intended award would be inconsistent with the
Guidelines or this Schedule, promptly inform the Borrower and
state the reasons for such determination.
(c) The terms and conditions of the contract shall not,
without the Association's concurrence, materially differ from
those on which bids were asked.
(d) Two conformed copies of the contract shall be furnished
to the Association promptly after its execution and prior to the
submission to the Association of the first application for with-
drawal of funds from the Credit Account in respect of such con-
tract.
2.   With respect to each contract not governed by the preceding
paragraph (except for contracts on account of which withdrawals
are allowed from the Credit Account on the basis of statements of
expenditures), the Borrower shall furnish to the Association,
promptly after its execution and prior to the submission to the
Association of the first application for withdrawal of funds from
the Credit Account in respect of such contract, two conformed
copies of such contract, together with the analysis of the res-
pective bids, recommendations for award and such other informa-
tion as the Association shall reasonably request. The Association
shall, if it determines that the award of the contract was not
consistent with the Guidelines or this Schedule, promptly inform
the Borrower and state the reasons for such determination.


﻿- 21 -
3.   Before agreeing to any material modification or waiver of
the terms and conditions of a contract, or granting an extension
of the stipulated time for performance of such contract, or issu-
ing any change order under such contract (except in cases of
extreme urgency) which would increase the cost of the contract by
more than 15% of the original price, the Borrower shall inform
the Association of the proposed modification, waiver, extension
or change order and the reasons therefur. The Association, if it
determines that the proposal would be inconsistent with the pro-
visions of this Agreement, shall promptly inform the Borrower and
state the reasons for its determination.


﻿- 22 -
SCHEDULE 4
SPECIFICATION FOR IKPROVEMENT AND NEW CONSTRUCTION
OF FEEDER ROADS
Formation width.            4m imp, 4.5m new.
Effective width.            3.3m imp, 3.8m new.
Max Grade.                  13 imp. 124 new.
Desirable max grade.        10% imp and new. 10% imp and new.
Minimum grade.              1% imp and new.
Passing places.             As convenient to topography minimum 2
per km or as inter-visible.
Width at passings.           5.5m all.
Length of passings.         12m all.
Rad of curves.              Max possible improvement. 20m min
new.
Side drain.                 300mm x 150mm all.
Relieving culverts.         300mm dia. pcc pipes 0
60m intervals climbing
80m intervals rolling.
Nullah crossings.           Irish bridges. Minimum size
paving 400mm x 400mm x 150mm.
Parapet.                    300mm x 300mm x 150mm stones
at 300mm interval.
Road Surface.               All in-situ rock or stone in the top
325mm of subgrade to be reduced to
"passing 100mm".
Camber.                     100mm.
Batters.                    All "soft" cut slopes to be max 2
vert to 1 hriz. Ease to 2:11 where
feasible.


﻿INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
CERTIFICATE
I hereby certify that the foregoing is a true
copy of the original in the archives of the Interna-
tional Development Association.
In witness whereof I have signed this Certifi-
cate and affixed the Seal of the Association
thereunto the            day of
1984.
FOR SECRETARY


