Document of
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
|FIE COPY
Report No. 4681-LBR
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
LIBERIA
SECOND BONG COUNTY AGRICULTURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
February 15, 1984
liEE COPY
Western Africa Projects Department
Agriculture Projects Division B
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



LIBERIA
SECOND BONG COUNTY AGRICULTURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Currency Equivalent
Currency Unit   United States Dollars
SDR 1  US$1.05928
Weights and Measures
1 metric ton (mt) =  2,204.6226 pounds (lbs)
0.9842 long ton (lg ton or 2,240 lbs)
1 hectare (ha)    =  2.4711 acres (ac)
1 acre (ac)       =  0.4047 hectare (ha)
1 kilometer (km)  =  0.6214 miles (mi)
1 mile (mi)       =  1.6093 kilometers (km)
Abbreviations
ACDB   -  Agricultural and Cooperative Development Bank
ADP    -  Agricultural Development Project
BCADP  -  Bong County Agricultural Development Project
CARI   -  Central Agricultural Research Institute
CDA    -  Cooperative Development Agency
CMEU   -  Central Monitoring and Evaluation Unit
CSU    -  Cooperative Service Unit
CSD    -  Commercial Services Division
DCS    -  District Cooperative Society
DPD    -  Department of Planning and Development
GOL    -  Government of Liberia
LCADP  -  Lofa County Agricultural Development Project
LPMC   -  Liberian Produce Marketing Corporation
MEU    -  Monitoring and Evaluation Unit
MOA    -  Ministry of Agriculture
MPW    -  Ministry of Public Works
MRD    -  Ministry of Rural Devlopment
MIA    -  Ministry of Internal Affairs
SSU    -  Schistosomiasis Surveillance Unit
SRSP   -  Smallholder Rice Seed Project
WARDA  -  West Africa Rice Development Association
Fiscal Year
July 1 - June 30



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
LIBERIA
SECOND BONG COUNTY AGRICULTURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
Table of Contents
Page No.
I.     THE AGRICULTURAL SECTOR ........................................   1
A.  Introduction ..........................................               1
B.  Background ..........................................                 1
C.  Agricultural Sector Characteristics                 ..                1
D.  Agricultural Institutions .................................   2
E.  Sector Development Strategy ................................   5
II.    THE PROJECT AREA ...............................................   6
A. Location and Area Characteristics                  ....   6
B.  Roads and Communication .       .     ..................................   7
C.  Farming System .       .       ........................................    7
D.  Evaluation of Bong County Agricultural Development
Project Phase I ........................................             8
III. THE PROJECT .12
A.  Project Rationale, Objectives and Summary Description                12
B. Detailed Features                  ....15
- Crop and Farm Development.. ..                                     15
- Input Supply, Credit and Marketing Services ...                   17
- Roads and Workshop. . .                                           18
- Health Services                  ....19
- Project Management, Administration, Monitoring and
Evaluation              .. .... .... e  *              .  v  . *     . ...   1 9
- Technical Assistance and Consultancy Services.                    19
- Support to MOA Central Services            ....20
- Project Preparation Facility              ....20
C. Cost Estimates                    . . . ............ 20
D. Proposed Financing                   ....22
E. Procurementocuremt... 24
F. Disbursements. . .                                                    25
G. Accounts and Audit                   ....27
This report is based on the findings of an appraisal mission
consisting of Messrs. Cole, Gray, Headworth, Husain, Krishnan and Locatelli
(IDA) and Weatherell (consultant) which visited Liberia in February/March
1983. Mr. C. Dickerson of IFAD participated in the appraisal and Ms. A. Bagai
provided the secretarial support.
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of 
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



- ii -
IV.    PROJECT IMPLEMENTATION .......................                        27
A.  Project Organization and Management .27
B.  Sub-Project Selection and Monitoring Procedures .28
C.  Agricultural Extension and Training .30
D.  Cooperative and Credit Organization .31
E. Infrastructure .32
V.  PRODUCTION ASPECTS AND TECHNIQUES .33
A. Crop Development    ..33
B. Production Specifications  . .34
C. Yields   ..35
D. Farm Labor   ..37
E. Role of Women             ................. 37
F. Environmental Considerations    ..38
VI.    DEMAND, MARKETING, PRICES AND FINANCIAL ANALYSIS .38
A. Demand .38
B. Markeing .39
C. Prices .40
D. Financial Analysis .42
- Farm Incomes .42
- Financial Implications for Government .43
VII. BENEFITS AND JUSTIFICATION .43
A. Overall Benefits .43
B. Economic Rate of Return .44
C.  Sensitivity and Risks ............................fi.45
VIII.  AGREEMENTS REACHED AND RECOMMENDATIONS ......................... 47
ANNEXES
3-1    Design Standards for Feeder Roads
3-2    Project Costs - Project Component by Time
3-3    Project Costs - Summary Account by Project Component
3-4    Estimated Schedule of Disbursements
4-1    Organogram
4-2    Staffing BCADP, MOA and ACDB
4-3    Project Implementation Schedule
5-1    Projected Crop Development and Farmer Participation
5-2    Incremental Crop Production
6-1    Economic Prices
6-2    Crop Budgets
6-3    Farm Models
6-4    Government Cash Flow
7-1    Economic Costs and Benefits - Phase II
7-2    Economic Costs and Benefits - Phase I & II
Map:   IBRD No. 17191R



- iii -
LIBERIA
Second Bong County Agricultural Development Project
Selected Documents and Data Available in Project File
File Code
A.  General Reports and Studies
Liberia Recent Economic Developments and Medium-Term
Prospects, World Bank Report No. 4178-LBR,
December 30, 1982.                                              B/R
Agricultural Sector Review, World Bank Report in
4 volumes; Report No. 4200-LBR, May 6, 1983.                    B/R
B.  Reports and Studies Relating to the Project
BCADP Phase II Preparation Report, Report prepared
by RMWA, Abidjan, July 1982.                                   220183
BCADP Annual Report 1981/82.                               Y Budget Report
BCADP Phase I, First Draft of Project Completion
Report, March 1983.                                            See WAPAB
BCADP Annual Budget 1983/84.                               Y Budget Report
Draft Proposals for Cooperation between BCADP and
The Liberian Rural Communications Network,
July 1983.                                                     220164
C.  Appraisal Working Papers and Drawings                           220191
1.   The Project Area
2.   Tree Crop Development
3.   Foodcrop Development
4.   Terms of Reference for Agricultural
Extension/Training and Treecrop
Planning Manual Studies
5.   Input Supply, Credit and Marketing Services
6.   Produce Marketing and Prices
7.   Roads and Workshops
8.   Wells, Latrines and Buildings
9.   Farm Models
10. Project Costs
11. Financial and Economic Evaluation






- iv -
LIBERIA
Second Bong County Agricultural Develolment Project
Credit and Project Summary
Borrower:        The Republic of Liberia
Amount:          SDR 6.4 million (US$6.7 million equivalent)
Terms:           Standard
Project
Description:    The project seeks to increase farmer productivity and income
by consolidating the experiences and achievements of the first
phase project (Cr. 700-LBR) and extending agricultural ser-
vices to lower Bong County as well as to part of the adjacent
Gibi Territory. The project would include: (i) supply of
agricultural inputs to improve production of upland and swamp
rice, cassava, other food crops and coffee; (ii) expansion and
improvement of extension services and staff training; (iii)
agricultural research and developnent of improved plant
production material; (iv) strengthening of cooperatives and
the Agricultural and Cooperative Development Bank (ACDB) to
improve input supply, credit and marketing services; (v)
maintenance of secondary and feeder roads and construction or
rehabilitation of feeder roads and tree crop tracks; (vi)
schistosomiasis monitoring and control services; construction
of wells and latrines; and (vii) support to the Ministry of
Agriculture central services. About 7,500 farm families would
obtain higher incomes as a result of the crop improvement and
credit programs; an even greater number of the rural popula-
tion would benefit from improvements in the road network and
health services. In addition, employment would be created by
the increased business activity induced by the project. It is
estimated that about half the rural families in the county
would benefit in some way from the project. The normal risks
associated with this type of project would be minimized since
it would be building upon the institutions and experience of
the first phase project. The main risk is that institutional
developments envisaged under the project may not take place as
quickly as supposed. However, in view of the high priority
given by the Government to rural develolment and of the
technical assistance and training support being provided, this
risk has been reduced to acceptable levels.



v-
Estimated Costs:
Project Item                                         ----- (US$ million) -----
Local    Foreign    Total
Crop and Farm Development                            4.9         2.0        6.9
Agricultural Research                                 0.1        0.1        0.2
Input Supply, Credit and Marketing Services           1.7         1.4       3.1
Roads and Workshop                                    1.6         2.0       3.6
Hea-Lth Services                                      0.4        0.3        0.7
Project Management and Administration                 2.2        0.7        2.9
Monitoring and Evaluation                             0.3         0.1       0.4
Technical Assistance & Consultancy Services           0.1        0.4        0.5
Support to MOA Central Services                      0.1         0.3        0.4
Total Base Cost                            11.4         7.3       18.7
Physical Contingencies                      0.2         0.3        0.5
Price Contingencies                         1.4         1.7        3.1
Total                                13.0         9.3       22.3
Project Preparation Facility
Reimbursement                       0.2         0.4        0.6
Total Project Costs                   13.2        9.7       22.9
less Recurrent Costs of Phase I       4.9         0.6        5.5
Total Financing Required         8.3         9.1       17.4
Financing Plan:                           Local     Foreign  Total        _
IDA                               3.4        3.3       6.7       39
IFAD                              3.0        2.8       5.8       33
ADF                               1.0        3.0       4.0        23
Government                        0.9        --        0.9         5
TOTAL                  8.3        9.1      17.4       100
Estimated
Disbursements:                 FY85    FY86   FY87   FY88   FY89
Annual                2.1      1.6    1.5    1.3    0.2
Cumulative            --       3.7    5.2    6.5    6.7
Rate of Return: 22%
Project Completion Date: June 30, 1988



LIBERIA
BONG COUNTY AGRICULTURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT II
I. THE AGRICULTURAL SECTOR
A. Introduction
1.01     The Government of Liberia (GOL) has requested IDA assistance in the
financing of a follow-up project to the IDA-assisted Bong County Agricultural
Development Project I (Cr. 700-LBR) which closed on December 31, 1983.  The
proposed follow-up project was prepared by project staff and RMWA in 1982 and
appraised in February/March 1983.
B. Background
1.02     Economic Setting.  Liberia has a total area of 111,000 kmi2, of which
about 5% is cultivated, and a population of 1.9 million growing at 3.4% per
annum.  The economy is dualistic with a traditional sector which is mainly
agricultural, and a modern foreign-controlled enclave sector which is export
oriented and produces iron ore, rubber and forestry products. The traditional
sector employs over 70% of the total labor force but contributes less than
one-fifth of GDP. Average per capita income is estimated at US$520 but this
conceals wide disparities - US$1,620 in the enclave sector and US$160 in the
subsistence sector. Liberia's economic performance has deteriorated in recent
years due to internal structural Droblems and weak international prices for
major exports viz. iron ore, rubber and timber. Real GDP grew at only 0.7%
between 1974-79 and has been negative since 1980.  Political uncertainties
following the coup of April 1980 led to a large capital flight and freezing of
external credit lines, leading to a liquidity squeeze in the economy.  The
same negative factors reduced the growth of government revenues and adversely
affected implementation of development programs and projects in all sectors.
However, with assistance and advice from bilateral and multilateral institu-
tions, fiscal policy has improved recently.
C. Agricultural Sector Characteristics
1.03     Role and Structure of the Sector.  Agriculture is the largest sector
in the economy contributing about 32% to GDP, 14% from the monetary sector
including forestry, fishing, rubber, cocoa, coffee, large scale palm planta-
tions, and poultry, and 18% from the traditiona'l sector, which includes rice,
cassava, sugarcane, corn, other minor crops and palm produce from wild groves.
Growth in the agricultural sector, which averaged 3.9% per annum in 1974-79,
fell in 1980/81 due mainly to a decrease in world demand for forest products
and natural rubber. Rubber production was about 82,000 mt in 1981, 93% of
that in 1974. Value added from coffee (exports 10,000 tons), cocoa (exports
5-6,000 tons) and palm products, which together account for 8% of total



-2-
exports, grew at 3.6% per annum in 1974-80 but declined in 1981 due to a fall
in world coffee and cocoa prices. Coffee and cocoa exports include an
undetermined quantity coming in from neighboring countries due to price
differentials and use of the dollar as the domestic currency in Liberia.
1.04     Farming Systems.  The farming structure comprises:  (a) rubber con-
cessions and foreign-owned oil palm plantations with relatively high produc-
tion efficiency; (b) Liberian-owned commercial farms primarily producing
rubber with yields half of those in concessions; and (c) traditional farms
with low productivity, producing predominantly for subsistence. About 90% of
all agricultural households (160,000) are in the traditional sector and grow
rice as the staple food along with cassava and other food crops; a quarter of
households also grow coffee and cocoa. Over 90% of rice is grown on uplands,
and the rest in swamps.
D. Agricultural Institutions
1.05     The Ministry of Agriculture (MOA) is the principal institution
responsible for planning and implementation. However, MOA cannot perform
efficiently, the major constraints being a lack of trained staff yet gross
overstaffing in most categories; inadequate logistical support; and weak
planning and administration. A Central Monitoring and Evaluation Unit in MOA
is funded under the Lofa County Agricultural Development Project II (LCADPII)
(Cr. 1242-LBR), but further assistance is required to improve planning and is
included in the proposed project (para 3.22).
1.06     Agricultural Extension and Training.  The MOA national agricultural
extension service, although having adequate staff in numbers, provides little
assistance to farmers primarily because of lack of logistical support and
training. In contrast to MOA's extension services, the quality of extension
services in the IDA financed agricultural development projects (ADPs) is much
better. However, the creation of parallel ADP and MOA extension services has
led to duplication of effort. Under the second phases of ADPs a major objec-
tive should be the merging of the two services to create one cost effective
extension service, as is in the case of the proposed project (para 4.03) and
LCADPII.
1.07     Lack of trained manpower is a serious constraint.  At present, there
are two institutions providing higher and intermediate level agricultural
trainilng: the College of Agriculture and Forestry (CAF), University of
Liberia, and the Rural Development Institute (RDI) located in Bong County.
CAF offers a degree course but financial constraints have affected training
adversely. RDI, which is financed mainly by USAID, offers a two-year
associate degree course. It is ideally situated near to the Central Agri-
cultural Research Institute (CARI) in Bong County for its ultimate development
into a major center of training for intermediate level manpower. A number of
parastatal organizations, as well as the ADP's have their own training units
for middle and lower level staff.



-3 -
1.08     Agricultural Research.  Agricultural research is principally carried
out at the Central Agricultural Research Institute (CARI) which is responsible
for research on all crops except rubber which is performed by the conces-
sions. USAID is financing a US$4.2 million project over a four-year period
through 1984 to strengthen CARI but in spite of this assistance there are
still serious constraints due to inadequate operating funds, lack of real
autonomy and management inefficiencies. Useful work has been done on devel-
oping improved rice varieties, vegetable varietal selection and cassava
varietal testing, but little work on improved systems of upland cultivation,
or, with the exception of rubber, on tree crops. Greater provisions for
carrying out adaptive research are required and formal linkages should be
established between CARI, MOA's national extension services, and the ADPs, to
effect improvements in the technical packages and to incorporate farmer
preferences more fully and quickly. MOA and donors are aware of these
deficiencies which will be addressed in a second phase (ten years) of the
USAID assisted project now under consideration. Under the proposed project
assurances were obtained that IDA would be consulted in drawing up research
programs (para 3.14).
1.09     Other government ministries directly involved in the rural sector
include the Ministry of Rural Development (MRD) which is responsible for rural
water supply program country-wide and has recently been given responsibilty
for feeder road construction in six counties, including Bong County, and
the Ministry of Public Works (MPW) responsible for maintenance of the road
network including feeder roads. A Highway Maintenance Project (1984-86),
which would raise MPW's capacity to maintain primary, secondary and feeder
roads has been appraised.  The Ministry of Internal Affairs (MIA) is respon-
sible for the promotion of communal farms which have been established to
increase food production, and generate funds for use by counties and districts
for public works.
1.10     Liberian Produce Marketing Corporation (LPMC).  LPMC which is the
sole exporter of coffee, cocoa and palm kernel products, acts as Government
agent for PL480 rice imports and operates a producer price support program for
rice. The cost of the rice subsidy from 1979 until its removal in August
1981, was financed out of stabilization funds for coffee and cocoa, and LPMC
reserves. This drain on its resources, compounded by the recent fall in the
world market prices of coffee and cocoa placed LPMC in a financially vulner-
able position from which it is recovering. However, its operational and
administrative costs are high, and the marketing network is inefficient.
Provision for reorganization of the system, which is necessary to reduce
LPMC's marketing costs is included under LCADPII (para 6.03).
1.11     Agricultural Credit.  There are three main sources of institutional
agricultural credit: (i) Agricultural and Cooperative Development Bank (ACDB);
(ii) agricultural project entities, and (iii) commercial banks. ACDB was
established in 1978 and provides short-, medium-, and long-term loans to
individual farmers, farmers organizations and rural industries. It also
provides facilities for mobilizing rural savings. ACDB has a weak capital
base; its share capital is $3.9 million of which Government has contributed
$3.8 million (97%), loans portfolio $2.7 million, and deposits $4.3 million.
ACDB's accumulated losses, total $1.5 million. ACDB is projecting a profit,



- 4 -
for the first time, for 1983 and, through its participation in this project,
est-Lmates that the accumulated deficit should be wiped out by 1986.  Balance
Sheets and Profit and Loss projections and a discussion on ACDB's organization
and management are in Working Paper No. 5. ACDB has a mandate, as yet unful-
filled, to provide credit to small farmers; it is weak in its lending opera-
tions to the agricultural sector, and it is seriously undercapitalized.
Participation in this project would provide an excellent opportunity for ACDB
to take a positive step in the direction for which it was established.   Bong
and Lofa ADPs provide credit to smallholder farmers with ACDB serving as
bankers to the projects and to participating cooperative societies. Under the
proposed project, ACDB would be strengthened to handle the credit component
(para 3.16). Commercial banks lend mainly to concessions and commercial
farms, and this represents about 20% of their total loans portfolio.  Money
lenders, mainly traders, relatives and rich farmers, play an active and
important role in providing non-institutional agricultural credit, but in the
absence of a rural debt survey, it is difficult to quantify their activities.
1.12     Cooperatives:  The cooperative movement consists mainly of hundreds
of small Town Cooperative Units (TCU) and Cooperative Service Units (CSU),
based on traditional farmer work groups (Kuu), with average membership of
20-30 farmers, affiliated to larger cooperative societies.  Although not
registered as societies, TCU and CSU, which are the lowest tier in the co-
operative structure, play an important role in cooperative development, input
supply, marketing and credit. They provide the necessary linkage between
farmers at village level and District Cooperative Societies (DCS). A main
function of the larger cooperatives is to buy cocoa, coffee, palm kernels and,
to some extent, rice from farmers and to sell those to LPMC. A few of the
larger cooperatives in ADP areas are also involved in credit delivery and
recovrery.  Generally, however, the cooperatives are not well managed and
weak.  In June 1981, Government established a new autonomous Cooperative
Development Agency (CDA) with full responsibility for all cooperative activi-
ties. Unfortunately, budgetary provisions to date have been inadequate and
without sustained commitment and support from Government, CDA will not be able
to function effectively. Some assistance to CDA is provided for in the
project (para 4.11).
1.13     Other Projects.  Apart from the IDA financed Lofa and Bong ADPs, the
pilot phase of the Nimba County ADP financed by the Federal Republic of
Germany will be completed in 1983 and a follow-up project is planned. The
International, Fund for Agricultural Developnent (IFAD) is funding the Small-
holder Rice Seed Project (SRSP) for the production of improved rice seed for
sale and distribution to farmers throughout Liberia. USAID is assisting
Government with the development of a rural communications system (Liberian
Rural Communications Network) which will set up four regional broadcasting
stations and develop a rural programming capacity attached to the Liberian
Broadcast System.



- 5-
E. Sector Development Strategy
1.14     Objectives.  Government's sector objectives are: (a) increased
participation of poor farming families in agricultural development; (b) in-
creased farmer productivity and income; (c) diversification of agricultural
production; and (d) an expansion of agriculture as a principal base for self-
sustaining development. Public sector allocations for agriculture have
increased from about 4% of the development budget in 1970 to about 30% in
1980/81, and are projected at about 30% in the Second Plan (1981/85). The
increase is reflected mainly in agricultural development projects in Lofa,
Bong and Nimba counties; rubber, oil palm, forestry, research and training
projects; and establishment of parastatals for tree crop production and
processing. This reflects GOL's intention to diversify the economy away from
overdependence on iron ore earnings to agriculture and increased emphasis on
food crops and cash crops, particularly on export crops that could be partly
processed in Liberia.
1.15     Constraints.  Major constraints on realization of sector development
objectives, apart from the depressed world market for Liberia's major exports,
are the inadequate road infrastructure; weakness of institutions, particularly
MOA, and other institutions such as CARI, ACDB and the Cooperatives; tech-
nological constraints (principally lack of technology addressing the labor
constraint); and shortage of inputs.
1.16     Sector Strategy.  In the recent agricultural sector review 1/,
strategic emphasis is placed on the potential major sources of growth in the
medium term -- namely upland rice, rubber and forestry products -- and on
crops with significant long term potential, viz, swamp rice and possibly oil
palm, cassava and coconut. In addition to these sub-sectors mentioned above,
area specific development projects or programs are recommended to consider
other tree crops, including relatively small components of coffee, cocoa,
citrus, and minor food crops. Thus, the medium-term sector strategy is to
complement export promotion with import substitution of rice. Other elements
of the sectoral strategy are implementation of a gradual sectoral approach
through improvement of existing national institutions; decentralization of
agricultural programs; strengthening and focussing of adaptive research to
help resolve technological constraints; coordination among Ministries and
agencies for improved infrastructure; and improvement of support services such
as extension, training, processing and marketing, input supply, credit, etc.
through strengthening of public sector institutions, development of
cooperatives and encouragement of the private sector.
1.17     Bank group lending supports Government's objectives of increased
smallholder participation and increase in their productivity and income
through integrated projects (Lofa County ADP-Cr. 577-LBR Phase I and Cr. 1242-
LBR, Phase II; Bong County ADP-Cr. 700-LBR and the proposed project); export
promotion through increase in smallholders production (Rubber Development
1/   Liberia:  Agricultural Sector Review, May 6, 1983.  Report no.
4200-LBR.



- 6 -
Project Cr. 786-LBR/Lnl544-LBR) and tree crop components in ADPs; improved
forestry management (Forestry Project-Cr. 839-LBR); and diversification of
production base (Decoris Oil Palm Project-Ln 1765-LBR). This strategy is in
line with sector needs.
II. THE PROJECT AREA
A. Location and Area Characteristics
2.01     Location and Population.  The project would be extended to cover the
whole of Bong County and part of Gibi Territory 1/ (Map IBRD 17191R) - a total
area of 9,500 km2, or 8.4% of the country. Total population in 1982 was
estimated at 229,000 with a population density of 25 persons per km2. About
70% of the population, or 161,700 people within some 21,400 rural households,
are engaged primarily in agriculture. Average family size is estimated at 7.5
persons. The basic level of the rural structure is a village, or township,
comprising a number of households headed by an elected town chief who is also
chairman of the council of elders.
2.02     Soils and Climate.  The topography of the area varies from gently
rolling to hilly and is characterized by a dense dendritic drainage pattern
with narrow, poorly drained valleys. Upland soils are for the most part acid,
highly leached and of moderate to low fertility. They cannot sustain con-
tinuous cultivation of annual crops for long and are best suited to tree crops
such as coffee and rubber with, in the better areas, cocoa and citrus. Valley
bottoms consist of deep soils with sandy loam top soils; although drainage
conditions vary these soils are generally suitable for swamp rice cultiva-
tion. Where water supplies permit, two rice crops can be taken annually but
more usually the valley bottoms are suitable for one crop of rice in the wet
season and a vegetable, legume or maize crop in the dry season. Average
annual rainfall ranges from 1,700mm in central Bong to 2,500mm elsewhere,
falling in a single wet season from March to November and followed by a three
to four months relatively severe dry season. Average temperature is about
80°F.
2.03     Rural Services.  Apart from two hospitals, rural health services are
rudimentary. Malaria, measles, dysentary and a wide range of internal and
external parasites are common sources of illnesses. Protein and other food
deficiencies lead to a high infant and child mortality rate. Schistosomiasis
is wide spread. Under Phase 1, the project's schistosomiasis surveillance
unit has carried out routine checks and its findings indicate that community
water points are a bigger source of infection than swamps, where only rice
cultivation occurs. The unit has started to provide treatment for infected
farm families. The project has also introduced a program of well capping and
1/   In additiorn to the nine counties, the major administrative
divisions, there are six smaller territories regarded for administrative
purposes as autonomous.



- 7 -
tube-wells to improve water supplies and hygiene, and initiated a small
program of latrines. There are 104 schools in the county, with about 30,000
students. Electricity is only available at Gbarnga and Bong Mines.
2.04     Ministry of Agriculture Services.  MOA staff in the county total 89
and provide inter alia an agricultural extension service in areas not covered
by BCADP, a Home Economics Unit, data collection service, small livestock and
fisheries units, and the Kpatawee pilot project for rice production. Without
adequate logistical support and operating funds these services have been
ineffective.
B. Roads and Communication
2.05     The County has one paved primary road linking Gbarnga, the main city,
with Monrovia about 180kms to the south-west. Although not well maintained it
provides good access to Monrovia. The other primary road, the Gbarnga - Saint
Paul river road on the boundary of Lofa county, is also suffering from lack of
maintenance. In addition, there is a secondary and feeder road network
totalling about 730km; of this 260km are secondary roads for which MPW is
responsible but does not have the capacity to carry out maintenance. The
other 470 km are all-weather feeder roads including 100 km of concession roads
and about 250 km constructed under the Phase I project. However, there is a
wide variation between districts so that, although under the project there
would be greater emphasis on maintenance, some further new construction would
take place, particularly in Lower Bong (para 3.17).
C. Farming System
2.06     Agriculture.  The traditional and prevalent farming system is slash
and burn with land cultivated for two to three years before reverting to bush
fallow. Typically, upland rice in the first year is followed by a mixed crop-
of rice, cassava and vegetables. About 95% of rural households grow upland
rice; on average the traditional rice farm is about 1.2 ha giving a total of
about 26,000 ha and production of 26,000 to 28,000 tons of paddy annually.
Traditionally, only about 8% of farms grow swamp-rice which is done primarily
by women. Women also play a major role within the family in upland rice
planting, weeding, harvesting and marketing. Cassava is also an important
food crop cultivated by 70% of households with an estimated pure stand
equivalent at about 6,500 ha. About 50% of farmers (10,000 households) have
tree crop plantings of cocoa and/or coffee which are either run on a tradi-
tional system or have been developed more recently on an improved system
introduced under Phase I. Oil palm is indigenous throughout the area. A
typical traditional farm comprises 1.2 ha of upland rice with about 0.8 ha of
cocoa or coffee and other fooderops.
2.07     Whilst with a long fallow period (10 to 15 years) the 'slash and
burn', shifting cultivation system can be sustained, as a result of increasing
pressure on land in some areas the fallow period has been severely reduced;



- 8 -
there is evidence of some declirie in yields; and erosion and soil degradation
although not yet serious could become a problem. Consequently, alternative
cropping systems should be developed for the uplands. The strategy should be
to encourage farmers to grow tree crops (rubber, coffee and cocoa) on the
uplands and cultivate rice in the swamps - since swamp rice has a yield
potential two to three times that of upland rice, while tree crops offer a
higher return than upland rice and avoid the yearly land clearing. However,
the change from upland rice to swamp rice and tree crops will be a long term
process and further research is needed to develop improved annual cropping
systems which will minimize the deleterious effects of 'slash and burn'.
2.08     Farm Structure and Target Group. The 90% of the farm families who
cultivate 4 ha or less (85% cultivate 2 ha or less) would comprise the main
target group of the proposed project. These small farmers exploit about 30%
of the cultivated area in the county. A further 10% is farmed by families
with holdings of over 4 ha to 20 ha who would benefit from a farm planning
service (para 4.08). The remaining 60% of the cultivated area is in holdings
of over 20 ha, mainly large rubber plantations, and would not be part of the
project.
2.09     Land Tenure.  Under the traditional system, allocation of rights for
the use of tribal lands rest primarily with the village or town chiefs who
issue usufruct rights which can be secured for long periods by the establish-
ment of tree crops such as cocoa and coffee. Land tenure should not be a
constraint to the development of the uplands but it may be a constraint to
development of swamps both in Lower Bong where they lie amongst the rubber
concessions, and in other areas where they are on land held by absentee
owners.
2.10     Labor.  With the proximity of Monrovia and large rubber plantations,
there is a considerable movement of agricultural labor in and out of Bong
county. This movement provides a source of hired labor but also contributes
to labor constraints for riceland preparation and sowing, tree crop weeding
and planting, and harvesting. Much of the agricultural work is done through
communal labor groups, or Kuus, formed among groups of households; this
facilitates timely completion of tasks. Although the obligation is recipro-
cal, tne increased efficiency which results is tantamount to some increase in
labor supply.
D. Evaluation of Bong County Agricultural Development Project Phase 1 1/
2.11     Project objectives.  The first phase project (Cr. 700-LBR) which was
estimated at appraisal to cost US$20.3 million and was financed jointly by IDA
(US$ 7 million), USAID (US$ 6 million) and GOL (US$ 7.3 million), became
effective on March 15, 1978. IDA funds will be fully disbursed by March 1984
while unused USAID funds of US$ 1.45 million have been reallocated to continue
1/   The evaluation is based on a draft Project Completion Report
prepared by the Project's Monitoring and Evaluation Unit.



- 9 -
road construction and nursery activities through June 1984. The project was
similar in design to, and started one year after LCADP. Its objectives were
to increase production of smallholder rice, coffee and cocoa in Upper Bong
through provision of improved extension and training services, and input
supply, credit and marketing systems based on cooperatives, together with
infrastructure support - improved feeder roads, well construction and
buildings, schistosomiasis surveillance, project management and monitoring and
evaluation. Project execution was by a project management unit under MOA
control but independent of the MOA extension services in Upper Bong.
2.12     Project results.  Physical achievements, which are summarized in the
table below, have been mixed. From the start, the project suffered from
management problems including frequent changes of Project Managers - two
expatriates and one Liberian within three years - and quick turnover in a
number of other senior positions. The management situation stabilized with
the take over by the fourth Project Manager, a Liberian, in late 1981 when
staff motivation and morale began to improve. By the end of the first phase
all senior management posts will be filled by Liberians. The management
problems contributed to a slow start but area targets have been met for upland
rice (99%), cocoa (102%), and coffee (93%). However, in the attempt to meet
appraisal targets for cocoa there was insufficient verification of soils,
which, coupled with poor seedlings and late planting, contributed to poor
establishment on about 20% of the area. Swamp rice development (16%) met with
difficulties in the early years when farmer response was slow and some swamps
developed earlier were abandoned. The slow development reflects the time
required to introduce a new, labor intensive technology in swamps that are
traditionally cultivated by women (para 2.06) and, in some cases, selection of
areas where population pressure on the surrounding upland was insufficient to
encourage swamp development. Nevertheless, since 1980/81 implementation of
the swamp rice program has improved with an average of 100 ha developed each
year; subsequent abandonment has been limited to a small area. Quality of
work in the swamps has been satisfactory. Low realization of the well
component (32%) reflects difficulties in the early years in mobilizing
villages for the hand-dug program. Implementation improved in 1982/83 when a
tubewell drilling program was contracted with MRD.



- 10 -
BONG COUNTY AGRICULTURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT I
OBJECTIVES AND RESULTS
1978/79  1979/80  1980/81  1981/82  1982/83  Total
Upland Rice (ha)
- appr. estimate        600      950    1,300    1,400    1,500  5,750
- actual               360       860    1,640    1,598    1,253  5,711   (99%)
Swamp Rice (ha)
- appr. estimate        100      350       600       500       500  2,050
- actual                  6       10        82       144        93    335   (16%)
Cocoa (ha)
- appr. estimate          -      300       700    1,000    1,000  3,000
- actual                30       200       790    1,074        978  3,072   (102%)
Coffee (ha)
- appr. estimate          -      150       350       500       500  1,500
- actual                 30       70       280       546       464  1,390   (93%)
Road Construction (km)
- appr. estimate          -      113       113        48        26    300
- actual                  -       58        37       103        72    270   (90%)
Wells (No).
- appr. estimate          -       75        75        75        75    300
- actual                  -        5        20        16        55     96   (32%)
2.13     Yields of upland and swamp rice although below appraisal targets have
been acceptable, upland rice (1 ,500 kg/ha) confirming a 25-30% advantage over
traditional varieties and swamp rice averaging 2,500 to 3,000 kg/ha. Overall,
although not all targets have been realized some cocoa planting is poor,
valuable lessons have been learned (para 2.15). Project development was also
hindered by slow progress in constructing new roads when equipment provided by
USAID to MPW was diverted away from the project and much of it was damaged.
Subsequently, the project formed its own small road construction unit which
performed well. Undisbursed USAID funds will be used to keep this unit going
through June 1984. A total of about 7,500 farmers are estimated to have
benefitted from the project (94% of appraisal estimate) while others will have
benefitted from improved feeder roads and water points. However, the overall
ERR is estimated at only about 6% against 21% at appraisal. Several factors
account for this low ERR:
(i)  At appraisal, the ERR was found to be sensitive to delays in
benefits. (a) In reality, the benefits in year 1 (1977/78) were zero
even though significant costs were incurred. (b) In the first few
years of the project, benefits were seriously reduced due to the low
realization of swamp development - from second year to sixth year
benefits were lower by 38%, 52%, 45%, 37% and 34%, respectively, due



- 1 1 -
to slow swamp development alone. (c) The upland rice area also
lagged behind appraisal targets in the first two years. Moreover,
the seed-fertilizer package for upland rice, which was expected at
appraisal to give an incremental yield of 0.8 m.t./ha and account for
about half of the total incremental upland rice production, was not
popular with farmers. In the event, only seed exchange package was
offered which gives an average incremental yield of only 0.3
m.t./ha. Therefore, while the area targets for upland rice were
eventually achieved (based on seed exchange only), the incremental
production of upland rice is estimated to be only 70% of the
appraisal projection. This represents about 10% reduction in the
total benefit stream projected at appraisal. (d) Yield projections
for both cocoa and coffee are now considerably lower than those at
appraisal and, even though area targets have been met, incremental
production of both cocoa and coffee is now projected at about 50% of
the appraisal estimate. This represents approximately 30% reduction
in the total benefit stream projected at appraisal.
(ii)  While benefits lagged by one year and in later years were ony 30 to
40% of appraisal projections, costs were about 5% higher than
estimated at appraisal.
2.14     Institutional Performance.  A key area in which progress was below
expectations was the cooperative system. The project aimed to establish a
viable cooperative system, capable of taking over full responsibility for
credit, input supply, and marketing operations, by the end of the project
period. Good progress was made in the establishment of about 230 Cooperative
Service Units (CSU) (para 1.12), each of which was affiliated to one of the
six District Cooperative Societies (DCS), and by the end of the project period
DCS total membership-was about 7,500. A Cooperative Union was established to
serve as the apex organization for the cooperative structure. By the end of
the project period, the DCS were still weak, with little capital, inadequate
staffing, and poor management. Nevertheless, the cooperative movement has
made a modest start in marketing and has assisted the Project Management Unit
with input supply and agricultural credit. Credit recoveries were good, with
a reported overall recovery of about 90% by early 1983.
2.15     Lessons learned from the first project include the need to:  (a)
develop-more appropriate planning and monitoring systems rather than adhere
rigidly to targets set at appraisal; (b) improve selection procedures, par-
ticularly for roads, tree crop- and swamp develorment; (c) improve cost control
procedures; (d) obtain greater participation by beneficiaries in the infra-
structure program; (e) modify crop recommendations and improve research/project
links; and (f) strengthen and modify the cooperative system for input supply,
credit and marketing.These lessons have been taken into account in the design
of the second phase project as follows. Firstly, a number of improvements in
planning, monitoring and selection procedures have been proposed. More effec-
tive use will be made of the project's monitoring unit (para 4.07); improved
planning procedures for the tree crop development program will be developed
with consultancy assistance under a PPF (para 3.12 (a)); a systematic selec-
tion procedure for new roads is recommended (para 4.06); and criteria for
selecting swamps for development are proposed (para 4.05). Secondly,



- 12 -
proposals are made for tighter control of operating costs. Thirdly, a system
for obtaining greater participation of beneficiaries in the selection and
subsequent maintenance of waterpoints is proposed (para 4.06). Fourthly, crop
recommendations for coffee have been modified (para 5.09/5.10) and assistance
to CAR! is proposed to continue development of new rice varieties and test
input recommendations (para 3.14). Finally, proposals for input supply,
credit and marketing arrangement take account of the weaknesses in the
cooperative system (para 3.15).
III. THE PROJECT
A. Project Rationale, Objectives and Summary Description
1.   Rationale and Objectives
3.01     Need for Follow-up Project:  The first phase BCADP represented a time
slice of a ten to fifteen year program to develop a diversified tree crop
program (cocoa & coffee), encourage a shift in rice production from upland to
swamps and promote self-sustaining farmer service organizations. Under
Phase I, a good start has been made on building up extension, input supply and
credit services but further support is required to develop the institutions
involved. With much of the 4,400 ha of cocoa and coffee planted under Phase I
still to come into bearing, it is important to provide for development costs,
support farmers with a well supervised extension service, and put in place an
effective system for input supply, credit and marketing.  Although swamp rice
development has been less than expected, valuable lessons have been learnt and
areas suitable for expansion identified.  Overall, with the investments of
Phase I and availability of a trained and reasonably motivated staff and
management, there is a good basis for Phase II under which a more effective
response can be expected.
3.02     Further assistance to support Phase II would be consistent with
Government's strategy for, and the Bank's lending program to the agricultural
sector (para 1.16 and 1.17). Investment in county based ADPs continues to
form a key part of efforts to increase food crop production, raise small
farmer incomes and diversify cash crops.  Bank group lending supports these
efforts through the Lofa and Bong County ADPs while export promotion is
assisted through Rubber, Forestry and Oil Palm Projects. A follow-up credit
to support key sector institutions is scheduled for FY86 to strengthen MOA
planning services, and to provide assistance to extension, cooperative and
credit institutions for which development options are under test in the ADP's
and commodity based projects. Effectively, the sector credit would provide
for continuity in support to kev institutions on completion of Phase II ADPs.
3.03     Alternative projects considered during preparation included:
(a) rehabilitation of medium and large-scale rubber estates acquired by the
Government after April 1980; and (b) support to the key sector institutions.
In the case of rubber rehabilitation, the Smallholder Rubber Project (SRP)
(Cr. 786/Ln. 1544-LBR) is already behind its rehabilitation and planting
targets because, at present farmgate prices, there is little farmer interest



- 13 -
in rehabilitation or new planting of rubber. The issue of low farmgate prices
which reflect partly low processing efficiency is being addressed through the
SRP with the con3truction of a new factory. With regard to medium and large
estates, a project of this nature has been under consideration for some time
but action has been delayed because the legal status of these plantations was
not clear. Given the problem on land tenure, and the lead time required for
project preparation, a rubber rehabilitation project was not an immediate
investment alternative to the proposed project. The second alternative con-
sidered was support for institutional improvements. The proposed project as
originally prepared provided for strengthening the central credit and coopera-
tive institutions but it did not tackle the weakness of MOA central services,
particularly in sector planning and programming. Support to central monitor-
ing and evaluation services is, however, already provided for under LCADP
II. Following discussions with MOA and review of MOA's initial proposals,
the appraisal mission concluded that further preparation work would be
required to pinpoint areas for effective support which would be best provided
through the sector credit (para 3.02). Assistance has been provided for
preparation of this component under a Project Preparation Facility and initial
support included in the proposed project.
3.04     In reviewing alternatives within Bong County, introduction of a
smallholder rubber component was rejected because of continuing problems with
the SRP (para 3.03). However, because of significantly higher revenues, the
tree crop program would be based on coffee, rather than coffee and cocoa as
under Phase I (para 3.08); while greater emphasis would be placed on food crop
production to exploit the Monrovia market. Project activities would be
extended into lower Bong and Gibi Territory (para 2.01) primarily to test the
possibility of exploiting the swamp rice potential in an area where upland
cropping alternatives are limited by rubber concessions. Labor constraints
(para 2.10) have been taken into account in project design through limiting
the area of swamp rice and setting criteria on labor availability for the
allocation of treecrop planting material and inputs. Assistance to larger
farmers (4-20 ha) would also be introduced (para 4.08).
3.05     Project objectives would include:  (a) improvement of small farmer
incomes and increased production of food and cash crops; (b) development of
extension services and self-sustaining input supply, credit and marketing
services; (c) merging of project and MOA activities, as part of the
decentralization process in MOA, to create a single, more cost effective
extension service; and (d) strengthening existing, nation-wide institutions
which would need to play a greater role at the end of the proposed project.
2.   Summary Description
3.06     These objectives would be achieved through the following actions
carried out under a four year project:
(a) Crop and Farm Development
- improving 5,500 ha of upland rice through seed exchange,
developing 350 ha of swamps for rice and vegetables, planting
4,000 ha of new coffee and 330 ha of improved cassava;



- 14 -
- providing inputs for bringing to maturity Phase I tree crop
plantings;
- strengthening agricultural extension, training and land planning
services, including introduction of the Training and Visits system
for agricultural extension;
- providing plant production facilities for coffee and cassava, and
assisting agricultural research in key areas;
(b) Input Supply, Credit and Marketing Services
- reorganizing and strengthening ACDB, the cooperatives, and CDA to
provide improved input supply, credit and marketing services,
including transfer of agricultural credit operations to ACDB;
(c) Roads and Workshop:
-  maintaining the secondary (260 km) and feeder (440 km) road
network and construction/rehabilitation of 110 km of feeder roads
and 50 km of tree crop tracks;
(d) Health Services
- maintaining schistosomiasis surveillance, treatment of infected
population and provision of 120 wells and 40 latrines;
(e) Project Management and Administration, Monitoring and
Evaluation, Technical Assistance and support to MOA
- maintaining project management, monitoring, and evaluation units;
- providing technical assistance for ACDB credit operations, and
consultancy assistance for monitoring and evaluation, cooperative
development, introduction of T and V extension system, crop
research and developnent, and planning and management of field
operations; and
- supporting MOA central planning services.
3.07     The project would cover a four year period and total costs are
estimated at US$22.9 million including US$17.4 million identified as the
incremental costs of Phase II and US$ 5.5 million of recurrent costs for
Phase I (para 3.25).



- 15 -
B. Detailed Features
1.   Crop and Farm Development
3.08     Development Program.  The crop and farm development program would
include: direct seed exchange on 5,500 ha of upland rice; development of 350
ha of swamps for cropping with rice in the wet season and rice or vegetables
(45 ha) in the dry season; 4,000 ha of new coffee, of which 550 ha would be
intercropped with plantains and cocoyams during the establishment period; and
330 ha of improved cassava. The rice seed program would establish close links
with the SRSP (para 1.13) which would provide seed, contribute to training and
use BCADP farmers as contract growers. Following experience under the first
project, the swamp rice development program would be limited to no more than
100 ha per year and would test alternative cropping options for the dry season.
On economic grounds - higher returns per ha and per manday - the tree crop
planting program would be limited to coffee and about 15% of the area would be
intercropped with food crops in the establishment period to improve short term
cash flow.   Inputs (fertilizer, replacement seedlings and chemicals) would
also be provided for bringing Phase I plantings to maturity. Improved cassava
varieties from International Institute for Tropical Agriculture (IITA) have
been tested, and production and distribution of improved material would be
introduced to cover 330 ha. Main changes compared with the first phase
project are the link with the SRSP, smaller swamp rice program, limiting tree
crops to coffee but interplanting with foodcrops, and introduction of improved
cassava. Funds would be provided for seed, fertilizer, tools and hired labor
(para 3.13).
3.09     Agricultural Extension  The project would provide for upgrading and
extending the existing agricultural extension services (Agricultural Services
Division) to cover the whole county and absorption of MOA extension services,
including the Home Economics Unit, under BCADP, as well as fincancing Phase I
recurrent costs. Funds would be provided for salaries, vehicles, equipment
and operational costs and short term consultancy assistance. Under a PPF,
funds would be provided in 1983/84 for consultancy assistance to review exten-
sion methods and provide initial training of all staff in the T & V System,
while the project would provide for further staff training in PY1 and follow-
up assistance in PY2-4. The project would also fund the visual aids unit
including a second mobile unit to be used in field demonstrations and would
provide for greater use of local radio through the Liberian Rural Communica-
tions Network station expected to be constructed at Gbarnga in 1984/85 (para
1 .13).
3.10     Training.  The project would continue to fund the Training Division
but would reshape its role away from running residential courses for farmers
to assisting the extension services in field training of extension staff and
organizing other staff training. Salaries, vehicles, replacement equipment,
operating costs and consultancy assistance would be funded to provide for:
in-service training of agricultural extension aides (AEA); short technical
courses for lower level staff; and project orientated management training for
middle and senior level staff. Funds would be provided to hire additional
expertise to assist with management training, to send selected staff to other



- 16 -
projects, research institutes and short courses in other African countries,
and to allow suitable AEAs' to take the two year upgrading course at the Rural
Development Institute, Cuttington (para 1.07).
3.11     Land Planning.  The project would provide funds for maintaining a
Planning Division, as under Phase I, to handle swamp selection and design and
selection of coffee areas.
3.12     Plant Production and Adaptive Research Division.  The project would
provide funds for a Plant Production and Adaptive Research Division (PPARD)
under BCADP to undertake the following:
(a) Production of improved coffee seedlings and food crop interplants
(plantains and cocoyams) to be sold to farmers on cash or credit.
About 40 nurseries would be funded to produce about 1.2 million
plants per year with seed purchased from Ivory Coast. The project
would provide for CSU nurseries managed by farmers groups to be
developed reaching 50% of all PY3 nurseries for PY4 field planting.
Consultancy assistance to develop improved nursery planning
procedures would be financed under a PPF in 1983/84.
(b) Provision of upland (LAC 23) and swamp (IR5 and Suakoko 8) rice
seed. Upland seed would be provided on direct seed exchange and
swamp seed for sale on cash or credit. About 930 tons of LAC 23 and
40 tons of lowland varieties would be provided and supplied almost
entirely by SRSP (para 1.13).
(c) Provision of improved Cassava cuttings. The project would provide
for multiplication of three selected IITA cultivers (CARICASS 1, 2,
and 3) on 1.4 ha under a traditional multiplication system. If the
marketing studies (para 6.05) indicate the possibility of signifi-
cantly increasing the area covered by cassava, the project would
speed up the multiplication program by using other simple methods of
propagation (two node cuttings in polysacs) or cultivars would be
grown in selected areas for the CSUs to take over production and
distribution. The project would provide for a Root and Tuber Crop
officer and a Propagation Supervisor within PPARD and seasonal labor
to be employed for cultivation, cutting and preparation of the
cassava cuttings.
(d) Tree Crop Experimentation under BCADP would be confined to
observation plots/demonstrations of key techniques such as coffee
seedling age at transplanting, timing of planting and rate of shade
reduction.
3-13     Farm Inputs.  The project would provide incremental farm inputs to
farmers on cash and credit in the form of both seasonal and development
loans.  Credit would be extended to:  (i) new farmers in Phase I area; (ii)
new farmers in the new project area; and (iii) existing participating farmers
to expand or intensify their farms.  Medium-term development credit (about
US$2.1 million) would be provided to establish new swamp rice and coffee
farms, and to coffee and cocoa farms established in the later part of



- 17 -
Phase I. Loans would be given in kind for tools and equipment, coffee
seedlings, fertilizers, and agricultural chemicals, and in cash for hired
labor for swamp development and establishment of coffee farms. Short-term
seasonal credit (about US$0.2 million) would be provided for: (a) swamp rice
in kind, to cover seed and fertilizers, and in cash for hired labor; and (b)
interplanted coffee in kind, for plantain and cocoyam suckers and tools, and
in cash for hired labor. Delivery of farm inputs would be through the
cooperative societies (para 3.15).
3.14     Agricultural Research  While, in view of the significant on-going and
planned USAID program at CARI (para 1.08), tree crop research would not be
supported under the project, the provision of locally produced coffee and
cocoa seed for later non-project plantings would be secured by the establish-
ment at CARI of one 6 ha cocoa seed garden and one 3 ha coffee seed garden. A
one month consultancy would be financed for selection of clonal seed parents
from the Ivory Coast and for design of the gardens. The project would also
allocate funds to be provided to CARI for development of additional upland and
swamp rice varieties and agronomic work on swamp rice. This would continue
work initiated under Phase I and would complement assistance being provided
under SRSP. Project assistance is required to avoid a gap before the second
phase of the USAID supported research project (para 1.08) gets underway.
Finally, the project would assist CARI with support to the IITA, IFAD
supported Research Project for the surveillance of, and introduction of
biological control for mealy bugs (Phennacoccus manihoti) and green spider
mite (Mononychellus spp.) on cassava. The project would fund staff and
support costs for a survey and biological control operation in PY1 and PY2.
Research on upland cropping systems would be handled by the USAID supported
Phase II project. An assurance was obtained at negotiations that IDA would be
consulted in the preparation of an agricultural research program and the
reorganization of CARI under the USAID supported project.
2.   Input Supply, Credit and Marketing Services
3.15     Commercial Services Division and Cooperatives.  The project would
continue to give emphasis to strengthening the cooperative structure with the
objective of transferring responsibility for farmer input supply and marketing
services from the project to the cooperative societies by the end of the
project period. Because the cooperatives are so weak, these activities would
be phased in over four years with emphasis on marketing in PYs 1 and 2, and
input supply in PY3 and 4. Support for District Cooperative Societies (DCS)
would be given through project financing, as a grant, of DCS business managers
and bookkeepers, on a reducing scale, over three years. Funds would also be
provided for personnel, vehicles and operating costs for the Project Commer-
cial Services Division, and for vehicles, operating costs and equipment for
the Cooperative Development Agency. To facilitate input supply and marketing
the project would provide funds, as a grant, to build a District Cooperative
Society zonal store (thus, together with the six existing zonal stores, there
would be one zonal store for each district), and 40 small village stores, and
to improve seven district markets.   ACDB is also proposing to invest its own
funds in the Cooperatives by contributing as share capital in each society an
amount equal to the incremental share capital collected from participating



- 18 -
farmers. Funds would be provided for a 3-month study under the PPF in 1983/84
to review the full operations of the cooperative movement in Bong County, to
make recommedations for improvement, and for a follow-up 3-month study in PY2.
3.16     Agricultural and Cooperative Development Bank (ACDB).  ACDB would,
with the assistance of the Commercial Services Division and the cooperative
societies, assume responsibility for project agricultural credit requirements
throughout Bong County. To support ACDB, the project would provide funds for
a Credit Adviser, currently financed under the Rubber project, to be retained
for a further three years. In addition, as very little cash income would be
generated during the project period because of the long grace periods of
repayment of principal and payment of interest on coffee loans, the proJect
would fund, as a grant, personnel, vehicles, operating costs and equipment for
ACDB's branch office in Bong County.  Funds for inputs provided under the past
project and this project would be transferred to ACDB as Government equity to
help strengthen ACDB's weak capital base (para. 1.11). Funds would also be
provided for a study to review ACDB organization, management, and operations.
An assurance was obtained at negotiations that ACDB would carry out the study
by December 31, 1984 and that by March 31, 1985 ACDB would review the recom-
mendations of the study with the Association and agree a time-bound implemen-
tation program. To ensure farmers a permanent supply of credit, ACDB would
establish a Revolving Loans Fund to finance future input requirements. Full
details of Cooperatives, Credit and Input Supply, together with Draft Terms of
Reference for the Credit Adviser, the 1983/84 study of the cooperative
movement, and the ACDB study, are in Working Paper No. 5.
3.   Roads and Workshop
3.17     The project would provide funds for the maintenance of preproject
secondary (260 km) and feeder (440 km) road network until MPW capacity has
beerL built up (para 1.10), construction, or rehabilitation, and subsequent
maintenance of 110 km of feeder roads, and construction of 50 km of tree crop
tracks to group farm sites.1/  MPW would be expected to take over maintenance
of secondary roads from PY3 and feeder roads at the end of the project period.
The project would fund salaries, operating costs and construction materials
for two maintenance and one construction brigades comprising equipment
acquired under Phase I plus some supplementary fuel trailers (3). Replacement
trucks (4), one replacement grader, one replacement front-end loader and
miscellaneous equipment would be funded under the project. To support the
increased activity of the roads unit, the project would provide for strength-
ening the workshop organization. The workshop at Suakoko would be expanded
and additional equipment and heavy duty mechanics recruited. Feeder roads
would be constructed according to agreed standards (Annex 3-1) including a
maximum carriage width of 4m, side drainage ditches of a minimum 1.5m width
and :Laterite surfacing to 75-100mm where necessary. Emphasis in both new
construction and rehabilitation would be on providing access at least economic
cost; excessively high standards would be avoided. Typical cross sections for
1/   Additional feeder road and tree crop track requirements are based
on an assessment of further tree crop and swamp potential along existing
roads and in new areas to be opened up (see Working Paper No. 7).



- 19 -
feeder roads and tree crop tracks are in Working Paper No. 7. Under the
proposed organization and operating methods, the costs per km including equip-
ment depreciation for feeder road construction and maintenance are calculated
at 1983 costs of US$14,000 per km and US$900 per km/year, respectively, while
cost of tree crop track construction is US$3,000 per km; these costs are con-
sistent with country experience. The project would also provide for the pilot
introduction by the Commercial Services Division of improved transport aids
(handcarts and wheel barrows).
4.   Health Services
3.18     The project would provide for: the continuation of schistosomiasis
monitoring in the swamps and at water points; a treatment program for infected
population; and construction of 120 wells and 40 latrines which would be
linked to villages participating in the swamp rice and tree crop program.
Funds would be provided for salaries, vehicles, equipment and operating costs
for the schistosomiasis surveillance unit; greater emphasis would be placed on
treatment, for which drugs would be provided, and a pilot program for control
of the snail vector in swamps would be mounted. MRD would be contracted to
drill 120 tubewells for which pumps and fittings would be provided. The
project would provide logistical support for a Health Educator from the
Ministry of Health to sensitize villagers in the use and maintenance of
pumps. A small latrine program would be continued with the project providing
materials and supervision to support those villages willing to prepare
building blocks.
5.   Project Management, Administration, Monitoring and Evaluation
3.19     The project would provide for project management and administration
units as well as for the monitoring and evaluation unit. Funds would be
provided for salaries, vehicles, equipment and operational costs.
6.   Technical Assistance and Consultancy Services
3.20     Under the various components above, internationally recruited staff
totalling 3 man years and consultancy services totalling 45 man months at an
estimated cost of US$12,000 per man month (including fees, international
travel and local subsistence) are included as follows:
(i) International Staff: A Credit Specialist (3 man years) for ACDB.
(ii) Consultancy Services: Consultancy support would be funded for: (a)
Agricultural Extension: 6 man months to assist in developing the
Training and Visits System following up on assistance under PPF of 4
man months (total 10 man months) (para 3.09); (b) Crop Research and
Development: 1 man month for establishing cocoa and coffee seed
gardens at CARI, 3 man months for rice research, 3 man months for
review of swamp design and development strategy (total 7 man months)
(para 3.14); (c) Cooperative Development: 3 man months follow-up to
PPF study of 3 man months (total 6 man months) (para 3.15); (d)
ACDB Management, Organization and Operations Study: 4 man months
(para 3.16); (e) Radio Programming: 8 man months to assist pro-



- 20 -
grarming and evaluation of results (para 3.09); (f) Management
Training: 6 man months to conduct two management training seminars
for senior and middle level staff on project implementation and
management (3.10); (g) LPMC: 3 man months for assistance with cost
reduction study; and (h) Monitoring and Evaluation:  8 man months to
draw up the program for M & E; design of surveys, studies and
questionnaires; further training of staff; periodic supervision of
field surveys, data processing and report production; and assistance
for an ex-post evaluation of the project (para 4.07).
3.21     Assurances were obtained at negotiations that prior to engaging any
consultants: (i) detailed Terms of Reference for their employment would be
reviewed and agreed with IDA; and (ii) they would have qualifications and
experience acceptable to IDA.
7.   Support to MOA Central Services
3.22     The project would provide for the initial strengthening of the
Ministry of Agriculture prior to further support expected under the Sector
Credit (para. 3.02). At negotiations it was agreed that while this support
woulcd be directed primarily to the Department of Planning and Development it
could be extended to include other Departments of the Ministry as might be
agreed upon between the Government, IDA and IFAD. A detailed program would be
prepared by consultants recruited under a PPF (para. 3.23) and the project
would provide technical assistance, local support costs (vehicles and operat-
ing costs), studies and overseas training in PY1 and PY2 to a total of about
US$415,000 including contingencies; subsequent financing would be provided
under the Sector Credit (para. 3.02).
8.   Project Preparation Facility (PPF)
3.23     Project costs include a PPF advance of US$643,000 equivalent to help
GOL during the interim year between Phase I and the proposed Phase II project
to: (a) maintain land planning, nursery and plant production services; (b)
fund start-up activities for ACDB in Bong County; and (c) finance technical
assistance and consultancy studies required prior to Phase II.
C. Cost Estimates
3.24     Based on February 1983 prices total project costs are estimated at
US$22.9 million, including a Project Preparation Facility (PPF) of US$0.6
miklion and about US$0.7 million in taxes. The foreign exchange costs are
estimated at US$9.7 million (42% of total project cost). A summary cost table
is presented below with further details in Annexes 3-2 and 3-3 and Working
Paper No. 10.  Physical contingencies have been applied at 10% for civil works
and 5% for all other items excluding salaries, technical assistance and labor
costs, and amount to about 2% of base costs. Expected price increases amount



- 21 -
Project Cost Summary
(US $'000)
Percentage
Local        Foreign        Total         of base costs
CROP AND FARM DEVELOPMENT
Agricultural Extension                        2145           813          2958              16
Training                                       442           242           684              4
Land Planning                                  420           193           613              3
Plant Production                               922           261          1183              6
Farm Inputs                                   1018           425          1443              8
Sub-total Crop and Farm Development              4947           1934         6881             37
AGRICULTURAL RESEARCH                              118            69           187              1
INPUT SUPPLY, CREDIT AND MARKETING SERVICES
Commercial Services Division                  1182           967          2149              12
Cooperative Union and Societies                 60            24            84      )1
Cooperative Development Agency                  92            69            161     )
Agricultural Cooperative Development
Bank                                         338           385           723              4
Sub-total Input Supply, Credit and
Marketing Services                            1672          1445          3117              17
ROADS AND WORKSHOP
Road construction and maintenance             1080           1816         2896              15
Workshop                                       529            173           702              4
Sub-total Roads and Workshop                      1609          1989          3598             19
HEALTH SERVICES
Schistomiasis Surveillance                     237             90          327               2
Wells and Latrines                              114           200           314              1
Sub-total Health Services                          351           290           641              3
PROJECT MANAGEMENT AND ADMINISTRATION             2242           652          2894             15
MONITORING AND EVALUATION                          316           115           431              2
TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE AND CONSULTANCY
SERVlCES                                        59           526           585               3
SUPPORT TO MOA CENTRAL SERVICES                     70           280           350              2
Total Baseline Costs                             11384          7300         18684            100
Physical Contingencies                          152          315           467               2
Price Contingencies                           1434          1686          3120              17
TOTAL PROJECT COSTS                              12970          9301        22271             119
Project Preparation Facility                   200           443           643               3
Total with PPF                                   13170          9744        22914             122
less recurrent costs Phase I                     4895           605          5500
TOTAL FINANCING REQUIRED                         8275          9139         17414



- 22 -
to about 16% of the base costs plus physical contingencies, and have been
calculated at the following rates: foreign and local 8% for 1983, 7.5% for
1984, 7% for 1985, 6% for 1986 and 1987; local salaries 0% for 1983, 3% for
1984-1987.
3.25     Project costs include about US$5.5 million identified as the recur-
rent costs of Phase I and US$17.4 million of development costs. Since Phase I
is a time slice of a ten to fifteen year development program (para. 3.01),
recurrent and development costs which are, therefore, interlinked, have, for
operational purposes, been treated as one. The above cost table presents the
integrated position but the total recurrent costs of Phase I have been netted
off to show the incremental costs of Phase II. As total project requirements
are used as a basis for negotiating allocations with the Ministry of Planning
and Economic Affairs, funding is facilitated by treating recurrent and
development costs as one in presenting project costs.
D. Proposed Financing
3.26     The total financing required to meet development costs is estimated
at US$17.4 million. The proposed IDA credit of US$6.7 million to GOL on
standard terms and conditions would finance 36% of foreign cost and 41% of
local cost, or 39% of total development costs. IFAD would extend a loan of
US$5.8 million which would finance 33% of development costs. African Develop-
ment Fund (ADF) would finance 23% of development costs by extending a loan of
US$4 million to GOL on terms similar to IDA but without the commitment
charge. It would be a Condition of Effectiveness that all conditions pre-
cedent to the effectiveness of the IFAD and ADF loan agreements had been
fulfilled. The financing plan is as shown below.
FINANCING PLAN
Foreign Exchange      Local Currency             Total
US$       %         US$          %           US$    %
IDA            3.3      36          3.4         41          6.7    39
IFAD           2.8      31          3.0         36          5.8    33
ADF            3.0      33          1.0         12          4.0    23
GOL              -        -         0.9         11          0.9      5
9.1     100                     100         17.4   100
Government would fund US$0.9 million, or 5% of development costs, as well as
the recurrent costs of Phase I (US$5.5 million). GOL's total contribution of
US$6.4 million would finance 49% of local costs, or 28% of total project
costs. At negotiations assurances were obtained from Government that it would
make the necessary allocations in the Agricultural Budget. Government would
be required to provide its contribution to the project quarterly in advance in
accordance with an agreed schedule. This would be reviewed annually by IDA



- 23 -
and replenishment of the Special Account (para 3.27) would be subject to
government remaining current with their contribution. Assurances to this
effect were obtained at negotiations.
3.27     In order to facilitate implementation of the project especially under
the present difficult financial situation affecting the GOL, it would be
essential that prefinancing for certain categories of project expenditures be
provided. An amount of US$280,000 as an advance from the proposed IDA Credit
and US$ 270,000 for the proposed IFAD loan would be deposited in a Special
Project Account at the National Bank of Liberia. The amount is based on an
average quarter's requirement for all local and small foreign expenditures
comprising civil works, salaries, farm inputs and operating costs financed by
IDA/IFAD. Assurances were obtained during negotiations that the account would
be operated under terms and conditions acceptable to IDA which would provide
inter alia that: (a) reimbursements after certification of the eligibility of
the expenditures concerned, would be made directly to this account; (b)
reimbursement requests would be accompanied by a statement of the movements in
the account since the preceding application, certified by the bank in which
the account is maintained; (c) any ineligible expenditures would promptly be
made good by Government; and (d) reimbursements would be subject to GOL
contributions to the project being up to date. Opening by Government of the
Special Account would be a condition of Effectiveness for the proposed credit.
3.28     Following present practices, project management would prepare annual
budgets and estimates of quarterly cash requirements for the project, based on
appraisal estimates but amended where necessary to reflect changes in costs
and project development policies. The budget would then be submitted to the
Steering Committee (para 4.02) for approval and sent through MOA to the
Ministry of Planning and Economic Affairs (MPEA). After approval by MPEA, the
Ministry of Finance would make appropriate allocations in the Agricultural
Budget and, thereafter, would release to the project all necessary funds
quarterly in advance, as per project cash-flow statements.



- 24 -
E. Procurement
3.29      Procurement arrangements are summarized in the table below:
Amounts and Methods of Procurement
(in US $ Million)
Procurement Method               Total
Project Element                ICB      LCB      Other      N.A.      Cost
Vehicles, equipment             1.5      0.2       1.1        --       2.8
and furniture                  (0-8)   (0.1)       (-)                (0-9)
Farm inputs                     0.2      0.2       1.4        --       1.8
(o.1)   (0.1)     (0.7)        --     (0.9)
Buildings                       --       0.4       0.1        --       0.5
(0.2)     --                  (0.2)
Technical Assistance and
Consultancy Services and
Overseas Training               --       --        1.0        --       1.0
(0-5)               (0s5)
Assistance to Ministry of
Agriculture                                        0.4                 0.4
(0.2)              (0.2)
Operating expenses                                15.8                15.8
(3-4)              (3-4)
PPF refinancing                 --       --        --         0.6      0.6
(0.6)   (0.6)
Total                     1.7      0.8      19.8        0.6    22.9
ITDA                     (0.9)   (0.4)    (4.8)        (0.6)   (6.7)
Note:  Figures in perenthese are the amounts financed by IDA.
3.30      Goods:  Vehicles (US$1.5 m) and Fertilizer (US$0.2 m) would be
grouped in packages of over US$50,000 and would be procured through ICB
procedures in accordance with IDA procurement guidelines. In bid comparison
domestic manufacturers would be allowed a margin of preference equal to 15% of
the C.I.F. bid price of imported goods or the level of import duties and taxes
whichever is less. Contracts in packages of US$10,000-50,000 totalling US$0.4
million for farm chemicals, tools, and furniture would be awarded on the basis
of local competitive bidding procedures (LCB) in which foreign suppliers are



- 25 -
eligible to participate, while contracts below US$10,000 for the same items
totalling US$0.2 million would be procured through shopping with at least
three price quotations. Seeds (US$0.2 m) would be procured through the Small
Holder Rice Seed Project. Technical Assistance and Consultancy Services
(US$1.0 million) would be procured in accordance with the principles and
procedures described in the "guidelines for the use of consultants by World
Bank borrowers and by the World Bank as Executing Agency. Assistance to MOA
(US$0.4 million) would consist of technical assistance, studies, overseas
training, vehicles and operating costs which would be procured according to
procedures for respective items discussed above. Vehicles, equipment and
buildings, (US$1.1 million) and operating expenses (US$2.9 million) for
Roads/Workshops and Health Services components are financed by ADF and would
be procured in accordance with their regulations.  The remaining US$13.9 m
include salaries, vehicle operating and general administration costs and hired
labor which are unsuitable for competitive bidding.
3.31     Works:  Contracts for civil works/buildings totalling US$0.5 m
consist of improvement to traditional markets, village stores and buildings
that are scattered around the country and would be awarded on the basis of LCB
procedures since local capability exists to execute such small civil works.
3.32     Contract Review:  All bidding packages over US$50,000 would be
subject to the Bank's prior review of procurement documentation resulting in a
coverage of about 80% of the total estimated value of goods contracts. The
balance of contracts would be subject to random post-review by IDA after
contract award but before disbursement.
F. Disbursements
3.33     The proceeds of IDA credit of US$6.7 million and IFAD loan of US$5.8
million would be disbursed paripassu on a 51:49 basis as shown in the
following table. The ADF loan of US $4 million would be disbursed according
to ADF's schedule of disbursement.



- 26 -
TLsbursaement Schedule for IDA Credit and IFAD Loan
US$
Category                  % of Expenditures to be Financed   Amount (0C0)  SDR Equivalent
1 . Vehicles, equipnent and furniture 1 0  of foreign expenditures
90% of local expenditures             1,30X         1,720
2. Buildings                      85%                                     3C0           280
3. Fanm Irnputs                   103% of foreign expenditures
and 90% of local expenditures        1,503          1,430
4. Techni.cal Assistance, Con-    10X% of foreign expenditures
sultancy and overseas training  90% of local expenditures         1,003            960
5. Assistance to Ministry of      10CX of foreign expenditures
Agricult-ure                90% of local expenditures               300 210
6. Salaries                       90% of local salaries for Plant
Production, Resear-ch, Land Planning,
T16nitoring and Evaluation, Traning,
CDA and ACDB                         1,830          1,720
7. Vehicle Operating, General     8C%
Administrative and Other
Operating costs                                                   3,700          3,530
8. Initial withdrawal for
special account                                                     550            530
9. Project preparation facility                                          643            620
10. Unalocated                                                           937            830
Total                                                          12,500         11,900
3.34     A disbursement schedule (Annex 3-4) has been prepared on the basis of
the typical disbursement profile for Liberia but adjusted to: (i) the
project's 4-year implementation period; and (ii) expected faster disbursement
being a second phase project with established management and PPF financing for
some start-up actions. Disbursement against vehicles and equipment, buildings,
saLaries and allowances of internationally recruited consultants and farm
inputs would be fully documented. Disbursements would be made against state-
ments of expenditure, (which would be reviewed during the course of project
supervision) covering the local costs of operational expenditures. The
project's auditors would check the reliability of statements of expenditures
and would include a statement to this effect in the annual statement of
accounts.  Disbursements into the Project Special Account would be made
according to the procedures discussed in para 3.27. Assurances were obtained
from Government at negotiations that all supporting documents for statements
of expenditures and withdrawals from the special account would be maintained
and made available upon request for inspection by IDA.



- 27 -
G. Accounts and Audit
3.35     GOL would cause MOA, ACDB, CDA, and the cooperatives to:  (i) estab-
lish and maintain separate project-related accounts for Phase II project, in
accordance with sound accounting practices as already established under the
previous project; (ii) have the project accounts including special account and
statements of expenditures and ACDB accounts audited annually by independent
auditors acceptable to IDA at the end of each project year: (iii) ensure that
the reports of the auditors are of such scope and detail as IDA may reasonably
request; (iv) send to IDA within six months following the financial year,
certified copies of the audited accounts and the auditors report which would
include, inter alia, a statement that funds disbursed against statement of
expenditures, had been used for the purpose for which they were provided; and
(v) furnish such other information concerning its accounts as IDA may reason-
ably require. Assurance ensuring the adoption of the above accounting and
auditing procedures were obtained at negotiations. Under the Phase I project
GOL has satisfactorily complied with these conditions, and the accounting
procedures in place are acceptable to IDA. The audit report of June 1982 has
been completed. ACDB accounts are currently audited by external auditors
acceptable to the Association; the audits are up to date and satisfactory.
IV. PROJECT IMPLEMENTATION
A. Project Organization and Management
4.01     Project Organization.  An organogram of the entities involved in
project implementation is given in Annex 4.1. MOA would continue to have
overall responsibilty for the project, with responsibility for implementation
delegated to a project manager supported by technical and administrative
units. Under the proposed project all existing and, at present, parallel MOA
services in the county would be merged with the project into a single struc-
ture. The project manager who would be designated the County Agricultural
Officer (CAO) for Bong County, would be responsible for all project related
staff as well as those MOA staff handling activities which would not benefit
from direct support under the proposed project. Agreement with the Government
regarding the above organizational changes was reached during negotiations.
MOA is at present restructuring and decentralizing its regional activities and
further changes can be expected during the project period. The CAO would be
responsible for planning changes in the project organization and procedures as
necessary to fit any new MOA structure. Assurances were obtained at negotia-
tions that any further reorganization of MOA services in Bong County during
project period would be subject to IDA agreement. Assurances were obtained at
negotiations that during project implementation, staff occupying the positions
of CAO, Agricultural Development Manager, Financial Controller, Internal
Auditor and Commercial Services Manager would have qualifications and
experience acceptable to IDA.



- 28 -
4.02     Project Coordination.  The Project Steering Committee (PSC) would
continue to provide policy guidance to the project under the chairmanship of
the Minister of Agriculture. The PSC, which has been most effective under
Phase I, would meet quarterly. Its membership (at present: Ministry of Agri-
culture, Ministry of Planning and Economic Affairs, Ministry of Finance,
Ministry of Internal Affairs, Cooperative Development Agency and Agricultural
Cooperative and Development Bank) would be extended to include the Ministry of
Rural Development. The Project Consultative Committee (PCC) consisting of
local officials and chiefs at the county level, would be extended to include
representatives of all GOL Ministries and other public corporations present in
the county. This would include inter alia LPMC, Ministry of Health and Social
Welfare, Ministry of Education, Ministry of Commerce, MRD, CDA, ACDB and SRSP.
The Assistant County Superintendent for Development would chair the committee.
The PCC would continue to provide implementation guidance and would facilitate
expansion of the project development activities into Lower Bong and Gibi
Territory. Coordination with CARI would be maintained through quarterly
meetings between BCADP and CARI, and SRSP would be invited to join these
meetings. Whilst there is no formal link with the Rural Development Insti-
tute, the project manager and training manager are on the committee for the
planning of Phase II of the USAID supported project for RDI and close links
would be expected in arranging project training programs (para 4.10).
4.03     Merger of MOA and Project Staffing.  Existing MOA agricultural
extension and Home Economics services would be merged with project services to
cover the whole county. Following experience gained during the Phase I
project, adjustments would also be made to the Phase I staff structure and the
complement of administration staff would be reduced. Assurances were obtained
at negotiations that Government would effect the necessary reduction in staff
consistent with efficient operation of the project based on an agreed
schedule. Total staff members required would be: PYI - 437, PY2 - 445,
PY3 - 454, PY4 - 462; compared with total BCADP staff (452) and MOA extension
service personnel (49) of 501 at June 1983 (Annex 4-2).
4.04     Farmer participation.  Farmers' views on project development would be
expressed through chiefs representing them on the PCC and through the coopera-
tive movement. The majority of farmer participants would be members of
village level Cooperative Service Units (CSU) which would be affiliated to
district cooperatives. The MOA Home Economics Unit, which would be absorbed
by the project, would have an especial role to play in encouraging the active
participation of women groups and to guide these groups in tackling other
community problems of public hygiene, nutrition etc., and linking with the
project's wells, latrines and schistosomiasis program.
B. Sub-Project Selection and Monitoring Procedures
4.05     Selection Procedures.  The success of the project in raising produc-
tion will depend upon selecting swamp and tree crop areas of good potential
and where farmer interest would be maintained after the initial investment



- 29 -
period. A number of steps were taken during the latter stage of Phase I to
improve selection procedures so as to ensure farmer response and under the
proposed project improved selection procedures would be formalized.
4.06     For road rehabilitation/reconstruction a screening and evaluation
procedure has been designed which would provide project staff with a means of
ranking alternatives and selecting the "best" proposals on a basis of poten-
tial production and cost of the road. The proposed screening/evaluation
procedure compares the net present value (after deducting agricultural invest-
ments) of potential production from coffee and swamp. rice in the zone of
influence of the road with the cost of building and maintaining the road over
the life (25 years) of the agricultural investments (for full description see
Working Paper No. 7). Under this procedure only roads with a minimum ERR of
10% (equivalent to the opportunity cost of capital) would be acceptable.
Construction of wells and latrines would continue to be concentrated in
villages participating in the agricultural development program and procedures
for improving villagers' participation in initial selection and subsequent
maintenance which have been developed by MRD in Maryland County, would be
followed.
4.07     Monitoring and Evaluation.  More effective use would be made of the
Monitoring and Evaluation Unit (MEU) to provide a timely flow of information
to Project Management. Emphasis would be put on limited, well defined surveys
to assess the extent to which the technical divisions were meeting qualitative
and quantitative objectives and to aid managers in modifying project approaches
as necessary. MEU would particularly assist the Agricultural Services Divi-
sion (ASD) in its pilot work on swamp develojpent (para 5.02), would obtain
population data to assist ASD and the Infrastructure Division in selecting
areas for developnent (para 4.15) and would monitor the road maintenance
program. As in Lofa County, the M & E unit of Bong during Phase I was under
the administrative control of the Project Manager. A consultants' study of
M & E systems in Liberia in August 1981 found that this arrangement was
working satisfactorily and recommended that the M & E units of both Lofa and
Bong projects should be administratively under the control of the respective
project managers but under the overall technical control, guidance and super-
vision of CMEU in MOA (para 1.05). This recommendation has been implemented
in Lofa Phase II project and would be followed in the proposed Bong Phase II
project. The performance of the M & E unit under Bong Phase I was satisfac-
tory. However, the expatriate Manager of the Unit has now transferred to the
CMEU as its Director. In view of the inexperience of the new Manager
(Liberian), consultancy assistance would be provided for drawing up the
detailed program of the unit; design of surveys, studies and questionnaires;
further training of staff; periodic supervision of field surveys, data
processing and report production; and assistance for an ex-post evaluation of
the project (para 3.20). This would be in addition to the technical guidance
and supervision from CMEU. The CMEU would have the prime responsibility for
the ex-post evaluation of the project with assistance from the project M & E
unit and consultants. A summary of the Project Implementation schedule broken
down by major activities is given in Annex 4-3.



- 30 -
C. Agricultural Extension and Training
4.08     In strengthening the Agricultural Services Division (ASD) to cover
the whole county and handle the absorption of MOA agricultural extension staff
under BCADP, the Training and Visits (T & V) system would be introduced,
greater use made of the Kuu and Cooperative Service Unit (CSU) groups, super-
vision of field staff increased, and planning of field operations improved.
One new district would be opened to cover Lower Bong. Additional staff
required to cover Lower Bong and the increased activity in Upper Bong, as well
as to raise the supervision ratio, would be met from existing MOA staff (para
2.04). There would be an average of one Agricultural Extension Aide (AEA) for
150 farms reached directly in phase I and II, and one per 220 farms in the
counaty. The Plant Production and Adaptive Research Division (PPARD) manager
(coffee), the Root and Tuber officer (cassava and vegetables) and the Senior
Extension Officer (rice) would act as Subject Matter Specialists in regular
training sessions and provide the link between research and extension. The
consultants would assist with the redesign of the extension system and exten-
sion staff training (para 3.20). Senior extension staff assisted by the Land
Planning Service would provide planning services to farmers in the above 4 ha
to 20 ha group (para 2.08). While these farmers would not receive project
credit, they would have access to ACDB credit (para 4.15) and would be able to
purchase planting material and inputs from the project.
4.09     The project would use the Liberian Rural Communications Network
(LRCN) station at Gbarnga which is expected to be operational by early 1985
(para 1.13), to test the wider use of radio in agricultural extension and two
extension officers would be trained in the preparation of programs in 1984.
Consultants (para 3.20) would assist in start-up of programming and subsequent
evaluation of farmer response.
4.10     The work of the Training Division would shift from running residen-
tial courses for farmers to assisting the extension services in field training
of extension staff and organizing other staff training. Main categories of
staff training to be provided under the project would be: agricultural
extension aides regular in-service training plus, for suitable candidates,
upgrading through the 2-year course at the Rural Development Institute; (b)
lower level staff - training in specific technical aspects (viz vehicle
maintenance, input sales); and (c) middle and senior level staff - project
oriented management training and exposure to other projects, research
institutes as well as, in selected cases, short courses in other African
countries. In providing management training, outside consultants or organi-
zations such as the Liberian Institute of Public Administration (LIPA) would
assist, while, with technical aspects, CARI and the West African Rice Develop-
ment Association (WARDA) would be used.



- 31 -
D. Cooperative and Credit Organization
4.11     Cooperative Development.  The project Commercial Services Division
would endeavour to almost double the existing number of Cooperative Service
Units (CSU) during the project period. At the District Cooperative Society
(DCS) level, one new DCS would be added to cover the new project area in Lower
Bong. During PYs 1 and 2, DCS would gradually take over full responsibility
for project marketing activities and during PY3 and 4, DCS would concentrate
on taking over project input supply activities. Presently, all the DCS are
still very weak; to help strengthen them the Cooperative Development Agency
(CDA) would assume responsibility for education, supervision, audit and train-
ing, with special emphasis on the latter. CDA would post to Bong County a
senior cooperatives officer as Assistant Registrar of Cooperative Societies, a
supervisor for accounts and audit, a training officer, and a general coopera-
tives clerk. Although CDA has a small number of good staff, they have been
ineffective because CDA did not have its own annual budget and the staff did
not have the necessary logistical support. Prior to negotiations Government
approved a CDA budget acceptable to IDA, and CDA posted the required staff to
Bong County.
4.12     Agricultural and Cooperative Development Bank (ACDB):  Government has
agreed to the transfer of Phase I loans and the balance of Phase I Revolving
Loans Fund totalling about $1.5 million from the project to ACDB in the form
of Government equity (para 3.16). This would enable ACDB to take over all
Phase I loans 3-6 months prior to Phase II to ensure smooth implementation of
Phase II credit activities. ACDB would need additional field staff and
accounts clerks, most of whom would be transferred from CSD to provide the
necessary continuity. District Cooperative Societies would assist ACDB in
loan recoveries, for which they would be paid a commission, at an agreed rate,
on the amounts recovered. General agreement has been reached with ACDB on
operating procedures, a draft outline of which endorsed by MOA, CDA and
BCADP, has been received. Final agreement on procedures was reached during
negotiations and details are included in Working Paper No. 5. It would be a
Condition of Effectiveness that a Financing Agreement had been signed between
Government and ACDB.
4.13     Farm Credit.  Development and seasonal credit would be granted for
coffee, plantain/cocoyam intercropped coffee, and swamp rice, in accordance
with schedules set out in Working Paper No. 5. Hired labor would be paid in
cash for land clearing and crop establishment; all other credit, such as
tools, equipment, fertilizers, pesticides, herbicides, etc. would be in kind.
Credit would be available to all categories of farmers, the main criteria
being creditworthiness, rather than security, and repayment capacity based on
incremental income from the investment. The Project would provide funds for
farmers with holdings of up to 4 ha; farmers with holdings in excess of 4 ha
would be eligible to apply directly to ACDB for loans. Group borrowing would
be encouraged to reduce risk and costs. Credit procedures would include
active involvement of extension officers and project commercial aides who
would contact farmers and initiate applications for loans for submission to
ACDB for approval, after being recommended by CSU and District Cooperative
Societies. Interest rates to farmers would be 15% for seasonal loans, with a



- 32 -
minimum charge of $10, and 12% for medium/long term loans 1/ (these are also
ACDB's current rates). Repayment performance, which is acceptable at present
(para 2.14), would be monitored closely. Interest rates, lending terms and
conditions, which would be included as a schedule to the Credit Agreement and
included in the Financing Agreement between Government and ACDB (para 4.12),
would be reviewed with IDA as at 30th June annually and, if necessary, revised
in agreement with IDA to reflect domestic inflation and the costs of admin-
istering the credit program. An undertaking to this effect was obtained at
negotiations.
4.14     Input Distribution and Crop Marketing.  This would follow the pattern
established under Phase I, but with DCS gradually taking over responsibility
from CSD in a phased manner over the project period. To facilitate these
activities, the project would build an additional District Cooperative Society
zonal store in Lower Bong; thus, there would be one large store in each
district by the end of the project period. In addition, 40 small village
stores would be located to serve the most active Cooperative Service Units,
and improvements would be made to seven traditional markets, one in each
district, where the main weekly markets are held. The village stores, which
would be constructed by the local population using material provided by the
project, would serve as the focal point for project activities, such as
storage and distribution of inputs and marketing for the area. Until coopera-
tives take over full responsibility for procurement and distribution of inputs,
starting in PY3, the Commercial Services Division would continue to procure,
store, and distribute inputs on behalf of the societies. The DCS have already
become actively involved in marketing through Tungban Cooperative Union, which
is an LPMC authorized Licensed Buying Agent. However, to correct anomalies in
the existing buying arrangements and to ensure that, as far as possible, an
equitable price is paid to the farmer, all seven DCS would apply for LPMC
Licensed Buying Agencies. Full details of input supply, credit and marketing
are in Working Paper No. 5.
E.  Infrastructure
4.15     Implementation of the road maintenance (secondary and feeder) and
construction (feeder and tree crop tracks) program would be carried out by the
project's Infrastructure Division which has demonstrated its capability in
Phase I. While initially the project would handle maintenance of all
secondary and feeder roads, it would expect to hand over responsibility for
secondary roads to MPW by the start of PY3 but would retain responsibility for
feeder roads for the duration of the project. Subsequently, KPW, strengthened
with, inter alia, assistance under the upcoming Highway Maintenance Project
(para 1.09), would be expected to have the capability to take responsibility
1/   The domestic inflation rate climbed from about 6% 1976-77, to 7.5%
in 1978, to 11.5% in 1979, and reached 13.7% in 1980 -- mainly because of
expansionary effects of expenditures on the 1979 OAU Conference. More
recently, the inflation rate has declined, and was estimated at about 9%
for 1981 and 1982.



- 33 -
for all road maintenance in the county. Equipment would be handed over to MPW
at the end of the project.
4.16     Selection of roads for rehabilitation/construction under the project
would continue to be the responsibility of the selection committee comprising
the Project Manager and the Managers of the Infrastructure, Agriculture and
Land Planning Divisions. Recommendations for roads to be constructed and/or
rehabilitated would be based on a screening/evaluation procedure (4.06) which
would be attached as a schedule to the Credit Agreement. A preliminary
screening has been completed and 187 km of potentially viable roads from which
the 110 km to be improved under the project would be selected, identified (see
Table 11, Working Paper No. 7). ERRs' for these roads range from 10% to 22%
based on agricultural benefits alone and excluding road user savings. Options
for the 27 km to be constructed in PY1 have been listed and the project will
finalize the evaluation and selection prior to start-up of the proposed project.
The selection committee would consult with MPW and MRD representatives in
drawing up both the annual rehabilitation/construction and the maintenance
programs which would be approved by the PCC (para 4.02). Assurances obtained
at negotiations provide for: (a) proper consultation between MPW, MRD and the
project in preparing annual road construction and maintenance programs which
should be submitted for IDA's approval; (b) MPW to submit the secondary road
maintenance program from PY3 for IDA's approval; and (c) IDA's approval to be
obtained prior to transfer from the project of road construction and
maintenance equipment.
V. PRODUCTION ASPECTS AND TECHNIQUES
A. Crop Development
5.01     Project Focus.  Increased agricultural production of both cash crops
for export and food crops for local consumption would be continued, but with
more emphasis being placed on crop diversification and production of a wider
range of foodcrops. Foodcrops to be grown in addition to rice would include
cassava, plantains, cocoyams and vegetables. For export crops, the emphasis
would shift from cocoa to coffee following an analysis of expected returns to
the economy and per man day which for coffee, under present price projections,
are significantly more attractive.
5.02     In spite of the difficulties experienced in swamp development in
Phase I (para 2.12), continuation of efforts to increase production in the
swamps is necessary given potential problems of upland soil degradation in
areas of high population density and shortening bush fallow periods. However,
under the proposed project, more emphasis would be put on pilot development
and demonstration to evaluate the most appropriate conditions for its
introduction, and to test improved technology required to break labor and
other technical constraints.
5.03     Agricultural Practices.  The main economic problems facing farmers
include lack of access to improved planting material, total reliance on manual



- 34 -
cultivation, labor intensive system of rice harvesting, and inefficient
harvesting and processing techniques for coffee and cocoa. The main labor
constraint for diversifying and increasing production arises because labor
requirements for subsistence upland rice occupy a large percentage of the
avaiLable family labor, and the operations and timing of all other crops are
adjusted around the upland rice production cycle. In the short term there is
no immediate solution for reducing labor on the upland system, and use of
improved practices such as herbicides and zero tillage require further
research - which would be expected to be carried out by CARI (para 1.08). In
the swamps, there are opportunities for introducing labor saving methods for
cultivation as well as improved harvest and post harvest techniques such as
sickle harvesting and treadle, or rack threshing. However, introduction of
sickle harvesting requires that farmers grow one variety on their entire
holding, to ensure rice maturing at the same time, while rack threshers are
not compatible with panicle storage and may require changes in storage facili-
ties and methods in addition to altering the customary role of men and
women. The proposed project would address these issues on a pilot basis and
would also test the applicability and economic justification of power tillers
which some farmers have requested for land preparation.
B. Production Specifications
5.04     A summary of projected crop development (ha) and farmer participation
(nos) is given in Annex 5-1.
5.05     Upland Rice.  The program would concentrate firstly on new areas
where the preceding fallow period has been seven years or more, and where
yield increases without fertilizer of about 30% can be expected when replacing
local varieties with LAC 23. Testing of new varieties at CARI would be con-
tinued. On average, farmers would be expected to take sufficient seed for one
ha and by the end of the proposed project about 5,500 ha would be covered.
Including the 6,000 covered under Phase I the total area covered by improved
seed by the end of phase II would be 12,000 ha, or about 32% of the cultivated
area in the county.
5.06     Swamp Rice.  A modest swamp rice development program would be con-
tinued with about 100 ha per year, total of about 350 ha, developed during the
project. Experience under the first phase showed that the hesitant adoption
of swamp development is due to a number of social, technical and managerial
constraints and, following from this experience, a much more careful selection
procedure for farmers and swamps would be followed. Criteria guidelines are
in Working Paper No. 3.
5.07     Recommended improved varieties are IR5 for swamps free from iron
toxicity and Suakoko 8 for iron-toxic swamps. New varieties (Suakoko 10 and
12) are under test at CARI and multiplication and distribution is expected
during the project. In an attempt to find means of reducing labor con-
straints, introduction of sickle harvesting, rack threshers and power tillers
would be tested on a pilot basis in selected areas. About 25% of the swamp
area would be double cropped with rice and about 15% with vegetables, or an
overall cropping intensity of about 140%.



- 35 -
5.08     Vegetables.  A pilot component for fresh vegetable production, mainly
as a dry season crop-in developed swamps but also as a crop for the land just
above swamps in the wet season, would be introduced. By PY4, about 45 ha
would be planted in the dry season. Subject to the market survey to be
carried out in the year prior of the proposed project (para 6.05), main
vegetables would be cabbage, hot pepper, egg plant and okra. Improved varie-
ties of imported seed have been introduced and tested by CARI and technical
recommendations developed for extension to farmers.
5.09     Cassava.  Improved cultivars of cassava have been introduced from
IITA, Nigeria, of which three, CARICASS, 1, 2 and 3, are being multiplied by
the project. These cultivars have been tested on farmers' fields in Liberia
and found acceptable. The cultivars are high yielding and tolerant to cassava
mosaic and bacterial blight. Planting would be expected to be under the
traditional system mixed with rice. Farmers would be expected to increase
their planted area to about 0.5 ha by year 3 following adoption and subse-
quently to supply setts to other farmers.
5.10     Coffee.  Coffee would be the mainstay of the tree cropsdevelopnent
program and, as under Phase I, farm families would be expected to plant 0.5 to
1.0 ha depending upon labor availability. Coffee would only be planted on
soils free of dense gravel within 40 cm of the soil surface. About 3,450 ha
would be planted under thinned natural bush and 550 ha under a temporary shade
of plantains and cocoyams. In the latter situation, sufficient natural shade
trees would be retained to provide permanent shade. Individual plantings
would be grouped as far as possible into contiguous blocks, to justify access
track construction and to facilitate input supply, extension and crop market-
ing. Clonal seed would be imported from the Ivory Coast. A cut-off date for
transplanting of August 15 would be strictly maintained and seedlings would
not be supplied to farmers after July 31.
5.11     Plantains and cocoyams.  Plantains and cocoyams would be grown as a
temporary shade crop for coffee (para 5.09). They would be established one
year before coffee planting at 640 plantain suckers and 1,200 cocoyam sets per
ha. Planting material has already been obtained locally and is under
multiplication in the project nurseries for distribution to farmers. The
program in successive years would be PY1 - 50 ha; PY2 - 100 ha; PY3 - 400
ha. Progress would be reviewed at the end of PY2 before proceeding with the
much larger PY3 program.
C. Yields
5.12     Yields - Foodcrops.  The main impact of the project on the upland
cropping system would be the increase in upland rice yield of about 30% and of
cassava by 200 to 300% with the adoption of improved planting material.
Development and introduction of improved varieties in the swamps would lift
the yield potential to 2.5 to 3 tons per ha. Yield assumptions for major fQod
crops are summarized in Table below.



- 36 -
YIELDS WITH AND WITHOUT PROJECT
(in kg/ha)
Before          With               Potential
Crop            Development      Project      (Research)  (Progressive
farmers )
Upland Rice           1,100         1,400          2,500          1,800
Swamp Rice
Wet season          1,500 a/      3,000          4,500          3,800
Dry season            ---         2,500          4,000         3,200
Cassava               4,500        12,000         50,000        20,000
Vegetables
Okra                  ---         3,200          8,000             b/
Egg plant             ---        12,000         33,000             b
Hot Pepper            ---         4,000          10,000
Cabbage               ---         8,000         20,000             b/
al  Only 10% of swamps to be developed are under traditional cultivation.
b/ No reliable data.
5.13     Yields - Treecrops and Intercrops.  The robusta coffee planted under
the project would be substantially higher yielding than the traditional coffee
of West Africa which has an average annual yield of around 100 kg/ha of dry
beans. The clonal seedlings to be planted would start producing at about 50
kg/ha in year 3 increasing to 600 in year 7. Tn year 8 renewal pruning would
take place and yields drop temporarily to 225 kg/ha. Thereafter, yields would
build up again to about 600 kg/ha, followed by repeated pruning back on a five
year cycle. The average yield over the second and later five year cycles is
490 kg/ha. These yields are predictions for the average of the range of farms
which will be planted and take account of the varying rates of adoption of
recommended techniques by project farmers. The predicted yields are much less
than the genetic potential of such material which has reached over 1,000 kg/ha
with no shade and no fertilizer in trials at IRCC Ivory Coast. Yields of
plantain intercrops are estimated at 6.8 tons fresh bunches in year 1 after
establishment; 5.7 tons in year 2 and 2.3 tons in year 3. Cocoyam yields are
estimated at 0.6 tons/ha of marketable tubers in the first and second year
after establishment.
YIELD ASSUMPTIONS FOR TREE CROPS AND FOOD CROP INTERPLANTS
CROP/YEARS       1     2    3       4      5     6      7     8      9   10    11
Coffee kg/ha    -      -    50    250   475   575   600   225   425  600  600
Plarntains t/ha  0    6.5    5.7    2.3  -       -      -      -     -      -    -
Cocoyams t/ha   0    0.6    0.6   -        -     -      -     -      -     -    -



- 37 -
5.14     Incremental Production.  Some 7,500 farm families who did not par-
ticipate in the first project would be expected to expand production of food-
crops and or tree crops under the proposed project.  In addition, about 2,400
of Phase I farmers would be expected to expand their area under improved
coffee. Phase I farmers have developed a marked preference for coffee which
technically is easier to grow than cocoa. Incremental production expected
from the project at full developnent (PY6) would be about 2,900 tons of rice
(paddy), 6,000 tons of cassava, 280 tons of vegetables and an average of 1,800
tons of coffee after PY7. In addition plantains and cocoyams (eddoes) would
be produced in the first years of the project with variable quantities. Of
the total food crop production, 30% would be attributed to increase in yields
on existing areas and 70% to new areas under swamp rice, coffee, vegetables
and food intercrops. The build up in incremental production is summarized in
Annex 5-2.
D. Farm Labor
5.15     While incremental labor requirements for upland rice, cassava and
vegetables amounting to about 88,000 mandays at full development (about 1% of
estimated available family labor of 8.8 million mandays with families culti-
vating less than 4 ha) are expected to be entirely met through family labor,
incremental farm labor requirements due to the planting of additional coffee
and swamp rice, which are estimated at about 463,000 mandays at full developk-
ment, is expected to be met through both family labor and hired labor. It is
expected that about 80% (361,000 mandays) of this labor would be provided from
within the farm family, individually or under the Kuu system (4% of the avail-
able total family labor with families cultivating less than 4 ha), and about
20% from hired labor at peak periods when family labor would be inadequate to
meet the incremental labor requirements. In assessing labor needs, the
division of activities between men and women has been taken into account and
both requirements shown to be met (see Working Paper No. 9).
E. Role of Women
5.16     The project will have a direct impact on women who play a major role
within the family in rice cultivation and marketing (para 2.06) and who
produce and market much of the cassava and vegetables. The Home Economics
Unit, which would be absorbed under the extension services from MOA (para
3.09), would tackle particularly the use of improved upland rice seed and
adoption of improved technology in the swamps by women. While women do not
generally participate in tree crop production or invest in swamp development
on their own account, under Phase I there have been some cases of women taking
credit for these activities. Under Phase II, women would continue to be
eligible for credit under standard terms and conditions (para 4.13).



- 38 -
F. Environmental Considerations
5.17     The project seeks to minimize the adverse effects of existing agri-
cultural practices on the environment, and on the health of the community.
The long tradition of shifting cultivation through annual removal of forest
trees may be alleviated by the introduction of improved rice seed which should
increase productivity and by swamp rice cultivation which would necessitate a
lower rate of annual land clearing than would otherwise have been the case.
While schistosomiasis is associated with swamp rice, it is also associated
with existing water points. The project would continue the monitoring of
swamps and water points for the disease and would provide treatment for
infected people. The program of health education and the construction of
wells and latrines in villages would be expected to have benefical efforts in
reducing the level of disease transmission.
VI. DEMAND, MARKETING, PRICES AND FINANCIAL ANALYSIS
A. Demand
6.01     Foodcrops.  As Liberia is a net food importer with a large rice
deficit (imports of rice have increased from an average of 50,000 mt in early
1970s to about 90,000 tons in 1981/82), the incremental food production (para
5.14) would be easily absorbed by the domestic market. Since available
estimates suggest that Bong is a food-deficit county, the project incremental
production of rice and cassava would be consumed on the farm and surrounding
small towns within the county. However, most of the incremental production of
vegetables, plantains and cocoyams is expected to be sold in Monrovia which
would easily absorb the modest project incremental production of these
commodities.
6.02     Coffee.  Liberia is not expected to face any problems in marketing
the average incremental 1,700-1,800 tons of coffee generated by the project.
Total average incremental production for Phase I and II would be about 2,200-
2,300 mt of clean coffee per year at full development (1995). Liberia is a
member of the International Coffee Organization (ICO) and its current export
quota is 8,700 mt. An undetermined part of Liberia's total coffee exports
ranging from 8,000 to 10,000 mt during the past few years, is accounted for by
unofficial inflows from neighboring countries -- due to price differentials
and the use of the dollar as the domestic currency in Liberia. These unoffi-
cial inflows are expected to decline given (a) the current levels of producer
prices paid by LPMC (which are now in line with world prices and those of the
neighboring countries) and (b) the removal of consumer subsidy on rice which
was being bartered for coffee and cocoa at the borders. Furthermore, while
the noni-ICO market is, in general, very competitive and coffee sales in this
market are usually made at a substantial discount, GOL has signed a five-year
contract with Libya (which is not a member of the ICO) for an annual delivery
of 2,000 mt of coffee to be sold without discount from the prevailing world
market prices. Over the two-year period (1981 and 1982), Liberia was able to
export a total of only 2,500 mt to Libya (since LPMC gives first priority to



-- 39 -
ICO countries). Taking into account the likely growth in Liberia's export
quota to ICO countries (forecast to be 1 to 1.6 per cent per annum resulting
in a quota of 10,000-11,000 mt by 1995) growth in domestic consumption (fore-
cast to be about 1,000 mt by 1995) and exports to non-ICO countries (including
Libya) of about 2,000 mt, a production level of about 13,000-14,000 mt
(including possible unofficial inflows from neighboring countries) could be
aimed at by 1995. Taking account of coffee plantings already achieved under
Lofa and Bong Phase I projects and Liberia Coffee and Cocoa Corporation (LCCC)
and assuming that the Lofa Phase II target of 3,300 ha and Bong Phase II
target of 4,000 ha will be achieved (future plantings by LCCC and Nimba
project are anticipated to be only a few hundred ha), the incremental plant-
ings would be about 10,500 ha. This may result in an incremental production
of 4,000-5,000 mt by 1995 and a total production of 12,000-15,000 mt (likely
to be much less if unofficial inflows from neighboring countries decline),
which would be commensurate with the expected growth in exports and domestic
consumption as discussed above. The inclusion of coffee as a project crop is
extremely important for raising smallholders' incomes since coffee or cocoa
are the only source of cash for many farmers in the area. In addition,
expansion of area under coffee is consistent with reducing the deleterious
effects of slash and burn cultivation and development of a sustainable
agriculture on the uplands.  Incremental production of coffee in Liberia is
unlikely to have any impact on world prices since Liberia is a very small
producer.
B. Marketing
6.03     Export crops (coffee and cocoa) are at present sold to LPMC by
private traders (70%) and the balance by the Bong County Cooperatives.
However, unauthorized discounts by agents are common, resulting in actual
producer prices being often far below official prices. The project would
contribute to increasing the farmer shares of the official prices by
encouraging cooperatives to handle primary collection of produce directly
without using private subagents, and by improving road accessibility and
cooperative penetration of the remoter production areas (further details of
the cooperatives' expected role in marketing are in para 4.14 and Working
Paper No. 5). The weak operational efficiency of LPMC is itself an issue
(para 1.10). With projections of continuing real decline in world cocoa and
coffee prices, improvements in LPMC efficiency to prevent substantial decline
in producer prices are needed. LCADP II Credit Agreement included a covenant
in respect of LPMC to the effect that (a) not later than September 30, 1982,
the GOL shall provide IDA with a satisfactory plan of action in respect of the
management and operations of LPMC; and (b) promptly thereafter and not later
than June 30, 1984, carry out such a plan. The Credit also has provisions for
2 man years of technical assistance to LPMC in the form of a management
specialist to assist implementation of such a plan. A consultants' study of
LPMC financed under LCADP II was completed in October 1982 and an action plan
was received from the Government prior negotiations. At negotiations the
Government agreed that LPMC would: (i) carry out a program of cost reduction
and review it annually with IDA and establish targets for cost reduction in
the following year; and (ii) hold the first review and establishment of
targets for 1985 no later than September 30, 1984.



- 40 -
6.04     Food crops would be marketed through the existing network of private
traders, which is adequate for handling the increased volume of production.
To facilitate this trade and attract more traders, the project would provide
for improvement of traditional markets (para 4.14). The private rice
marketing system is competitive and, given the demand situation, farmers
usually receive from private traders the official producer price of $0.40/kg
(18 cts per lb) of paddy particularly if the farmers hold their paddy until
July-September for sale. There is one LPMC owned and several private rice
mills in the area and the overall processing capacity is adequate for the
requirements of increased production; recovery rates average about 65%.
6.05     As regards cassava, uptake of improved varieties on a larger scale
than that envisaged under the project could lead to a considerable increase in
production. In order to assess the feasibility of a larger program, a
marketing study would be carried out in 1983/84 using funds under LCADP II
(Cr. 1242-LBR). The study would also cover other foodcrops (including
vegetables) and would attempt to identify any further assistance that might be
needed to improve foodcrop marketing and local processing.
C. Prices
6.06     LPMC sets the producer price for coffee and cocoa.  In the past, even
though producer prices of these crops have been only a half of f.o.b. prices,
they have provided attractive returns to farmers compared to returns from
other crops. World prices of these crops have declined in recent years and
are projected to decline further in real terms. The interventions under the
proposed project and LCADP II are expected to result in improvements in
efficiency of LPMC and of primary collection of produce (para 6.03). However,
some decline in producer prices, particularly of cocoa, is probable but is
unlikely to remove producer incentives based on relative returns. As regards
rice, LPMC operates a producer price support program through its purchases of
paddy at a fixed price of US$0.40/kg (equivalent to about $0.68/kg milled rice
at market). This price, announced in September 1981, is 50% higher than the
$0.26/kg price prevailing earlier. After announcement of this price, LPMC
purchases of paddy have increased significantly indicating that it provides an
adequete incentive to its producers. Because of the sharp decline in world
rice prices in 1982 and 1983, the present upcountry average retail consumer
price of $0.56/kg for milled rice (which has prevailed since September 1981
and approximated the import parity price in economic terms until mid-1982 when
the sharp decline in world prices started), represents producer subsidy of
about 20%; assuming that the producers received the full $0.40/kg for paddy
without unauthorized discounts by buying agents (in para. 6.08). However, as
world rice prices are expected to rise it is expected that this subsidy will
be progressively reduced during the next five years. The present paddy
producer price should, therefore, be expected to remain unchanged for some
time.
6.07     With regard to cassava, plantains, cocoyams and vegetables, no
reliable estimates of present national and Bong County production exist and it
is, therefore, not possible to specify what percentage the project incremental



- 41 -
production would be of national and Bong County production. This estimate is
likely to be available on completion of the food marketing study (para
6.05). However, judging by the hectarages involved, the project incremental
production is likely to be a very small proportion of consumption in Bong
County and Monrovia market and should, therefore, not affect prevailing
prices.
6.08      The financial and economic farmgate prices used in the analysis are
shown in Annex 6-1 and summarized in the table below. Economic prices for
coffee (exportable) and rice (importable) are based on IBRD price projections
of July, 1983 and those for cassava, plantains, cocoyams and vegetables on
average local prices in Bong County.
Fairogate prices
(In 1982 constant US$ per m ton)
Financial                          Economic
1983     1985    1990   1995        1983      1985    1990    1995
Paddy            397      397      397    397         237      261      339     339
Coffee         1,122    1,122   1,122  1,536        1,718    1,515   1,610   1,927
Cassava          70        70      70      70         60        60      60       60
Plantais         150      150    - b/   - b/          128      128    - b/    - b/
Cocoyams         170      170    -b/   -b/           145       145    -b/    JUb
Vegetables       550      550      550    55         468       468     468      468
Cocoa a/        816       816      643    816       1,299    1,077     870   1,030
a/ For the econaniic rate of retam calculations of combined Pnases I and II and for farm models.
b/ No project production expected after 1989.



- 42 -
D. Financial Analysis
6.09     Farm Incomes.  The crop budgets at Annex 6-2 show the relative
profitability and returns to resources in the various cropping activities with
and without the project. All project farmers would achieve increases Ln
returns per ha of land and per manday of family labor. All incremental family
labor would earn more than the estimated opportunity cost of US$1.00 per
manday; average returns per manday of family labor at full development would
range from US$2.50 for upland rice farming (seed exchange) to US$13.5 for
coffee farming (new planting after loan repayment). The average returns per
manday from vegetables would be close to those from coffee; however, the
vegetable development program would be quite modest and relatively few farmers
would benefit from it.
6.10     The total income effect on project farmers would depend on crop
combinations and labor requirements. Mainly because of labor constraints at
peak seasons a project farmer would only be able to develop and farm about 2
ha of land. The crop combinations and returns of three representative types
of farming systems are presented in Annex 6-3; the corresponding family and
per capita annual incomes are summarized in the Table below:
Farm Incomes At Full Development for Various Farm Models
(In 1982 constant US$/Year)
Farm Model                        A                    B                  C
Upland Rice         Upland Rice        Upland Rice
Coffee            Swamp Rice          Swamp Rice
Farming Activity              Other Fooderops       Other crops          Coffee
Cropped Area (ha)                   1.8                  2.0                2.0
Approximate no. of farmers        5,500                  500                 500
Farm Family Incomes
Present                          542                  687                692
W                              649                  745                788
W                              999                1,043              1,134
Per Capita Incomes
Present                           90                   98                 99
W                               93                   91                 96
W                              143                  127                138
W = without project
W = with project at full development in 1992.



- 43 -
There would be significant differences in the incremental incomes streams
among farming types due to variations in costs, yields, farmgate prices and
periods of development. The increases in incomes would range from about
US$298 for an upland rice/swamp rice/other crops (mainly cocoa) farm to about
US$350 for an upland rice/coffee/other foodcrops farm after repayments of
development loans. According to surveys carried out by the Nl & E unit during
Phase I, about 36% of non-project farmers grew only upland rice and other
foodorops and 41% grew upland rice, cocoa and other foodcrops. The former
group is likely to fall into models A and/or C under the project and the
latter group into model B. In the majority of cases (Model A), the farm
incomes would increase by over 80% above the present level and by over 50%
above the future level expected without the project. Since the project has
been designed to benefit farmers cultivating less than 4 ha "credit available
under the project would be restricted to these farmers) the entire direct
benefit of the project would go to low-income farm families. About 85% of
farm families in the County cultivate less than 2 ha and are at or below the
estimated absolute poverty income level of US$95. The project would help move
about 35% of these families above the absolute poverty income level.
6.11     Financial Implications for Government.  As is typical for such
projects, the Government cash flow (Annex 6-4) during the project implementa-
tion period is negative. However, taking into consideration the estimated
indirect taxes on expenditures by project beneficiaries and possible dividends
by LPMC, the project would generate a surplus over recurrent costs by year
5. However, full recovery of investment and recurrent costs would not occur
before year 9 when the cumulative deficit would have been wiped out. The
annual recurrent costs in 1988/89 (post project period) would be about US$1.6
million. These are the costs of maintaining the production levels of Phases I
and II and reflect substantial reductions in staffing levels and operating
costs compared to those during the project period. The year 5 cost of US$1.6
million does not include the maintenance costs of Phase I and II feeder roads
since all these roads in addition to secondary roads and non-project feeder
roads would be handed over to MPW for maintenance (para 4.15). The year 5
maintenance costs of all feeder roads (both project and non-project) in Bong
County are estimated at US$744,000; and those of secondary roads at
US$420,000.
VII. BENEFITS AND JUSTIFICATION
A. Overall Benefits
7.01     The proposed project would assist Government in raising incomes and
living standards of about 7,500 farm families in Bong County (about 35% of
total rural families in the County). These families would earn significantly
higher incomes (para 6.10) under the various crop improvement programs. A-t
full development of their respective crops, and after repaying all development
loans, about 85% of the participating farm families are expected to earn
family incomes of about twice the present average of US$600 per annum for 85%
of the farm families in the County, while about 15% would increase their
incomes by about 50 to 75%. The improvement of the road network and provision



- 44 -
of village wells and latrines would reach beyond these direct beneficiaries to
a considerably larger proportion of the rural population.  There would also be
spinoff effects from the strengthening of ACDB and the institutional services
and the expansion of marketing services. The strengthening of cooperatives
would, in addition to financial benefits to farmers, encourage rural self-help:
and leadership.  Additional employment would be created by the increased
activities that would be induced by the project in other sectors such as
trading, rice processing, construction and transportation. It is estimated
that at least 50% (10,000) of the rural families in the County would benefit
directly or indirectly from the proposed project.
7.02     As Liberia is a net importer of food (para 6.01), the incremental
foodcrop production would result in considerable net foreign exchange
savings.  By 1990, the incremental output of rice would be worth, at border
prices, at least US$ 1.0 million per annum (at projected 1990 prices in
constant 1982 terms) net of the foreign exchange costs of farm inputs, fuel,
lubricants, etc. (the combined net foreign exchange savings for both Phases I
and II for paddy would be about US$2.0 million), while incremental annual net
foreign exchange earnings from coffee in 1995 would be about US$5.1 million at
projected 1995 f.o.b. prices in constant 1982 terms (the combined net foreign
exchange earnings from coffee for both Phases I and II in 1995 would be about
US$6.9 million).
7-03     The training programs and institution building to be carried out
under the proposed project would improve local capability and facilitate
planning and implementation of future development programs. The strengthening
of MOA would, in particular, lead to more effective planning, policy formula-
tion and evaluation for the sector as a whole. The project is justified on
the basis of these direct and indirect benefits which would accrue to the
lowest income groups.
B. Economic Rate of Return (ERR)
7.04     Since the proposed project is only a phase of a 10-15 year develop-
ment program, the ERR was calculated for Phase II as well as the combined
Phase :[ and II. The ERR for Phase II alone is about 22% (Annex 7-1). At a
discount rate of 10%, the estimated opportunity cost of capital (OCC) in
Liberia, the economic net present value (NPV) of Phase II is about US$11.6
million. The ERR of the combined Phases I and II is estimated at about 11%
and the NPV at a discount rate of 10% estimated at US$2.0 million (Annex
7-2). The low ERR for the combined Phases I and II is due to a very low ERR
for Phase I, estimated at about 6%. Reasons for this low ERR are explained in
para 2.13. The much higher estimated ERR for Phase II is mainly due to the
fact that, as is usual for second phases, the project would derive the
benefits of considerable sunk costs in buildings, feeder roads, manpower and
training under Phase I; the project was designed to emphasize coffee which is
a high value crop; the technological package for coffee is much less input-
intensive than that under Phase I; and operating costs, which were not
strictly controlled under Phase I, have been reduced to more acceptable levels
(an(d are expected to be closely monitored by supervision missions). Assump-



- 45 -
tions underlying the ERR calculations are as follows: (a) Project Life: The
economic life of Phase II is assumed to be 25 years including a 4-year imple-
mentation period. For the combined Phases I and II, a 32-year analysis was
undertaken beginning 1977/78 with benefits and costs phased out after 25 years
for each year's plantings; (b) Benefits:  Only the direct benefits of project
incremental crop production were included. No residual value was added at the
end of project economic life and no road user savings were taken on feeder
roads constructed by the project. The economic farmgate prices are shown at
Annex 6-1 and incremental production at Annex 5-2; (c) Costs: (i) Except for
support to MOA, research, health component and secondary road maintenance
costs, which have been excluded, all other costs have been included (secondary
road maintenance costs were excluded on the assumption that these would be
offset by non-project road user savings as demonstrated at appraisal of the
proposed Fifth Highway Project 1/, see also para 7.09); (ii) for the post-
project period, only a proportion of total recurrent costs considered
necessary to maintain support services has been included (details in Annexes
7-1 and 7-2); (iii) for non-tradeables a standard conversion factor of 0.85
was applied except for transportation for which a conversion factor of 0.80
was applied; (iv) hired labor was valued at the prevailing market wage of
US$2.00 per manday; however, family labor was valued at US$1.00 per manday.
Most of the incremental family labor for the project would be provided during
slack seasons when alternative uses of labor are very limited. While incre-
mental family labor during peak labor demand periods (3 months a year) was
valued at the full market wage rate of US$2.00 per manday, the valuation for
other months was at the rate of US$0.50 per manday which mostly reflects the
assumed value of leisure below which labor would not be forthcoming. Thus the
weighted returns to family labor during peak and slack labor demand periods
are estimated not to exceed US$1.00 per manday. All labor costs were
converted to border prices by applying the standard conversion factor.
C. Sensitivity and Risks
7.05     Sensitivity analysis was undertaken to evaluate the potential impact
of various unpredictable factors on the ERR and to determine which variables
would be most crucial to the success of the project. As a measure, crossover
values 2/, using an OCC of 10%, were computed. The numerical results,
discussed below, show that overall the Phase II project is fairly resilient
and remains viable under various adverse situations. The success of the
project may, however, be affected if world prices of coffee decline signifi-
1/   Liberia:  Proposed Fifth Highway Project; Staff Appraisal Report
No. 4393-LBR.
2/   The crossover value is the value of the variable tested for which
the NPV discounted at the OCC is zero; it is a measure of how far the
variable can differ from its most likely value before the project
becomes economically unacceptable. The crossover value may, therefore,
also be interpreted as the value of the variable tested beyond which the
ERR would be below the estimated OCC.



- 46 -
cantly more than projected. The other variables and the probability of
critical variations are discussed below.
7.06     Yields and Prices.  The crossover value of aggregate output is about
46% below the expected incremental benefits. Since the projected yields of
upland rice, cassava, plantains, cocoyams and vegetables are already very
conservative and swamp rice is a very small component of the project, the
major shortfall could occur in the coffee component. Coffee benefits would
have to decline by more than 73% before the return on the Phase II project
fell below 10%. While a shortfall in yields of this magnitude is extremely
unlikely since projected average yields of 490 kg/ha at full development five
year cycles already take into account the Phase I experience, a combination of
somewhat lower yields and a very serious decline in world prices (compared to
those projected at present) could lead to this situation. However, a price
decline of this magnitude does not seem probable.
7.07     Costs.  The Phase II project is relatively insensitive to increases
in costs. Overall costs would have to increase by more than 65% before the
ERR fell below 10%.  A 20% increase in overall costs with a 20% decrease in
overall benefits would still result in an ERR of about 12%. The probability
of large variations in economic costs is extremely low based on the experience
of Phase I (where a cost overrun of only 5% occurred despite weak budgetary
control). However, to minimize this probability, supervision missions would
closely monitor project costs.
7.08     Development Period.  The project is relatively sensitive to possible
delays in implementation. Assuming a one-year delay in project benefits, the
ERR would be 18%; with a two-year delay, the ERR would be 15%. Even though
the probability of implementation delays is very low since the project staff
and management from Phase I are already trained and reasonably motivated and
ready to start project work, the adverse impact of implementation delays on
the ERR of Phase I (para 2.13) underlines the need for supervision missions to
focus on timely implementation of Phase II.
7.09     Road Works.  Full costs of construction and rehabilitation of feeder
roads were included in economic costs of both Phases I and II. However, for
Phase I, some adjustments were made. Cost of equipment purchased under USAID
loan and handed over to MPW in 1978/79 amounting to US$1,150,000 was not
included since this equipment was not used for construction of project roads
except for 24 km in 1979/80. The equipment was diverted to other construction
and misused; it was eventually handed over to the project in 1982/83 and had
to be completely overhauled and repaired at a cost of $549,000. In the base
case, an estimated cost of $536,000 was included in 1979/80 for 24 km of roads
constructed by MPW (at $14,000/km including depreciation) and the repair cost
of $549,000 was included in 1982/83.  However, sensitivity analysis was
undertaken including the full cost of equipment ($1,150,000) in 1978/79 and
also repair cost in 1982/83.  In this case, the ERR for Phase I declines from
5.6% to 5.2% and the combined ERR for Phases I and II declines to 10.7% from
the base case of 11.1%.
7.10     Risks.  The proposed project would be the second phase in the Bong
County and would build upon the institutional structures and techniques



- 47 -
developed in Phase I so that normal risks associated with projects of this
kind would be minimized. However, the project faces the risk that development
of the cooperatives for input supply and marketing and the takeover of credit
activities by ACDB may take longer than expected. Provisions for increasing
assistance to the cooperatives from CDA, an early review of progress with the
cooperatives (para 3.15), maintaining technical assistance to ACDB and finan-
cing of start-up activities with ACDB under the PPF, reduce the risks to
acceptable levels. The technical packages have been tested under Phase I and
will be offered under the proposed project with some modifications. Only the
swamp rice component will need significant extra monitoring and evaluation.
The project staff and management have gained reasonable experience of imple-
mentation of integrated projects under Phase I and should be able to ensure
smooth implementation of Phase II. However, the project faces the risk of
inadequate funding in view of Government's acute financial situation. The
Government share of funding for Phase I was provided through the PL 480
program. In discussions with USAID, the appraisal mission was advised that
Phase II would continue to be given priority in budgetary support through the
PL 480 program. Therefore, local cost funding appears to be assured though
the situation would need continuous review.
7.11     The project also faces the risk of MPW being unable to maintain
secondary roads from PY3 and feeder roads post-project; and of tree crop
tracks not being maintained by villagers. The highway Maintenance Project
(para 1.09) should result in a significant improvement in MPW's capability to
maintain the secondary roads, but there is a risk that its capacity to
maintain the feeder roads would develop more slowly than expected. Whilst
this would not affect project implementation it could increase the costs of
evacuating produce post-project. In the case of tree crop tracks - the main
purpose of which is to permit delivery of planting materials - the risk is
small and the project would test, and if successful introduce improved
transport aids (para 3.17) for evacuating produce in difficult conditions.
Roads maintenance would be closely monitored by the project. Finally, there
is some risk that labor constraints would push up the cost of labor at peak
periods. However, even if the shadow wage rate used in the economic analysis
(para 7.04) was increased to the full market rate (US$2.0/day) the ERR on
Phase II would still be 19%.
VIII. AGREEMENTS REACHED AND RECOMMENDATIONS
8.01     During negotiations, assurances were obtained from Government on the
following points:
(i) that IDA would be consulted in the preparation of an agricultural
research program and the reorganization of CARI (para 3.14);
(ii) that ACDB would carry out a study of its organization, management and
operations by December 31, 1984 and would review the recommendations
of the study with the Association and agree on a time-bound
implementation program by March 31, 1985 (para 3.16);



- 48 -
(iii) that Government would make the necessary allocations in the budget
for BCADP, provide foreign exchange requirements and release funds to
BCADP quarterly in advance in accordance with an agreed schedule
(para 3.26);
(iv) that replenishment of the special bank account would be subject to
Governments quarterly release of funds to the project (para 3.26);
(v) that the project's Special Account into which IDA would deposit an
advance of up to US$280,000 would be operated under terms and
conditions acceptable to IDA (para 3.27);
(vi) that the Government would review with IDA any proposals for
reorganizing MOA as they affect the project area (para 4.01);
(vii) that staff occupying the posts of CAO, Agricultural Development
Manager, Financial Controller, Internal Auditor and Commercial
Services Manager would be acceptable to the Association (para 4.01);
(viii) that Government would effect the necessary reduction in staff of
BCADP and MOA in Bong County consistent with efficient operation of
the project and in line with the schedule agreed at negotiations
(para 4.03);
(ix) that interest rates would be reviewed annually with IDA and revised
if necessary in agreement with IDA to reflect domestic inflation and
the costs of administering the credit program (para 4.13);
(x) that consultation between MPW, MRD and project in preparing annual
road construction and maintenance program in the County to be
approved by IDA and IDA's approval to be sought prior to any transfer
of road equipment (para 4.16).
(xi) that Government would carry out a program of cost reduction to reduce
LPMC' operating costs and review it annually with IDA and establish
targets for cost reduction in the following year the first review to
be held and targets for 1985 to be established no later than
September 30, 1984 (para 6.03);
8.02     Conditions of Credit effectiveness would be:
(i) that all conditions precedent to the effectiveness of the IFAD and
ADF loans agreements had been fulfilled (para 3.26);
(ii) that Government had opened the Special Project Account (para 3.27);
and
(iii) that a financing agreement had been signed between Government and
ACDB (para 4.12).
8.03     With the above assurances and conditions, the project would be
suitable for an IDA credit of SDR 6.4 million (US$6.7 million equivalent).
WAP
January 1984



- 49 -                                  Annex 3-1.
LIBERIA
BONG AGRICULTURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT II
Design Standards for Feeder Roads
ITEM                              RECOMMENDED STANDARD AND REMARKS
Bush Clearing                           Vegetation should be cleared sufficient
distance (9-lOm) to allow sunlight to penetrate to
the road surface, and allow reasonable sight
distances on bends. Needs regular attention.
Carriageway width                       4.0 meters.
Gradient                                12% preferred maximum.
Cross-fall (Camber)                     4-5%.  Very important -- must be maintained
at all times.
Drainage Ditches                        Side ditches -- minimum 1.5 m wide on all
sections. Longitudinal Ditch grade never
less than 1%. Frequent large turnouts.
Must be regularly maintained.
Fill Slopes                             Max 1:1.5.
Cut Slopes                              Preferred max. 1.0 vert: 005 horizontal.
Laterite Surfacing                      75-100 mm, Only where existing soils are
clayey or on steep grades.
Design Speed                            Irrelevant to this type of road.
Minimum horizontal radius               Irrelevant, but sharp bends should be avoided.
Superelevation                          Not normally required.
Culverts                                c.m.p. or concrete culverts.  Must be correctly
backfilled. Inlet and outlet channels provided
as required. Must be regularly cleaned.
Bridges                                 Palm log or steel beams with timber decks.
Abutments stone-filled gabions or concrete.
Grassing                                Grass can be planted on embankment slopes and
in drainage ditches. Ditches must be regularly
trimmed.



Annex 3-2
- 50 -
LTIBERIA
SECOND LBONG COUNTY AGRICTULT'IRAL  tDEELO'FPIENT PROJ ECT
ProJect Coimponent nif T4,;se
(USc $ 'O00eo
as?e Costs                      T2l1
34/385   85/86   SI 6.7   57/538    US t   (UE$  000
k. CROP AND FARM DEVELOPMENT
AGRiCUL TUi'iRAiL EX'TENSI ON                              703 3. 6               " 8 '47  _ °
FLANT PRODUCTION                                                    7 3S?-. 33        I C:*      197, r
LAND U'SE PLANNING                                             1     1-;0- 5iA,9  il 8t6
T EI A i  I                                                22 I,  .1 .44 1L. ' ' 44,0   | 4 c                ,
FARM INPfUT                                                7 7'-,' 5- "i  4,7,Z  17447'c                   I A47 2
Subts3-To. t,.,l 'F''iW... AND FAR:N1 DEYELOPMENT           1y817l, 1,740,7 1          1. !9,4  A.P5. 0-ot
B, RESEARCH                 .v25                                        4S.2    15. -        .      1SJ A,  4 ,  4
C.. HEALTH
eCSTCTOSOMIASIS SURVEILLANCE                               99 R    77.9?    74.?    ?74 9    3127.5         -7
WELLS AND, LATRINES                                         75,5     5 0.     74,5    -75c,0    31-          I q  ',L
Silb-Tots' HEALTH                                             17.    l61-7   1 ; q4        40        i
b. ROADS. AND WORKSHOP                                      N026.9    .''   9.13.0  '-'.°.?  >5?93i'
E1  INPUT 8UPPLY s CREDIT AND MARKETING'
COMMERCiAI SERVICES DIVISION                               654.'   562.7   461,7   4t70, >1 ,£4              i404
AGRICULTURAL AND. COOPERATIVE DEVELOPMENT RANw             21,4,0   197.7   2 3,7    I 1   ,    ?3 4         72,  3
COOPERATI TVE UNIO3N AND SOCIETIES                          42 .6    13.7      5. rF                          53 .7.
COOPERATIVE DEVELOPMENT AGENCY                             52.v  30 . 7               44,5      iL,1       1.6
Sub-Total INPUT SUPPLY f CiREDIT AND' MARKETING               962.,7    r0i?.?   714,1    i       ;           >117
F. FROJECT MANAGEMENT A.ND ADMINISTFATION                     77?370   717.6  7276              ,0 j'094,5    "O OA
0. PFIROJECT MONITORING AND EVALUATION                        117,S   115,9    Qt?         OR  3A.6   432       4l, ?7
H. TECHNICAL ACSSITANCE AND CONSULT ANCY                      255.0   165.0 1             114,       0-q
I. ASSISTANCE TO MINISTRY OF AGRICULTURE                      15 50.0   1200                  _ -                 .7-t
Total BASELINE COSTS                                          5Y380,2 4f8l7.4 4Y4 4.7- 4.r12,0 18,634,R 10r¢64 n
Physi Cal ContinrernCies                                     1 47 .4   11 7I.,     1.,0    Oi;99   466.6       4 A
Price Contingenr;cies                                        479.9  -7  15,,    9. 1  .    3. "09.4  >10 L   7     ,4
Total PROJECT COSTS                                          6LOF7,5 5          55O06 5c50A,  F151i2.-271 0   AI.  E-1  ,
T2,-,es                                                      175.4   154.7  S165.6   15°03         6'55C       655.7
Foreisr; Excha,nse                                           F2s7i  .4 2,470.0 2,267.3 Q     .1 1  f    9     0 v,, 9    S.7,l.,
Januarv 10) 19£4  12 :06



iE2LN2 S 3N0 (oTNTY aGR8T2L.T56L RLLELPtOIPENAT PP4J0L
,749 -r          811rur,t LX ArojlL  9 t
IS 9 102
CROP AND FAPM DEV4L0T4FNT                                    8EAL-H                                    AIFIL.> 2 rR2E23(
~U4P4E8''IL AND   4~2IP  222_4 91I6   09(09120FS  7AA622821 AND            42T162N0         W 2(28522    912T4N0  OF           -----------0
4ATRICULt2R8L   PLANT    LARD  RSP                                SN5H2T0S1L6ASrS AELLS AN45 9R0Dr AtW  SCAL-EL    PEVELO3E9 '    .9225 602  L                 76660P6P9' A,D                    A    SILOINNE  AN5401549  P                         -
t                                                           ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~EMMIDNSD  MpDrUCro   KAWNG NE RAIN146 rrRh, TNPUr f(SCOF.CP  SRMEILLWCE' LAlTIEE  Dr3FSPRoP   DWSIOE N  rflNw 5c;rE Z    SN MIrq[,dro                         EIGLMelD   LDNSLTAKL         rGRICUIlD3E   1ot,t       t    Ano
1. 5803ST74N6 CO5TS
A. C590L YDNKS                                          -          .5        -   -                              -                    s        13.,        2t -.Q                                                                                                                    382.5  20D.    32.5
D. 0UR38T8 RE 48D F0LPRENT                           11.3         3.9     18.      1 4            -                         -         -                    '                                            E 4.2         162.1                 5,1                       -            237.7   s.5    11.9
L. 38L9.323                                         317.8       74.D      51.2     83.2                  21.9             25.        12.3     53.8        4tR.1             '^L.t         5.          51.4           1s2,                   32.1                -              -  1.80.    3.0    Y0.3
D. £IP4YENT                                                      3.8         -         -                 It.; >                12 25.5         3C.l.                                                                                                                           -     19.    5.0      9.t
E,FARN  INPUTS                                          -           -        -              1,4432          -                                         -           -                                      -               -                             -               -          2.442,2   2.1    lO,d
PF,    92   953130SIS892E AND CO3ULT4t1 CS -                                                                                 -          -                                                                                                                                             S -  ';Q i  -  -  35.2  -    383.0   P,0  D.O
S.RESEARCU2                                             -. -                                             23 -- -D                                                                            -            -                                                                         25.0   0.O      O.R
9. 3SS1   4 TfINCE  r-4                                                                                                   -           -                                                                                             -                           -         350.2    358.0   3.0       2.8
CoTs  I2ESrT1ENT COSTS                                 320.1       V0.2      6L.3      9L.L                 '443.2    14.8   15        L47.S     722.5       8?2.L            332.0         25.2         3'-?            74.0                  37.2          5I5.!            350.0  5,318.6   3.4   180,I
22. 809385(91 20535
t. A  8ICLE OPE0 AT18 0 COSTS                    57928        8d.9    155.2   132.2             -      31.4              o.4      Al.6   1,422.6       526.1              s2.2         '1' 7          ,            228 .0                 62.8                               -  3.522,!   5.0   L7s.
8.   EEFPPtL 6                COSNTS7NT60E  02         - S         -      8.2      8N.l                                                                                    22.2            -          2.2         L,442.0                     -                       -          2.8322    5.0    31.8
C. SALARTES tNS11 89                            25D8.7        55tt.     360,8    280.0           -      ES.d    Q2.     22,         80.3   .,8.A         691-.            328.1          L.06      9T.2             951,2                  SS2.R               -             -  7.9   8-0           D.t
D.   E8U5PME4T  OP"E"TI2,  23918                                                                                                              22.2                                                                                 -                   -                      -     20.2   S.0      1,5
E.    31808 38E.88324  20828                        63,5      484.7         -     24,             -      6,.             20.0       42."        5.9          -        -                                                                    rr2.0                      -            982.9   2,7    27.2
9 OKS. 1 4   K852820N8                                                                                             -                  ,0                                                                                                                                     .     . .  0.  0.4
Total R80URRENT COSTS                                2,029.3    1,021 552,0    592.0                  -    1 3              .            0 22,017.0        ..                '83.8         0.3          23.2        2,824.2                  393.6                                 13,3Ad.2   2.1   286,2
Solo3SE 8808    20013                                2,838.8    5.!8'.8    dl3,2    dS2.9    1.4422    147.4                 822.2      1L8.6   3,568,3    2,249.4             722.4         82.1        2tl.l         2.89+D4                 430,7           5SS,0          330.5 18.884,8   2.5   488.6
Ph, w;8l c0tl0n-erOeo                                45.4       28           .L    10.4        30.8       3.2              t.3       13.1    i22.          20.2              4. .o                     .5             07,5                   6.5               -              -      Ool   8.0       0.0
M--e 240494        3404A                                         068.3     76.8    105.9        Id2.7     2D.8             4087       67,0     863,9       282.Z             M-L7 .d                   28.3           236.2                  57.3           2089           84.6  9,025.4   3.4   104.7
7o85 0827 EC1OCSTS                                    2,36.6    1,2369.0       1      81,2    808.2   2I.8 4    211.T        17.5       094.1   4,39.18.   2,12                914.          0 2.0       289.1         3.523.1                 4872            203.8          414.6 22,71.8   2.8   571.3
T1499                                                 71.1       39.8      2T.S     21.5                   4.S             11,6       15.2     22.6         2.2      1         .2          2.0          2.0            gS.0                  22.7                                   655.0   5.1    33.4
049 4 P ,n44                                      19303.1        311.3    248.9    303.8       194,2      83.4            214.3     260.5   2,583.8    1.41,2 05.                         29. 5 2       94.6 9T0 .P                         It7.D            33.5          3M31.   9,30D.9   4.1   356.0
J,-A:cY 22, 1984 12:07



- 52-
Annex 3-4-
LIBERIA
BONG COUNTY AGRICULTURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT II
Estimated Schedule of Disbursements a/
(US $'000)
IDA                           IFAD
IDA Fiscal year                      Cumulative                       Cumulative
and quarter           Disbursement  Disbursement  Disbursement    Disbursement
FY85          1st quarter               950:-/         950           300               300
2nd quarter               350           1300           400               700
3rd quarter               350           1650           500              1200
4th quarter               480           2130           650              1850
FY86        1st quarter                450           2580           430              2280
2nd quarter               400           2980           480              2760
3rd quarter               370           3350           250              3010
4th quarter               370           3720           200              3210
FY87        1st quarter                410           4130           400              3610
2nd quarter               410           4540           400              4010
3rd quarter               380           4890           300              4310
4th quarter               330           5220           200              4510
FY88        1st quarter                350           5570           300              4810
2nd quarter               400           5970           300.             5110
3rd quarter               270           6240           250              5360
4th quarter               250           6490           240              5600
FY89        1st quarter                110           6600           100              5700
2nd quarter               100           6700           100              5800
3rd quarter
4th quarter
a/  Based on subsector disbursement profile Ref. PAS memo of June 9, 1982 Annex 4
Table 2a which is for 5 years project. Also refer to para 3.33 of the text.
b/ Includes about $643,000 for the Project Preparation Facility on IDA's account
alone and US $550,000 as initial deposit into Special Account (IDA US $280,000
and IFAD US $270,000).
December 1983



LIBERIA
BONG COUNTY AGRICULTURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT 11
ORGANOGRAM
Ministry of Ag-.1uture  
Central   Participating M-nistnlesiJ  |    l                                                                                                                        MOH and
M/E   plus CDA    _-_ _  _ _ _  _  -  -  -  - __            Project Coordinating Committee                                                                       Liberian Biomedical
Unit   ACDB                                            F                             _                                                                             ReseaRrch Istitute
:~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ .. Cuty Agriclt-rl Officer Bung County                                      ll
Monit-rig and 
ELUnit'°                                                                                                                                                                                           s2         
Audit         ~~~Finance           Administration        Agriultorl Serices            Training            Plant Productio-        omeca S-rics              Land Plunning           Inratruture
Division           Personnel                    Division                Division           A. Research Division          Division                Division                 Division
- Procurement         - Transportation        - Extension                   Staff                   Coffee               Coop Menagement   -Swamp Develo- meriI           Road Maintenance
Budget Control        Control               - Pest Control                Training                Cocoa                Marketing              Coffee Development        Feeder Road
- Revolning Fund        Public Relations      - Farm Management           -  Farmer                - Rice              - Account                 R-ad Selection           Cnnstruc-in-
Accounts           -Office Management    _ Home Economics                 Training              -Cassava               Cuop Developmen,                                 Fa- A-s T-k
Radio Programming           Extension               Plantain                                                             Wels -d Lxr-s
Aids                  - Other Crops                                                          Workshop
--Research
1/ To be reviewed and brought In lint with MOA structure by PY4
2/ SSU, Schistosomiasis Surveillgace Unit                                                                                                                                                      World Barsk-23713
-  -  -  Technical Supervision
ZI



- 54 -
Annex 4-2
LIBERIA
BONG COUNTY AGRICULTURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT II
Staffing BCADP, MOA and ACDB 1983 and PYI - PY4
I/
1983-            PY1          PY2         PY3          PY4
A.  BCADP
Land and Planning              25               24           24          24           24
Agricultural Extension       )157              116          124         133          141
Plant Production/Research  )                    47           47          47           47
Training                       13               16           16          16           16
Commercial Services            90               66           66          66           66
Infrastructure                 78               83           83          83           83
- Roads                    )(55)             (45)         (45)        (45)         (45)
- Wells/latrines           )                  (6)          (6)         (6)          (6)
- Workshop                  (23)             (32)         (32)        (32)         (32)
Schistosomiasis
Surveillance                 14              13            13          13           13
Project Management/               2/
Admin                        61-              55           55          55           55
MEU                            14               17           17          17           17
Total BCADP                452             437          445          454          462
B. MINISTRY OF AGRICULTURE
Extension Services             49           )
- Agriculture               (41)
- Home Economics             (8)
Others                         40             4/
Total MOA                   89
C.  ACDB                            10              16-/         16          16            16
D.  TOTAL (A+B+C)6/                511             453          461         470          478
E.. EXTENSION STAFF UNDER
RETRAININS 7/                -                25           17           8           -
F.  TOTAL INCLUDINS E             511              473          478         475          478
G.  NET REDUCTION 8/                -               33           -           -            -
1/  At June 30, 1983; from BCADP quarterly report.
2/ PMU 10; Administration 35; Finance 16.
3/ MOA and BCADP extension services merged; surplus staff to be transferred
out of county.
4/  Remain to carry out existing responsibilities (livestock, fisheries, etc.
or to be transferred out of county).
5/  Additional staff to be transferred from CSD, to the extent possible.
6/ Total excludes other MOA staff (40).
7/  Selected MOA and BCADP staff retraining at RDI.
8/ Compared with June 1983; reduction excludes relocation surplus other
MOA staff.
September 1983.



Anos4-3
- 55 
LIBERIA
BONG COUNTY AGRICULTURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT II
Implementation Schedule/Major ActMtls (PY'O-PIY4)
SEA DEC  'UN      JUL DEC        A5,UN          U,'QIC:      IOE JUN         IJULDE                                           E
CR5551 ESOESSNG!P"DIN.                                                                                         SI
NUSASESO-7 ODUCI
UEEACEA
MOE PEEMLEXTSSG          INN
ASS'SE-0ASA
JASA SSEW EOIN
--.E   E  E    A  S
ISSECOSt. c~S
CAGISO-L COED T ACM
G-SESSENE  EDUTO
CA  5 50St'. ESE  EEM
SASS  OS 5)C ESES
S-EA-0SESSS-
2ESSEEE DEE'S ~ ~ ~ ~   ~        ~         ~        ~         ~        ~        ~       ~        ~       G
ROADSAGMENEISARINAS
2E S
EGA C NING COD  ACS
I-,55  TESSSASE



LIBERIA
BONG COUNTY AGRICULTURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT II
PROJECTED CROP DEVELOPMENT (ha) AND FARMER PARTICIPATION  (Nos.) a/
CROP                      PYO                     PY1                PY2                PY3                   PY4              TOTAL PY1-4
Ha     Nos.           Ha       Nos.       Ha       Nos.       Ha      Nos.         Ha        Nos.       Ha    Nos.
Farmers                 Farmers            Farmers             Farmers               Farmers           Farmers
Upland Rice          760      900           1500    1625        1500    1625        1500    1625         1000      1625       5500  6500
Swamp Rice             23      60             50      250        100      250        100      250         100       250        350  1000
Vegetables             -       -                5      25         10       50         10       50          20       100         45   225
Cassava                -       -              10      200         20      200        100      200         200       400        330  1000
Plantains             -        -              50      b/         100      b/         400     b/           -         -          550   b/ '
Cocoyams              -        -              50      b/         100      b/         400     b/           -         -          550   b/
Coffee                 -       -            1000    2000        1000    2000        1000    2000         1000      2000       4000  80001'
Cocoa                500    1000             -        -          -        -          -       -            -         -          -      -
TOTAL   10225d/ 7500-/
Source:  Mission Estimate
a/  PYO represents targets for interim year (1983/84) while PY1-PY4 are targets for the
proposed project.
b/ Included under coffee.
c/ Includes 33% of Phase I farmers expanding plantations by 0.4ha, total 950 ha.
di/ Excluding food crop interplants.
e/ Estimated number of new participants in the proposed project. Assumptions: 75% of swamp
farmers also to grow improved upland rice; 75% of cassava farmers also to participate in
swamp or upland rice program and all vegetable farmers also to grow swamp rice; 40% coffee
farmers from Phase I and 90% of new coffee farmers also participating in foodcrop programs.
August 2, 1983.



LIBERIA
BONG COUNTY AGRICULTURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT II
Incremental Crop Production (mt)
CROP                  PYl        PY2        PY3        PY4        PY5        PY6        PY7-11             PY12
Upland Rice            450        900       1350       1650       1650       1650          1650              1650
Swamp Rice a/          125        431        794       1157       1270       1270          1270              1270
Cassava                 75        225        975       2475       3900       5250          6000              6000
Vegetables              22         70        126        231        258        277           277               277
Plantains               -         340        965       3405       2510        920            -                 -
Cocoyams                -          30         90        300        240        -              -                 -
Coffee                  _          -          48        286        724       1242          1850-             2155
Source: Mission Estimate.
a/ at 1.25 cropping intensity
b/ Average production years 7-11
July 1983
m
x
lu



LIBERIA
BONG COUNTY AGRICULTURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT II
Economic Farmgate Prices of Paddy -/
(US$/metric ton in 1982 constant Dollars)
1978     1979     1980     1981      1982      1983     1984     1985     1986     1987      1988     1989    1990
IBRD Rice Price Forecasts and Actuals 2/             414       334      404      473       293      291       319      319      336      355       375      395    416
Trend              3/                                                                  1.00    0.99      1.09     1.09      1.15     1.21     1.28      1.35    1.42
C.i.f.  Monrovia -                                480      400      470      560        350      347      382      382       403      424      448       473     497
Port Expenses                                   8        8        7        7          7        7        7        7        7         7        7        7        7
Warehousing, Handling Etc.                     13       12       11       12         11       11       11       11       11        11       11       11       11
Finance charges 4/                             24       20       24       32         18       17       19       19       20        21       22       24      25
Average Wholsale and Retail Margins            26       24       22       23        22        22       22       22       22        22       22       22      22            1
Transport to Gbarnga 5/                       48        44       40       42        40        40       40       40       40        40       40       40      40
Ex-mill Rice Price at Gbarnga                        599       508      574      676       448      444       481      481      503      525       550      577    602
Paddy Equivalent Price 6/                            389       330      373      439       291       289      313      313      327      341       358      375     391
Milling Costs 7/                               48       44       40       42        40        40       40       40       40        40       40       40      40
Transport from Farmgate 8/                     14       13       12       13         12       12       12       12       12        12       12       12       12
Economic Farmgate Paddy Price                        327       273      321      384       239      237       261      261      275      289       306      323     339
1/  Assumes production for  home consumption or consumption  close to areas of production.
2/ Price forecasts of July, 1983 for Thai milled, 5% broken, FOB Bangkok, converted to 1982 constant terms.
3/ With the actual average c.i.f. Monrovia price of $350 of rice in late 1982/early 1983, the projections have been made on the basis of trends
in Line 2. C.i.f.prices before 1982 are average actual prices converted to 1982 dollars; for local costs (except finance charges) before 1982,
GDP deflator index was used for constant real 1982 costs (see Annex 7-2 for GDP deflator index).
4/  5% of c.i.f. value.
5/ Conversion factor of 0.80 applied to transport cost of $50.
6/  Recovery rate of 65%                                                                                                                                                         - 
7/  Net of value of bran of $7; conversioni factor of 0.90 applied to estimated milling cost of $52.                                                                             O o
8/  An average distance of 10 km assumed at a cost of $1.50/m.t./knm.; conversion factor of 0.80 applied to derive economic cost.                                                  x
Note:  A standard conversion factor of 0.85 has been applied to non-tradeables, unless specified otherwise.                                                                        -
September, 1983



LIBERIA
BONG COUNTY AGRICULTURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJEC'I 11
Financial & Econiomic Farmgate Price of Coffee
(U.S. $/metric ton in 1982 Constant Dollars)
1981 -/            1982                      1983                    1985                       1990                     1995
Economic   Financial  Economic   Financial  Economic   Financial  Economic   Financial  Economic   Financial  Economic
IBRD Price Forecasts & Actuals -/            2,772       3,090        3,090        2,810        2,810       2,522        2,522        2,596        2,596        3,082        3,082
3/
F.O.B.  Monrovia -                           2,223       2,460        2,460        2,253        2,253        2,016        2,016        2,077       2,077        2,480        2,480
Port Expenses                                 13           15          13           15           13           15           13           15           13           15           13
LPMC
Packing Materials                           21          20           18 9/        20           18           20          18           20           18           20           18
Warehouse Ilnsurance 4/                      7            5           4            5            4            5            4            5            4            7            6
Interest 5/                                88           61           61           61           61          61           61           61           61           83           83
Loss in Weight                              53          36           36           36           36           36          36           36           36           50           50
Coimnission 71                              90          73           62           73           62          73           62           73           62           99           84
Transport Sub-Center to                     34          40           32 IO/       40           32          40           32           40           32           40           32
Monrovia
Cost of Outstation                        119          132          112          132          112          112  4/      95           92 14/       78           92 14/       78
Overheads                                  119         132          112          132          112         112 -         95           92 -         78           92 -L4       78
Profits 8/                                  -          246           -           225           -          202           -           208           -           248           -
Allocation to Agricultural                 -           490           -           304           -          130           -           225           -            84           -
Development Fund
Official Producer Price                         -        1,210                     1,210                     1,210                     1,210                    1,650
Average Discoun:lfor Moisture,                 106           73           73           73          73           73           73           73           73           99           99
Quality, etc. _                                                             13/
Transportation Farmgate to                      13           15           12 -         15          12           15           12           15           12           15           12
Sub-Center 12/
Farmgate Price                               1,560        1,122       1,925        1,122        1,718        1,122        1,515        1,122       1,610        1,536        1,927
1/  iGDP deflator index used for conversion of local costs into 1982 constant terms.
2/  Price forecsats of July, 1983 for Guatemalan  prime   washed, spot New Y-rk, converted to 1982  -onstanut L-- .
TI  Actual c.l.f Europe prices of Liberian Robusta Coffee (spot price) have been at about 15% discount to Guatemalan coffee.  Deduction for
freight in late 1982/early 1983 was $75, insurance was 0,45% of 110% of c.i.f, commissions 1% of c.i.f and quiality claims 1%/ of c.i.f.
With a c,i.f Europe price of about $2,600 for 1982, deduction for freight, insurance, commissions and quality claims were about $140,
giving an f.o.b price of $2,460.  The f.o.b prices for future years have been derived on the same basis.  For 1981, the c.i.f price was
about $2,356 and deductions about $133 in 1982 constant terms (using the MUV index).
4/  0.45% of official producer price.
5/ 5% of official producer price.
6/ 3% of official producer price.
7! 6% of official producer price.
if 10% of f.o.b.
9/ Conversion factor of 0.90 applied.
10/ Conversion factor of 0.80 applied.
11/ 6% of official producer price; this is an average between private traders who discount considerably more and cooperatives which discount
considerably less.
12/ An average distance of 10 Im assumed at a cost of $1.50/m.t./km.
13! Conversian factor of 0.80 applied.
1'4,/ Cost of outstation and overheads expected to be reduced by about 15% by 1985 and at least 30% by 1990 as a result of efforts under LCADP II.
Ilotet  A stanr,ard convetsimo  factor of 0.85 is applied to non-tradables  (unless specified otherwise).



LIBERIA
BONG COUNTY AGRICULTURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT II
Financial and Economic Farmgate Prices of Cocoa
(US$/metric ton in 1982 Constant Dollars)
1982       5/          1983                   1985                  1990                     1995
Financial Economic Financial Economic Financial Economic Financial Economic Financial Economic
I/
IBRD Price Forecasts and Actuals -            1740       1740      1977         1977       1714        1714       1423        1423        1692        1692
F.O.B Monrovia 2/                             1627       1627       1857        1857       1601        1601       1318        1318        1580        1580
Port Expenses                             18         15         18          15          18          15         18          15          18         15
LPMC                                                     6
Packing Materials                    18         16-        18          16         18          16         18           16          18         16
ICCO Levy            3/              44         44         44          44         44          44         44          44           44         44
Warehouse34nsurance -                 4          3          4           3          4           3          3            3           4          3
Interest -      4/                   44         44         44          44         44          44         35          35           44         44
Loss in Weight                       62         62         62          62         62          62         49          49           62         62
Commission      3                    53         45 7/      53          45         53          45         42          36           53         45
Transport Subcenter to Monrovia   50            40 -       50          40         50 8/       40         50          40           50         40
Cost of Outstation                  132        112        132         112        112 8/       95         92k-        78           92         78
Overheads 3                         132        112        132         112        112 8/       95         928/         78          92         78
Profits   3/                        163         -         186          -         160          -         132          -           158         -
Allocation to Agricultural
Development Fund         27         -         234          -          44          -          43          -            65         -
Official Producer Price                        880                   880                    880                    700                     880                  a,
Average Discount for Moisture -/          53         53         53          53         53           53         42          42          53         53
Quality, etc.
Transportation Farmgate to 3/
Subcenter  -             15         12         15          12         15          12         15          12           15         12
Farmgate Price                                 816       1069       816         1299       816         1077        643         870         816        1090
1/  Price Forecasts of July 1983 for average New York and London converted to 1982 constant terms.
2/  Deductions for freight at $70, insurance at 0.45% of 110% of c.i.f, commissions at 1% of c.i.f and quality discount at 1% of c.i.f;
total deductions,therefore, for 1982, 1983, 1985, 1990 and 1995 are respectively $113, $120, $113, $105 and $112.
3/  Basis same as for coffee (see Annex 6-1, page 2).
4/ 7% of official producer price.
51 A standard conversion factor of 0.85 applied to non-tradeables(unless specified otherwise)
6/ Conversion factor of 0.90 applied.
7/ Conversion factor of 0.80 applied.
8/  Cost of outstation and overheads expected to be reduced by about 15% by 1985 and at least 30% by 1990 as a result of efforts under LCADP II.
August, 1983



LIBERIA
BONG COUNTY AGRICULTURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT II
Crop Budgets per Ha at Full Development
(US$ in constant 1982 terms)
Upland Rice Seed                    8/
Exchange Package         Swamp Rice-        Coffee New Planting           Cassava                Vegetables
1985W      1985 W    1987 W    1989 W       1990 W        1995 W     1985W    1985 W                 1986 w
Yield (m.t./ha)                                  1.1         1.4       3.0        3.0          0.5±-/        0.5-0/   4.5       12.0                   3.2
Price (US$/m.t.)                               397.0      397.0      397.0      397.0      1,120.0       1,540.0      70.0      70.0                600.0
Gross Value of Production (US$)                    437.0      556.0   1,191.0   1,191.0           560.0        770.0    315.0    840.0                1,920.0
Costs of Production -/ (US$)
Seed/Seedlings/Cuttings                         24.0       24.0       28.0       20.0           -            -         6.0      28.0                 48.0
Fertilizers                                      -          -        105.0      105.0           -                               -                   184.0
Pesticides/Insecticides                          -          -         16.0       16.0           -            -         -        -                    40.0
Tools, Equipment                                 8.0 7/    8.0 7/   14.0 9/   14.0 9/          10.0 11/    10.0 11/  4.0         4.0                 40.0
Hired Labor 3/                                  24.0       26.0      156.0      156.0          30.0         30.0       -        -
Interest 4/                                      -          -         51.0       42.0          -             -         -        -                    47.0
Cost of Development 5/ (US$)                          -          -       227.0         -          272.0          -         -        -
TOTAL COSTS (US$)                                    56.0       58.0      597.0      353.0        312.0         40.0      10.0      32.0                 359.0
Net Value of Production (US$)                      381.0      498.0       594.0     838.0         248.0        730.0    305.0    808.0                  1561.0
Family Labor (mandays) 6/                      194        203        182        182           54            54        60        90                  166
Return per manday of Family Labor (US$)          2.0        2.5        3.3        4.6           4.6         13.5       5.1       9.0                   9.4
W  =  without project
W  =  with project
1/  For assumptions underlying these budgets see Working Papers 2 and 3.  Working Paper 2 also includes details on cash flow of
plantains and eddoes which have not been shown here because the production will be for only the first few years after project
commencement.  For purposes of comparison in this table, data is provided for costs and returns at fill (development (maximum yield)
and net returns after repayment of development loan (for coffee and swamp rice).  For vegetables,  only okra has been slhown here as returns from it are
2/  Excluding development costs.                                                               the lowest among the vegetables to be grown under the project.
3/ Costed at the prevailing wage rate of US$2.00/manday.
4/ At 15% for seasonal loans provided under the project.
5/  For the purpose of this analysis, annual development costs are assumed to be the aninual repayment of the development loan (capital and
interest). For the actual annual development costs see Working Papers 2 and 3.
6/  Family labor for production onjy; labor for development is incurred in the earlier years (see Working Papers 2 and 3).  However, for
upland rice, labor for annual land clearing, etc. is included.
7/ Capital cost of $20.0 annualized over 3 years at 10%.
8/ Cropping intensity of 1.0
9/ Capital cost of $34 annualized over 3 years at 10%.
10/ Average yields in the full development period (peak yields would be 0.6 m.t./ha).
11/ Capital cost of $24 annualized over 3 years at 10%.
SD
Se?tember, 1983



Ll BERIfA
RAR  CAAIRTY AEICALCIIRAI. _REAELAFRENI FIOALECT 
(Is  1982 ctlosrs
A40DALL A                                                         MODEL. 5                                            IAE.C
Prsn    (98-32   -     1992  -7-                  1-99-2   A W-            Fr eoro      1f9-92 ~7           10992-  A      Ptreseoc           992A-r        192  AW
Aplood RAe 11.2 ls)  Aptood Aloe 11.1  to)  AFIOSSA Rice    1. 2 As)   AA ( I .  ho1)  AR 11.4 ha)   AR 10.5 hol   AR 11.2 Aol                    AR ((.0  As)  ER 0.5 ho)
Oher Food Crops         Asher Food                CoPfro  )A.5 lo)            Coom   and     Coco  -od        Ao-p Ri-e    CoOPer  -od          Coffee  -od    Asop BRo-
10. I1 o)                Crops  (0.2 ha)           Aste  Food                 other Cr-F    other Crops        A.5 ho)         otter Crops       other Cros   )A.5 Ed)
LeaFs (A.) Es)             (A.RB l's)      (R  ha,)        Cor,'  a-d      )A.6h.t)          IA-6h.Ao       CoRlor
other-  Crops                                     (1.A  ha
I'ld  of Iwoop RAce (kg/ha)                                   -                                                                                               3  --0. DA0                                      3.0AAA
1.lel  sR Eploo  Rice 1kg/ha)                   l,A                      ,IAA                         l.4AIAM ,IAA                             I Ao              bA40          l,IAA            l.IAA          l,4A
Esld, of Coco       R/ka -O                                                                                                      225           225               225                  3/          - 
IR.ld of EofErr(kg/1ho)                                                                                 ERA0 3/-                                                                 250 -250                         49ER
YBrld oR Ca....e-(kg/h.)                        45R0                    4. 5AA                      12.ABA                    4,5AA         4.A0             12,AO(            ESRA0            1,500 
trodorfi-o of A-p RIoelkg/tr)                                                  0)                       --                                     -               I.IA00A                            -             1bA0
Frodoori_  ofU Apse   RIce (g/yr)               1.320                   I ,40A -                     I,h8A                    I, 32             5400              I            1.320            1.5411            700
trodooflos  of Coooo   kg/yr)               -                                                                              `O 3         '159                1 R700h/                        - h/7
trdprlo  of Caseco(kg/or)                         4ISA                    9AAoA                       .2(0                      450-          ESA            3).u0  -             S2- SE                    
Fargot  PeAce of teddy )7/hgl                   Ab40                   0SEA                          A.40                     AC            A                 0.40             0.410            AlA0           AlA
foregase trire of Cocoa (1/kg)  -                                                             AOl            0.70              230                                -               -~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~"'  ~ "o    ~ 7
Ear.gS. PEo  ofCofe   ($/kg)                      -                       -                          1.27                       ---121.22                                                                      1.217
F-rga-  trAce of Cee-o.o  (A/kg)                0.02                    0.07                         0.00                     2.07          A.A7              I A7             AO'l             0.907
D  -Ii~ C. PLi-   f  (kgy~)       1,0     /                ,100~ 9IAA -10                                              J(250/10
Doseerlo Cooomprlor ofPtddy )h/r)        I.51II420                                                                                       90   S  -0/   I,490 IA/        1,250            1.40           1,REO
Doceoir Coo-spsioo of C--om   (kg/yr)             400 9/                  900 -900                                   ~          4 0 -          450-1-            40D-5  -        450              150             -
Somoo,l For  Aee   of tddy_(lcg/r O               270                     440                            RA                       20            so               110              7A               50             56A
Aoooal  Far:   oao  Cosoo(k~g/yr)                                                                       300                     -                             2.1"O
toddy Bale-  (0)IO.0                                              176.0                        232.0                      2A.           21.             2AE4              28.A             20.0           224.0
CocaAl-         $                                                                                 -                       2 30.00      lI0               lIl.              -                                -
Coffre Aeles )/)                                                               5~~~~~~~~~-  11.1,-                             -                              140.0            159.0          4 70. 0
Cosseso Roles )$)   -                      -                            01~~          ~          ~      ~      ~       ~       ~~~~~~~                    ~        ~       ~      ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~.0  -    21.0-   
Ofh-  Be-o-                                 50.0                   50.0                          25.0                     15.0          7 5 .0            25.             )5.A             75.0            25.0
To-a  Cash lfo                      15h.0                   226.D                          f.                     233.A          20h.              tE,.2           243.0            254.0           719.0
A--ls Crop P5'od-illo   Co-ss  OF,    607.0                        79.0                          10.0                    61.0           /8.0              2.167.0                          10 .0           29.0
- Aesop Bore  ..                           -                        -             -              122.A              -                -            127.0~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~, .
-Co.s                                                                                      -                       IA.A          10.0              10.0                              -
- Cof/re                               -                           ~~~~~~                                                            ~       ~~~~       ~      ~~~~          ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~20.  .0  0I  5~.0  35.0
-Cas-..                               l.A                    2.0                           3.0                      1.0           1.0              10.0             l'O             1.0
Tota  Cook 20IfEB-                   60.0                    90.0                          92.0                     10.0          09.2            226.0             83.0             9A.0          24)-A
Ac  FreCas- to                                90.2                  146.0                         406.0                    155.0         112.0             E15.A           lhD.A             150.0          409.0
Vao-  of Oomesic-lly Coo--md toddy              4 210.2                 0640.0                       440.0                    500.0          596.0            096.0            500.A            595.0          556.0
VAso  of Doeros-r11y C-o-od C--ao                32.                     63.0                         03.0                     3 2.A          1 2.7            32.0             32.A             32.0
NeBtom F BA lo-es                               52_                     609.0                        999.0                    hAI.A          7045.2          lO'.43,h          t92.A0         _790. O_        j_j 1_ 
o      WIth tr-(e-
Simrrooya.I feofr.r. rretos   r--restloow pcjIll                             Iooo       I I  -b      , i ct  10,1,  ioolto,,olbr Icso-cc  hr,on             " clrI -1-   oroprco   IctictI              d' 
A-rrege YirAId. Ioth.      Rl  Aes. lForOtP-tioA  l-rA  yEldt  -ood hobAA Eg/Q
4/   A-ssoBgal.h1l6ooooaI  -ohooOr l irate                                                     o    .6.2-0.-s
6/ A-sooR     coffee h-  rg   o   .   o  00,5OrtOE    f 0.1I
7/   A-solg 0.5 ha of                                   -Idsoalc/o    d05h  a) lepr--dn  cEfro-
8/   A-sseolgo-a..ao    e_sareg   of 0.3.
9!   Eo-sIooosnoil-  f-srlyofrshr.torslFqnOrroo    001rn Icn                                             Ic 1200 rkses  sl-ogh 4 0kccf   nO,0-v   I)Ilkgd-00V  cq.i-.nrI   w,od IAArO                     nl5o    AookIng   A,pot)
]O/  A--oo00  so       ...ag   fa.Iy  of 7  -oohr.- ooc   IB.? arooby 1992.
Sote-he-, 19e,30



LIBERIA
BONG COtlNTY AGRICULTURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT II
Government Cash Flow
(US $'000)
PYI         PY2         PY3         PY4         PY5         PY6         PY7         PY8         PY9          PY10      PYII
(84/85)     (85/86)     (86/87)    (87/88)    (88/89)       (89/90)     (90/91)     (91/92)     (92/93)      (93/94)    (94/95)
INFLOW
IDA Credit                               2    a130!/    1,590    1,500       1,270         210 
IFAD Loan                                1,850~-     1,360       1,300       1,090         200         -            -           -           -           -          -
ADF Loan                                 1,000          950         950         850         250         -           -           -           -           -           -
TOTAL DIRECT INFLOW                        4,980       3,900        3,750       3,210         660         -           -           -           -            -          -
OUTFLOW
Project Costs                            6,634       5,633       5,513       5,080         -            -           -           -           -           -           -
Post Project Recurrent Costs               -           -           -            -        1,571 1     1,643       1,716       J,799       1,883        1,968     2,063
Debt Service IDA Credit
Commitment fee b/                           23           15           7           1                     -           -           -           -           -           -
Service Charge c/                           16          27           39         49          50           50          50          50          50           50         49
Principal Repayment d/                           -           -           -            -           -                 -           -           -           -            67
Debt Service IFAD Loan
Interest e/                                 18          32          45          56          58           58          58          58          58          58          57
Principal Repayment f/                     -           -           -            -          -            -           -                                   -           145
Debt Service ADF Loani
Interest g/                                  8           15         22          28           30          30          30          30          30           30         29
Principal Repayment h/                     -           -           -            -           -                       -           -           -            -           40
Total Debt Service                          65           89         113         134         138         138         138         138          138         138        387
TOTAL. OUTFLOW                             6,699       5,722        5,626       5,214       1,709       1,781       1,854       1,937       2,021        2,106      2,450
Surplus (Deficit)                         (1,719)    (1,822)    (1,876)        (2,004)     (1,049)     (1,781)     (1,854)     (1,937)     (2,021)      (2,106)    (2,450)
Govt. budget allocation
(excluding Debt Service)                (1,654)     (1,733)     (1,763)     (1,870)     (  911)     (1,643)     (1,716)      (1,799)     (1,883)     (1,968)    (2,063)
INDIRECT INFLOW
Possible Revenues from Indirect
Taxes and LPMC Dividends i/              432         726       1,069       1,372       1,702       2,093        2,687       3,027       3,225       3,523      3,633
Net Surplus (Deficit)                   (1,287)     (1,096)      (  807)    (  632)         653         312         833       1,090       1,204        1,417      1,183
Cumulative Surplus (Deficit)                 -         (2,383)     (3,190)     (3,822)     (3,169)     (2,857)     (2,024)     (  934)         270       1,687      2,870
a/  Includes PPF of US $643,000 (IDA only) and US $550,000 as initial deposit into Special Account (IDA t'S 5280,000 and IiAD US $270,000).
b/ i% per annum on undisbursed balance of credit.
c/ 3/4% per annum on disbursed amount.
d/  Principal repayed over 50 years with 10 years grace period.  Repayment terms are 1% per annum for the first 10 years following grace period and 3%
per annum for 30 years.
e/ 1% per annum on disbursed amount.
f/  Principal repayable in 50 years with 10 years grace period.  Repayment terms are equal installments for 40 years following the grace period.
g/ 3/4% per annum on disbursed amount.
h/  Principal repayable in 50 years with 10 years grace period.  Repayment terms are 1% per annum for the first 10 years following grace period
and 3% per annum for 30 years.
i/ Indirect taxes on expenditures of project beneficiaries and dividends paid by the LPMC are estimated to be between 10% (for paddy) and 20% (for
coffee and cocoa) of the total value of production generated by Phases I and II.  Cassava, vegetables, plantains and cocoyams have not been
included in this estimate.
i/  6% per annum price increase for all costs assumed except for salaries (3% per annum) for all years until PYII.  The cost of US $1,571,000 in
PY5 is the recurrent cost of maintaining the production levels of Phases I and IT.  However it does not include the maintenance costs of
project feeder roads since all these roads in addition to secondary roads and non-project feeder roads would be handed over to MPW for
maintenance.  The PY5 maintenance costs of Phase I feeder roads are estimated at US $433,000; those of Phase 11 roads at tlS $150,000; those of
non-project feeder roads in the county at US $161,000; and those of secondary roads at US $420,000.
December 1983



-64
Annex 7-I
LIBERIA
BONG COUNTY AGRICULTURAL DEVELLCP9ffRT PFROJECT II
EcnmcCost  an-dBenfits - Phase  0_0(V'31)
1984/85%        1985/86       1986187       1987/88       L.9S8Th8    9IOAL0         .1801R2.       1991912       1992/92       1993/84    1994/2007         2087/2008        200912009
C-
Cliil Oo-nn                           T-to            2533/             45             50            36            - 
F-E.               76              Ix             13            II            -             -             -             -                                                           
-L.C.             i77              31              33           25            -             -             -                           --                         --
Fnr-lnro-   Eq,pjen                -. Un 14ol          99-/             23             27            23            to0                  10                   10 l          10            10           10              10               10
-FtE.              49              12              14            12             5             0             5             5             5             0           0                3               5
L..      50              11             13            10             5             3                           3             5             0            5                0               0
Oshu4lon                 ~~     ~ ~         ~~~~            ~~-  6  477  040  236           97            68            61            68            68            68            68           68              68              68
-FPE.            429              234            IRS            87            61            61            61            61            61            61           61               61              61
-LC.               48              26             21             10             7             7             7             7             7             7            7               7                7
Eq~~~~ip-                 -UTol",7             13                1            -             -               5             5             3             9             5             5                              
-..       13               0                                                         4             4             4             4             4           4                4               4
-IC.        5               1     ~      ~       ~     ~       ~       ~             ~             ~~~~  I         I           1              1           1I 
Pots  Isyso              - Totall~~~~~~E IC  Il              15             180           264           168           11             1             52,          152           213          l721/           12                7
F 7..  IC          8              111            12£           I89           hR            106           148           106           106           149          100              120             120
-L.U.              36              46             54             79            50           16            64            46            46            64           52               52              502
70411 -A-os   4                       Fono tss      P   225            135             £0            73            -             -             -             -             -             -            -               - 
Vohinlo  ipototlngconto-~~Tosl                6331                           3 94          96             69            69            6             69           68            69           69               69              69
- PT.  all            332              05           336            £2            62            6             62            62            62           62              62               62
L,IC.              46              39             39            40              7             7             7             7             1                          7               7                7
-- I Adds,  lots                 -Tta             364              294            793           284            79            78            79            79            79            79           79               79              79
F.En.  I           7                9             59            57             6             1£            1I           116                         16           16               16              16
-L.C.            291              233            234           227            63            63            63             3            63            63           63               63              63
lalorins  osd Ilapso      - ~~~LUC.        1212             1000           1030          1036           208           208           208           209           208           208          208             20B              208
o:tsrOpta-sC.x                        T-Toa           211              190            13              5                                        ---                                                       
-PE               36              38             38 1                                                                                                                              
-L.      113              132            Ill            23 ,                                                                                               
Roan brosk- Tota-L'                                   422              413            514           603           267           267           267           2t7           267           267    27            267                      267
F t              261              256            319            89           14            14            14            14            14            14           17               14              147
-L~C.             14              159            14            2'18          120           10            120           120           1,20          120          120             120               20
£140   abrd                           L.C.             86              156            204           296           276           206           225           205           200           200          205             147              123
F-ily: Lo.bor                         L.C.             98              162            212           349           301           033           393           426           447           442         400              334              283
Tota   F--ngo  Ech-rge                              1667             1218           1171          1077           413           431           4u4           4171         401            444         4 15             415             415
Total 1noa   Cool                                    2379            2020            2146          2335           968          1516          1077          1088          1109          1122        1118              946              869
T-1a -.at  C-nois IRord-r
14'                                     202              10             '8294          98            823           864           013           925           923           934          930             802              7 39
TOTAL E1C0N35IC C~SUn                               3689             2934           2995          3034           1236          1265          1338          1326          1344          1398        1365             1017            1104
Vaa-  of Prod-tion   Paddy                            150              307            5940          811           89x4          943           990           90            990           990         999099
- Coitee   -                -              70           44~    ~ ~~~~~            ~~~~~        ~~~~~~~~4 13 104  2896  3091  3188         3556         397791 137       425             1699
- Castasa               o      ~      ~~~            ~~     ~ 14  59  18         234           315           360          360            360           360         360              360             360
- Venetablen       10             ~~~            ~~~          ~~~~33  59  106  121          30           130           130           130           130          130             130              130
-Eddast'                     -                               13            44            35            -             ----                                                  ---
COTAL ECONOMIC VALUEOF0 PRODUCTION                         1631            4 42           919          198I1        2742          3480           4376         40171         468            0016        0201             3908839
NET ECONOMIC BENEPIT                                     (352o           12=4923        120767       11063)          1306          2215          3017          3260          3324          3619         3886            291              1948
totnno  REss ni Returnt  21.0%
1/ Islding phyaloal  --nine-ies  of lOT for olil   orkn  end St for all other  Olson  stoa    T.A. and Coslao,Sataries  and WBes  sod Lahb-  Costs.
2/    nolodas  Psojoo -prepraion  Pa-lliy  7P7F) La Itt financd is, 1883/84.
/ Foodesboas    10.000  pr   nns t-          n  as ip-osan   ofPhase1                          -drn toeas    qaipsest  (Ano..  7-2).
5/   1noldesaPhoos  $1,00 or   q on   for ACDB  nder PPF.
6/   fooode-  P-atI  nloeet
7/   Un-1nd-  only- plntPodoio   s0ooOhops..ipssI.
9/  A"nsoage  of- 3 lre...edd-nRi- eara.
1'25%   o   opan   ro   sedand 953%I tar             - Ot   P-r inus    icing a  eighted  aserage  of70%.
1! IonEln  3      On Looths  fo   faperat    Dpenslop er    ueso                 tftTeatin.,M-on-isorig  -d Eouai-oj..  Radia progealsg    wm    eesm
121  20%.                                            TlS PD-.-
13/   PolF     ot   t  osooco   ard rlo"blintaniot                   llil an .lo    s -oon  42% o   -ttlPnnll055Oooeles   etoftefonilsseaesilsoecat
Saiosenasooosn   of   on-projec   feeder roadsand  --ooda-proda  ofiso   b  00-00  nr   so-oeron                        hg.  fl neao    snEo   hem0sd   Ifee   od
15/  A-orage onr 13 y-nr.
Jotobar 1983.



- 65-                                                                                                   Atn7-
LIBERIA
BORE CSUbNE LA/2RIC_ITURAL RRVEI.OPHRT PRO/fCC II
Ecnoi _Css   n  Benefits_- Phase   I ted TII 1 31 )
19798  73/     :9/BE    80/8/   81,92    82/83    3084    84//I5   85HE          S/B?      8/R       8/9      3/0       9/1 9/2 D/20                 10      2E       SA      /O    80
Clot]  loris       -Total         ~~~~       ~~~~       ~~~~~~~~265  35 5  75  I90  /3  O                         -         -        -                      
F .E.          89        .07        53       /7        54         3        -        .
-L.E.         /83        248       '1.5     /55       /2                            -        -         -         -           
arcoo& Eqpisc              -Toa          jig        153       56       I/5      1586       /8         -        /        1o        /0       /0        /0   0        IS C/        /0        IS        /0      IC                 
-F.            hE         /7        53       57        73         A                            S        S                  5         3         5       5         5                                   
- L.C.  59      76       53       ~~~       ~~~~                                        ~~58  73 9 - 5 5  3  5   5        5         5        5        5         5       5      -        -      -
On/ut/nt             ~~~~~~ ~~~-To     71       306       .39       3/2      159        /5         -        i        9         6        33        33       88        88      88        88       88       83 8 
-  ..   64        2/5        3       293       /43       14         -       37        3          3       30        / 9       79       79       799      79        79      79      -        - 
GE 7O                    I/                  33       /6         /                           2         3        3                                                                                   
PFr    to/rn-                    T'Iu            6        /95       .4/      969      4/5       430        aSS     2/n       /96        SE3     /90       /93      t396      t9E      93       /3        193     193
-   ER          4         3/       i/       6/8       29/      280        SI       15       1137       37        13      /33       17       /7       1          35/9    III     /39
-   C..          2        53       '/       29/       124      /20        150       6        39        39        57       98        39       57       3         8        33      58
Corbhss-l Ann,tas e-  F.E.                      12 66               30       459      223        63         -1'                            
OhE,le   C13                     To-I           /0       /10       :6       4/R       367       560        574.'   /4/1      /7       /7        14/        /       /28       /2      /23        /8      /98      /2,-, 
-   E.        IE         9         t       395       730      394        517     /32       /3/       /3       /3        I/       15          I5     15       11         1       1                    
- b..            /                  2        45        37       536        57       15       /5        1         5        /         1         3       /         S         3      /                   
Ccto    ev cs  Co t  To   a/         62        /3/1      134      496/      574      410        6271'   /~3       /3/       /3        //        3         3/        3]     13~1      /31      I'3l     1,3/     -       -
- p.C.    /2        /6 ~~~                                                            ~ 57 9  /  2 13 /6   2  2  6  /    6              /6      /6         6       36       2       -       -       -
-  C     C        35       "I7      3/0       439       5/3       50/      /3/      1C05      /03       /0'5     1/        105       /0      /05       ls        0       /03 5
Salarie   ard Wag-i              L.C.           99       463        41     /1/74     1512     1540-'    992'   4/0          4/27      42/7      4/7      s27       42/      4/ 7     4/27    6,2/       427     4/7       -       -       -
hore/ Cabot                      u.o.T          -           -       25        34      100       /30        / 30    /50       1t0      /30       /39       /50      153       /30     130       ISO      /50      /30      -        -      -
Ca..1,Lbot                 -  .C.          -           9        SE       3/2      /34       /65       /43      /5/      29 9      344       73 75    396       394      398      40/      333       38 3    925       -       -      -
Ejad tocko                     - T a           -3-                 '         1/6      /96       333        tI      /3        153       198      133       199   /9           199I    I33       19        /II     19"      --I
F .,.          -C 7                          0        /26       /9        34        76        /6       7   76         1 39C        109      /03      /09      109       13  /09           -       - 
L .C.          -          -         64       12        /0        83        4        6/       62                  6/       90        93       93       90        90       90      990                  
PFct/do  Oo-bao                           /290        697     .625      2109     /990      1733       /364     1/        4tO       399      40/       469      40/       467     469       469       469     469
98/ Ec3 959                                              996      / 634    /966      19/2      1/53      1364      t/2]     463       399      402       469       471      4 67     469      469       469     469
T-1s Lots   Joet-                                40/        /033     /544      :333      2/SE     2564       21c5   /039       1122      1/70     /199      /243      /2/2     1254    /253      1255      1240   /11/  2
/932 ,Tems    /                                92/       1/0/       66/     2/21    /919       /364       2/43    .039      1/37      /170    /199       /243      1232     1254    /258       1255     1/40    /182                    
T-cu 0.0. Ic iorde-
ri-e   LO1/                                  413        /3/2      1434     1975      2491     2179       1623      923      96 3      99/1                   1050 164       /01/6             06c       04     13 6 
.TOTAL  POSE  I ETC/OHO/C  0002377                         2_021     3363      393~9    4303      394        30        30      14/b      /394     /021      152       3535     1352    133        533      15/5    1473                   
Es/se of Peodscitoc - Paddy      -         ~~~     ~~~~42  114  38/    000       c/4        7/..    786        661     323       811       9/2,     973      10I/    /0/i      /3111    10/      .0/       -
-Cca-                                                         S        /         1 3      59      66       /03      233       /376      13196    1043    /30I        571   /457      11            
- Co/lee  -  -      -          -t       1/       39        /54     962~     ~~~~ ~~~~~        ~~~~~ ~~~~~~ 366  I"1/1  /09  91 39  1/95    /3140D  /O1/  /49/    I1:66     -
50701 POASO  1 010CCOP P_O0TCT2OE            -         tL2       /14      333       0/         4        080    IS?       23        301~     32038      20      3133      3403    3631      3783     3969    330 --
SEE ECONOMIC sBEEROPT OF0 PHAASE /              /777/    /1979)   /2934)   73334)   (3463]   /3/5/    32/07/    330            909      160       //ll     /6314     1653     19/27    2//      2234      _2446   13 29      -       -      -
POsne/Iotetcsl       ~ Cue 0 5eoc    .6E.
TOTAL  ECOOI    000-         IHS   /  - 0>        /77      /32/2     3066      3939       30      094         /7     4.0       tI       420        36      /5 76     /615      /2706   2679      /715      2733  2633    1365    13/7  /1354
TOTAL ECONOIC REBIOPIT  - PHASES I0 0   I2/l-          4/        .14     335      820       /49       /080    /37/      2/7 77    342/      3/09    590/       6663      7835   8323      3938      9338  3431    5274    3933   3399
SET ECONOMIC _ERENEITS - _7HAEES / I ~IT    /777 )          19793    1/954)   355s,   /3463I       I /3/6)   /1307   (3038) /1434/    (339/         353    3373      tOSS      213      5353     62/23     6683   5348    3909    269/   1945
Coe.bb-d  Phase   I  nod 11   /08:  11./I
1/  350,030 f-t                                                                   Ifutisnsgso    coat   o    oi/edpe  o/n-liet   oss
2/  Rot/des  390,000  -ndr-  PPI Oor Pbe 31 (figsre  for /983/84 st    tos the  oaRe.
3/  Hld-t  46,330 ssdnn PPP /or Phas   0/.
4/  F-ciodes 9102,000 IbR.. W lldsOi/B.-i.i.e
S.'  E.inoB -  3/222,000   oder PPF /or Ph_m  IT sod 0/630330 /E  Roadm,/We2//s/7....ine  .I.a..o..
6/  A-toa   ip to /932/63 iod hadg-nd /I  19833/34 /us fce ocher  --t    ,  -ssooe   coctu..                ier-   ad
.7/   alO  ost  of  onsesEtec sd rAuhiituioe  nc lded    OsEtecscecetsosnos/at   rods sd ec-pejhccleeerina/ihGseOntoectodedoc                                           79 usoe7iO dtE dEt   i- c  tnc 6
egA/puest  tan huodd oter to fislsfr  o  l PAOOBro   HS  ashld rc   oeit foe -pro/ ersouc  .o-pt Cot 24 ho to /979/SC.  Tbe estinted cet :  24 km en104.000/Cm  (in-lodiog
deoreloecce   hIs ....  ..e                          I - dded to - pIcec   Rca/n Eat costs  10979/83.  Th   34a _wa   aOd, cone hy H/PRWoE  p-oje-   On /982/83 aed hs/ to he  -epuced  -caot of 3549.300.
Trhis cotbu   ee   slded In193//HO.
3/Me//, lo EnP/D0  Jaly /9803  asd Eith 1982/83    / 00.   TnIces- se  75.3 foe 1977/78, 33.6 Toe  /978/79. 99.1 Toe /979/30, 137.3 1st /980/3/  sod /02.2  Ion 1981/82.
9/  GDP /eC/l-o   -odn-  sed nIcE  /982/63 = /30.  Todice  ar  32.1 tcr /'977/73.  33.6 for /978/79, 91.5 f-t 19/9/30, 133.4 lot /960/3/   ned 94.4 f-r /98/537.
10/   E5s/ur/ cones             - cor of 3.35 spelled.
_LI/Ahnere0 of 9 peuro.
/2/  Pb   II c/rse   sod becefis from Anre   7-/.  PhaseI 2 be-fits d-iCcg  13992 /200/ ore sne             feo  9   --urs /0,149. 009/.
Ceoe  9833






IBRD17191R
P1-05           /        /   ~/} V. °5°'. -s  \vZ'                            9° 00'                                  a oo        SEPTEMBER 1953
)       ( /               ,V'OINJA  <m                                            LIBERIA
/'            n             Hn,* BONG COUNTY AGRICULTURAL
AF R I C A                                                                               DEVELOPMENT PROJECT I
- @ 4 ! )5~~~~~~Folio                                                                                                                                 R 1 000
\\    , r   2   -  <        <              ~~~~~~/ EakepXo
L                             '    4 FGUINEA
vZoIowoa /Gon°
S I E R R A       /                 rJ      c  S  u, N  r Y           >!?                              .   t*  >                     TteWo d&'.':")
L E 0   N   E  N D~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~QEE                                                           eepa  aa
<,<     G   ~~~R A                                         N D   -       // 7f                A         UFLLIEa henen2cF2o
C,               A Pompewndf2 Ef                                          r            G gople                                         Pa ae e
7'00~ ~ CosM L) N  at T Y l1</Z@EV      
7'00 -
POET  H EAOATR'.  \ '                                                                 \/         /         \ 
ROBEETSpOES                    R
RAIL\VAYS~~ R                   N  D   f B A    o SX   S  A   
*    INTERNATIONAL                    AiRPORJ     ~~~'~ ½                                              VOR
t~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ YA)OA   CAiA  '                                                A '                                      T ~
HOGCOUNTY AGROUNDRARE                                                                     G  R  A        t Nt D        D  E  
VEL_P iNTEPROJETIOAR BONARE  |HA'sbJAN>ZaoL   /e
PHS I tVR AND IIES°                                                     2        e                  
PROJECT HEzADQUARTERS                      4
CENRA  ARIULTURAL                       Sab< 
C    ESNETARACH ItNBSTCITUTECO N                                                                                                        Y
LOFA C-OUNTY AGR~ICULTURAL                              1-
DEVELOPMENT PROJECT                                   ,
-PAVED ROADS
I N    0 E    ,                     , 
l ¢~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~o lop osOX,,e o0 
-      ROADS UNDER CONSTRUCTION - 
-----RAILWAYS
INTERNATIONAL AIRPORtT                                                 ~C
4 AIRFIELDS AND AIRSTRIPS                                         '-
5'OS   ~~~~       MAtOR PORTS
4~MINOR PORTS -
NATIONAL CAPITAL
®j   COUNTY CAPITALS                                            N                                            '  T-kNooS
COUNTY BOUNDARIZESMAR
-INTERNATIONAL BOUNDARIES                                    I5- P1                     5     Eppp,
RIVERS ANED CREEKS                                                        t 



