Document of
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
4 LiE COPY!
Report No. P-3727-LBR
REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION
OF THE
PRESIDENT OF THE
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
TO THE
EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS
ON A
PROPOSED CREDIT OF SDR 6.4 MILLION
TO THE
REPUBLIC OF LIBERIA
FOR A
SECOND BONG COUNTY AGRICULTURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
February 21, 1984
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
The official monetary unit is the Liberian dollar
with a par value equal to the U.S. dollar. The U.S.
dollar is legal tender in Liberia.
FISCAL YEAR
July 1 - June 30
ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS
ACDB      Agricultural and Cooperative Development Bank
ADF       African Development Fund
CARI      Central Agricultural Research Institute
CDA       Cooperative Development Agency
CSU       Cooperative Service Unit
DCS       District Cooperative Society
IFAD      International Fund for Agricultural Development
LPMC      Liberian Produce Narketing Corporation
MOA       Ministry of Agriculture
MPW       Ministry of Public Works
T & V     Training and Visit



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
LIBERIA
Second Bong County Agricultural Development Project
Credit and Project Summary
Borrower:      The Republic of Liberia
Amount:         SDR 6.4 million (US$6.7 million equivalent)
Terms:         Standard
Project
Description:   The project seeks to increase farmer productivity and income by
consolidating the experiences and achievements of the first
phase project (Cr. 700-LBR) and extending agricultural services
to lower Bong County as well as to part of the adjacent Gibi
Territory. The project would include: (i) supply of agricul-
tural inputs to improve production of upland and swamp rice,
cassava, other food crops and coffee; (ii) expansion and
improvement of extension services and staff training;
(iii) agricultural research and development of improved plant
production material; (iv) strengthening of cooperatives and the
Agricultural and Cooperative Development Bank (ACDB) to improve
input supply, credit and marketing services; (v) maintenance of
secondary and feeder roads and construction or rehabilitation
of feeder roads and tree crop tracks; (vi) schistosomiasis
monitoring and control services; construction of wells and
latrines; and (vii) support to the Ministry of Agriculture
central services. About 7,500 farm families would obtain
higher incomes as a result of the crop improvement and credit
programs; an even greater number of the rural population would
benefit from improvements in the road network and health
services. In addition, employment would be created by the
increased business activity induced by the project. It is
estimated that about half the rural families in the county
would benefit in some way from the project. The normal risks
associated with this type of project would be minimized since
it would be building upon the institutions and experience of
the first phase project. The main risk is that institutional
developments envisaged under the project may not take place as
quickly as supposed. However, in view of the high priority
given by the Government to rural development and of the
technical assistance and training support being provided, this
risk has been reduced to acceptable levels.
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance
of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



- ii -
Estimated Costs:
Project Item                                          ----- (US$ million) -----
Local    Foreign    Total
Crop and Farm Development                              4.9        2.0         6.9
Agricultural Research                                   0.1       0.1         0.2
Input Supply, Credit and Marketing Services             1.7       1.4         3.1
Roads and Workshop                                      1.6        2.0        3.6
Realth Services                                         0.4        0.3        0.7
Project Management and Administration                   2.2       0.7         2.9
Monitoring and Evaluation                               0.3       0.1         0.4
Technical Assistance & Consultancy Services             0.1       0.4         0.5
Support to MOA Central Services                        0.1        0.3         0.4
Total Base Cost                              11.4        7.3        18.7
Physical Contingencies                        0.2        0.3         0.5
Price Contingencies                           1.4        1.7         3.1
Total                                    13.0       9.3        22.3
Project Preparation Facility
Reimbursement                          0.2        0.4         0.6
Total Project Costs                      13.2       9.7        22.9
less Recurrent Costs of Phase I          4.9        0.6         5.5
Total Financing Required             8.3        9.1        17.4
Financing Plan:
Local    Foreign    Total
IDA                                           3.4        3.3        6.7
IFAD                                          3.0        2.8        5.8
ADF                                           1.0        3.0         4.0
Government                                    0.9          -         0.9
TOTAL                                   8.3        9.1        17.4
Estimated
Disbursements:                   FY85       FY86       FY87      FY88       FY89
Annual                  2.1        1.6        1.5        1.3       0.2
Cumulative               --        3.7        5.2        6.5       6.7
Rate of Return:   22%
Staff Appraisal Report:   No. 4681-LBR dated February 15, 1984
Map: IBRD 17191R



INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION OF THE PRESIDENT
TO THE EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS ON A PROPOSED CREDIT
TO THE REPUBLIC OF LIBERIA
FOR A SECOND BONG COUNTY AGRICULTURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
1.       I submit the following report and recommendation on a proposed credit
to the Republic of Liberia for the equivalent of SDR 6.4 million (US$6.7 mil-
lion equivalent) on standard IDA terms to help finance a Second Bong County
Agricultural Development project. The International Fund for Agricultural
Development (IFAD) would provide US$5.8 million equivalent of cofinancing for
the project, with IDA serving as cooperating institution for the administra-
tion of the IFAD loan, and the African Development Fund (ADF) would extend a
loan of US$4.0 million equivalent on ADF terms.
PART I - THE ECONOMY
2.       An economic report, entitled "Liberia:  Recent Economic Developments
and Medium-Term Prospects" (No. 4178-LBR), was distributed to the Executive
Directors on December 30, 1982. An economic mission visited Liberia in
October 1983 to review the current economic situation; its principal findings
are included in the following paragraphs. Country data are shown in Annex I.
Basic Economic Characteristics
3.       Liberia has a dual economy.  A foreign controlled enclave sector,
endowed with advanced technologies and skills, co-exists with a traditional
agricultural economy which uses rudimentary technologies. The wholly export
oriented enclave or "concession" sector includes iron ore mining, rubber
production and forestry and provides about 90 percent of the export earnings
and generates about one quarter of the GDP. The links between the concession
sector with the rest of the economy are, on the whole, weak. However,
stronger links exist in the case of the rubber industry; these take the form
of demand for labor services (about 7 percent of the labor force is employed
by rubber concessions) and material inputs. Contributions by the concessions
to Government revenues in the form of profit sharing and royalties provided
the strongest linkage with the rest of the economy until 1976/77. Because of
low iron ore profits since the late seventies, contributions to revenues now
mainly take the form of income tax levied on employees and, to a limited
extent, indirectly in the form of duties on imported inputs which are not
exempt under the Concession Agreements. These revenues have historically
accounted for about one half of total Government income.
4.       Outside the enclave sector, Liberia is not unlike other less devel-
oped African nations; about 66 percent of the population live in rural areas
and depend for their livelihood on agriculture; the bulk of them are tradi-
tional farmers producing mainly rice and cassava for subsistence. Rubber,
coffee and cocoa are the country's major cash crops; yet they contribute less



- 2 -
than 10 percent of GDP and only 18 percent of export earnings. Almost all
rubber is processed and exported by foreign companies. Non-agricultural
productive activities outside the enclave sector are very limited; the largest
of these, manufacturing, contributes about 5 percent of GDP. This structural
imbalance in the economy between the modern, largely enclave sector, and the
traditional agricultural sector is reflected in a sharply skewed income dis-
tribution. With a population of about 1.9 million, average per capita GNP in
1982 was estimated at about US$510. However, 80 percent of Liberia's house-
holds received less than 30 percent of total income.
5.       The effectiveness of Liberia's public institutions is severely handi-
capped by a scarcity of trained manpower at all levels. Though Liberia has
competent managers in public office, they are insufficient in number and their
effectiveness is handicapped by a shortage of trained people for middle man-
agement positions. Organizational weaknesses furthermore result in poor
communications within the Government and its agencies and in duplication of
effort. These inadequacies of public institutions are not only a bottleneck
to the effectiveness of day-to-day government but to the public sector's
development effort as a whole, since the large number of unproductive workers
on the public payroll swell the Government's current expenditures and prevent
the accumulation of savings for an adequate investment effort.
65.      With a crude birth rate of 49.7 and a crude death rate of 14.2 per
1,000 population, Liberia's annual rate of population increase of 3.4 percent
i:s among the highest in Sub-Saharan Africa. The rate has risen from 3.1
percent during the 1960s and is expecteu to accelerate to 3.7 percent by the
year 2000. Consequently, on the basis of past trends in birth and death
rates, the current population of about 1.9 million is projected to double by
the year 2000. The high population growth rate has put pressure on social
services, infrastructure, etc. and, in the light of a declining economy,
unemployment has risen, especially in Monrovia where migration from rural
areas accentuates the problem.
7.       About 58 percent of Liberia's domestic energy needs are met by local
fuelwood and charcoal, another 35 percent from imported petroleum and its
products, and 7 percent from domestic hydroelectric power. Petroleum imports
cost Liberia $129.6 million in 1981, or 24 percent of export earnings, as
compared to $12 million or 5 percent of export earnings a decade earlier.
Although the reduction of world oil prices in late 1982 and early 1983 pro-
vided some relief, reducing the ratio of oil imports to total export earnings
to 20 percent, problems of paying for oil imports continue to mount and it is
clear that Liberia should seek adjustments in its use of imported oil by
substituting domestic hydropower to the extent possible and by conserving
energy so as to alleviate its balance of payments and fiscal problems.
8.       The country has poorly developed economic and social infrastructure
outside the enclave areas. An incomplete and inadequate road system is poorly
maintained. Only 20 percent of the non-enclave population has access to
dependable water supply, while education and training have been inequitably
distributed and are of inadequate quality. The health status of the majority
of Liberians remains poor--life expectancy at birth is estimated at 54 years,
and morbidity and mortality are high. The infant mortality rate is 152 per



- 3 -
thousand live births (1981). The existing health care system is inadequate
and unsuited to the country's health problems. Poor health and malnutrition
continue to plague vulnerable segments of the population, especially pregnant
and lactating women as well as young children.
Recent Economic Performance
9.       The military Government which took power in April 1980 inherited a
sluggish and strained economy in which GDP growth had averaged less than 1.0
percent per annum between 1974 and 1979. The economy was suffering from the
effects of a heavy oil import bill and a stiff debt burden at a time when the
external demand for Liberia's products was depressed. The commodity concen-
tration of Liberia's exports aggravated the impact of the international reces-
sion. In addition, doubling of the public sector minimum wage in 1980 exacer-
bated the fiscal crisis. Capital flight and a severe shortage of public funds
for investment also hurt the economy. The depletion of the banking sector
deposit base, restricted external credit lines and a general liquidity crisis
made management of the economy difficult, particularly during the present:
administration's first two years of office and still continue to plague
economic management. To meet its foreign currency obligations, the Government
relies on offshore tax revenues paid by concessions and on disbursements of
external loans and grants. Because of decreased prices for export commodities
and low export earnings of concessionaires, their contribution to the Govern-
ment's offshore revenue has decreased drastically in recent years. Thus, the
public sector balance of payments has accordingly deteriorated and the
National Bank of Liberia continues to have difficulty in obtaining foreign
resources to meet the cost of oil imports, service debt and public sector
import payments.
10.      There has been a decline in GDP each year since 1980.  Between 1980
and 1982, real GDP declined by about 15 percent and real consumption by over
22 percent. The decline in the economy is mainly attributable to the con-
tinuing weak performance of exports. Exports account for a high share of GDP
(62 percent in 1981). During 1982, export earnings fell by 9.8 percent (from
$540.7 million in 1981 to $487.4 million in 1982) due to decreased earnings
from iron ore, rubber, logs, cocoa and sawn timber. This deterioration in
export earnings continued in 1983, with revenue for the period January to June
showing a 10 percent decline over the corresponding period in 1982. Because
of the dominance of iron ore whose market prospects still look grim, prospects
for export earnings in the short run are not promising but the recent upsurge
in world rubber prices have made prospects look better, especially in the
medium term, as the recession in the OECD countries ends. However, in order
to respond to stronger demand in the medium-term, substantial investments need
to be undertaken, especially in the iron ore sector.
11.      After deteriorating considerably in 1980 following the doubling of
the minimum wage, fiscal performance improved as a result of expenditure
restraints under successive stabilization programs supported by the IMF.
Total expenditures declined from $385.4 million in FY82 to $343.5 million in
FY83. While expenditure restraint has been successful, revenue performance
has been disappointing in part due to the deterioration in the economy but
also due to poor tax administration. Revenue and grants totalled $256.3



- 4 -
million in FY83 compared with $279.3 million in FY82 and $283.0 million in the
budget estimates. As a result, a large deficit developed in the last quarter
of FY83 resulting in borrowings from the banking system of $77.5 million, com-
pared to $32.0 in the budget.
Creditworthiness
12.      Liberia's external public debt outstanding and disbursed was US$635.7
million at end December 1981 and grew by less than one percent to $641.2
million at end 1982. The Bank Group share of the public debt outstanding and
disbursed was 19.7 percent in 1982 and is expected to increase to about 23.2
percent by end 1984. As a proportion of external public debt servicing
liability, the Bank Group's share was estimated at about 26.1 percent in 1982
but is projected to decline to about 16.9 percent in 1984. Debt service
payments as a proportion of exports of goods and non-factor services were
estimated at about 7.0 percent in 1982 but would have been higher had it not
been for the debt relief provided under the Paris Club in 1980 and 1981 as
explained below. Public debt service payments as a percentage of Government
revenues (a more meaningful indicator for Liberia which uses the US dollar as
a medium of exchange) reached 22 percent in 1980. This upsurge in the debt
service ratio occurred primarily as a result of short-maturity loans
contracted by Liberia in the late sevcnties to finance OAIJ-related expendi-
tures and to meet growing budgetary deficits. The increase in debt servicing
obligations created severe pressures on Liberia's public finances. The
Government therefore sought and obtained the assistance of the Paris Club in
rescheduling its external public sector debt of US$32 million maturing during
the period July 1980 to December 1981; the rescheduled debt is to be repaid
over 9 years, including four years of grace. Debt service problems, however,
persisted. In December 1981 further relief was requested and Liberia obtained
an 18-month extension, from October 1, 1982 to June 30, 1983 subject to
renewal of the standby agreement with the IMF when it expired in September
1982. This condition was satisfied as explained below.
13.      Liberia has maintained a standby arrangement with the IMF since mid-
1980 except during the fourth quarter of FY83 when the unresolved issue of
US$26 million arrears to the oil facility banks and a shortfall in revenue
made Liberia ineligible to draw SDR 20 million. The current program covering
FY84 with new revenue measures was approved by the IMF Board on September 14,
1983 and according to the review undertaken in December 1983, Liberia satis-
fied the quantitative performance criteria for end-November. In addition, an
agreement with the London Club to refinance a private bank syndicated loan of
about US$27 million was signed in December 1982 and became effective early
1983. These measures temporarily ameliorated the debt service burden. As a
result, debt service as a proportion of Government revenue declined to about
14 percent in 1982. However, Liberia continued to face severe debt service
problems, and in 1983 requested further debt relief from the Paris and London
Clubs. The Paris Club considered Liberia's third request on December 22, 1983
and offered relief for one year on official loans and insured export credits
contracted before January 1, 1983. Eligible maturities covered by the agree-
ment are estimated at US$23.6 million. Of this amount, 90 percent (US$21.2
million) will be consolidated and repaid over 8-1/2 years, including four
years of grace. The 10 percent non-consolidated portion is to be repaid in



- 5 -
four equal annual payments beginning on the last date of the consolidation
period (June 30, 1984). Negotiations for further debt relief from the London
Club, including settlement of the US$26 million arrears under the oil
facility, are expected to be concluded soon.
14.      Although the movement in world prices of Liberia's main export com-
modities in 1981 and 1982 was not favorable, the growth in export earnings is
projected to be higher in subsequent years as a result of the likely strength-
ening in demand for rubber and timber and, to a lesser extent, iron ore.
Forecasts for natural rubber and log prices indicate a consistently upward
movement. Other ongoing agriculture projects (particularly for coffee, cocoa
and palm oil), and exploration of other mining resources, including oil, gold
and barite, may help diversify the economy and could result in an acceleration
in the rate of growth of exports during the next three to four years. Public
revenues would benefit from these increased export earnings. Assuming that
exports grow at a possible average of 4.5 percent per annum between 1983 and
1986, and the Government continues to implement stabilization and reform
policies, Government revenues could grow at an average of about 9.0 percent
per annum increasing from US$238.0 million in 1982 to US$328.3 million in
1986. On the expenditure side, performance in FY83 has demonstrated the
Government's ability to reduce expenditures. If this effort continues, growth
of recurrent expenditures could be kept to about 1 percent per annum in real
terms in the short to medium term. Thus, prospects are clearly contingelnt
upon the resumption of growth in the industrialized countries to which Liberia
supplies primary goods and upon the successful implementation of a number of
policy measures over the next few years, e.g., a continued reduction in the
size of the Government budget deficit, further restraint on new commercial
borrowings and public sector credit expansion, increased mobilization of
public savings, maintenance of the traditional openness of the economy,
appropriate pricing and tariff policies, revival of investor confidence,
inflow of new private investment and further improvement in the coordination
of overall economic management.
15.      Even with the improved performance assumed above and the debt relief
already provided or anticipated in the near future, the debt burden is likely
to remain strenuous in the short-to-medium term. Debt service (interest and
amortization) on public and public guaranteed debt, as a percentage of budget
revenues, is projected at 32 percent in 1984 after taking account of all the
debt relief to be provided by the Paris and London Clubs. This debt service
ratio could not be reduced further because the remaining debt to multilateral
institutions and previously rescheduled loans is not subject to rescheduling.
Before 1981 Liberia's debt service burden was not as severe as it has become
in recent years. Bank group lending to Liberia was therefore a blend of IDA
credits and Bank loans. In view of the country's relatively low per capita
income and high public debt service liability, continued IDA assistance is
justified.



- 6 -
PART II - BANK GROUP OPERATIONS IN LIBERIA
16.      As of November 30, 1983 the Bank had approved 22 loans (including one
Third Window loan) for projects in Liberia totalling US$155.22 million; there
have been 13 IDA credits totalling US$88.76 million, and one technical assis-
tance grant of US$200,000 for development planning. IFC has made two equity
investments totalling US$555,000 in the share capital of the Liberian Bank for
Development and Investment (LBDI) and a further investment was approved by the
Executive Directors on August 30, 1983. The Bank Group assistance has finan-
ced roads, agricultural development, power, education, water supply, industry
and mining, small enterprises, and petroleum pre-exploration. Annex II con-
tains a summary statement of Bank loans, IDA credits, and IFC investments as
of November 30, 1983.
17.      Bank Group disbursements for projects in Liberia increased steadily
from FY78 to FY81 when disbursements were equivalent to 26 percent of credits
and loans outstanding at the beginning of that fiscal year. This performance
was made possible by close coordination with the budgetary authorities which
consistently earmarked sufficient counterpart resources to Bank Group
supported projects in Liberia. More recently, the Government has experienced
considerable difficulty in providing counterpart resources because of the
sharp deterioration in public finances discussed in Part I of this report.
Close monitoring of project implementation and continued coordination with the
budgetary authorities should avoid excessive delays in implementation due to
lack of counterpart resources. However, the Government's present resource
position is being taken into account in structuring new projects: their scope
is being limited to essentials and as much foreign financing as possible is
being provided so as to reduce the need for Government contributions.
18.      The objective of Bank Group operations is to obtain the adoption by
the Government of policies which would be more conducive to renewed economic
growth.  In its lending operations the Bank Group is giving priority to:
(a) strengthening institutions and policies in the public sector in order
to improve its efficiency, including improvement in the quality of
the public investment program;
(b) consolidating development programs in sectors critical to the
country's development, with special emphasis on policies and programs
to improve the balance of payments;
(c) maintenance and rehabilitation programs that help to preserve exist-
ing capital; and
(d) improving the country's manpower resources.
19.      In support of the objectives of increasing production as well as
improving income distribution, Bank Group lending has emphasized agriculture
and rural development. The Bank Group is financing two integrated agricul-
tural development projects: the first phase Bong County and the second phase
Lofa County integrated agricultural development projects. These projects are



designed to (a) assist subsistence farmers expand their production base and
income by increasing their productivity through support services and infra-
structure, and (b) help diversify the country's export and revenue base. A
rubber development project, co-financed with the Commonwealth Development
Corporation (CDC), is designed to increase exports and improve the producti-
vity and incomes of smallholder farmers. A forestry development project which
the Bank is co-financing with the African Development Bank (ADB) and the
German Agency for Technical Cooperation (GTZ), seeks to strengthen the Govern-
ment's forest service, initiate an industrial plantation program, and help
Liberia better manage and exploit its forestry resources. An oil palm
project, co-financed by the ADB and the CDC, is helping expand and diversify
the country's export and revenue base, provide employment, increase the
incomes of rural families, and strengthen the institutional capability to
develop oil palm.
20.      In addition to its support for agriculture, the Bank Group is also
assisting the Government develop the manufacturing sector. A credit for a
small and medium scale enterprises project approved in November 1980, seeks to
stimulate economic activity and employment by providing credit and technical
assistance. The Bank has also provided loans to the Liberian Bank for
Development and Investment (LBDI), virtually the only source of long-term
credit to industry. While reinforcing the Government's efforts to become less
dependent on mining, the Bank has granted loans for a project to rehabilitate
a mine operated by the National Iron Ore Company. A petroleum exploration
promotion project, for which a loan was approved in October 1980, is to
develop Liberia's hydrocarbon potential by attracting oil companies to take
oil exploration permits in Liberia.
21.      Given Liberia's pressing needs for physical infrastructure, the Bank
Group has played a prominent role in financing road construction and mainte-
nance, and power and water supply facilities. A feeder roads project for
which a Bank loan was approved in 1979 is designed to open up the agricultural
hinterland to support ongoing and proposed agricultural and rural development
programs. The nearly completed fourth highway project has, like earlier Bank-
financed projects, expanded the country's limited basic road network.  The
proposed fifth highway project, which we intend to submit for the considera-
tion of the Executive Directors in the near future, would improve the
country's road maintenance capability and help carry out urgent rehabilitation
works. Through four projects in the power sector, the Bank has helped expand
the Liberia Electricity Corporation's (LEC) thermal generating facilities to
meet current demand, strengthened LEC's management, and extended connections
to poor urban households in Monrovia. A water supply project for which a
credit was granted in 1978 helped rehabilitate and expand the Monrovia water
supply system, extend water distribution to lower income groups in
metropolitan areas, and strengthen the Liberia Water and Sewer Corporation
(LWSC). An urban development project, for which a credit was approved in
April 1982, seeks to improve the living conditions of Monrovia's urban poor by
(a) upgrading infrastructure and providing essential services in three of its
most needy neighborhoods, and (b) strengthening key institutions to provide more
effective management and establish a solid revenue base in the municipality.



22.      For the future, the Bank Group is helping the Government develop a
program 3f economic structural adjustment to deal with the country's severe
resource constraint and decline in export earnings. Preparation of this
program is in the initial stages, and our discussions with the authorities
have so far met with an encouraging response. We also pr-opose to provide
further support for the agricultural sector in the medium term, primarily to
help relieve constraints on increased production of export crops such as
natural rubber, which could yield quick return to the economy. A second oil
exploration project would also be appraised in the coming months; it would aim
at assisting the Government determine-Liberia's hydrocarbon potential in
collaboration with international oil companies, one of which has already
agreed to initiate explorations in the country.
PART III - THE AGRICULTURAL SECTOR
Characteristics
23.      Agriculture accounts for about 36 percent of Liberia's GDP and over
70 percent of employment. Growth, which averaged 3.9 percent in 1974-79, fell
in 1980/81 because of decreased world demand for forest products and natural
rubber. With an average of 15 persons per square kilometer, land is not a
constraint to agricultural development. Rice is the main staple, largely
grown in the upland areas using traditional shifting cultivation as this
restores fertility to generally poor soils, iwhich are heavily leached and
unsuitable for continuous cropping. They are, however, suited to tree crops
such as rubber, coffee and, in the better areas, cocoa.
24.      There are three different farming systems:  (a) rubber concessions
and foreign-managed oil palm plantations that have attained relatively high
production efficiency, employ trained managerial and technical staff and use
capital-intensive production methods; (b) Liberian-owned commercial farms,
primarily producing rubber, which attain yields about half of those attained
in the concessions; and (c) traditional farms with low productivity that
produce predominantly for subsistence. About 90 percent of all households
engaged in agriculture are in the last category. Most farmers in the tradi-
tional sector are outside the monetized economy, have access to minimal
infrastructure and cultivate less than 2 hectares of subsistence crops, mainly
rice and cassava, with some cash crops such as coffee, cocoa and sugar cane.
Over 90 percent of the rice is grown on uplands following slash-and-burn
shifting cultivation; the rest is grown in swamps. Imports of rice, which
increased from 50,000 mt yearly on average in the early 1970s to some 90,000
mt in 1982, now account for about 40 percent of consumption. This increase
was due to the rapid growth of urban population and subsidized consumer prices
until September 1981. Because of the primitive technology used, yields in
traditional farms for almost all crops are well below those obtained in
research trials and by the more advanced farmers. There is thus a consider-
able productivity reserve which is still untapped. Livestock production is of
minor importance because of unsuitable climatic conditions, animal diseases
(trypanosomiasis) and the absence of natural pastures and of a livestock
tradition among the population.



Government Objectives, Strategy and Constraints
25.      The Government gives high priority to agricultural and rural develop-
ment, seeking to:  (a) expand participation of poor farming families in devel-
opment; (b) increase farmer productivity and income and attain an equitable
distribution of the benefits of economic growth; and (c) diversify and expand
agriculture so that it becomes the principal base for self-sustaining develop-
ment. Public sector allocations for agriculture (excluding forestry)
increased from about 4 percent of the development budget in 1970 to about
30 percent in 1982/83, as projects in Lofa, Bong and Nimba Counties, and in
rubber, oil palm, forestry, research and training were undertaken; parastatal
enterprises to produce and process tree crops were also established. These
increased allocations also reflect the Government's desire to diversify the
economy away from overdependence on iron ore exports by promoting food and
cash crops for export markets.
26.      The Government's agricultural strategy consists of:  (i) encouraging
smallholder production of rubber, coffee, cocoa and oil palm to diversify
production and increase exports; and (ii) projects to raise the income level
and living conditions of traditional farmers and improve agricultural services
to them.
27.      Although these programs have begun to have some impact, serious
constraints remain. These include inadequate feeder roads, transport, storage
and marketing facilities. Input availability, particularly of improved upland
rice seed, as well as agricultural support services, are also inadequate.
There is a shortage of qualified and experienced agricultural officers and
crop specialists and the extension staff that deals with farmers is inade-
quately trained, ill-equipped, and poorly supervised. Farmers' organizations,
particularly cooperatives, are still in the early stages of development and
play a limited role in marketing, input supply and credit. Despite a
reorganization, the Ministry of Agriculture cannot yet effectively perform its
policy-making, sectoral planning, project preparation and implementation, and
monitoring and evaluation functions, due to lack of adequately trained and
qualified staff, budgetary constraints resulting in an almost complete absence
of logistical support for its field staff, and a shortage of modern inputs to
provide to farmers. The Agricultural and Cooperative Development Bank (ACDB),
which was created in 1978 to provide short, medium and long term credit to
farmers, farmer organizations and rural industries, and the Central Agricuil-
tural Research Institute (CARI) have not yet been able to carry out their
respective functions fully. The ACDB has been unable to provide credit to the
traditional farmers to any significant extent because of a weak capital base,
an inadequate branch network and inexperienced staff, while CARI has been
limited by inadequate operating funds, lack of autonomy and management defi-
ciencies. The Liberian Produce Marketing Cooperation (LPMC), which is the
most important agricultural marketing institution in the country, has high
operational and administrative costs and, moreover, its agents frequently pay
prices to producers which are below official producer prices. The Government
has agreed, however, to (a) carry out a program of cost reduction, review it
annually with IDA and establish targets for reducing LPMC's costs in the
following year; and (b) hold the first review and establish cost reduction
targets for 1985 no later than September 30, 1984 (Section 4.11 of the draft
Development Credit Agreement).



- 10 -
28.      A recent agricultural sector review carried out by the Bank iden-
tifies possible sources of growth in the medium term--namely, upland rice,
rubber and forestry products--and some crops with significant long-term
potential, viz., swamp rice and possibly oil palm, cassava and coconut. A
strategy of emphasizing these crops would satisfy equity objectives since
upland rice, swamp rice and cassava are grown by low-income, traditional
farmers and half of the rubber acreage belongs to smallholders. In addition,
it is recommended that area specific development projects consider promoting
other tree crops, including coffee, cocoa, citrus, as well as minor food
crops.
Bank Group Lending
29.      Bank Group lending for agricultural development in Liberia totals
US$60.7 million to date. It supports the Government's objective of increasing
smallholder productivity and income through integrated development projects,
i.e., the Lofa County Agricultural Development (Cr. 577-LBR and Cr. 1242-LBR)
and Bong County Agricultural Development (Cr. 700-LBR); export promotion
through the Rubber Development Project (Cr. 786-LBR/Ln. 1544-LBR), and tree
crop components in ADPs; improved forestry management through the Forestry
Development Project (Cr. 839-LBR); and diversification of the production base
through Decoris Oil Palm Project (Ln. 1765-LBR).
30.      The First Bong County Agricultural Development Project, which became
effective in March 1978, was cofinanced by USAID, IDA and the Government of
Liberia. The objective of the project was to increase and sustain small
farmer incomes by providing farm inputs (improved planting material and fer-
tilizer); strengthening farm support services (especially extension and train-
ing), input supply, credit and marketing systems based on cooperatives; devel-
oping infrastructure including feeder roads and wells; strengthening project
management, monitoring and evaluation; and schistosomiasis surveillance. The
project suffered initially from management problems; the project manager was
changed frequently and there was quick turnover in senior positions. The
situation improved when the fourth project manager, a Liberian, was named in
late 1981; staff motivation has since improved considerably. Management
problems contributed to a slow start but the pace of implementation
subsequently increased with farmers responding well to the introduction of
improved planting material. Upland rice, cocoa and coffee planting targets
have now been achieved. Swamp rice cultivation has not been as readily taken
up however and only 16 percent of the average forecast during appraisal has
actually been developed. This has been largely because the technology of
swamp cultivation is new and labor intensive and because in some cases areas
were selected where population pressure in the surrounding upland was
insufficient to encourage swamp rice development. however, since 1980/81
implementation has improved to about 100 ha per year and areas suitable for
expansion have been identified. Although the objective of creating a viable
cooperative system to take over full responsibility for input supply, credit
and marketing operations by the end of the project was not attained, good
progress has been made. About 230 Cooperative Service Units (CSU) based on
traditional farmer communal labor groups (Kuu) have been established. Each
CSU is affiliated to one of six District Cooperative Societies (DCS) and total
membership is now about 7,500, or about one third of all farm families in the



- 11 -
county. Although DCSs are still weak because they have little capital and
poor management, the cooperative movement has made a modest start in marketing.
The seasonal credit program is also progressing well, with an overall recovery
of about 90 percent in early 1983. As a result of delays in obtaining project
benefits, the lower than anticipated swamp rice program and lower yields (tree
crops and rice) and costs 5 percent higher than expected, the project's
overall rate of return is now estimated at 6 percent as compared with 21
percent at appraisal.
31.      While physical achievements under the project were mixed, valuable
lessons were learned and the potential for improving small farmer incomes and
for increasing food and tree crop production was demonstrated. The main
lessons learned and applied in preparing the proposed project are: (a) more
rigorous project area selection procedures are required, particularly for tree
crop and swamp development; (b) fertilizer recommendations have been improved
and linked with those recommended by the Central Agricultural Research
Institute (CARI); (c) the cooperative system needs further strengthening and
modification to provide effective farmer support in input supply, credit and
marketing; and (d) infrastructure construction can be speeded up by encourag-
ing the participation of beneficiaries in construction. The Project manage-
ment has succeeded in correcting early mistakes, in developing a well
motivated staff and in introducing new farming techniques. However, the
development of viable input supply, credit and marketing services, and farmer
acceptance of improved techniques require considerably more time than that
provided for under the first project. The proposed second project would
provide the necessary continuity and would start merging the project's staff
into the Ministry of Agriculture's own field staff so that services could be
provided on a permanent basis. This merging process would rationalize
extension and related services and make them more cost effective. Overall,
with the investment of the first project and availability of a trained and
reasonably motivated staff and management, there is a good basis for the
second project under which a more effective response can be expected.
32.      In general, progress in carrying out other Bank Group supported
projects in the agricultural sector has been satisfactory. Though the Govern-
ment has been extremely short of resources for investment, it has provided
sufficient counterpart funds for all Bank Group assisted projects in the
sector, demonstrating the high priority given to agricultural development.
PART IV - THE PROJECT
33.      The proposed project would be the second phase of the Bong County
Agricultural Development Project, the first phase of which was financed by IDA
under Credit 700-LBR (see paras. 29 and 30). Since a good start has been made
in developing smallholder farmer support services under the first project, the
Government requested in late 1981 that IDA consider a follow-up project. The
second phase was prepared by the Ministry of Agriculture with IDA assistance
and a project report was issued in July 1982. IDA appraised the project in
February-March 1983 and a Project Preparation Facility advance of US$643,000
was made in September 1983 to help finance land planning, nursery and plant



- 12 -
production activities between the first and second projects, start-up
activities for the ACDB in Bong County, and technical assistance. The PPF
would be reimbursed out of the proposed Credit. Negotiations were held in
Washington in November 1983. The Liberian Delegation was headed by Mr. James
Mehn, Deputy Minister of Agriculture, and included officials from the
Ministries of Finance, Planning and Justice. The International Fund for
Agricultural Development (IFAD) participated in the appraisal and was repre-
sented at negotiations. The African Development Fund (ADF) confirmed its
interest in cofinancing but did not participate in negotiations.
Project Objectives
34.      The proposed project would consolidate the experiences and achieve-
ments of the First Bong County Agricultural Development Project and extend
agricultural services to lower Bong County as well as to part of the adjacent
Gibi Territory. Major project objectives would be to: (a) improve the incomes
of about 7,500 farm families by increasing their production of food crops
(upland and swamp rice, cassava and vegetables) and coffee; and (b) strengthen
existing, nationwide credit and agricultural cooperative institutions in order
that they may provide inputs to farmers on a sustained basis. The total
number of farm families benefitted by both projects would be about 15,000 by
the conclusion of this second project. The project would start to prepare the
Ministry of Agriculture so that it could eventually absorb the staff of the
project unit; it would also seek to strengthen the Ministry of Agriculture's
development planning services. These objectives are consistent with the
Government's strategy for the sector as well as with the conclusions of a
recent Agricultural Sector Review (paras. 25 to 28).
Project Description
35.      The project would include the following components:
(i) the supply (on credit or for cash) of agricultural inputs, including
improved planting material and fertilizers to improve production of
upland and swamp rice, cassava, other food crops and coffee;
(ii) expansion and improvement of extension services using the Training
and Visit (T & V) system, with female extension workers to reach
women farmers;
(iii)  staff training to improve agricultural extension and the cooperatives
and to develop managerial capabilities;
(iv) production of improved coffee seedlings, cassava setts and foodcrop
interplants for coffee, adaptive research into rice agronomy and
support of a cassava pest control project;
(v) strengthening of cooperatives in order that they may provide input
supply and marketing services and of the ACDB to handle agricultural
credit operations;



- 13 -
(vi)  maintenance of the secondary road network and construction, upgrading
and maintenance of the feeder road network;
(vii) schistosomiasis monitoring and control in swamp areas, construction
of wells and latrines;
(viii)  support to the central Ministry of Agriculture development planning
services.
36.      Agricultural Development.  The project would strengthen the land
planning, agricultural extension/training, research and plant production
services of the existing project unit and would promote a crop development
program, including: improved seed for 5,500 ha of upland rice; development of
350 ha of swamplands for rice and vegetable cultivation; 4,000 ha of new
coffee (of which 550 ha would be intercropped with foodcrops during the
establishment period); and 330 ha of improved cassava. Inputs would also be
provided for bringing Phase I plantings to maturity. Consistent with
experience gained under the first project, the swamp rice program would be
limited to no more than 100 ha per year and alternative development methods
would be tested. The success of the project in raising production would
depend on selecting swamp and tree crop areas of good potential and where
farmer interest could be maintained after the initial investment period.
Procedures for selecting swamp and tree crop areas for development would be
improved and greater emphasis would be given to social factors. Forecast
producer prices are expected to provide an adequate incentive for farmers in
the project area. A modified form of the T & V extension system would be
introduced linking it to Cooperative Service Units (CSU) which are based on
traditional farmer groups (Kuu). Female home extension workers would be
employed to help farmers' wives and female farmers. Through the CSUs, the
project would promote a higher participation of farmers in development
activities and would seek to make them responsible for managing their
development affairs. The project would develop closer links with the IFAD-
supported Smallholder Rice Seed Project, which would supply improved rice seed
requirements and contribute to staff and farmer training. Improved coffee and
cassava planting material would be promoted and by project completion farmers
should produce 75 percent of their own coffee seedling requirements at
collective CSU nurseries. The project would support adaptive research work on
swamp rice agronomy at Central Agricultural Research Institute (CARI) as well
as on cassava pests as part of a regional project being implemented by the
International Institute for Tropical Agriculture in Nigeria and supported by
IFAD. The Government has agreed to submit to IDA and IFAD by December 31,
1984, for review and comment, detailed proposals for carrying out an agri-
cultural research program, and to consult with the above agencies regarding
any reorganization of CARI (Section 4.07 of the draft Development Credit
Agreement).
37.      Input Supply, Credit and Marketing Services.  The project would
strengthen the existing cooperative structure with the objective of handing
over responsibility for input supply and marketing services by the end of the
project period. During the transition period, the project unit's Commercial
Services Division would gradually hand over responsibility for procurement,
transport, storage and input distribution to the cooperatives. The cooperatives



- 14 -
would also handle crop marketing. The Cooperative Development Agency (CDA)
would provide training and would ensure that the Cooperative Societies Act's
requirements with regard to accounting, auditing and election of office
bearers are followed. The project would assist CDA, which has a small and
competent staff, to extend its activities to Bong County. While input supply
and marketing activities would be handled by the cooperatives with the assis-
tance of the project unit's Commercial Services Division, agricultural credit
operations would be handed over to the Agricultural and Cooperative Develop-
ment Bank (ACDB) which has a mandate, as yet unfulfilled, to provide credit to
small farmers. Its participation in this project would provide an excellent
opportunity to start carrying out its mandate. ACDB would, with the assis-
tance of the project unit's Commercial Services Division and the cooperative
societies, assume responsibility for agricultural credit throughout Bong
County. To support ACDB, the project would provide funds for a credit adviser
for a further three years and, as little cash income would be generated during
the project period because of the long grace periods of repayment of principal
on coffee loans, the project would fund ACDB's investment and operating costs
in Bong County as a grant. The Government has agreed to carry out a study of
ACDB's organization, management and operations by December 31, 1984, review
the conclusions with IDA and IFAD, and carry out the recommendations according
to an agreed schedule to be prepared by March 31, 1985 (Section 4.08 of the
draft Development Credit Agreement). The Government also intends to reach a
formal agreement with ACDB for the transfer to ACDB, in the form of Government
equity, of all funds for loans granted under the first project and this
project (Section 4.13 of the draft Development Credit Agreement). Signing of
the agreement would be a condition of effectiveness of the credit (Section
7.01(d) of the draft Development Credit Agreement).
38.      Development and seasonal credit would be granted for coffee,
plantain/cocoyam, intercropped coffee, and swamp rice. Seasonal credit for
upland rice would be discontinued and replaced by direct seed exchange.
Credit would not be available for vegetable or cassava development. Hired
labor for land clearing and crop establishment would be paid in cash; all
other credit such as for tools, equipment, fertilizers, pesticides, herbi-
cides, etc., would be in kind. Credit would be available to all categories of
farmers, the main criteria being creditworthiness and repayment capacity based
on incremental income from the investment. Farmers with holdings of up to
4 ha would obtain credit from the Project; farmers with larger units could
apply directly to ACDB. Extension officers and project commercial aides would
be actively involved in credit allocation. They would contact farmers and
initiate loan applications to ACDB who would approve them on the recom-
mendation of CSU and District Cooperative Societies. Interest charges to
farmers would be 15 percent per annum on seasonal loans and 12 percent on
medium/long term loans 1/. The Government has agreed to review annually with
IDA and IFAD ACDB interest rates and lending terms and conditions and adjust
them if necessary (Section 4.10(b) of the draft Development Credit Agreement).
1/   The domestic inflation rate climbed from about 6 percent in 1976-77,
to reach 13.7 percent in 1980. More recently, the inflation rate has
declined and was estimated at about 9 percent per annum in 1981 and 1982.



- 15 -
39.      It is not expected that Liberia would face any problem in marketing
the additional output of 1,700-1,800 tons of coffee per year since this would
be a small proportion of world supply. Liberia is a member of the Inter-
national Coffee Organization (ICO) and its current export quota is 8,700 mt.
An undetermined part of Liberia's total coffee exports ranging from 8,000 to
10,000 mt during the past few years, is accounted for by unofficial inflows
from neighboring countries due to price differentials and the use of the
dollar in Liberia. These unofficial inflows are expected to decline given
(a) the current levels of producer prices paid by LPMC (which are now in line
with world prices and those of the neighboring countries) and (b) the removal
of consumer subsidy on rice which was being bartered for coffee and cocoa at
the borders. Taking into account the likely growth in Liberia's export quota
to ICO countries (forecast to be 1 to 1.6 percent per annum, resulting in a
quota of 10,000-11,000 mt by 1995) and exports to non-ICO countries of about
2,000 mt, a production level of about 13,000-14,000 mt (including possible
unofficial inflows from neighboring countries) could be aimed at by 1995.
Production from existing and additional coffee plantings from the proposed as
well as other projects, would be within the expected growth in exports and
domestic consumption. Coffee or cocoa are the only source of cash for many
farmers in the area so the inclusion of coffee in the project will make an
important contribution to raising smallholders' income. Moreover, expansion
of the area under coffee would reduce the deleterious effects of slash and
burn cultivation in the uplands.
40.      Infrastructure.  The project would provide for maintenance of the
secondary (260 km) and feeder (440 km) road network until the Ministry of
Public Works' (MPW) capacity for road maintenance has been improved. Con-
struction or rehabilitation of 110 km of feeder roads and construction of
50 km of tree crop tracks to group farm sites would also be carried out by the
project unit. Design standards and criteria for the selection of roads to be
constructed or rehabilitated have been agreed with IDA (see Schedule 5 to the
draft Development Credit Agreement). A preliminary screening has been
completed and 187 km of potentially viable roads from which to select the
110 km identified. Options for the 27 km to be constructed in the first year
of the project have been listed, and evaluation and selection will be
finalized prior to startup of the proposed project. Construction costs have
been established following experience under Phase I. The Government has also
agreed that the annual road construction and maintenance program would be
submitted to IDA for approval and that IDA's approval would be sought before
transferring any equipment from the project (Section 4.12 of the draft
Development Credit Agreement). A Highway Maintenance Project which will be
submitted to the Executive Directors shortly would develop MPW's capacity to
maintain secondary roads in Bong County by 1987 and feeder roads by the end of
this project. The project now being proposed would fund operating costs and
construction materials for one construction and two maintenance brigades.
These would use equipment acquired under the first project and some
supplementary items to be acquired under this one. To support the increased
activity of the roads unit, the project would strengthen workshop
organization.
41.      Health.  A unit for surveillance and treatment of schistosomiasis,
both in swamps developed for rice production and at communal water points,



- 16 -
would be maintained. A program of well (120) and latrine (40) construction
would be carried out in villages participating in the crop development pro-
gram. Villagers would be encouraged to participate in selecting well points
and in the operation and maintenance of wells.
42.      Monitoring and Evaluation.  More effective use would be made of the
Monitoring and Evaluation Unit to provide a timely flow of information to
project management. Emphasis would be put on limited, well defined surveys to
assess the extent to which qualitative and quantitative objectives were being
met so that managers could modify the project as necessary. Monitoring and
evaluation studies would be presented regularly to senior managers and, at
least quarterly, open seminars would be held to review key topics selected by
the project manager. The Monitoring and Evaluation Unit would also parti-
cipate in pilot work on swamp development and obtain population data to help
select areas for development.
Project Implementation
43.      The Ministry of Agriculture (MOA) would continue to have overall
responsibility for the project, with implementation delegated to a project
manager who would be supported by technical and administrative units. Under
the proposed project all existing and, at present, parallel services provided
by the MOA in the county would be merged with the project into a single
structure. The project manager, who would be designated the Chief Agricul-
tural Officer for Bong County, would be responsible for all project-related
staff as well as for MOA's staff handling non-project activities such as
fisheries and livestock. The schistosomiasis surveillance unit would, in
addition, continue to be supported technically by the Ministry of Health and
the Liberian Institute for Biomedical Research. The Government has agreed
that the revised MOA organization would be put into effect by December 31,
1984 and that any further organizational changes in MOA's services in Bong
County would be subject to IDA agreement (Section 4.09 the draft Development
Credit Agreement). The Government also intends to reduce extension and other
staff in the project area according to an agreed schedule. The Government has
also agreed that the appointment of senior managers in the project area would
be acceptable to IDA and IFAD (Section 4.01(b) of the draft Development Credit
Agreement). A Project Steering Committee under the chairmanship of the
Minister of Agriculture would continue to provide policy guidance. At the
county level, a Project Consultative Committee (PCC), chaired by the Assistant
County Superintendent for Development and consisting of local officials and
chiefs, would be extended to include representatives of all Ministries and
Government agencies that are active in the county. Farmers' views on project
development issues would be expressed through paramount chiefs representing
them on the PCC and through the cooperative movement. The MOA's home
economics unit, which would be absorbed by the project unit, would encourage
the active participation of women and guide them in tackling problems of
public hygiene, nutrition etc., linking with the well and latrine construction
and schistosomiasis programs.



- 17 -
Project Cost and Financing
44.      The project would cover a four-year period (1984-88) and total
project costs are estimated at US$22.9 million comprising US$17.4 million for
Phase II development costs and US$5.5 million for recurrent costs of Phase I,
which would be funded by the Government. A summary breakdown of costs is
shown in the Credit and Project Summary on page (ii). Physical contingencies
have been applied at 10 percent for buildings and 5 percent for all other
items excluding salaries, technical assistance and labor costs and amount to
about 2 percent of base costs. Price contingencies amount to about 16 percent
of base costs plus physical contingencies and (except for local salaries and
emoluments) are based on annual local and foreign cost increases of 8 percent
in 1983, 7.5 percent in 1984, 7 percent in 1985 and 6 percent in 1986-90; for
local salaries and emoluments the following percentages have been applied - 0
percent for 1983 and 3 percent for 1984-87. The man-month cost (including
fees, international travel and local subsistence) of internationally recruited
consultants is estimated to be about US$12,000 which is in accord with the
Region's experience. Local salaries and emoluments have been estimated on
prevailing costs.
45.      The total financing required to meet the development costs is esti-
mated at US$17.4 million, of which US$9.1 million, or 52 percent, are foreign
costs. The proposed IDA credit of US$6.7 million, an IFAD loan equivalent to
US$5.8 million and an ADF loan of US$4.0 million, would cover 95 percent of
total financial requirements or 100 percent of foreign costs and 89 percent of
local costs. A condition of effectiveness of the IDA credit would be that all
conditions of effectiveness of the IFAD and ADF loans had been fulfilled
(Section 7.01 of the draft Development Credit Agreement). The IDA credit
would finance the equivalent of US$3.4 million of local costs. Local cost
financing is recommended because the Government is facing severe budgetary
constraints and is short of resources for investment. The Government's
contribution of US$0.9 million would cover local personnel and operating
costs; the Government would in addition provide $5.5 million during the
project period to cover the recurrent costs of the first phase project.
46.      As discussed in Part I of this report, the Government faces severe
financial constraints which would make it difficult for it to provide the
working capital required for project execution. In view of this, it is recom-
mended that SDR 270,000 (US$280,000) from the IDA credit be deposited on
credit effectiveness in a special account which the Government would open at
the National Bank of Liberia. Opening of the special account would be a
condition of effectiveness of the credit (Section 7.01(c) of the draft
Development Credit Agreement). Following effectiveness of its loan, IFAD
would deposit SDR 260,000 (US$270,000) in the same special account. The
account would be replenished upon receipt of disbursement requests supported
by appropriate documentation and subject to Government contributions being up-
to-date.
Procurement
47.      Goods.  Vehicles (US$1.5 million) and fertilizer (US$0.2 million)
would be grouped in packages of over US$50,000 and would be procured through
international competitive bidding in accordance with IDA procurement



- 18 -
guidelines. In bid comparison, domestic manufacturers would be allowed a
margin of preference equal to 15 percent of the c.i.f. bid price of imported
goods or the level of import duties and taxes, whichever is less. Contracts
in packages of US$10,000-50,000 totalling US$0.4 million for farm chemicals,
tools, and furniture would be awarded on the basis of local competitive
bidding (LCB) procedures in which foreign suppliers are eligible to
participate, while contracts below US$10,000 for the same items totalling
US$0.2 million would be procured through shopping with at least three price
quotations. Seeds (US$0.2 million) would be procured through the Smallholder
Rice Seed Project. Technical assistance and consultancy services (US$1.0
million) would be procured in accordance with the principles and procedures
described in the "Guidelines for the Use of Consultants by World Bank
Borrowers and by the World Bank as Executing Agency." Assistance to MOA
(US$0.4 million) would consist of technical assistance, studies, overseas
training, vehicles and operating costs which would be procured according to
procedures for the respective items discussed above. Vehicles, equipment and
buildings (US$1.1 million) and operating expenses (US$2.9 million) for roads,
workshops and health services are financed by ADF and would be procured in
accordance with their regulations. The remaining US$13.9 million include
salaries, vehicle operating and general administrative costs, and hired labor
which are unsuitable for competitive bidding.
48.      Works.  Contracts for civil works/buildings totalling US$0.5 million
consist of improvement to traditional markets, village stores and buildings
that are scattered around the country and would be awarded on the basis of LCB
procedures since local capability exists to execute such small civil works.
Disbursements
49.      Disbursement of the IDA credit would be on the following basis:  for
agricultural inputs, 100 percent of foreign expenditures or 90 percent of
local expenditures; for buildings, 85 percent of local expenditures; for
vehicles, furniture and equipment, 100 percent of foreign expenditures or 90
percent of local expenditures; for technical assistance, consultant services
and overseas training, 100 percent of foreign expenditures or 90 percent of
Local expenditures; for local staff costs, 90 percent of local salaries (for
plant production, research, land planning, training, CDA, ACDB and monitoring
and evaluation); and for vehicle operating, general administrative and other
operating costs, 80 percent of expenditures. The proceeds of the IDA credit
and the IFAD loan would be disbursed pari passu on a 51:49 basis.
50.      Disbursements for vehicles and equipment, buildings, salaries and
allowances of internationally recruited consultants and farm inputs would be
made against full documentation submitted to IDA. In the case of local costs
of operating expenditures, disbursements would be made against statements of
expenditure which would be reviewed in the course of project supervision.
Auditing
51.      The Government would have the accounts for the project audited yearly
by independent auditors acceptable to IDA. The audit reports would be in a
form acceptable to IDA and would include a separate opinion on the Special
Account and on the records in support of statements of expenditure.



- 19 -
Project Benefits and Risks
52.      About 7,500 farm families would benefit from the crop improvement and
credit programs under the project. At full development of their respective
crops, and after repaying all development loans, about 85 percent of the
participating farm families would earn incomes about twice as large as the
present average of about US$600 per annum, while about 15 percent would in-
crease their incomes by about 50-75 percent. Differences in incremental
incomes would result from the choice of different crop combinations.
53.      Improvements in the road network and construction of village wells
and latrines would benefit a larger proportion of the rural population than
that affected by the crop improvement and credit programs. In addition,
employment would be created by the increased business activity induced by the
project in other sectors, such as trading, processing, construction, and
transportation. About half the rural families in the county could benefit in
some way from the project. The training programs and institutional improve-
ments to be introduced would facilitate planning and implementation of future
agricultural development progams.
54.      While incremental revenues to the Government from indirect taxes on
increased production and business activity in Bong County resulting from the
project would not fully cover project costs, they would be sufficient to cover
the recurrent costs of agricultural development in the county once the project
is completed. Incomplete cost recovery is justified because of the low level
of family incomes in the project area.
55.      As Liberia is a net importer of food, incremental food production
could be absorbed by the local market and would represent a foreign exchange
saving. By 1990, the incremental annual output of rice would be worth, at
border prices, about US$1.0 million (at 1990 prices in constant 1982 terms),
net of the foreign cost of farm inputs. In addition, the promotion of cassava
could lay the foundation for an increase in local consumption and a surplus
for processing. Coffee is mainly an export crop and incremental production
from the project would add to foreign earnings. Incremental net annual
foreign earnings from coffee could reach US$5.1 million by 1995.
56.      The project's economic rate of return is estimated at 22 percent
taking into account project development costs and recurrent costs to be in-
curred by the Government after the project is completed as well as incremental
production costs incurred by farmers. Benefits are based on the expected
incremental value of crops. Sensitivity analyses indicate that the project is
fairly resilient and would remain viable unless benefits should fall by more
than 39 percent or costs increase by more than 65 percent.
57.      Since the project would be the second phase of an integrated agricul-
tural development program in Bong County and would build on the institutions
and experience of the first project, many of the risks normally associated
with projects of this nature would be minimized. The main risk would be that
the institutional developments for input supply to farmers, in marketing and
for credit allocation to small farmers visualized under the project may take



- 20 -
longer than anticipated. However, this risk has been reduced to acceptable
levels by the technical assistance and training components included in the
project.
PART V - LEGAL INSTRUMENTS AND AUTHORITY
58.      The draft Development Credit Agreement between the Republic of
Liberia and IDA as well as the Recommendation of the Committee provided for in
Article V, Section 1(d) of the Articles of Agreement are being distributed to
the Executive Directors separately.
59.      In addition to the features of the Development Credit Agreement which
are referred to in the text and listed in Section III of Annex III, special
conditions of Credit effectiveness would be: (a) that the conditions of
effectiveness of the IFAD and ADF loans have been met (para. 45); (b) that the
special account referred to in para. 46 has been opened in a form satisfactory
to IDA; and (c) that the agreement between the Government and ACDB referred to
in para. 37 has been signed (Section 7.01 of the draft Development Credit
Agreement).
60.      I am satisfied that the proposed Credit would comply with the
Articles of Agreement of the Association.
PART VI - RECOMMENDATION
61.      I recommend that the Executive Directors of the Association approve
the proposed Credit.
A. W. Clausen
President
by Moeen A. Qureshi
Attachments
Washington, D.C.
February 21, 1984



- 21 -
ANNEX I
T A B L E   3A                                       Page   1
LIBERIA                   - SOCIAL INDICATORS DATA SHEET
LIBERIA                                   REFERENCE GROUPS (WEIGHTED AVERAGES) /a
MOST                         (MOST RECENT ESTIMATE) /b
RECENT               MIDDLE INCOME            MIDDLE INCCME
1960-        1970-  ESTIMATE-          AFRICA S. OF SAHARA    N. AFRICA & MID EAST
AREA (THOUSAND SQ. EM)
TOTAL                                   111.4        111.4        111.4
AGRICULTURAL                              6.1          6.1           6.1
GNP PER CAPITA (US$)                       170.0        270.0         520.0               1147.9                     1340.0
ENERGY CONSUMPTION PER CAPITA
(KILOGRAMS OF COAL EQUIVALENT)          96.0         600.0        502.0                 724.2                      810.4
POPULATION AND VITAL STATISTICS
POPULATION,MID-YEAR (THOUSANDS)        978.0        1335.0       1941.0
URBAN POPULATION (% OF TOTAL)            20.5         26.2         33.7                  28.5                       47.4
POPULATION PROJECTIONS
POPULATION IN YEAR 2000 (MILL)                                    3.7
STATIONARY POPULATION (MILL)                                     12.6
YEAR STATIONARY POP. REACHED                                    2130
POPULATION DENSITY
PER SQ. EM.                             8.8         12.0         16.8                 56.5                        36.0
PER SQ. KM. AGRI. LAND               160.3         220.3        306.5                131.8                       449.0
POPULATION AGE STRUCTURE (%)
0-14 YRS                             45.4          46.8         46.3                 45.9                        43.9
15-64 YRS                             52.0          50.8         51.1                 51.2                        52.8
65 AND ABOVE                           2.6           2.5          2.5                  2.8                         3.3
POPULATION GROWTH RATE (%)
TOTAL                                  2.8           3.1          3.4                  2.8                         2.9
URBAN                                   5.4          5.6          5.7                  5.3                         4.6
CRUDE BIRTH RATE (PER THOUS)            50.1          48.8         49.7                 47.6                        42.5
CRUDE DEATH RATE (PER THOUS)            20.6          16.5         14.2                 15.2                        12.0
GROSS REPRODUCTION RATE                   3.4          3.4          3.4                  3.2                         3.0
FAMILY PLANNING
ACCEPTORS, ANNUAL (THOUS)
USERS (% OF HARRIED WOMEN)               ..           ..
FOOD AND NUTRITION
INDEX OF FOOD PROD. PER CAPITA
(1969-71=100)                           96.0         101.0         91.0                 95.7                        97.5
PER CAPITA SUPPLY OF
CALORIES (% OF REQUIREMENTS)         114.0         100.0        114.0                 97.1                       102.3
PROTEINS (GRAMS PER DAY)              46.0          43.0         51.0                 56.0                        72.0
OF WHICH ANIMAL AND PULSE            11.0          12.0         13.0/c               17.2                        17.8
CHILD (AGES 1-4) DEATH RATE             45.5          39.6         33.1                 23.6                        15.2
HEAL TH
LIFE EXPECT. AT BIRTH (YEARS)            44.1         49.1         53.5                  51.9                       57.2
INFANT MORT. RATE (PER THOUS)          194.0         173.8        151.5                117.6                       104.2
ACCESS TO SAFE WATER (%FOP)
TOTAL                                    ..           ..         20.0/d               25.4                        59.3
URBAN                                    ..           ..         64.0/d               70.5                        84.9
RURAL                                    ..           ..          6.o7d               12.3                        37.5
ACCESS TO EXCRETA DISPOSAL
(% OF POPULATION)
TOTAL                                    ..           ..         11.O/d.
URBAN                                    ..           ..         35.Ol/d
RURAL                                    ..           ..          6. /ld
POPULATION PER PHYSICIAN             12600.0       11750.0       9610.0/e            12181.6                      3536.0
POP. PER NURSING PERSON               1410.O/f    2670.0         1420.OTh             2292.0                      1820.7
POP. PER HOSPITAL BED
TOTAL                                710.0         590.0        700.O/e             1075.4                       643.3
URBAN                                180.0         190.0           ..                402.3                       545.0
RURAL                                    ..           ..            ..              3926.7                      2 462. 0
ADMISSIONS PER HOSPITAL BED                ..         27.7            ..                  ..                        26.4
HOUSING
AVERAGE SIZE OF HOUSEHOLD
TOTAL                                    ..           ..
URBAN                                   3.9/g         ..
RURAL                                    ..           ..
AVERAGE NO. OF PERSONS/ROOM
TOTAL                                    ..           ..           ..
URBAN                                  1.7/g          ..           ..
RURAL                                    ..           ..           ..
ACCESS TO ELECT. (% OF DWELLINGS)
TOTAL                                    ..           ..           ..                   ..                        46.2
URBAN                                    ..           ..           ..                   ..                        77.6
RURAL                                    ..           ..            ..                  ..                        16.1
- - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - _      _      _      _      _      _      _ _      _      _ _ _   _ _   _ _   _ _- _ _- _ _- _ _   _ - -_ - -_ - -_ - -_ - -_ - -_ _ _- _ _- _ _- _ - -_ - -_ - -_ - -_ - -_ - -_ - -_ - -_ - -_ -



-22-
ANNEX I
T A 8 L E  3A                                  Page  2
LIBERIA                  - SOCIAL INDICATORS DATA SHEET
LIBERIA                                 REFERENCE GROUPS (WEIGHTED AVERAGES) /a
MOST                       (MOST RECENT ESTDIATE) /b
1960/b  197/b  RECENT  /b           MIDDLE INCOME            MIDDLE INCOME
1960/b      1970/-  ESTIMATE-        AFRICA S. OF SAHARA    N. AFRICA & MID EAST
EDUCATION
ADJUSTED ENROLLMENT RATIOS
PRIMARY:   TOTAL                    31.0         50.0         66.0                97.2                      89.6
MALE                     45.0         67.0        82.0               103.1                      104.8
FEMALE                   18.0         33.0        50.0                88.5                       72.4
SECONDARY: TOTAL                     2.0          9.0         20.0                17.2                      41.7
MALE                      3.0         13.0        29.0                23.5                       52.8
FEMALE                    1.0          4.0        11.0                14.2                       31.2
VOCATIONAL (X OF SECONDARY)            11.7         5.3          4.3                 5.2                      10.3
PUPIL-TEACHER RATIO
PRIMARY                             32.0         36.0         25.0                42.9                      31.9
SECONDARY                            14.0        17.0         17.0                23.7                      23.3
ADULT LITERACY RATE (Z)                 8.9/h      15.0/i       25.4                37.1                      43.3
cOESImfrIOE
PASSENGER CARS/THOUSAND POP             1.0        11.1          5.5/e              18.8                      18.0
RADIO RECEIVERS/THOUSAND POP         102.2        116.1        170.8                97.8                     138.1
TV RECEIVERS/THOUSAND POP               1.5         5.2         11.2                18.6                      45.6
NEWSPAPER ("DAILY GENERAL
INTEREST") CIRCULATION
PER THOUSAND POPULATION                0.8         5.2          6.1                18.2                      31.0
CINEMA ANNUAL ATTENDANCE/CAPITA         0.8         0.7          0.8                 0.6                       1.7
LABOR FORCE
TOTAL LABOR FORCE (THOUS)            380.0        482.0        665.0
FEHALE (PERCENT)                    33.9         32.5         31.4                36.1                      10.7
AGRICULTURE (PERCENT)                80.0        75.0         70.0                56.8                      42.5
INDUSTRY (PERCENT)                  10.0         12.0         14.0                17.5                      27.8
PARTICIPATION RATE (PERCENT)
TOTAL                               38.9         36.1         34.3                37.0                      25.6
MALE                                 51.9        49.0         47.0                47.1                      45.4
FEMALE                              26.1         23.3         21.5                27.0                       5.6
ECONOMIC DEPENDENCY RATIO               1.2         1.4          1.4                 1.3                       1.8
INCCME DISTRIBUTION
PERCENT OF PRIVATE INCOME
RECEIVED BY
HIGHEST 5% OF HOUSEHOLDS               ..        61.7/          ..
HIGHEST 20% OF HOUSEHOLDS              ..        72.6**
LOWEST 20% OF HOUSEHOLDS               ..         5.3T
LOWEST 40% OF HOUSEHOLDS               ..        10.9
POVERTY TARGET GROUPS
ESTIMATED ABSOLUTE POVERTY INCOME
LEVEL (US$ PER CAPITA)
URBAN                                  ..           ..          ..               534.2                     276.1
RURAL                                  ..          ..         75.0/c             255.9                     177.1
ESTIMATED RELATIVE POVERTY INCOME
LEVEL (US$ PER CAPITA)
URBAN                                  ..          ..        137.0/k             491.5                     400.0
RURAL                                 ..           ..        125.0o7             188.1                     283.3
ESTIMATED POP. BELOW ABSOLUTE
POVERTY INCOME LEVEL (%)
URBAN. ,                                            .         23.0/c                ..                      22.0
RURAL                                        ..           ..              ..                                30.8
NOT AVAILABLE
NOT APPLICABLE
N O T E S
/a  The group averages for each indicator are population-weighted arithmetic means.  Coverage of countries among the
indicators depends on availability of data and is not uniform.
/b  Unless otherwise noted, "Data for 1960" refer to any year between 1959 and 1961; "Data for 1970" between 1969 and
1971; and data for "Most Recent Estimate" between 1979 and 1981.
/c  1977; /d 1974; /e 1978; /f 1964; /g 1956, city of Monravia only; /h 1962; /i 1973; /j Population, higher income
calculated as residual; includes expatriates; /k 1975.
May 1983



_ 23 _                                                                      ANTNEX I
Page 3
DEFINITIONS OF SOCIAL INDICATORS
Notee:A lthoogh tlbe data re drac frPm sources generaF1y Judged the most .o.horitat.ie sod reliable, It should also be noted thba shop sap sno bh internatioooloy
comparable becaose of the luck of noaos -rdioed defionit-oncood concepts -sed by dOfferent countriem  in coOlecoing the dai.   Thb  daha are, nonetheless, useful no
descrlobe     s of magntude, Iodicate trends, and charscterizo  certa  sujor diffsrence: berorru coottro
The refrrenre groups are  (I) the same country group of the s-bject country and (2) a country groop cilh s-hebus higher o-ge Ioeome thu tnoe .o.ntry group of the
aubjacocou=try (esceps for "high Incose' Oil ixpo rters' group vhere "Hlddle Ino-oe  orth Aft Ia ond Moddle hvst" Is chosen hocause nf atrongee soclo-rultotat
affioinies)  I. tho reference group da-a the  --eeages are yopuiatio veoighted aritfoetec meaos for tarh indlcator sod shown copl ohm  eajurity of the countries so
group hoc doss for thst Indicucor   Sloor  the h ooerage of countries ano   the indicators  depends on the availability of data and insnot   ,iform, cautIon  isot he
eseroised  in relating sver.ges of or indictor to aother.  These avurages ore ooly useful io comparing ths value of one indicetor cc a time  -    oh  country ond
referesro stoops.
ARoA (ihousand sq ho.)                                                                             Popularlot Par Phvvlicln - Popciation divided bp ousher of practicing
Tond  - Total surfloe creA c-eprising lund areA and il-od echers; 1960                             phycluo..s quallfild fros a medlial sohooi  at unluersity lenvie
1970 asd 09ffdata                                                                             Pouaiepr  osnreso-PyitItdnddb                                  nm er  fpunn
Agri-ultraL - Etmt,i_e of agricultural cree uyed teaporarily or peryan_otly                      soelocud fea   grYdRatson    p    I    dtiant nurmec, practicai nurses and
for rrops, pemtures, marker sod kischen g-rdens or to .Ie falov; 1960,                         oursing suoli tories.
1971 cod fi8l data                                                                            PopulAtion pes Oocpital fed - tol, urban, sod rural - Population (utoal,
urban, and rurol) dinided by their respecoive numbet of buspital brds
let PEt CAPITA (fSp) - lONP yes capiet sun -lee   ot current caroke  prices,                         sosOlabir so public sod prunate general and speclallsed hompital and
caloulated by came toso-rsiot ecohod as World tack Aslac (0979-il baief1                                                  dehPbiliutlton contort.   ospitals are edtailieboents pehmoneotly ctaffll
0960, 1970,  end f981 dt9.                                                                        by at lst ute physiclen   E  tahiluheents providilg printipatlt crusodla
cuss ore nor Includad. Rurol hospitals, hoaeoer, Include health end
ENiRCY CONSUMPTION pER CAPITA  - aeouai apparent ooopthon or comnericot                              nedlcul centers not pormnodnhOp staffed by a physician Oboe by a medical
peimary esergy (coal and lignite, peteolewp, natural gas oed hydro-, nocleAr                      assistant, nurse, midoife, ntc,) wbict offer In-patienetossodatcon and
cod geothormal eleroicity) Is kiligrace of coo) eqol -cient per rsp_ts;                            proide A hoOted ronge of nodical facilities   For clariotoha purpusem
1960, 1970, cud l9f0 dots                                                                         urban hospit,it ounlude WPOyh  prictyal/generat hospitals, cud rural
tospiala ,  urlor rural bum tritl and n-disl and n-orityc renr
POPUIOTION MD VITAh STATISTICS                                                                       Spteoivized hoepitAI  are includd Odly uner tuna).n
TPunc   ppulation, hid-Ye-r (thouoa) - As of July 1; 1960, 1970, and 1981                        Adnitahuot coo Roupihel ted - Total  oubhor of admissions no or fluoherges
dote                                                                                             true  hospitals disided by the  -uaber of  eds.
rban Populationt (percent of total) - Rblin of urbon en total p-ioulatno
doffesteno definitioi c of urban areas sy vffet compara-biliy of data                       OUSING
omong tountriesl; 1910, 1970, a-d 1911 daot.                                                    -es    20 h of   oosehofd Ipersos per hoo;ehoid) - total, urban, And roral
pouainProeciss-A hocodcostsfagrou  ofldoias  Ih hP   00f ,(air
Population in coat 2000 - Curree   population projections are hosed on fill                     ond their aln meals   0 hoarder or lodger oay or may not be incloded in
toita  populanioi  by age cud sew sod their -ortality aod fertlitIy                           the ho uehold for sOutintirel porposen
rao.P-ojs-s-nprs..etera  foenor,eaillyra_e_c_Prissofsheee                                --ergun...her of reur.o.a Peersroo-noa,   renadruroi anaragesuer
lheeis a*Rteing Olilfe esportsuy so birth iY reu comg atis cotryse                            of pec...a  per rou Or all urban, ad rro          ,p ou d rural c eiiar
cepitu  Inrose leove, and  se'ale life expectancy atabiliztng at 77.5                         doellings, respectively.  iOhilon s excude non-pecuanenn sneutturns and
years   The par.e.ters for fertility rate siso tans three ievels                              unoccupled parts
acasutg denline  o fert01ilisy occrdiog 0o incous leoel and p-so foully                     Acceasto Electricityprcent of doe'llings) - noto, urhen,  ond er,il -
plumling performance,  tth cuounry Is that assigoed nor of threste ni                         Conventlonah durelings aith electricity in  lvtng quarters as percentage
co-bisetiont of  torceliny sod fertility trends for projectlon purpoes.                       of Cotal, urban, and rpraI dvellingn e-p-ctinrly.
Stalto_arly cupoln_o  - I    sct olonary population there Is no gro_th
stnce the birth  rate Is equal to tie death rate, and also the cgo                        EDUCATION
astructure  cescn constanto  This Is achioevd only  after  lestiliIy rotes                  A  unted htmll(ann  Rariot
declinootho =repIec-eett leeloif -otterrrep-od-uitto -rats   Ittprocucoi-ua.nlodfasale -Arna1  totoi,maieudfE:7lei
deachi getPr n ofe comeEt cepiaCos  oselt  s oa-tlY.  The atatlnary                             eonroomt of ohiages at the pis-e V onl as percoocage  ofen pet
populationsizewaaes estuted on the bosis of the proJected choracter-                            prcmary schooi-age popoitlouc ; Doumaly inscludes cbhidran uged i-il
itt ice of the popolition in noe year 2000, ood the rate of de,ione of                          years bht udju-ced fon  differeth lengths of prioary educarion; fu
fortillty  tao to replacrent  -oel.                                                             coun. ries. oth universal education enruiiment mop exceed  10 percent
Year  rhanios..y cocuistion ic reacerd - The year oh- souriouary                                   sInce some puplso ore belov or ahove the officoil school age
popuiltion uier vill be reoached.                                                               condary school-2tot2   l  suit and feale- Compoted as above;  corndafry
Population D-ity1                                                                                    adlucation requires a0 leasf four years of approovd prilary  Ostructios;
Per sq  kh. - hid-year populatlon per  square kltone-rr (100 hectarso) of                          provid"s general, vouc decial, or teocher craloing inseructions for
tonal urea; 1960, 1970, and 19hO data.                                                           pupls unoally of 12 to 17 ysars of oae; corr-spondence courses ae
Per q. km. ugric- ruia land - Conputed as above fto  agriccltural isod                            generaliy exciuded
noly; 1910, 0970 sod 1980 data,                                                             Vo acionoi enrolment (portenitIof s  edry  iro .rals              tuc ucuti-nd
64 years). and retir;d(65 years undopver)as prercencages of mid-year                            eoolpror SderurcnentoufcyecoduOf iPustrutuotso
Popoiasios Grovth tate (peeceset) - total - Aonual grost h rates of total sod-                    prisury and asecotndory leoels dioided by nuehers of teachers to the nor-
year pop1l9o0n for 0950-hI, 196i-70, and 1970-il                                               responding levels
PopulationS   ro.th  Ate(prcent)-urban-.n                 ....rowthrrtes of urban                 duit llteracyrotl (percenc)-Literate adults(ble oreadandc rite)as
populatsonm  for 1950-hO, 1960-70, and 1970-91.                                                 a percencuge of tocua0 adulc popclcrian Aged 15 years and pvera
Crufe tOrch tans (per chousuod) - Osoual hone booths yet thousnod of old-
CrodisuMat  Ode leper tomu d  -   DWai deunths per rhocmaod of mod-year                         P      grs   Car  Ipso thoua   ihPo9pu       - Panenk    ars conprise notor
PopohaOiOO; 1960,lD      ,ul - 09d1E doc.I                                                       ousnsigls   hneIh   eaol cuo  onbu_lun- -c- , hers1es- cod
Gross Rpepoductton  Ootr- Average number of daughtersuasvonan sill bear in                         military veticles
fertilty ratvs,ucueally  tine-yeAr anara ien..    y pon en digin   0   17  pen                  broadiaoss to gendrc  public-l P irhiosd   o Iupultsion reci           o
19810                                                                                           Iicensedrecicers icscouries1andio  years whenregitration of radio
PAmily Phanoing -Acceptors,gAnoinuabtousaonds)-Annualtnumbeoruofcceptors                           setsoods ineffsct; dataforrrcent years maynnot becomparable since coot
of bct-th-contrl denticet under auspices no  nohonol faelly piconnog                            countries ubolisbed (scooting.
prograp .                                                                                     TV Rceinvrolers rchousandpopulation) -f TVreceivers fpr broadcast to
ami  Planning -tUsers (percsnt of marriedonsoe - Percentage ofmaroried                             generai public per housandfp_uicn;secludes uni ensed TV reccivers
vomen of  child-besringAge (05-0 yearsJ who a   tirth-concroldcviestou                          LD cuntries ondin yearsc tn  restoratouofTVsetswaoIDeffct
cal  ourosed ounso e1 usPe age group.                                                         Newsp- pro Caluerotpro (per           tihounud populoocoo - -OShoe  othe  Arage
loden of Foo  Produ6ction for . opoc1  fe9i9-7hl1ICh - ledrp of per tapuda put.lcobi-_ d ohted pceoro Iy ou rocordg croca  definet so cons oder
hnnuelprodctcnofmalfoodccoditcos   Productlonexcludessedoad                                      to be "dally" If ch appears at leat tfourc n I      Osh wee
fe rtand Ionted of...  ayr) shYot are ody ir- sod contain cute 1entv (e.g                       tichoto soLd duecg thr poo  Pr poodiog ad sono t  rO-tdo P; .e               a
9offe1 andta areoeciuded)   Aggregate pcnductlon of  accA country oS                            nobla un-ft.
F layd on Pl tional -aerage p-oducer prics o          --ights; 1961-6, 1970, sod 09ff
Per capia sucply of calories (percent of reqimt   - Coputd Iro                                  TVtal labor Porno (thousands) - p    onucely O T  ctive persofns, Including arnd
energy  -qoinciso  of set hood soppflec  noiheble iDd   coutry per cap-ta per                   forces  and ososploy_d bho  excluding housewtvrs, students, etc, coeerig
day.  Analblhe supplies I  co_rise donestin  yeducttuu, loports  less                           pgptulti-o of  l gos .   h-fctons Inovrlous countries ore net
exports  end changes On stock.  Net supplies exclude aniual teed, sends,                        cc poubie;  9190, 1970  d  119l date
qusiUtiesnsod in fund procesming, end  asses in ftstribatlo.                                     Pemale  (percent) -      ..nuid iobor force as perceutage of sotal laeor feoce
acinvot7 rAntd oseit ecoend by PAP hiosmedon Physiological needs for DPrmai                    'Agnoctitore (percent) - Labor forceA in foto, foety ;960in  so*99 dAt
sodo-   yandhelth consIdering                 ='~ onuosoPeeeatr , bd  a,oP t,                       fsIg_s_rcue  fccey                oo  force;g -t190..07   n  098 --dons,
Age and sex dictrOibsoiou of popolatien, end alloving 00 percent for saute                       Induscry (peccent) - (ahor force ho diing, construcntion, esnotacetulng
as bowmrhoid level; 1961-b5, 1971 end  910E datoa                                                 and electrticity, sorer und get as percentage of totol labor force; 1910,
set sup NuPly Y orfond perday.  iccapply 0t food is defuned Vs abone                          Part- ipatho`   Oats IE rercen   - total, oat, cod female - Partiecpation oe
isqucreenpts for all coustrOos esrablished by iStA provide for cinhoon                          arnOolty rates are componco us tonal, oats, and femaIs labor toess
alioova ies of 60 grame of total prPtein pr dAy and (0 grass of spimal and                      percentages of total,  P ee  nan  femal; pepuiation of st else .. bpectioely;
pulse preo-t-, of thioh  It graam   should he asb adl prot-io   Thes e g                         1-60,970, and  91 data.  These are hated on IL-'s partiripati-n rates
mtandarde  are loner than hobes of 75 graA s of  total  protein  sod 2T graus                   refiecti  ego-ss scructure of che population, and mug tier trend.  A
oftacloel proteinoasaen aeragefornthevorld,prcoposed bybFAOinthes                               fsevnnlmasesoare fromsnationalisourcoes
Third forld food iurney, 19h1-65, 1970 and l980 data.                                         Economic hopendency btob  - carlo of population coder I5 end i5 ond onernto
yeroeCPita protein socoop true animal and polse- Proteln supply of food                           the tonul lshor force.
deemed es_t soioais oAP puluss in gpams per day; 1961-65, loot ad 1977
couserloc data dortoed fros itfe ohIes ; 1910, 0970 and lOll dora.                              tos eholds
010(1                                                                                           P0000 OVERhY TAR 0E CROUP
Life  topectoocuat tirmh  (coors) - Average oster of yearn of lOts                                  Pisuic-if The folloasng eonimaces are veryoppsuo.iets meusures of povsrty levels, and
at  birth; 1910, 0970 sod l98f datae                                                            should he Interprrind oo-  conuiderable 1 autiton,
year  ofage    R thoud P c   hirth         10  1070 and i98  data, I_eFicol yoope p- incoe   bo rflIs cho    pemoons level bol   uhich abunimtal
Accesc  of Safe Peter (percent of population) - total, urtan, ond rural -                          cuiritionoliy adequate d-0 plus euss-enil too-food rf qulryhentt in cot
Number of peopie (total, urbay, and rurue) ohttreasonableaccess to sate                          ffordahle
ocer su     d p   lteho .. icdraed st  f acs.at  ry or uttr d but                               RtiaLfd eLa.in Pop e ty ina     o s l ei (il Ph  capitA  - orban arc cam 1 -
asancurpowhies) as perentages of theIr respectirg pIpulotions.  O an                           PIrd-nai  coron  of the cb-fry.  Irban hevel is dsrioed from...sr.url
urban ures' a  public fo .n.ain  or ttcdp.sr locaned  not note thtn 200 mosets tenrI  uled JdjSotmonH  for higher coct of ilnivg  tt orban arms,
from a house nay ho consIderedas aCcbeing  wOht  rrosou h t rthoeo houvf cha                  intosated popuiation  Orhfos oheoute  Pnotch Yanc d      us r (pewo ret 'a  -orion
lembere of the hof eebfld do not boor to spend u difpropertiaobte port  opr                                   _l
the day in frcuhigR  the fAsily'   eIater nsedso
Acsesstocoxcrsta Oisposal (percent of population) - tootl , noun,g atd
rurai -e   fmber ofp .plm(toti, urban,e nd rurDlA served bf ydcreta
dimposal en perrenoAgac of thelr respective populafions.  tocroor disposal
say itnlude the celleccion and disofcal,   ofth or vithout treatomnt, of                                                             Ecoppmic and Social hone itniu-dn
bomanexcreteand  sects-outer  by saner-horse systems or the use of pit                                                          Pcnoehc Analysis and Pruoretlono  horporooe,t
prives and similar  -nstalletioou                                                                                                                  fey 199)



- 24 -                            ANNEX I
Page 4
ECONOMIC INDICATORS - LIBERIA
ANNUAL RATE OF GROWTH
GROSS NATIONAL PRODUCT IN 1982 1/                       (% 1971 CONSTANT PRICES)
US$ Million       %           1978-81     1982
GNP at Market Prices            930.7        100.0          -0.9       -4.3
Gross Domestic Investment       233.5         25.1          -6.6       12.9
Gross National Saving            93.5         10.0          18.4       -0.6
Current Account Balance         -44.6         -4.8            -          -
Exports of Goods, NFS           487.4         52.4          -2.7       -9.9
Imports of Goods, NFS           513.5         55.2        -10.3        -7.9
OUTPUT, EMPLOYMENT AND PRODUCTIVITY IN 1982
Value Added     Employment 2/   V. A. Per Worker
US$ Mln.   %      000   %           US$        %
Agriculture                   345.0   36.3    515.0  79.3       669.9      45.8
Industry                      197.8  20.8      40.0   6.2      4945.0     338.1
Services                     407.1   42.9      94.5  14.5      4307.9     294.6
Total/Average       949.9  100.0    649.5 100.0       1462.5     100.0
GOVERNMENT FINANCE                        Central Government
1981/2 4/                  1982/83 4/
US$ Million  % of GDP     US$ Million  % of GDP
Current Receipts                237.9       21.2           223.3       19.6
Current Expenditure             289.0       25.8           252.6       22.2
Current Surplus                 -51.1       -4.6          -29.3        -2.6
Capital Expenditures             96.4        8.6            90.9        8.0
External Assistance (Net)        41.4        3.7            33.0        2.9
MONEY, CREDIT AND PRICES        1978        1979            1980        1981      1982
7W llions Liberian $ Outstanding,  End of Period)
Bank Credit to Public Sector    61.7        92.4           152.1       192.1    255.3
Bank Credit to Private Sector  143.8       184.6           132.9       130.9    123.7
(Annual Percentage Changes)
Consumer Price Index 3/           7.4       11.5            13.8         8.2       6.2
Bank Credit to Public Sector   315.8        49.1            64.6        26.3     32.9
Bank Credit to Private Sector   27.6        28.4          -28.0         -1.5     -5.5
NOTE:    All conversions to dollars in this table are at the average exchange rate
prevailing during the period covered.
1/       Preliminary estimates
2Tr      Employment data subject to further verification
3/       September - November 1964 = 100
__       From data collected by IMF in August 1983
December 21, 1983



- 25 -                             ANNEX I.
Page 5
TRADE PAYMENTS AND CAPITAL FLOWS
BALANCE OF PAYMENTS                         MERCHANDISE EXPORTS (AVERAGE 1980-82)
1980    1981    1982 1/
(Millions US$)                       US$ Million     %
Exports of Goods, NFS       613.5  540.7  487.4    Iron Ore             315.6      58.9
Imports of Goods, NFS       614.1  560.9  513.5    Rubber                80.8      15.1
Resource Gap (deficit =-)   -0.4  -20.2  -26.1        Diamonds           27.7       5.2
Logs or Lumber    47.3       8.8
Interest Payments (Net)     -23.9  -20.2  -28.0       Coffee             25.1       4.7
Workers' Remittances        -32.0  -33.0  -35.0    Palm Products          4.2       0.8
Other Factor Payments (Net) -83.7  -72.0  -64.0       Cocoa              11.0       2.1
Net Transfers                35.7   68.1   108.5    All other
Comnodities       24.0       4.5
Balance on Current Account -104.5  -77.3  -44.6          Total          535.7     100.0
Direct Foreign Investment 2/ -10.7  -42.9  -45.0
Net MLT Borrowing 3/          62.5  62.2   40.7
Disbursements        78.1   71.6   59.4
Amortization         15.6   9.4   18.7  EXTERNAL DEBT. DECEMBER 31, 1982 3/
Subtotal             51.8  19.3   -4.3  Public Debt, incl. guaranteed 641.2
Non-Guaranteed Private Debt
Increase in Reserves (+)    -61.8  -49.3  -57.5  Total Outstanding & Disbursed 641.2
Gross Reserves (end year)   -101.2 -150.5  -208.0  DEBT SERVICE RATIO FOR 1982 4/
Net Reserves (end year)
Public Debt, incl. guaranteed 33.2
Non-Guaranteed Private Debt
Total Outstanding & Disbursed 33.2
Fuel and Related Materials
Imports             152.1  129.6   115.1
Debt Service as % of
Government Revenue             14.4
RATE OF EXCHANGE:  US$1 = Liberian Dollar 1
IBRD/IDA LENDING (DECEMBER 31, 1982) (MILLION US$):
IBRD      IDA
Outstanding & Disbursed                90.7      36.4
Undisbursed                            46.0      49.4
Outstanding Including Undisbursed     136.7      85.8
1/       Preliminary
27r      Data provided by Sierra Leonean authorities
73       IBRD Debtor Reporting System
__       Debt Service as percent of Exports of Goods and NFS.
not available
not applicable
December 21, 1983



- 26 -                           ANNEX II
Page 1
THE STATUS OF BANK GROUP OPERATIONS IN LIBERIA
A. STATEMENT OF BANK LOANS AND IDA CREDITS (as of November 30, 1983)
Loan or                                                              Amount (US$ Million)
Credit                                                                less cancellation
Number   Year       Borrower               Purpose               Bank   IDA 1/  Undisbursed
Fourteen loans and five credits fully disbursed                  87.22   24.96         -
1323     1976  Liberian Bank for        Third Development
Dev. & Investment       Finance                 7.0      -          1.86
1417     1977  Rep. of Liberia          Education III             6.3      -          0.08 3,
700     1977  Rep. of Liberia          Bong Agriculture           -      7.0         0.12 3
786     1978  Rep. of Liberia          Rubber Development         -      6.0         2.76
8319    1978  Rep. of Liberia          Forestry                   -      6.0         3.07
Development
1544     1978  Rep. of Liberia          Rubber Development        7.0      -          7.00
L664     1979  Rep. of Liberia          Feeder Roads             10.7      -          7.11
1765     1979  Rep. of Liberia          Decorls Oil Palm         12.0      -         10.26
1907     1980  Rep. of Liberia          Petroleum Explo.         5.0       -          0.24
1Q76     1981  Rep. of Liberia          Small & Med. Scale
Enterprises             -       4.0 2/     3.07 4,
2080/81  1982  Rep. of Liberia/NIOC   Mining                    20.0       -         11.73
1223     1982  Rep. of Liberia          Urban Development          -     10.0 2/      7.96 4,
1242     1982  Rep. of Liberia          Lofa II                    -     15.5 2/    11.56 4,
1306     1983  Rep. of Liberia          Education IV              -      13.5 2/    10.27 4,
1311     1983  Rep. of Liberia          Highway IV
(Supplement)            -      1.8 2/      0.38 3,
Total                                           155.22   88.76       77.47
of which has been repaid                      23.08    0.14
Total now outstanding                           132.14   88.62
Amounts sold                       0.41
of which has been repaid         0.41           0.0
Total held by Bank and IDA                      132.14   88.62
Total undisbursed                                38.28   39.19       77.47
1/ Prior to exchange adjustments.
2/ Calculated at rate of exchange in effect at approval date.
3/ Closing date is December 31, 1983.
4/ Calculated at rate of exchange at November 30, 1983 of SDR 1 = $1.05058.
Nolte:    The status of projects listed in Part A is described in a separate
report on all Bank/IDA financial projects in execution, which is
updated twice yearly and circulated to the Executive Directors on
April 30 and October 31.



- 27 -                        ANNEX II
Page 2
B. STATEMENT OF IFC INVESTMENTS (as of November 30, 1983)
Fiscal
Year         Obligator         Type of Business    Loan      Equity      Total
1966     Liberian Bank for      Development
Development and        Finance Company
Investment                                            0.250       0.250
1977     Liberian Bank for      Development
Development and        Finance Company
Investment                                            0.306      0.306
0.556      0.556
Less Sold                                             0.001       0.001
Now held by IFC                                       0.555       0.555



- 28 -                        ANNEX III
Page 1
LIBERIA
SECOND BONG COUNTY AGRICULTURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
SUPPLEMENTARY PROJECT DATA
Section I: Timetable of Key Events
(a)  Time taken to prepare project:  8 months
(b)  Agency which prepared project:  Ministry of Agriculture
(c) Date of first presentation to
the Bank:                      July 1982
(d) Date of departure of Appraisal
Mission:                          February 1983
(e) Date of Completion of
Negotiations:                     November 23, 1983
(f)  Planned Date of Effectiveness:  June 1984
Section II: Special IDA Implementation Action
None
Section III: Special Conditions
(a) Government to carry out a cost reduction program to reduce LPMC's
operating costs, review it annually with IDA, and establish targets
for the following year (para. 27);
(b) Government to (i) submit to IDA and IFAD proposals for an agricul-
tural research program, and (ii) consult with IDA and IFAD with
regard to any reorganization of CARI (para. 36);
(c) Government to carry out a study of ACDB, review its conclusions with
IDA and IFAD, and carry out the recommendations according to an
agreed schedule (para. 37);
(d)  Funds for loans under the first project and this project to be
transferred to ACDB (para. 37);
(e)  ACDB interest rates and lending terms and conditions to be reviewed
annually with IDA and IFAD (para. 38);



- 29 -                         ANNEX III
Page 2
(f) IDA approval to be sought on road construction and maintenance
program and any transfer of equipment from the project (para. 40);
and
(g) Government to (i) put into effect revised MOA organization by
December 31, 1984 and secure IDA agreement to any further reorganiza-
tion, and (ii) ensure acceptability to IDA and IFAD of senior
managers (para. 43).






IBRD17)91R
Iajoo                                N 1f\ /'Iy'                            .Ioc 98                                           SEPTEMBER 1983
J   /             SOINJAM ,vols :LIBERIA
2/~'.    F                            2r , , + BONG COUNTY AGRICULTURAL
f A F R I C AX                          t/, bIghun   %~8akb7                           DEVELOPMENT PROJECT If
I ERRA//                                                            /   Ekemo
0~U/ NO T-                               GUINEA
L  ~       \ E 0 Nt> E                            S                      ot
~ZoIow     /6bno 
-7o00b C                                                                                <            |3NTYS/C  
K.,   7ONROvl                                                                                                                                '00os k u m b ,  g X  t    <  '/  g   X   X  t  a , C aRaY
a,ba  COUNTYAGRICUTURAL       Kaaa YBN                                             C 0  U         N T
PHASE~ ~ ~~iN KtETNIN'\ \               \/>                                          4       /      \>_
T rv X,  RESEARCHA{GNRSTCtuUTtE'}}8AL   KgbE\<3        <t  7    S                        <0            ()t C     0  U  N  L.  Y 
ROBERT   ~          MAORPOT
PAVEDINRPORTS                                RSP4VeL                        --0 /p r,,                                                500 " ) 
~~   NATIONAL CAPITALI V                                                                                                     R 
OD NE COUNSTRUCAPTALS~                                                                                     j N  O  car aIpooe 5a  A2.IESa
.~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ RWIL\I DR  XY.  gJC 0 A S T Y>/   
COUNTY BOUNDARI ES                                                                        A  N  D            E  D  E
-E -   iNTERNATIONAL BOUNDARIES B                                            25    GP       0                       e  ANAN
ARIVERS AND CREEKS 11OCES
o    0S    2 5   5aT T                         G            N     -
DEVELOPMENT~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~01O  P   J CT
11-00                                 I  G'O  SURFACE                                                                        HAROAD



