_~  _  I      RESTRICTED
| RETURN TO                          Report No. PA-49a
REPORTS -
This report was prepared for use within the Bank and its affiliated organizations.
They do not accept responsibility for its accuracy or completeness. The report may
not be published nor may it be quoted as representing their views.
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
TUBEWELLS PROJECT
EAST PAIlISTAN
June 9, 1970
Agriculture Projects Department



CURR$NCY EQUIVALENTS
US$ 1.00         a Rupeea (Rs) 4.762
Rs 1.00          a US3 0.21
Rs 1 million     * US$ 210,000
1EIaHTS AND NEASURES
(English system)
1 acre (ac)             - 0.405 hectare (ha)
1 mile (mi)             - 1.609 kilometers (km)
1 square mile (sq mi)     6io ac
259 ha
1 foot (rt)             * 30.5 centimeters (cm)
1 long ton (lg ton)       1.016 metric tons (m ton)
1 acre-foot (ac-ft)       1,234 cubic meters (m3)
1 cubic foot per second
(cusec)             - 0.028 m3/sec
(Local Units)
1 maund (md)            - 0.0367 lg ton
1 maund                 - 82.2 lb
INTTIALS AND ACRONYNM
EPADC   -  East Pakistan Agricultural Development Corporation
EPWAPDA - East Pakistan Water and Power Development Authority
IRRI    -  International Rice Research Institute, PhilippineB
SIDA    -  Swedish International Development Authority
CIDA    -  Canadian International Development Agency
TIP     - Thana Irrigation Programme
UNDP    - United Nations Development Programme
USAID   - United States Agency for International Development
USGS    - United States Geological Survey



EAST PAKISTAN
TUBEWELLS PROJECT
TABLE OF CONTENTS
Page No.
SUMMARY AND CONCLUSIONS  ....... ............. .................
I. INTRODUCTION .1
II. BACKGROUND.                                                                       1
III. THE PROJECT AREA.                                                                 3
General...                                                                   3
Climate...                                                                   3
Soils, Topography and Drainage                   . . .                       3
Farm Sizes and Fragmentation                   . . .                         4
Water Resources...                                                           4
Agricultural Production. . .                                                 5
Agricultural Supporting Services                   ...                       5
Transportation .             .............                                  6
Electric Power                ..                                             6
IV. THE PROJECT .                                                                     6
Project Description. . .                                                     6
Detailed Features .              ................                           7
Construction Schedule. . .                                                   9
Cost Estimates                    ...10
Financing    ...11
Procurement                     ...12
Disbursement .                          .                                   13
Project Accounts and Audit                   . . .13
V.  ORGANIZATION AND MANAGEMENT .13
Project Coordination .14
Selection of Tubewell Sites and Organization of
Irrigation Groups .14
Civil Works .14
Agricultural Support Program .15
Training .16
Operation and Maintenance .16
Credit .17
Recovery of Project Costs .17
This report  is based on  the findings of an IDA appraisal mission to East
Pakistan in November/December 1969, composed of Messrs. D.G. Reese, S.V.
Allison and E.M. Sicely (of IDA), I. Eka (Consultant to SIDA) and R.F.
Stoner (Consultant to IDA).



-2
Page No.
VI.    PRODUCTION, MARKET PROSPECTS, PRICES AND
FARM INCOME .........     ...............................  18
Production .........     ................................  18
Market Prospects .......      ............................  19
Farmers' Income from Project .....      ..................    19
Agricultural Taxation ..............................    21
VII.    BENEFITS AND JUSTIFICATION .........................    21
VIII.    RECOMMENDATIONS ........      ............................    22
ANNEXES
1.  The Thana Irrigation Programme
2. Soils, Topography and Climate
3.  Farm Sizes, Fragmentation and Land Tenure
4.  Cropping Patterns, Yields and Production
5.  Project Works, Description and Design Considerations
h.  Agricultural Development
7.  Water Resources, Quantity and Quality
8.  Consultant Services
9.  Implementation Schedules
10. Cost Estimates
11.  East Pakistan Agricultural Development Corporation
12. Organization Charts
13. Market Prospects and Prices for Agricultural Commodities
14. Agricultural Production Costs
15   Rate of Return Computations
Map



EAST PAKISTAN
TUBENELLS PROJECTr
SUMMARY AND CONCLUSIONS
i.        This report presents the appraisal of a project for the provision
of supplementary irrigation by tubewells in East Pakistan. Joint financing
by IDA (US$14 million equivalent) and the Swedish International Development
Authority (SIDA) (US$6 million equivalent) and parallel financing by the
Canadian International Development Agency (CIDA) (US$6.5 million equivalent)
is proposed.
ii.       Agriculture is the dominant sector in the economy of East Pak-
istan, and irrigation is essential, both to increase productivity and to
reduce the high risks inherent in rainfed agriculture. In contrast to
West Pakistan, output has failed to keep pace with population and increas-
ing quantities of foodgrains have been imported in recent years.
iii.      The Bank Group has financed three projects for flood control or
irrigation in the low-lying delta areas and, with UNDP, helped finance
general consultants to assist the East Pakistan Water and Power Develop-
ment Authority. IDA provided finance for a small number of tubewells
for East Pakistan cooperatives in its last credit to the Agricultural
Development Bank and financed the Khairpur tubewell drainage project in
West Pakistan. The present project is the first major tubewells project
that the Bank Group would finance in East Pakistan.
iv.       The present project comprises the construction of tubewells
and provides for all services needed to ensure effective project imple-
mentation and efficient use of developed water.
V.        Physical facilities to be installed would include:
(a)  about 3,000 tubewells serving a total area of about
180,000 ac;
(b) irrigation distribution systems to be constructed
by farmers; and
(c) 3 field trial and demonstration farms of about
50 ac each.
vi.       The project would include employment of engineering and agricul-
tural consultants, training of project personnel, procurement of vehicles
and equipment, the installation of experimental tubewells of capacities
other than 2 cusecs together with piped distribution systems, and a feasi-
bility study for future groundwater development.
vii.      Estimated total cost is US$45 million equivalent (net of duties
and taxes), with a foreign exchange component of about US$23 million, or
51% of total project cost. Contracts totalling about US$30 million equiv-
alent, for well construction and mechanical equipment, would be awarded



- ii -
after international competitive bidding. Contracts totalling about $6.5
million for fiberglass well components would be awarded after competitive
bidding between Canadian manufacturers. The proposed credit would include
retroactive financing, up to a maximum of US$150,000, for consultant services
for preliminary work. The total cost of consultants is estimated at US$2.9
million equivalent.
viii.     The East Pakistan Agricultural Development Corporation issisted
by consultants, would be responsible for construction of the tube ells and
their operation and maintenAnce. The Department of Agriculture, Ulso assis-
ted by consultants, would be responsible for the agricultural support program
and the field trial farms.
ix.       In conformity with revised procedures of the Thana Irrigation Pro-
gramme, under which the wells would be constructed and operated, no well
would be installed until the farmers at the site had formed an irrigation
group and committed themselves formally to share the full costs of operation
and maintenance and to build a system of field channels.
x.        On land irrigated by the tubewells, the cropping intensity would
be raised from the present 163% to 200%. Further, the wells would permit
the planting of higher yielding varieties and use of appropriate complemen-
tary inputs, thus increasing yields. Some diversification into wheat and
sugarcane would be possible.
xi.       The rate of return to the economy of East Pakistan is estimated
at 32%, with rice valued at the projected world price of US$100 per metric
ton. At a price 20% lower, the estimated rate of return would be 24%.
xii.      With the assurances obtained during negotiations the proposed
project is suitable for the joint IDA/SID credits of US$20 million equiv-
alent, and the parallel CIDA credit of US$6.5 million equivalent.
xiii.     The Government of Pakistan would make the proceeds of the credit
available to East Pakistan on the same terms as those of the IDA credit.
East Pakistan would provide all additional funds needed to complete the
project. A project agreement would be signed with East Pakistan.



EAST PAKISTAN
TUBEWELLS PROJECT
I. INTRODUCTION
1.01      The Government of Pakistan has requested joint IDA-Swedish Inter-
national Development Authority (SIDA) credits and a parallel Canadian Inter-
national Development Agency (CIDA) credit to help finance tubewell irrigation
in northwestern East Pakistan. The wells, to be constructed by the East
Pakistan Agricultural Development Corporation (EPADC) under the province's
Thana /j Irrigation Programme (TIP), would help to expand the output of rice
and wheat. The project would employ both foreign and local contractors to
construct 3,000 wells in 3 to 3-1/2 years and would provide consultants to
assist EPADC and the Department of Agriculture.
1.02      IDA has financed three projects concerned with irrigation or flood
control in East Pakistan: Dacca-Demra (11-PAK; 1961; US$1 million), Brahmaputra
Embankment (39-PAK; 1963; US$5 million) and Chandpur (40-PAK; 1963; US$5.25
million and 184-PAK; 1970; US$13 million). It has also financed (136-PAK;
1969; US$2 million), with the UNDP, general consultants to assist the East
Pakistan Water and Power Development Authority (EPWAPDA). About US$1 million
of IDA's US$30 million Third Credit for the Agricultural Development Bank of
Pakistan (157-PAK) may be used to finance cooperative's tubewells in East
Pakistan, but the present project is the first major tubewells project pro-
posed for Bank Group financing in the province.
^.03      This report is based upon a submission by EPADC in August 1969,
and the findings of an appraisal mission: Messrs. D.G. Reese, S.V. Allison
and E.M. Sicely (of IDA); I. Eka (consultant to SIDA) and R.F. Stoner (con-
sultant to IDA); who visited East Pakistan in November-December 1969.
II. BACKGROUND
2.01      East Pakistan covers 55,000 sq mi and is predominantly agricul-
tural. Ninety-five percent of the total population of 71 million is rural,
and 56% of gross production comes from agriculture.  In contrast to the
impressive growth in West Pakistan over the past few years, agriculture
in East Pakistan has lagged seriously. Between 1965/66 and 1969/70, pro-
duction increased about 2% per annum. East Pakistan has to rely increasingly
1/   The thana is a basic unit of government in East Pakistan.  The province
is divided into 4 divisions containing a total of 18 districts, each
consisting of an average of 23 thanas, further subdivided into unions.



-2
upor. mports  ;sainly rice, to naeet its foodgrain requirements.  Imports, in-
cLuding supplies from, West Pakistan, have risen steadily from 580,000 tons
in -96C to 17200,000 tons ini 1968/69. Rice and wheat imports, excluding
t   with West Pakistan, averaged US$33.5 million in foreign exchange
aanually between 1960/61 and 1967/68.
2.02      Population densities are among the world's highest, averaging
1,270 persons per sq mi; in some rural areas they are as high as 2,000
to 3,000 per sq mi. With population growing at about 3% annually, pressure
on land is mounting.  Overall population density is projected to exceed
2,000 per sq mL within the next 15 years.
203       Approximately 22 million ac (64% of the total area) are cultivated.
Eoldings are small (average 3.4 ac) and highly fragmented.  Little capital
is employed and yields and productivity are among the lowest in the world.
Much of the production is for subsistence. Rice, overwhelmingly the most
important crop, accounts for as msuch as 82% of the total output of major
crops. Jute is the principal export.
2.04      Most of East Pakistan is an extensive floodplain stretching ircaa
the foothills of the Himalayas to the Bay of Beugal.  The plain, seldom ex-
ceeding 30 ft above sea level, contains a vast network of rivers and channels.
U1 to one-half of the country may be flooded ech year during the ra,ns.
While frequent flood damage makes crop production hazardous, the pattern of
r ast Pakistan life is adjustecr to their regular occurrence. During the dry
winter season rainfall is inadaquate for crops. Irrigation has been restrlc-
ted by a lack of suitable means for lifting water from streams and low-lying
areas, the area irrigated by traditional methods in the winter season being
only about 1.1 million ac or 5% of the cultivated area. The Province has
embarked upon a major effort to stimulate agricultural growth, attain self-
sufficienicy in foodgrain production and substantially expand the output of
-lute, tea, sugarcane and other crops. Emphasis has been placed on improved
seeds (such as IRRI rice), fertilizer and plant protection measures. Success
depends on extending irrigation during the dry season so that modern inputs
can be used on a larger area.
2.05      The TIP, through which the Province encourages irrigation, pro-
vides organized groups of farmers with rented portable pumps and tubewells
(Annex 1). The main emphasis has been on the use of 2-cusec low-lift pumps
to raise water from uatural drainage channels. About 10,700 pumps, serving
515,000 ac, were in use in 1968/69. EPADC plans to have 19,000 pumps installed
by winter 1970. By 1972/73, EPADC plans to increase the number to 40,000 -
about the maximum which can be operated without major construction to increase
availability of surface water.
2.06  .   Tubewell development has been slow, only about 1,360 having beeL
completed by the end of 1969; 800 of these were constructed under the TIP.
The draft Fourth Development Plan (1970-75) calls for about 20,000 addition-
al TIP tubewells, an over-ambitious target considering the lack of detailed
knowledge of groundwater resources and EPADC's present organizational limi-
tations. However, tubewell development on a limited scale is feasible and



-3-
consistent with East Pakistan's water resources program, in the preparation
of which the province is being assisted by the Bank Group's East Pakistan
Study Group. The proposed project's high priority in this program rests
upon its advanced state of preparation and the rapid rate at which benefits
can be achieved.
III. THE PROJECT AREA
General
3.01      The project tubewells would be scattered over about 5,760 sq mi in
the northwest of the province (see Map). The area, although close to three
major rivers, cannot be irrigated by low-lift pumps. However, it is well
suited to tubewell irrigation, because of its groundwater resources, large
tracts of soils suitable for wheat and rice, and a relatively large propor-
tion of land which escapes serious flooding due to either its elevation or
the protection afforded by the IDA-financed Brahmaputra Flood Control Embank-
ment.
Climate
3.02      The climate is tropical, with heavy seasonal rains interrupted by
a dry period of about 4-5 months. Temperature and humidity are high through-
out the monsoon period. Mlarch, April and May are the hottest months with
daily temperatures rising to 950F.
3.03      The southeast monsoon rains between late May and mid-October,
range from 48 to over 80 inches in different parts of the project area. The
dry season lasts from mid-October to mid-January. A further 4 to 16 inches
of rain falls during the northwest monsoon from late February to early
May. Rainfall varies seasonally and annually and large variations occur
from year to year in the dates of onset and cessation of the monsoons.
There are therefore high risks in rainfed farming. Rainfall data are
shown in Annex 2.
Soils. Topography and Drainage
3.04      A reconnaissance soil survey of the area has been completed by
the Soil Survey of Pakistan, assisted by a UNDP project. Land classifi-
cation maps (1:1,000,000) have been prepared and priority agricultural de-
velopment areas selected, based on soils and flooding criteria. The soils
are unconsolidated alluvium, worked by the rivers into terraces and flood-
plains. Those at higher elevations on ridges and terraces are mainly per-
meable loams, with some sandy patches, while in valleys and basins clays
predominate.
3.05      Higher lands are mainly level or very gently sloping, locally
irregular when cut by streams. The major rivers, which overflow their banks



-4-
each year, deeply flooding all low-lying lands, are bordered by broad flood-
plains with gently undulating ridges and depressions. Higher ridges and
terraces are only shallowly flooded or stand above normal flood level. Higher
soils are well-drained but the heavier soils in depressions drain slowly,
those at or below flood level often remaining moist for most of the dry sea-
-'n.  The centers of basins may be permanently wet.
3.06      Three main soil types occur in the areas chosen for devel^pment.
The Soil Survey has named these the Barind tract, the Tista floodpl.in and
the Ganges/Brahmaputra ridge. Detailed investigations would be undortaken
when selecting tubewell sites, to avoid sandy patches, depressions and land
where topography is unsuitable. Further details of soils and topography are
given in Annex 2.
Farm Sizes and Fram{entation
3.07      The average farm size in the project area is about 4 ac (Annex 3).
About 4.7% of farms (1.4% of the land area) are smaller than 1 ac and 84%
(60.4% of land area) are smaller thau 7.5 ac. Less than 1% of farma (3.5%
of land area) are larger than 25 ac. The scarcity of sufficiently large
holdings makes it impracticable to develop groundwater by providing credit
for private tubewells.
3.08      Over 95% of the land area is in fragmented holdings, half of the
farms being composed of 10 or more fragments. Consolidation of landhold-
ings is not politically or administratively feasible at present. Even if
consolidated, holdings would be too small to justify a privately-owled
tubewell. Farmer cooperation is therefore a prerequisite for groundwater
development.
Water Resources
3.09      Despite the rivers which pass through the project area, there are
i-arge tracts of land inaccessible to irrigation from surface water sources.
Groundwater, on the other hand, is abundant and close to the surface. The
Bengal Basin, in which the project area lies, has been filled by the alluvial
deposits of the Ganges and Brahmaputra Rivers and their tributaries. These
deposits are excellent aquifer materials, very suitable for the development
of irrigation wells. Although there may be isolated areas where recharge is
".fficult, the annual precipitation is sufficiently high, and rech&rge charac-
teristics generally so good, that the potential for groundwater development
far exteeds the requirements of the proposed project.
~.iO      EPWAPDA constructed 380 large capacity tubewells during 1961-65 and,
since 1968, EPADC has constructed a further 300 2-cusec tubewells in the
project area. These wells have demonstrated the capacity of the aquifer to
support groundwater development, but have also shown up some desigr. deficien-
cies which should be rectified in future wells (para. 4.13 and Annex 5).
Furthermore, many of the wells are not being utilized effectively, due partly
to inadequate distribution systems, extension services and farm inputs and
partly to delay in providing pumps and engines.



-5-
Agricultural Production
3.11      Rice dominates the cropping pattern, the number of crops cultivated
annually depending upon the elevation of the land and thus the degree of
flooding. Where floods supplement rainfall, as in the Tista floodplains, an
early (aus) rice crop is followed by a second (aman) crop before the dry
season supervenes. On Ganges/Brahmaputra ridge soils, subject to only shal-
low flooding, an aus crop is followed by short-season crops (mainly mustard).
On Barind soils, which suffer from drought in the dry season, only one (aman)
crop is taken. Details are given in Annex 4.
3.12      During the dry (boro) season less than 10% of the land is culti-
vated, due to lack of irrigation facilities. Cropping is confined mostly
to low lands where moisture retained after floods is sufficient to mature a
crop. Where water supplies permit, the fringes of rivers and streams are
irrigated by low-lift pumps.
3.13      Uncertainties as to the onset and amount of the rains and the degree
of flooding restrict the use of farm inputs. Even on high land on which
crop losses from flooding are light, farmers plant only local varieties and
use little fertilizer, to minimize their risk. Yields are therefore low.
3.14      Farmers generally sell their cash produce, mostly jute, tobacco,
fruit and vegetables, at local markets. Marketing agents then transport it,
by road or river, to consuming centers such as Bogra, Dinajpur, Pabna or
irymensingh. Sugarcane is either processed on the farm into jaggery or sold
co sugar mills in the producing areas.
Agricultural Supporting Services
3.15      The Agricultural Directorate's extension service is limited by
shortages of adequately trained staff and of transport. Its liaison with
agricultural research services is poor.
3.16      Cooperatives, supervised and assisted by the Department of Agri-
culture's Co-operative Directorate, are well established in the project area.
Institutional rural credit is available through them, the Agricultural De-
velopment Bank of Pakistan and taccavi / loans. Its amount is limited,
however; most farmers turn instead to family, friends, shopkeepers or money-
lenders. Seeds and fertilizers are distributed by EPADC. Though some seed
of improved (IRRI) rice varieties is used, quantities are at present limited
and purity often unsatisfactory. Plant protection services, while supplied
gratis by the Department of Agriculture, are not yet popular, partly because
of difficulty in obtaining them at the right time.
1/   Taccavi loans are those advanced to cultivators directly by the govern-
ment, mainly for relief purposes.



- 6 -
3.17      2oth Agricultural and Co-operative Directorates, with EPADC and
t:e L*ica:l ..Overnment Department, play a major role in the TIP (see Annex 1).
By drawing together these agencies and elected Thana Councils, the TIP taps
loca  initiative.
Transportatlion
3.18     'The project area is served by a network of hard-surface main roads
connecting the principal towns. Apart from these arteries, road development
is limited:, most villages are accessible only to jeeps or ox-carts. The
major rivercs are crossed by ferries which are slow and, in the dry season,
subjEct to frequent interruptions by shifting river channels and sand bars.
3.19      Boats become the most important mode of transport cluring the flood
seascin.  Interconnecting channels then provide access to virtually the en-
tire project area and, via the Ganges-Padmna and Brahmaputra-Jamuna Rivers
(which are navigable throughout the year), to all maj or marketing centers.
3.20      Two sections of the Pakistan Eastern Railway, connected in three
4 nc::ions, provide rail communication in the area.  The first, broad gauge
singLe track, runs in the east bank of the Jamuna River, and connects Ishurdi
with the north (about 140 miles), with inland ports in the soDuth (about 160
til,Ies), and with the west bank (about 80 miles), through a passenger ferry.
The seconcl section, meter gauge single track, serves both banks with a net-
work of about 200 mi linked with a freight and passenger ferry subject to
change of location according to seasonal floods.
Electric Power
3.21      Though there is adequate generating capacity elsewhere in the
Province and a main trunk distribution system to the northwest is planned
for completion by 1975, there is at present no general rural distribution
syst.em in the northwest, and it is unlikely that one could be constructed
in time to provide power to tubewells throughout the project: area within
the next four years. Some local systems may have sufficient: capacity to
provide power for a few nearby wells.
IV. THE PROJECT
?ro ect DescriRtion
4.01      The project is the provision of supplementary irrigation on about
180,000 acres by tubewells, together with technical assistance and essential
improvements in supporting services for agricultural development in the
areas irrigated by the wells. Works included in the project are saumarized
below aud described in detail in Annex 5. They would comprise:
(a) about 3,000 wells with diesel-powered 2-cusec
pumps, each serving about 60 ac;



- 7 -
(b) irrigation distribution systems to be constructed
by farmers; and
(c) 3 field trial and demonstration farms of about 50 acres
each.
The project would include the employment of engineering and agricultural
consultants; procurement of vehicles, survey instruments and laboratory
equipment; the installation of a small number of experimental tubewells of
greater capacity than 2 cusecs together with improved distribution systems;
and a feasibility study of further groundwater development.
4.02      The areas in which the tubewells will be drilled were selected
on the basis of soils, topography and depth of flooding (Annex 5, pages 11-
13). They occur in 87 of the 143 thanas that comprise the districts of
DinaJpur, Rangpur, Bogra, Rajshahi, Pabna and Mymensingh 1/ (see Map).
The Province has agreed to concentrate the wells in these districts to
facilitate contract administration and agricultural development.
4.03      About 25 wells would be constructed in existing research stations
of the Department of Agriculture, in existing EPADC seed multiplication
farms and in the project field trial farms, to provide irrigation for
research, demonstration and seed production purposes essential to the reali-
zation of project benefits. The locations of these wells would be chosen by
the consultants.
4.04      The project would be the first stage of a program to develop
groundwater resources throughout the province. The project wells would be
widely spaced (at least 1-1/4 mi apart) and there would be scope for consid-
erable in-filling with additional wells in later stages. The infrastructure
built up under the present project would greatly benefit such future develop-
ment.
Detailed Features
4I.05     Tubewells.  The tubewells would be contractor-drilled.  Gravel-
packed with 8-in diameter casings and screens, they would be equipped with
deep-well turbine pumps and diesel engines. Fiberglass, which is light,
durable and relatively inexpensive, will be used for screens, casings and
pump housings. Each 2-cusec well would be equipped with about 80 ft of
screen, 20 ft of blind pipe and 60 ft of pump housing, requiring a total
drilled depth of about 160 ft (Annex 5).
4.06      Capacity of Tubewells.  Two cusece irrigating 50-100 ac would
serve a group of 25-50 farmers. Although an increase in the capacity of wells
1/   Following appraisal, a new district, Tangail, was formed within what
were the boundaries of Mymensingh district.



-8-
beyond 2 cusecs would result in a decrease in the cost per cusec (see Annex
5), 2-cusec wells have been selected for the project because such a flow
is about the limit manageable in unlined earth ditches by inexperienced
farmers.
4.07      Distribution Systems.  Under the TIP, farmers construct their own
distribution systems. In the past, water from TIP tubewells has often not
been distributed efficiently due to farmers' inability to overcome technical
and organizational constraints without outside assistance. To remecy this,
EPADC, with the assistance of its consultants and in collaboration w-ith the
members of irrigation groups and TIP staff, would design a distribution
system for each well and, with the Department of Agriculture, provide
guidance to farmers to construct it. Further details are given in Annex 5.
It would be a prior condition to the drilling of any well that the irrigation
group had undertaken to construct its distribution system within 6 Donths
after the well's completion and had also agreed that, if they did nct do so,
EPADC should construct it at farmers' expense.  In this case, EPADC would
undertake to complete the work within a further 6 months. Assurances to
this effect were obtained during negotiations.
4.08      Field Trial Farms.  A tubewell-irrigated field trial farm of about
50 ac would be established on each of the 3 major soil types in whicah wells
would be installed. The farms would investigate the irrigated production
of rice and alternative crops, including trials and demonstrations with new
varieties. Special attention would be paid to water management. Further
details are given in Annex 6.
4.09      Experimental Tubewells and Improved Distribution Systems.  The
project would include funds to be used under the guidance of the consultants
to construct a limited number of tubewells of capacities other than 2 cusecs
together with improved distribution systems, to investigate the feasibility
of using such wells and systems in future.
4.10      Water Requirements and Availability.  Because of differences in
(a) well yields (b) well utilization and (c) efficiency of water distribu-
tion, irrigation areas would vary from well to well. The average irrigation
area of 60 ac per well can be adequately served by a 2-cusec supply, but
the range of service areas, determined by the factors enumerated above, may
be as wide as from 40 ac to 120 ac. Computation of water "requirements"
can therefore be only indicative. The winter consumptive use of 60 ac of
rice would be approximately 120 ac ft so, assuming 50% overall efficiency,
it would - necessary to pump 240 ac ft. This would require about 1440 hrs
of pump operation, with up to 16 hrs per day during peak periods of con-
9sumptive use.
4.i1      With wells 1-1/4 mi apart, the area surrounding each well would
be about 1,000 ac. Since the annual recharge to groundwater on this area
from rainfall alone, ignoring other sources of recharge, is not less than
1,200 ac-ft (10 times the proposed net withdrawal), there are adequite
groundwater supplies for sustained pumping. Further details are givan in
Annex 7.



- 9-
4.12      The proposed project is an extensive, rather than intensive,
approach to water development. It is anticipated that in the future
additional wells would be drilled between those installed under the pro-
ject. At that time more data on groundwater conditions and the recharge
potential would be required. A major study program to develop this informa-
tion will be started in the summer of 1970 by the United States Geological
Survey (USGS) working with EPWAPDA under a USAID program. Eventually, it
will be necessary for the government to adopt a groundwater development
policy (see para 5.06). Close coordination will have to be established
between EPADC, EPWAPDA, and the USGS team to ensure that maximum information
for future development is obtained from project wells (see also para 5.15).
4.13      Status of Engineering.  The tubewell design used by EPADC in its
past construction programs is unsatisfactory for the proposed project be-
cause (a) the brass screens used are of poor quality and subject to corrosion,
(b) the well depths are excessive and (c) the centrifugal pumps employed are
not adaptable to declining water tables, which may be expected to occur either
naturally or as a result of intensified groundwater development in the
future (see Annex 5). New designs and specifications would be prepared by
EPADC's engineering consultants and these would form part of tender documents
which would be reviewed by the Association. The design used in the prepara-
tion of the project's cost estimates is given in Annex 5. Though a few
tubewells, sited close to existing distribution systems, might be electri-
fied, the cost estimates provide for all wells to be powered by diesel
engines. The terms of reference for the consultants (see para 4.14) would
include a cost-of-service study to determine in what circumstances electric
power should be utilized.
h.14      Consultants.  The project would include approximately 31 man-years
of engineering consultant services for preparing designs, specifications,
and bid documents; siting wells; and supervising construction. Another 24
man-years of agricultural consultant services would be provided to assist
in the siting of wells, training of staff and farmers and establishment of
agricultural supporting services, including field trial farms. Annex 8 con-
tains further details. EPADC is currently negotiating contracts for con-
sulting services.
4.15      Feasibility Study for Future Stages.  The project would include
provision for a feasibility study for further groundwater development, to be
done by the consultants, taking into account the findings of the USGS survey
and experience gained in the implementation of the project.
Construction Schedule
4.16      The construction schedule is shown in Annex 9, page 1.  Tubewell
construction would be completed in 1974, with wells being commissioned at
the rate of about 30 per week during the construction season (Annex 9, page
2). Field channels would be finished throughout the project by 1975.



- 10 -
;C;  L-LrIhateE
4.1?      Project costs are estimated at US$44.6 miillon uquLvaiLt,L neL ot
duties and taxes, of which foreign exchange is estimated to be US$22.8 mil-
lion. The estimated Costs, shown in detail in Annexes 8 and 10, are sum-
marized below:
COST ESTIMATES
Rs million             US$ million      % Foreign
Local Forei*n Total  Local Foreirn Total  Exchange
Proiect Works
3,000 2-cusec wells         68.1   74.4  142.5   14.3   15.6    29.9    52
Experimental wells
& distribution systems      2.7    2.5    5.2    0.6     0.5      1.1    48
Subtotal     70.8   76.9  147.7   14.9   16.1    31.0    52
Contingencies (25%)         L7.7   19.2   36.9    3.7     4.0      7.7    52
Subtotal     88.5   96.1  184.6   18.6   20.1    38.7    52
EPADC personnel 6
overheads                 7.2    0.6    7.8    1.5    0.1       1.6     7
Engineering consultants      1.8    5.4    7.2    0.4    1.2       1.6    75
Subtotal     97.5  102.1  199.6   20.5   21.4    41.9    51
Agricultural Support
Agricultural staff
& transportation            3.6    0.3    3.9    0.8    0.1       0.9     7
Agricultural consultants    1.7    4.5    6.2    0.3    0.9        1.2    73
Field trial farms            1.0            1.0    0.2    _        0.2     0
Subtotal      6.3    4.8   11.1    1.3    1.0       2.3    43
Imported Vehicles,
Equipment & Supplies          -     1.3    1.3            0.3      0.3   100
Feasibi1izy Studies           -     0.4    0.4      -     0.1      0.1   100
Total       103.8  108.6  212.4   21.8   22.8    44.6    51
4.18      Cost estimates for well construction, pumps, engines and distri-
bution systems are based on current contract unit prices in East Pakistan.
Estimates for fiberglass well components are based on current contract
prices in West Pakistan, to which has been added&an allowance for additional
shipping costs.  Because well construction operations of this magnitude are



- 11 -
unprecedented in East Pakistan, 25% of the cost has been allowed for con-
tingencies. Provision has also been made for land acquisition, adminis-
tration and engineering costs. These cost estimates assume that local con-
tractors would install 900 of the 3,000 wells and that local manufacturers
would win all contracts for the supply of pumps. The remaining 2,100 wells
would be installed by foreign contractors, and engines, casings and screens
would be imported.
Financing
4.19      The proposed IDA credit would contribute US$14 million and the
SIDA credit US$6 million towards the cost of the project. CIDA would pro-
vide US$6.5 million through a parallel credit agreement to finance the
purchase of fiberglass casings and screens for the tubewells. The CIDA
credit is restricted to procurement within Canada, as is the case for all
Canadian foreign assistance, but there will be competitive bidding among
6 to 8 Canadian manufacturers, and their prices appear to be well within
the estimates in para 4.17. The effectiveness of all three credits would
be conditional on each other. The three credits combined would constitute
about 60% of the total cost and would be large enough to bring about neces-
sary improvements in organization, funding and execution of the project.
4.20      The estimated foreign exchange cost of the project, excluding
the US$6.5 million equivalent for fiberglass well components covered by
the CIDA credit, is US$16.3 million. This amount would be covered completely
by the proposed joint IDA/SIDA credit, with about US$3.7 equivalent, or 18.5%
cl the joint credit, remaining for local currency expenditures.
4.21      The joint financing would be disbursed pro rata by IDA and SIDA
as shown in the table below. There would be no allocation of particular
items to SIDA for financing. The CIDA credit would be completelv disbursed
and all fiberglass well components delivered, by the end of the second year
of the project. IDA would have principal responsibility for project super-
vision, in which SIDA and CIDA would be invited to participate.
1970/71   1971/72   1972/73   l973/74   Total
- - - - - - -  US$ millions - - - - - - - - -
IDA Credit                  2.6         4.2       4.2       3.0      14.0
SIDA Credit                 1.1         1.8       1.8       1.3       6.0
CIDA Credit                 2.5         4.0        -         -        6.5
Gov't of E. Pakistan        2.9         5.4       5.4       4.4      18.1
Total       9.1        15.4      11.4       8.7      44.6
-Rs million equivalent - - - - - -
Total      43.3        73.3      54.3      41.4    212.4
Gov't of E. Pakistan
(Duties and taxes)          7.9        13.4      10.1       7.6      39.0
Total including duties
and taxes                51.2        86.7      64.4      49.0    251.4



- 12 -
s .2: ;   '£he IDA credit would be made to the Government of Pakistan on
stai dard terms.  Assurances were obtained during negotiations that the
pre --eds would he re-lent to the Province of East Pakistan on the same terms
,s `-ose of t'le credit.  The Government of East Pakistan would provide all
r,.6 .tional fnmds required to complete the project, including sufficient
'uncis to pay customs duties and taxes, presently estimated at Rs 39 million.
4.23      To meet the construction schedule, tubewell designas, specifications
.nd bid documents would have to be completed in time for construction con-
tracts to be awarded before the next dry season (November-March/April).
Agreement was reached during negotiations that if the consuLtants referred
t:o :.n para 4.14 are appointed prior to signing of the credit agreement
retiroactive financing, up to a maximum of US$150,000 would be permitted.
'rocurement
i*.24     Contracts for well construction and supply of imported vehicles,
equipment: and supplies, totalling about US$30 million would be subject to
international competitive bidding.  Drilling contracts would be let in lots
.of 300 wells.  The number of lots for which coutractors, either foreign or
local, would be permitted to bid would be determined by prequalification by
S.PADC. assisted by their consultants. Awards for two-thirds or more of the
wells would be expected to go to one or more foreign contractors. Assurances
,ere obtained during negotiations that (a) local contractors, subject to
certification of need by the consultants, would be permitted to obtain up to
157 of ttie total cost of their contracts in foreign exchange as an advance
for ImportiDg drilling rigs and related equipment and spare parts and (b)
aecessary licenses and permits would be issued to local and foreign con-
zractors promptly for such importation.
4.25      Timely execution of the project involves major logistic problems
ard it w:ill necessary to stockpile materials within East Pakistan to reduce
the chance for delays. To minimize bottlenecks and to ensure standardiza-
ticn, EPADC would award contracts (which would be subject t.o IDA approval)
for procurement of pumps, engines, and spares, after interrational com-
petitive bidding. For fiberglass blind pipes, well screens and casings,
EPADC would award contracts after competitive bidding between Canadian manu-
fac:turers. EPADC would supply these items to contractors att a convenient
point for transport to and installation in the wells. Local manufacturers
would be allowed a preference of 15% or the prevailing customs duty, which-
ever is lower.
4.26      The experimental wells would be drilled by foreign and/or local
contractors under "provisional items" to be included for this purpose in
their regular well construction contracts. Contracts for construction
of improved distribution systems and certain other works wumld be rela-
tively minor and of insufficient interest to foreign firms to attract
internat.ional bidding. These contracts (estimated at US$1 million equiv-
alent) would be awarded after local bidding following EPAD('s standard
procedures which ensure adequate competition.



- 13 -
Disbursement
4.27      Disbursements from the credit accounts would cover 100% of the
CIF price of imported mechanical equipment, vehicles and materials and the
actual foreign exchange costs of consultants' services. Disbursements for
expenditures on well construction would be made as an appropriate percentage
(presently estimated at 31%) of the actual cost of wells certified by the
consultants as having been installed and commissioned. It would be a con-
dition of disbursement for well construction that the wells had been con-
structed on sites which met the criteria agreed during negotiations (See
Annex 6). For mechanical equipment procured locally, disbursements would
cover 100% of the actual ex factory cost. No disbursements would be made
for expenditures for land acquisItion, establishment, overheads, staff or
operational Costs of the agricultural development program. In the event
that project costs were less than estimated, the percentage disbursement
would be adjusted to ensure that the total amount of the proposed IDA
credit is disbursed.
Project Accounts and Audit
4.28      Implementation of the project would Involve close coordination
of work by several agencies and contractors. Employment of foreign con-
sultants and well drillers would be justified and the target of 3,000
wells in three years be achieved ouly if imported materials were delivered
to contractors on time. Experience has shown that a common cause of delay
is difficulty in obtaining local currency for payments which cannot be
made directly to suppliers or consultants by IDA. Therefore it would be
a condition of effectiveness that the Government of East Pakistan had
opened two special revolving accounts, for use respectively by the Senior
Officer in charge of construction, EPADC, and the Senior Officer, in charge
of agricultural development, Department of Agriculture (paras 5.09 and 5.10).
Assurances were obtained that thase accounts would be funded as necessary,
on a quarterly basis in order to maintain balances sufficient to meet ex-
penditures expected in the following 3 months. Project accounts would be
audited annually by the Comptroller and Auditor-General and copies of the
audit report would be submitted to the Association within 6 months of the
end of the financial year.
V.  ORGANIZAT1ON AND MANAGEMENT
5.01      EPADC would be the executing authority for the construction of
the tubewells, for their operation and maintenance. for the design of their
water distribution systems and for training engineering staff. The Direc-
torate of Agriculture of the Department of Agriculture would be responsible
for agricultural supporting services and for training agricultural staff
and farmers in agricultural production. The Department's Directorate of
Co-operatives would participate with the Directorate of Agriculture in the
formation of irrigation groups under the TIP. General responsibility for
the TIP lies with the Department of Local Government.



- 14 -
Project Coordination
5.02      Activities of the different agencies must be closely coordinated,
at province, district and thana levels. A satisfactory coordination system
exists at the thana level - the TIP; and inter-departmental coordinating
committees exist within the provincial government and in each of the districts
to be served by the project.
5.03      The provincial committee would facilitate execution of the project
by reviewing the annual budget and coordinating the activities of the im-
plementing agencies.
5.04      District committees would have special responsibility for agri-
agricultural development under the project in each district. At the dis-
cretion of the government they might include farmers, either nominated or
selected through the cooperative organizations, as members or advisers.
Selection of Tubewell Sites and Oranization of Irri ation Groups
5.05      Success of the project would depend largely upon siting the
tubewells correctly in relation to soils and topography and encouraging
rapid and effective utilization of the water after they had been drilled.
Because it ignored soils and topography and required no assurances from
the participating farmers for the construction of distribution systems, the
system used in the past to site TIP wells was unsatisfactory. The project
would introduce an improved system, remedying past deficiencies. Agreement
was reached during negotiations on siting criteria and procedures (see
Annex 6).
5.06      The groundwater development proposed for the project is feasible
without legislative control of the rate of groundwater exploitation and
in the absence of a comprehensive groundwater development policy. However
future development, especially the increase in tubewell densities, may re-
quire more stringent criteria to avoid over-exploitation of groundwater.
Therefore the East Pakistan Government, taking acount of the USGS ground-
water study, should formulate a coherent groundwater policy for the Prov-
ince.
Civil Works
5.07      EPADC, an agency of the East Pakistan Government (descr-bed in
Annex 11), would be the executing authority for the construction of the
project Though it has undertaken satisfactorily a small program of tube-
well coastruction during the past 2 years, its technical and administra-
tive capacity is limited and it would have to be substantially strengthened
by engineering consultants. Given this strengthening, EPADC would be
capable of executing the project but, until it has achieved a considerable
increase in implementation capacity, it is unlikely to be in a position to



- 15 -
execute similar tubewell projects elsewhere without detriment to this pro-
ject. Assurances were obtained during negotiations that EPADC would dis-
close to IDA their plans for any further groundwater development, and would
ensure that the execution of the project works would not be adversely
affected by any additional program of tubewell construction.
5.06      It would be a condition of effectiveness that EPADC had employed
consultants satisfactory to IDA, under agreed terms of reference, to pre-
pare designs, specifications, contract documents and criteria for pre-
qualification of contractors; to make recommendations on award of contracts
for procurement of goods and services; to supervise construction of project
works; and to train EPADC personnel. Agreed Terms of reference are given in
Annex 8.
5.09      EPADC proposes to strengthen and reorganize its existing Tubewells
Division, as indicated in the organization charts in Annex 12 (pages 1-3),
under an appropriately qualified engineer as Senior Officer in charge of
construction. Within the project headquarters organization there would be
a Project Control and Records Section, charged with the development and
implementation of an effective project control system. It would be a
condition of effectiveness that these organizational arrangements had been
completed to the satisfaction of the Association.  With these changes, the
organization would be adequate to carry out EPADC's part in the project.
Agricultural Support Program
5.10      It would be a condition of effectiveness that the Department of
Agriculture, whose organization is shown on page 4 of Annex 12, had appointed
an appropriately qualified Senior Officer to administer the agricultural
supporting services. In view of present technical and organizational weak-
nesses, he would need the help of agricultural consultants, whose responsi-
bilities should include the provision of assistance in selecting (with EPADC)
tubewell sites, planning agricultural development, operating the field trial
farms, conducting extension work and training staff. It would also be a
condition of effectiveness that consultants satisfactory to IDA had been
appointed under approved terms of reference. Outline terms of reference are
given in Annex 8.
5.11      The Department intends to strengthen the extension services it
provides through the TIP for the project area. It proposes to appoint
District Project Officers (Agriculture) in each of the districts, agricul-
tural-graduate Assistant Project Officers in the thanas in which project
tubewells would be constructed, and approximately 600 Project Assistants
who, stationed in the unions of the project area, would undertake extension
work in irrigated agriculture. This would be an adequate level of staffing
to execute the work required.
5.12      The Directorate of Co-operatives would be strengthened by
additional staff to organize, register and administer the new irrigation
group cooperatives and Thana Central Co-operative Associations for the
supply of farm inputs.



- 16 -
5.13      A proposed agricultural development program is described in
Annex 6.  Assurances were obtained during negotiations that, within six
months of signing the proposed credit, the Province would submit detailed
proposals, generally similar to those in Annex 6, for an agricultural
program and review with the Associatior how it can be implemented effectively.
T:aining
5.14      In addition to their other responsibilities, both engineering
and agricultural consultants would take part in training Pakistani staff
in formally organized training courses. To this end, the consultant team
would include specialists in training to organize courses, produce train-
ing materials and advise upon training methods and the content of t.he
courses. Training should cover identification of tubewell sites, opera-
tion and maintenance of project works and, for agricultural staff, field
irrigacion techniques and crop production under irrigation. Such zrain-
ing would be essential because East Pakistan agricultural schools (lo not
provide satisfactory training in irrigation at present.  Courses c3uld be
held at the Pakistan Academy for Rural Development in Comilla, and thus
take advantage of its experience with tubewell irrigation in that area or,
alternatively, at the field trial farms. Assurances were obtained during
negotiations that the government would prepare a training program for pro-
ject staff and send it to IDA for review not later than 6 months after the
signing of the credit.
Operation and Maintenance
5.15      In accordance with established procedures of the TIP, EPADC,
assisted by consultants, would be responsible for operating and maintain-
ing the wells. It would appoint, train and pay the tubewell operators,
service and repair the tubewell engines and pumps and maintain pumphouses.
EPADC already has similar responsibilities for the operation and mainte-
nance of TIP low-lift pumps throughout the province. Assurances were
obtained during negotiations that EPADC would make regular measurements
of water quality and discharge and depth to groundwater under both static
and pumping conditions at each well.
5.16      EPADC is currently engaged in a program to construct and equip
workshops and stores in all TIP zones, regions and thanas, including those
to be included in the project area. Assurances were obtained during negotia-
tions that, in allocating its resources for construction and equipment of
workshops, EPADC would give priority, commensurate with the progress of con-
strUCtcL of the project, to workshops in the project area.
5.17      Engines and pumps would be serviced regularly in the field by
EPADC mechanics. Repairs would be done either in the field or in w'orkshops,
according to need. Zonal and regional workshops would do overhauls and
repairs, at the expense of the irrigation group. Routine maintenance would
be covered by the annual tubewell "rental" charges (para 5.20).



- 17 -
Credit
5.18      In order to make effective use of the improved conditions pro-
vided by the project, and to achieve the levels of output anticipated,
farmers would need to use improved seed and vastly increase their use of
fertilizers and pesticides. EPADC, which is distributing seeds and fer-
tilizers directly, is considering distribution through Thana Central Co-op-
erative Associations; assurances were obtained during negotiations that
EPADC would distribute through these associations and through private
dealers, where available, in the project area as well as through its own
system. Project staff would train and assist cooperatives to provide
plant protection services.
5.19      The increased use of production inputs would require a major
increase in farm credit. The Senior Officer in charge of agricultural devel-
opment would be responsible for making an annual estimate of credit require-
ments in the project area on the basis of farm plans prepared by the
irrigation-group cooperative societies. Assurances were obtained during
negotiations that the government will ensure that adequate resources for
farm credit in the project area are made available to the Thana Central Co-
operative Associations and/or other organizations acceptable to IDA.
Recovery of Prolect Costs
5.20      The irrigation groups, would pay a "rental" charge for their
pumps and engines. However, the revenues from these charges would not be
sufficient to cover EPADC expenses in the initial years of the project.
tssurances were obtained during negotiations that the government would
make adequate budgetary allocations, to the Department of Agriculture and
EPADC and/or Thana Councils (through TIP funds), to carry out the project
effectively.
5.21      Apart from the rental charges, each irrigation group would pur-
chase fuel, lubricants and spare parts directly from EPADC, a Thana Central
Co-operative Association, arid/or private dealers. Included in the price
paid for diesel fuel is Rs 1.38 per gal in duties and taxes. On the basis
of 60 ac served, each group would pay about Rs 2,625 annually for fuel and
lubricants, of which RS 1,450 would be duties and taxes. This tax on diesel
fuel over the 20-year life of a well would amount to more than 50% of its
capital cost.
5.22      Assurances were obtained during negotiations that the operation
and maintenance costs of each tubewell would be recovered from each irrigation
group through an annual "rental" charge.  During the first year of operation
the charge would be Rs 300 per annum, gradually rising each year so that in
the sixth year it would be sufficient to recover the full operating and
maintenance costs, and in the tenth year and thereafter sufficient to re-
cover also the full replacement costs of engines and pumps. The Province,
in consultation with IDA and after a study by the consultants of farm
family incomes and prevailing conditions in the project area, would also
make arrangements for recovery of as much as practicable of the capital
costs of the prolect.



- 18 -
VI. PRODUCTION. MARKET PROSPECTS AND FARM INCOME
Prod..s.-ion
6.s31     The provision of tubewell irrigation water in the project area
would allow an increase in cropping intensity and an increase in output per
3c from the use ot higher-yielding varieties and complementary inputs. On
,arind tract soils (48,000 ac), where water supplies currently are adequate
for only one crop of rice yearly, it would be possible to double the area
presently cropped. On the Ganges and Brahmaputra ridge soils (45,000 ac),
cropping intensity would rise from 160% to 200%. On the Tista. Flood Plain
soils (87,000 ac) cropping would continue at the present intensity of 200%,
but yields would be substantially greater with the project. Assured supplies
of irrigation water would enable farmers to use higher-yielding varieties
and invest in more inputs aud improve cultural practices. It is expected
that E. well would irrigate 30 ac in the year it is installed iand 60 ac in
subsecquent years. For each individual well, the wider use of improved
varieties, complemnentary inputs, and improved cultural and iricigation
pract,.ces should lead to a steady increase in output, so that full develop-
menit should be reached in the seventh year of operations.
6.02      The table below summarizes the cropped areas, yields and pro-
duction on the 180,000 ac served by the project at present and those fore-
cast for 7 years after all project wells have been installed. Annex 4
has fLurther- details.
Cropped Area       Average Yields      _Production
With                 With                With
Project              Project             Project
At Full              At Full             At Full
Develop-             Develop-            Develop-
Present  ment       Present   ment      l'resent  ment
('000 ac)           (ig ton/ac)         ('000 1g ton)
Paddr                  262 5 1   310 51      0.6        1.5      152.2     474.6
Sugarcane                4.5       4.5      12.8       44.0       57.8     198.2
Wheat                      -      40.5          -       1.5          -      59.5
Mustard                 22.5         -       0.2          -        3.9
Total                  294.0    360.0
Total area
cultivated           180.0    180.0
Cropping iLntensity    163       200
(%)
1/   Since sugarcane is a year-round crop, the area is counted twice in the
total area cropped. Actual area harvested is 4,500 ac.



- 19 -
6.03      The cropping pattern above shows a continued heavy dominance by
paddy.  With irrigation greater diversification into such crops as wheat,
groundnuts, cotton, potatoes and vegetables would be possible. Many of
the soils in the project area would be very suitable for irrigated cultiva-
tion of these crops and as East Pakistan's overall output of rice increases,
changes in the market probably would favor their cultivation (Annex 13).
The exact amount and/or timing of this diversification, however, cannot
be forecast at this time. Any such diversification would further improve
the benefits of the project.
Market Prospects
6.04      The increased production made possible with the project would be
essentially for domestic consumption and a major portion of it would be
consumed on farm. Initially some of the output from the project would
replace foodgrains and sugar which currently are imported by East Pakistan.
More than 1 million tons of foodgrains were imported in each of the last 3
years and another 1.1 million tons are required for 1969/70. Given East
Pakistan's rapidly growing population and its present inadequate diet,
marked increases in the requirements of foodgrains and other foodstuffs
are projected over the next several years. The Fourth Five-Year Plan
estimates that about 16.1 million tons of foodgrains, including about 1
million tons of wheat, would be required during 1974/75 (compared with
estimated domestic foodgrain production in 1969/70 of 11.5 million tons,
of which 0.1 million tons is wheat). By 1979/80, requirements would total
around 18.9 million tons just to keep pace with population growth. On the
basis of assumed cropping patterns, foodgrains produced on the 180,000 ac
in the project would constitute only about 2% of 1979/80 requirements.
Farmers' Income from Proiect
6.05      The lack of reliable data regarding actual farm conditions in
the project seriously limits any analysis of farm budgets. On the basis
of the projected increases in the net value of output per cultivated ac,
incremental farm income as a result of the project would be considerable.
The increases would vary greatly, however, with the type of soil and loca-
tion of holdings in the project area. Land of Barind tract soils, at pre-
sent the least developed in the project, is capable of an increase in the
net value of output per ac from about RS 200 at present to RS 1,390 with
the project in the seventh year of operation of the wells. Gains on Tista
floodplain and Ganges/Brahmaputra ridge soils would be less, with incre-
ments of about Rs 790 and Rs 650 per ac, respectively. Annex 14 gives
details of production and costs for each soil type. The table below sum-
marizes the increase in net value of production per cultivated ac which
on average would be expected with the project.



- 20 -
Net Value of Production at Present and
With Proiect at Full Development 1/
With Project at
Present      Full Development   Increment
--R  per cultivated ac -
Gross Value of Produetion          550               1,814            1,264
Farm Production Cos2t8-            188                 530              342
Fuel, lubricants & spares    -                     62               62
Land Tax                        5                              _ _5  _
Net Vaiue of Production            357               1,217              860
1/   Weighted average for project area (180,000 ac).
2/   Excluding farm labor costs & tubewell rental.
6.06      In the table above, output is valued at 1967/68 producer prices
(Annex 13). Farm production costs exclude labor, which presumably would
be family-supplied. "With project" production costs exclude present sub-
sidies on chemical fertilizers and pesticides. Tubewell "rental" would be
increased each year, from an initial Rs 300 per well, to cover at least
the full costs of operation and maintenance (estimated at Rs 2,300) in the
sixth year, and in addition, the average annual cost of replacing pumps and
engines (estimated at Rs 1,700) in the tenth year and thereafter. On a
per acre basis these charges would amount to only Rs 38 in the fifth year,
and Rs 67 in the tenth year. Tubevell rental, together with the tax in-
cluded in diesel fuel, and land taxes, would amount to only 7X in the
seventh year, and 10% in the tenth year, of the incremental income resulting
from the project. This would, however, represent a substantial amount in
absolute terms to the farmers in the project area who have meager cash in-
comes, and a heavy burden of indebtedness built up over many years.
6.07      The average size holding is about 4 ac although both sizes and
distribution vary from district to district (Annex 3). On the basis of
present population estimates, there are about 8.3 persons in the average
farm family. Crop production from an average 4-ac holding in the project
area at present would provide an income, including the value of on-farm
consumption, of about Rs 1,430 annually, or Rs 170 (US$ 36) per capita.
This income is supplemented by sales of orchard and livestock products,
manual labor, and miscellaneous business and services.
6.08      Because of the degree of land fragmentation and the wide disper-
sion of the fragments comprising an average landholding, it is assumed
that the project would irrigate only 2 cc of each holding. At full devel-
opment, after 7 years, the average holding of 2 ac irrigated and 2 ac un-
irrigated would provide an income from crop production of about Rs 3,300



- 21 -
per year. Assuming that population grows 3.25X yearly (with no migration
from farm lands), per capita income from crops would be about Rs 320 (US$67).
This figure, of course, would still be extremely low by world standards.
Agricultural Taxation
6.09      With the small cash incomes and low living standards which
prevail, the agricultural tax base in East Pakistan is limited. At the
present time, the principal direct tax on agriculture in East Pakistan
is land revenue. This tax, collected by the provincial government, gen-
erally averages Rs 3-5 per ac of cultivated land. There is also an agri-
cultural income tax, but since it is levied only on holdings above 30 ac
with farm incomes of more than Rs 4,000 annually, it has very limited
application. Revenues from both taxes are on the whole relatively stagnant
and unresponsive to increases in farm income. There are also minor taxes
on buildings and lands assessed by local bodies. The Government of Pakistan
collects excise duties and taxes on diesel fuel, and machinery, components
and spare parts used by farmers.
VII. BENEFITS AND JUSTIFICATION
7.01      The quantifiable benefit from the project would be substantial
increases in agricultural output, which would allow savings in foreign
exchange, provide higher farm incomes and improve living standards in the
area. The project would enable farmers to expand both their yields and
cropping intensities by providing a greater, more assured supply of water
for irrigation.
7.02      Annual farm production with the project at full development would
be about 3 times present levels. The project would allow the additional
output each year of about 216,000 ig tons of rice (322,000 lg tons of paddy),
and reduce the need for imports by that amount. Such a reduction would mean
an annual saving of some US$ 22 million in foreign exchange.
7.03      In evaluating the project, agricultural produce has been valued
at projected world prices (Annex 13). Over the past 4 years, East Pakistan
has imported Burmese rice at about US$ 123 to US$ 142 and Thai rice (1966/67)
at about US$ 142 to US$ 147 per lg ton CIF Chittagong. 1/ These prices are
expected to decline over the next several years so that a price of about
US$110 per lg ton CIF Chittagong, 2 has been used for project evaluation.
At the "official" rate of exchange (Rs 4.76 - US$ 1.00), this price would be
equivalent to about Rs 520 per lg ton of rice or Rs 350 per lg ton of paddy.
1/ Approximately US$114 to US$134 per m ton FOB Rangoon and US$134 to
US$137 per m ton FOB Bangkok.
2/ Approximately equivalent to US$102 per lg ton (US$100 per m ton) FOB
Rnagoon plus transport.



- 22 -
7.04      The "official" exchange rate, however, does not adequately reflect
the scarcity value of foreign exchange in Pakistan and tends to undervalue
imported items. Under the government's bonus voucher system, which allows
entitlements to "free" foreign exchange to be bought and sold, the effective
rate of exchange has been about twice the "official" rate. At this rate
(Rs 9.52 - US$ 1.00), the projected price for rice (CIF Chittagong) would be
about Rs 1,015 per lg ton and for paddy about Rs 680 per lg ton. For com-
parison, in April 1969 prices at the village level in East Pakistan were
Rs 1,115 per Ig ton of coarse and Rs 1,200 per Ig ton of medium rice.
7.05      The exchange rate of Rs 9.52 - US$ 1.00 has been applied to both
benefits and the foreign costs of investment, production and operation,
maintenance and replacement. In view of the high levels of unemploymnt and
underemployment prevailing in East Pakistan, additional inputs of labor used
in farming in the project are assumed to have no cost to the economy.
7.06      On this basis, the rate of return to the economy stemning from
implementation of this project would be about 32% (Annex 15), with rice
valued at Rs 1,015 per lg ton. If all farm labor is included as a cost
(Rs 3.50 per day) the rate of return would be about 20%.
7.07      The rate of return is very sensitive to the assumptions made with
respect to rice prices. World prices, converted into farm-gate paddy prices,
are projected to drop from about Rs 40 per md to Rs 25 per md. If the price
dropped only to Rs 30 per md, the projected rate of return would be 37%; if
it dropped to Rs 20 per md, 24%. On the basis of the assumed cropping pat-
tern, the rate of return is relatively insensitive to changes in the prices
of other commodities. The sensitivity of the rate of return was also tested
with respect to increases in construction costs, reductions in service area,
and increased length of transition to full production. Taking each assumption
in isolation, the rate of return would be reduced to 26% by a 25% increase in
the cost of project works, to 24% by lengthening the development period to
10 years and to 21% by decreasing the service area to 40 ac.
7.08      The project would also provide major non-quantifiable benefits:
it would lay the groundwork, provide the experience and help develop the
institutional capacities needed to carry out expanded tubewell programs in
East Pakistan in the future. The whole TIP would be materially strength-
ened, EPADC and the Agricultural Department would be upgraded, and agri-
culture in general would benefit from the demonstration effects of using
new crop varieties and improved farming practices.
VIII. RECOMMENDATIONS
8.01      During negotiations, assurances were obtained that:
(a)  EPADC, the Department of Agriculture and consultants would
collaborate in designing distribution systems and guiding
farmers in their construction. The constitution of the



- 23 -
irrigation groups would require that members construct a
distribution system In accordance with this design within
6 months of the completion of the tubewell; if they fail to
do so, EPADC would construct the system at the groups'
expense within a further 6 months (para 4.07);
(b) The Province would disclose to IDA their plans for any
further tubewell construction, and would ensure that the
execution of the project works would not be adversely
affected by any additional program of groundwater develop-
ment (para 5.07);
(c) within 6 months, the Province would submit, for review by
the Association, an agricultural Program (para 5.13), and
a training program for project staff (para 5.14); and
(d) the Province would collect "rental" charges from irrigation
groups on a scale rising from Rs 300 in the first year to a
level sufficient to ensure recovery (i) by the sixth year
and thereafter, of at least the full annual cost of operation
and maintenance, and (ii) by the tenth year and thereafter,
the additional amount of the average annual cost of replace-
ment of pumps and engines; and will also recover as much as
is practicable of the capital cost of the project, pursuant
to a study of farm family incomes and conditions in the
project area to be carried out by the project consultants
(para 5.22).
8.02      Conditions of effectiveness of the IDA credit would be that:
(a) the SIDA and CIDA Credit Agreements had been executed and
delivered (para 4.18);
(b) the Province had established and made initial payments
into the Construction and Agricultural Revolving Funds
(para 4.28);
(c) the Tubewells Division of EPADC had been enlarged and re-
organized, and that an appropriately qualified Senior
Officer had been appointed to direct project construction
activities (para 5.09);
(d) an appropriately qualified Senior Officer had been
appointed to direct agricultural development activities
in the project area (para 5.10); and
(e) engineering and agricultural consultants had been
appointed under agreed terms of reference (para 5.08 and
5.10).
8.03      The proposed project constitutes a suitable basis for an IDA credit
of US$14 million.






ANNEX 1
EAST PAKISTAN
TUBEWELLS PROJECT
The Thana Irrigation Programme
1.        The Manual on Thana Irrigation Programme, published by the Basic
Democracies and Local Government Department of the Government of East Paki-
sta.n states the program's objective as follows:
The lony'-range objective of the Irriga.tion programme of
East Pakistan is to provide irrigation to every farm plot
in the province where this can be supplied at an economic
cost.... Where surface water is not available, underground
water will be tapped by tubewells, or larger projects will
be constructed by EPWAPDA to bring water to the area.
The strategy is to utilize the easiest and least costly
sources of water first to get the quickest possible return
on investment through increased production. The more
complex and expensive projects will come later, after the
econony has improved through the first increase in production.
2.        Under the program, farmers are organized into self-managed groups
for opera.tion, maintenance, and financial matters related to diverting and
distributing irrigation water to units of about 50-100 a.c. The program also
provides a framework for coordination of the activities of the many govern-
mental agencies.
Program Responsibilities
3.        Responsibilities of the organizations involved are a.s follows:
(a)  Union Council and Ward and Loca.l Agricultural Committee
(1) organize irrigation groups;
(2) provide union council members to serve as ex-officio
chairmen of irrigation groups; and
(3) map the ward and union for irrigation potential.
(b)  Irrigation Group
(1) organize the distribution of irrigation water;
(2) exca-vate field channels; and
(3) collect charges from individual farmers and pay
to the Thana Council.



ANNEX 1
Page  2
(c) Thana Council
(1)  give technical and mechanical support;
(2) construct housing, workshops and offices for the
Thana Training and Development Centre (TTDC);
(3)  organize services and supplies;
(4) collect charges from irrigation groups and deposit
them in the Thana Irrigation Fund;
(5) pay for services of EPADC and EPWAPDA; and
(6)  map the irrigation potential of the thana.
(d) EPADC
(1) provide a Thana Irrigation Officer to assist the
Thana Council with irriga.tion development;
(2)  give technical and managerial training to managing
committees, managers and drivers;
(3) provide tubewells (where a large number are not
required in a concentrated area);
(4) provide mechanics and ma.intenance supplies;
(5) provide or arrange for supplies of fuel, fertilizer
and pesticides; and
(6) accept payment from Thana Irrigation Fund for tube-
well operation.
(e) EPNAPDA
(1) examine the thana irrigation maps and give suggestions
f or improvement;
(2) provide water, where appropriate, through concentrated
groups of tubewells;
(3) provide electric power for tubewells, where appropriate;
(4) operate highly technical facilities such as power-
houses, large regulators and big pumps; and
(5) accept payment for services from Thana Irrigation Fund.
(f) Agriculture Directorate
(1) give training at the TTDC and union on irrigation, seeds
and plant protection;



ANNEX 1
Page 3
(2) supply technical assistance in organizing irrigation
groups;
(3) provide field supervision and assistance through the
Union Agricultural Assistants;
(h) provide pesticides to the irrigation groups; and
(5) furnish means to control insects and plant diseases
where beyond capabilities of irrigation groups.
(g)  Pakistan Academy for Rural Development, Comilla
(1)  assist in the preparation of training materials, and
(2) conduct courses in training methods and, at the request
of departments and agencies, in technical subjects.
(h) District Approving AuthorityI/
(1) ensure that procedures have been correctly followed, and
(2) settle problems between thanas, particularly on water
allocations.
Irrigation Groups
L.        Each irrigation group is registered a.s a cooperative society.  It
elects 3 members, who together with a. Union Council member as ex-officio
chairman and the group's manager, form the management committee.  The com-
mittee is responsible for the operation of the irrigation system and the
business transactions of the cooperative, including the collection of water
charges from each individual member, on the basis of acreage irrigated. It
appoints the manager and the tubewell operator.  The manager organizes the
distribution of irrigation water, acts as the main contact between the co-
operative and the TTDC for supplies, services and technical information and
handles the group's finanial transactions and its bookkeeping.  The com-
mittee also selects a "model farmer," approved by the irrigation group, to
receive specia.l training and be a focal point for agricultural development
in the tubewell command.
5.        Training is given at TTDC'a by the TIP departmental officers in
once-weekly classes to:
(a) managers of irrigation groups and
(b) tubewell operators.
Managers are trained in:
(a) the organizationi of the irrigation system;
1/ District officers of the Agricultural Department, EPADC and Basic
Democracies and Local Government Department, headed by the Deputy
Commissioner.



ANNEX 1
Page h
(b) the purchase and supply of fuel and fertilizers;
(c) how to obtain plant protection materials and the services
of the plant protection staff;
(d) the handling of the group's financial transactions;
(e) the supervision of the tubewell operator's work; and
(f) the maintenance of the group's accounts and records.
Model farmers are trained in agricultural matters and in how to transmit
their knowledge to other farmiers in the group. The management committee is
trained at 2 conferences each year at the TTDC in its role of policy-making,
settlement of disputes and support of the manager. Tubewell operators are
trained by EPADC.
6.         In the Comilla district, a Central Cooperative Association has
been organized which provides services and supplies to the cooperatives.
The association also provides for equipment repair, supervises well operation,
meets the credit requirements of cooperatives and organizes training for
operators. At present, elsewhere in the TIP, the Thana Council is the
supporting institution for the cooperatives, calling upon the knowledge and
experience of EPADC and the Departnent of Agriculture and using the facilities
of the TTDC. It is probable, however, that central cooperative associations
will eventually be set up to serve the cooperative societies in the districts
covered by the project. Such central cooperative associations could be
expected to take over from EPADC its supply and services functions once they
have gained sufficient experience.



ANNEX 2
EAST PAKISTAN
TUBEWELLS PROJECT
Soils, Topography and Climate
Soils and Topography
1.        A comprehensive reconnaissance soil and land classification survey
of East Pakistan has recently been completed by the Soil Survey of Pakistan
assisted by a United Nations Development Programme/Special Fund (UNDP/SF)
soil survey project.
2.        The province has been classified into land development units which
provide a basis for agricultural development policy' decisions. Special at-
tention has been paid to identifying areas with high priority for ground-
water development.
3.        At the time of preparing this appraisal report, the survey maps
and accompanying text were In the process of being printed. -They would,
therefore, be available to the project for use in delineating the priority
groundwater development areas, and preliminary (office) siting of the project
wells.
4.        Three principal soil areas identified as having high priority are:
(a) The Barind Tract
This is mainly level or very gently sloping terrain,
composed of grey terrace soils with an impervious
plough pan, and a slowly permeable substratum. They
are seasonally shallowly flooded by rainwater within
field bunds but are very droughty in the dry season.
These soils occur principally in the Rajshahi and Bogra
districts and to a limited extent in the southern parts
of Dinajpur and Rangpur.
(b) Tista Floo2plain
Broad, high floodplain ridges and almost level lower areas,
with locally irregular relief in the extreme north and a-long
river channels.  Brown, loamy soils occupy about 25% on
ridges. Grey silty and mainly silty soils on lower areas.
Brown ridge soils mainly overlie sand at 1 to 3 feet,
while the grey soils mainly have a plough pan impeding
vertical drainage. The ridge soils dry out during the winter,
especially where shallow over sand. The grey and dark grey
soils normally remain moist during the dry season. These
soils are mainly in the north of the project area.
For simplicity the classification includes an area to the
west, more correctly described as the southern part of the
Himalayan piedmont plain, whose soils and topography are
similar to those of the Tista floodplain.



ANNEX 2
(c)  Ganges/Brahmaputra Ridge
Mainly smooth, broad floodplain ridges. Mainly deep, well-
drained and permeable loamy soils which dry out during winter.
These soils occur in the project area pr:ncipally in the
southern parts of Rajshahi and Pabna districts and in northern
Mymensingh.
5.        The approximate distribution of these soils over the project area
is presented in the following table:
Distribution
Priority       Barlnd      Tista       Ganges/Brahmaputra
District      Area          Tra.ct    Floodpla.in          Ridge
sq mi         ----------------sqmi------
Dinajpur           84o          230         t10
Rangpur         1,884           144       1,740
Bogra              800           500        300                _
Rajshahi           992           434         96               462
Pabna              264            45         59               160
Mymensingh         978            -          -                978
5,758        1,353       2,805             1,600
Climate
6.        The climate of East Pakistan is described almost entirely by the
rainfall statistics. Temperatures are high enough for agricultura.l produc-
tion year-round, frost is virtually unknown except in the hill tracts, and
wind poses no particular problems. From an agricultural production perspec-
tive the critical aspect of climate in East Pakistan is the rainfall. Its
seasonality dictates every agricultural decision and its high variability
makes cropping decisions extremely difficult in the absence of irrigation.
Rainfall data are given on page 3 of this Annex.



ANNEX 2
Page 3
MEAN AND EXTREM2E MONTHiLY AND AINNUAL ILAINFALL
i;&ii'al:l, inchies, at indicated station
Xonthi                        itangpur    Bogra      t'abna    lnensingh
Jan           Mean             o.4o        0.41      0.38         0.34
Max              3.91       4.45      3.30          2.92
Min                 0          0         0             0
1F'eb         Mean             o.64        0.81      0.77          0.72
Mlax             3.14       38.6      4.22          3.65
ltE n              0          0         0             0
Mar            Mean            100        1.15      1.7i          1.81
Kax              4.42       4e68    16.20           6.23
Min                 0           0        0             0
Apr           Mlocan            3e35       2.43      2.33          5.49
Max             11.92      12.02      9.70         15-56
Main                0           0        0          0.20
May            Mean            11.61        7.95     7.07         1186
Max             31.58      15e07    24.60          22.50
Min              3.62       0.10      2.64          0.04
Jun           Mean            19.96       13.13    11.45          18625
lMax            45-13      33°49    24.59          35,64
Mln              6.45        2.50     3.39          5,63
J-ul          Mean            16.28       12050    10.53          14.63
Max             33.96      21-79    22.20          42.60
Ri n             4.11        4.69     3.10          3,52
Ilug          Mean            13.54       13.41    10.35          15.6o
Mlax            27.83       33.01    19o74         33.59
.   Min          3.28        2,63     3.31          4.30
je)p           [loan           12.71      10.95      8. 2         13.90
Max             28.74       30o84    22.53         25,74
Plb-ri           1.43       1.56          1.5       3.70
OcL.          fltan             6.76        6.33      o ,73        6.3o
Alax            26e29       24-95    36."1i        24.30
Rin                 0           0     0.09          0.20
NoV           Oi.:a             0O.9 0.62            061           0,61
Max              4.23        368(     3.51          5. 74
Min                 0           0        0             0
LkXlC                          0 o.o6      0.09      0.12          0.11
Max.             o.96        1.52     1L31          1.16
Ain                 0           0        0             0
Annual         Mean            85,39      69,  85    6o042        90o38
Max            120,20     100.31    99.50         128365
iLin            53.22 '6 44.67    .4154            51.42






ANNEX 3
EAST PAKISTAN
TUBEWELLS PROJECT
Farm Sizes Fragmentation and Land Tenure
Farm Sizes
1/
1.        The average farm size, in the 6 districts in which project tube-
wells would be drilled, is 4.3 ac (Tables 1-3).  Inthese districts, 4.7%
of farms (1.4% of the land area.) are smaller than 1 ac and 84% (6o.4% of the
land area) are smaller than 7.5.ac.  Less than 1% of farms (3.5% of the land
area) are larger than 25 ac.
2.        On the whole, the project would irrigate the bigger farms, whose
owners would have larger resources, greater entrepreneuria.l capacity and
higher standing in the community than the smaller farmers. They would there-
fore tend to take the initiative in forming the irrigation groups and make
up a high proportion of their membership, especially in this initial project.
Fragmentation
3.        Fragmentation of land-holdings, which is common throughout East
Pakistan, is particularly pronounced in 5 of the 6 districts, (Tables 4 and
5) where up to 99% of the land area is in fragmented holdings, and up to 47%
of the farms are composed of 10 or more fragments. Under the conditions of
seasonal rainfall and flooding which prevail in East Pakistan, it is tradi-
tionally advantageous for a farmer to possess land at different elevations,
because it spreads his risk of crop loss and gives him some flexibility of
cropping. Since the project would be confined to lands at higher elevations
where the flooding hazard is minimized and, by providing irrigation, would
remove the risk of crop failure by drought, these traditional advantages of
fragmented holdings would not apply in the same degree as to rainfed lands
at lower elevations. By lifting some of the restrictions which perpetuate
fragmentation, therefore, the project would have a beneficial tendency to
encourage the unification of land-holdings. It is not to be expected, how-
ever, that the project could act as a. vehicle for immediate land fragmenta-
tion reform, given the conservatism of the farmers and the prevailing land
hunger.
4.        The average farm in the project area being composed of a large
number of discrete parcels of land, widely separated one from another, it
follows that a tubewell could rarely irrigate the whole of a farm.  It is
assumed that the average tubewell irrigation group would comprise 30 far-
mers, ea.ch of whom would have part of his farm irrigated by the tubewell.
The total area irrigated being 60 ac per tubewell, the part of each far-
mer's holding irrigated from the tubewell would average 2 ac.
Land Tenure
5.        In the 6 districts, 52% of the farms are owner-occupied; a further
45% are partly owned and partly leased. Only 3% of farms a.re wholly leased
(Tables 6 and 7). Many of the smallest holdings are rented out or else pro-
vide only part-time occupation for their owners.
1/ Following appraisal, a new district, 'rangaiJ, was fonred within what were
previously the boundaries of Mymensingh.



ANNEX 3
Page 2
Table 1
Average Farm Sizes
District                 Averm  Fam Size
(ac)
Dinajpur                            5.5
Rangpur                             4.O
Bogra.                              3.9
Rajshahi                            5.0
Pabna                               3.9
Mymensingh                          3.5
East Pakistan                       3.5
Table 2
Number of Farms, Clawsified by Size
Percenta=e of Farms
Farm Size     Dinaj - Rang-       Wn.-          yMsWn-   East
(ac)        pur    pur   Bogra shahi Pabna singh  Pakistan
Under 0.5         2      5     5      7    15    11        13
0.5-1.0           3      8     7      7     8    10        11
1.0-2.5         17      29    31    20    24    29         27
2.5-5.0         35      33    33    29    27    29         26
5.0-7.5          21     14    13    17    13    11         12
7.5-12.5         1.4     8     8    13      9      7        7
12.5-25.0        7       3     3      6     4      3        3
25.0-40.0         1      *     *      1     *     *         *
40.0 & over      *       *     *      *     *      *        *
Number of
Farms (1000)   221    497   195   366   224   932    6,139
*Iess than 0.5%
Source: 1960 Pakistan Census of Agriculture, Vol. I



ANNEX 3
Page 3
Table 3
Total krea Under Cultivation, Classified by Farm Size
Percentae of Total Cultivated Area.
Farm Size      Dinaj-  Rang-          Raj-           Mymen-    East
(ac)       pr       pur    Bogra  shahi  Pabna  singh   Pakistan
Under o.5          *       *      *       *      1        1         3
0.5-1.0            *        1     1        1     2        2         2
1.0-2.5            5      13    14        7    10       14         13
2.5-5.0           23      29    31       21    24       30         26
5.0-7.5           23      20    20       21    20       20         19
7.5-12.5          23      19    19       24    21       18         19
12.5-25.0         20      13    11       21    17       12         14
25.0-40.0          4       3      2       4      4        2         3
h0.0 & over        2       1      1       1      1        1         2
Total Area
('000 ac)     1,225   1,993   751   1,847   876   3,219    21,726
*Less than 0.5%
Source: 1960 Pakistan Census of Agriculture, Vol. I
Table 4
Fragmentation of Holdings; Percentage of Farms Fragmented
Percentage of Farms Fragmented
Number of Fragments              Not
District         2-3   4      6-9   10 and over    Fragmented       Total
Diriajpur           14    18    25         34               9           100
Rangpur             21    20    24         28               7          100
Bogra               12    14    24        47                3           100
Rajshahi            14    15    23        42                6           100
Pabna               14    12    21        40               13           100
Mymensingh          20    18    26         26              10           100
East Pakistan       21    17    23         29              10           100
Source:  1960 Pakistan Census of Agriculture, Vol. I



ANNEX 3
Fig-e 4i
Table 5
Fragmentation of Holdings; Percentge of Total Area FragAmnted
District                 Perre7tare of Thtal Area
Fragmnted          Not Pragwnted
Dinapur                  93                     7
Rangpur                  96                     4
Bogra                    99                     1
Rajshahi                 98                     2
Pabna                    97                     3
Mymensingh               97                     3
East Pakistan            96                     4
Source: 1960 Pakistan Census of Agriculture, Vol I
Table 6
Farms Classified   w   are
Owner    Owner-cu-        Tenant
District       Farms     Teumt Farm        iarrnsL/
'000  %       W     T       t
Dinajpur          93  142     no     50       18  8
Rangpur          287  58     192     39       18  3
Bogra            110  56      78      40       7  14
Rajshahi         157  143    203     55        6  2
Pabna            U16  52     106     47        2  1
Mymensingh       513  55      407    14       12  1
East Pakistan  3,731  61   2,308      37     100  2
1/ Owner - a farmer who owns his farm; tenant - a farmer who operates land
b`eonging to others and pays either ?  N    rent in cash or kind or a share
of the produce; owner-cum-tenant - a farmer who is part owner and part
tenant.
Source: 1960 Pakistan Census of Agriealtare, Vol. I.



ANNEX 3
Page 5
Table 7
Total Area of Farms, Classified by Tenure
Owner-cum-          Tenant
District          Owner Farms      Tenant Farms        Farms
000 ac            '00ac    %        '000ac   %
Dinajpur             612    50         556    45         57      5
Rangpur            1,214    61         735    37         44      2
Bogra                439    58         298    40         13      2
Rajshahi             684    37       1,146    62         17      1
Pabna                356    h1         516    59           3     *
Mymensingh         1,677    52       1,519    47          22     1
East Pakistan    11,654    54        9,830    45         242     1
*Less than 0.5%
Source: 1960 Pakistan Census of Agriculture, Vol. I






ANNEx 4
EAST PAKISTAN
TUBEWELLS PROJECT
Cropping Patterns, Yields and Production
Cropping Patterns
1.        Rice is at present, and would remain, the most important crop.
It is grown in all 3 growing seasons. Many different varieties are used, the
main groups being:
Aus - short-season varieties grown in early kharif, (rainy season)
sown in March/April and harvested in June/July.
Aman - long-season, late-kharif varieties sown in March/
April and harvested in November/December. Some are
floating rices capable of surviving in a. great depth
of water.
Boro - varieties, often Aus types, grown in rabi (dry season)
under irrigation.
Both Aus and Aman varieties may' be grown fran broadcast seed (B. Aus or B.
Aman) or transplanted (T. Aus or T. Aman), the latter giving higher yields.
2.        There are 3 main cropping patterns in the project area, determined
by the 3 land classes described in Annex 2:
(a)  The Barind tract grows only one crop at present - transplanted
aman in the late kharif season.  Because its relatively high
relief prevents its being flooded in most years, it suffers
from drought in the dry season and no crops are grown then.
Irrigation would permit early planting of a transplanted
boro crop, followed by a transplanted aman crop.
(b)  On the Tista floodplain, the present pattern is broadcast
aus, followed by transplanted aman. Irrigation would make
transplanted aus possible, as well as transplanted aman.
(c)  The Ganges/Brahmautra ridge soils grow broadcast aus, sugar-
cane and avariety of kharif crops, mainly mustard. With
irrigation, they could produce a higher quality of sugarcane,
wheat, kharif and rabi vegetables, groundnuts and other oil-
seeds, tobacco and cotton.
3.        The 2 main changes which would be brought about by the project would
therefore be, firstly, substitution of transplanted for broadcast rice and,
secondly, an increase in rabi cropping.  Irrigation waild also provide an
assurance of adequate water supplies, now lacking, which would encourage the
farmer to invest in improved seeds and other inputs. The project therefore
assumes a change from local rice varieties to IRRI varieties. It is also
assumed that these IRRI varieties would be of the high quality of the latest
releases by the East Pakistan Rice Research Institute and so would be at least
eouivalent in market value to local varieties.
Yields and Production
h.        Present and expected tields and production for each major cropping
pattern are shown on page 2 of  his Annex.



LAST PAKISTA
TUSWEWLLS PRWIO)CT
Prosent and Future Crmpping Patterns, Ytelds and Productlon
P A DS Y  tN                                                 F u T  E a 5
Area    Yte1d.2/    ProduotioiW                 Without Project              VWl Prot ecth, Atd NptI/
Area    Yt.ld:/  Proucti..11  Irrsem              Produc tton       %ra      Yi't d F' Produmeion
('000 cd)  (mI/ac)    ('000 le ton)       ('000 ac)   (md/c)   ('000 lg ton)   ('0(0 mc)  (md/ac)  ('OOO le ton)
1.  WIAVIID TRACT (48,ooo *e)
Lat a rhartf
T. Aman                      48.o   15               26.4             48.0       16.S          29.1            -
1'. Aman (ILB)                                                                                  -48.0                     40          70.5
B.,o (IRRI)                   _- _                                                              .4                         0s         88.1
Suo-total              48.0                    26.4             48.0                     29.1           96.0                   158.6
;!- ', OODIOLAIN (87,000 ae)
,'Iy Khartf
S. A s                       87.0   16               51.0             87.0       201/          63.9            -
1. Aau (IRRI)                 .                       .                                         .             87.0        45         143.7
Late tharif
T. Aman                      87.0   15               47.9             87.o       16.5          52.7            -
T. Aman (IRRI)                 -                                                                                          4 -  87.0  40 1
Sub-total             174.0                    98.9            174.0                    LW6.6          174.0                   271.,
3.  kt4SS/F%AM0APJTRA RIIDOS (45,000 m)
Yesr-round
sugvrcane                    41.5/ 350               57.8              4i.5W    400            66.1            4.S5W    1,200        198.2
&,-ly lhartf
. Aus                       140.5   16               23.8             40.5      202/           29.8            ,                      _
P. Aus (IRRt)                 .                                        -                        -             40.5        30         44.6
,ustard                      22.5     4.7             3.9             22.5        6             5.0            -
Waeat                                                 -                -                        - _40                      0
Sub-total              72.0                    855              72.0                    100.9 S         SO                    30223
TOTAL                               294.0                   210.8            294.0                     286.6         360.0                   732.3
P R S   I Nr                                                     F U T UI R 
WiUlout Project                 gith Project. At Nil Deve1ope
Ara                  rea                                                          Areaa
('000 as)                               ('000 *e)                                 ('OiG,a-)
.DTIL CROPPED ARSA
E.rly Kharif                                 127.5                                   127.5                                     127.5
Lltoe Kh-rr                                  135.0                                   135.0                                     135.0
NRlox                                         22.5                                    22.5                                      88.5
Year-round                                     S.OV                                   22.5                                        S.O/
TOTAL                       29*.0                                    294.0                                     360.0
XI" r ' 'p 1V4 F.D LASD ABSA                  180                                      180                                       180
CZIM'.1.; T-'NS1T (T )                         163                                     163                                       200
1/ I"uU atelts are attained 7 years after introduction ot irrigation.
- I aund * 82.3 lbs - 0.037 lg tons; 1 li ton * 27.2 mamdq.
Il,T A. R Aus without irrigation or tertilltora.
:/ i ce 31igArrui is a year-rlound crop, thb  area 1., moonted teico in ti,e totat. nrea   cro,ped.



ANNEX 5
EAST PAKISTAN
TUBEWELLS PROJECT
Project Works, Description and Design Considerations
A. Tubewells
Introduction
1.        The tubewells a.re described in general terms in the text of the
report. Because the costs of a. project of this nature are highly sensi-
tive to design decisions, it was necessary for the Association to make,
during the appraisal process, an analysis which led to the selection of a
well design from which the cost of the project ha,s been estimated.
Aquifer Conditions
2.        Medium to coarse micaceous sands of pleistocene or tertia.ry
origin, with depths varying from 200-400 ft, are found in somewha.t more
than 98% of all wells constructed to date in the alluvial formations of East
Pakista.n. These sands are surprisingly similar to those encountered in the
Indus Basin of West Pakistan but, with a. mean diameter of approximately 0.5 mm,
they are almost twice as coarse. The implica.tion is that East Pakistan has,
in general, better aquifers than those of West Pakistan, which have heretofore
been considered among the best in the world. In contrast to the Indus allu-
vium, there is little evidence of clay layering and, over widespread areas,
the aquifer appears to be continuous throughout its depth. This depth, though
not known precisely, could be considerable in this region of the Himalayan
foredeep.
3.        The values used in the analysis stem from findings in nearly 1,000
wells which ha.ve been constructed throughout East Pakistan to date. In view
of the dispersed and random nature of the siting of EPADC wells it is clear that
they represent the general picture in East Pakistan. It is therefore con-
cluded that there is sufficient statistical evidence to support the existence
of an extensive, transmissive aquifer in the plains area.
Principles of Economic Well Design
L.        In a virtually unlimited aquifer, the capital cost of a well in-
creases with depth but increased depth reduces the drawdown in the well and
hence the height through which wa.ter must be pumped. Since this height
directly affects pumping costs, we have a situation where increasing the depth
simultaneously increases capital costs while reducing operating costs.  Clearly
there is some point where the well depth is optimum, i.e., a point of mini-
mum cost. This point may be established using the criterion of total present
value (PVTOTAL) obtained by adding the discounted operating cost to the capital
cost.



ANNEX 5
Page 2
Cost Analysis
5.        For the purpose of examining these questions, a general cost equation
may be developed, retaining as many variables as possible so that the effects
of various assumptions can be readily tested. Certain items in the capital
cost of a well can be regarded as constant, others as varying with the depth
of well or the discharge. For this analysis the unit prices are taken as
constant. All of the symbols used are illustrated in Figure 1 (page 7 of
this Annex) which shows a typical tubewell layout. The following table
gives the capital costs of constructing this well, in terms of both
constant and variable elements:
1/
Well Capital Cost-for Economic Comparison
Cost (rupees)
Item         Description              Constant           Variable
1        Move in and out             4,5oo
2        Drilling                                         h7D
3        Fixtures                                         12D
4I      (a) Screen                                       55L
(b) Centralize, etc.         250
(c) Blind pipe-1           1,000
(d) Pump housing                                75H
(e) Gravel pack              300                15L
(f) Reducer                  500
5        Install pump & engine       1)000
6        Develop and test wel        2,000
7        Pumphouse etc.             4,5(0
8        Engine                      6,000
9        Pump                        1,000          75h(.15Q+.7)
10        Spares                      2,500
6.        The design parameter to which the costs of the well are most
sensitive is the length of the well screen.  This is not only because the
screen material itself is expensive, but because costs of other items
such as drilling, gravel packing, pump and pumphousing are directly related
to the length of screen, and also because a high proportion of the other
items in the total cost equation are relatively constant over the probable
range ox design decisions.  The magnitude of the cost effect involved may
1/ Excluding taxes and duties and assuming foreign exchange is valued
at the official rate.
2/ Blind pipe assumed to be 20 ft long.



ANNEX 5
Page 3
be judged from the following example: If the decision were arbitrarily
made to install 300-ft wells with 200 ft of screen, instead of 160-ft
wells with 80 ft of screen, it would increase the cost of each well by
32%, and the cost of the 3,000-well project by US$ 6.8 million.
7.        Combining the empirical relationships which exist between the
physical characteristics of the well, the various elements of capital cost,
and the present value of future operating costss makes it possible to
derive an equation for the most economical length of well screen as follows:
L  | PQ   (233.12 + h.1Q  + 0.0275 Qtf)
129
in which
L - the screen length of the most economic well
P - a permeability factor
Q - discharge (cuse¢s)
t n hourn of operation per year
f - diecount factor for future operating costs
8.        Expected valuea of the various parameters in the equation above
are: P = 510, Q w 2.0, t - 1,200, and f - 8.5. Substituting these into
the equation givee a value for L of 80.6 ft. The variations of capital
and operating costs associated with changes in L, within the range of
possible design decisions, are illustrated in Figure 2 (page 8 of this Annex).
It appears that, in the vicinity of the minimum, the total present cost is
remarkably insensitive to changes in screen length. A departure of 30 ft
(40%) from the optimum length changes the total present cost by less than 2%.
A rough general rule on screen length arises; that the optimum (under the
price structure on which this analysis is based) is about 40 ft per cusec
of capacity. It is interesting to note that this figure was adopted for
public tubewell projects in West Pakistan.
9.        It is of interest to note further, that though there is very
little change in PVTOTAL, a departure from the minimum cost does effect the
comparative capital and operating cost. A choice of two policies presents
itself. The first possibility is, deliberately, to choose leas than the
optimum well depth and thereby save capital, although this means expending
more on operating costs. Alternatively, one may save on running costs
and expend more on capital. The decision is important in that the government
pays the capital cost and the farmer the running cost. In either case the
return to the economy, as represented by PVTOTAL is virtually unchanged.
10.       Further testing indicates that the optimum screen length is
relatively insensitive to variations in P, t and f. Changing Q does, however,
have a significant effect. With costs translated into Rs/ac-ft a reduction
from Rs 30.55 to 21.10 is indicated, for a discharge increase from 2 to
4 cusecs. The derived relationship between cost and discharge is plotted
as Figure 3 (page 9 of this Annex). The results illustrate the general



ANNEX (
Page I
proposition that increased capacity means better economy, but the analysis
W.ciLid require certain modifications in order to nrpresent a real comparison.
For instance, the screen diameter has been kept constant througout when
it should be reduced at the lower discharges and should be irncreased at the
upper values.  Another, and undoubtedly more important, factor is the fact
that the farmers cannot easily handle 4 cusecs without a properly constructed
distribution system. In contrast, they can, and do, handle and distribute
2 cusecs.  The general conclusion here is that although there are apparent
cost reductions in adopting larger capacity wells, there would be real dangers
that such wells would be considerably underutilized.  However, the future
trend should perhaps be towards larger wells.  For this reason, a number of
wells larger than 2 cusecs would be installed under the present project,
in locations where proper distribution systems could also be constructed and
properly monitored.
Description of Project Wells
11.       Although a small number of improved distribution systems and
wells larger than 2 cusecs are included in the project for testing and demon-
stration purposes, the principal works of this project are 3,000 2-cusec
wells. On the basis of the analysis described above, it was determined that
tne most economic design for a 2-cusec well in the project area would have
about 80 ft of screen, and the top of the pump would be set at 30 ft in a
h0-ft pump housing. This, however, is based on a groundwater surface at
12 ft. In order to allow for declining water tables in the future, oI- in-
ci-eased drawdown, it was deemed prudent to select instead a pump set at 50 ft
in a 60-ft pump housing.
12.       Deep-well turbines were selected in preference to centrifugal pumps
because of their much greater operational flexibility, and resulting overall
economy. A centrifugal pump imposes a constraint on drawdown which makes
it impossible to take advantage of the economies in well construction obtained
by trading off future operation costs against present construction costs.  It
therefore results in an installation of significantly greater total present
cost. (There are, of course, many areas in which thie use of centrifugal pumps
is not possible because of excessive seasonal drawdown, and these areas will
increase in future in direct proportion to the scale of the overall groundwater
development program.)
13.       To obtain as much information as possible from the wells for future
groundwater development planning, the design of all wells will include provisions
to measure the depth to groundwater under both static and pumping conditins.
1.       The material to be used for the screen has been the subject of
sJme debate; the loan application report compares brass, which is used
at present, and resin-bonded fiberglass, which is now used in all public
projects in West Pakistan. The unit costs presented for 6 in dia wellscreen
are Rs 50 per ft for brass and Rs 26 for fiberglass (excluding duties), but



ANNEX 5
Page 5
the comparison would be even more favorable to fiberglass if the two were
compared using an equivalent specification for each. For example, brass
screen of 0.125 in thickness is compared with fiberglass of 0.20 in thickness.
The strength of fiberglass is no less than that of brass, and comparable
thicknesses should be used. Another important consideration is that the current
price for brass is based on local manufacture which, at present, relies on
scrap brass for raw material. The large program of well construction envisaged
in this project would rapidly exhaust scrap resources and brass sheet would
have to be imported. (In fact, some brass sheet is already imported).
This would raise the initial price of brass screens above that of fiberglass.
A further advantage of fiberglass is its lower weight, a particularly important
consideration in East Pakistan, where transportation is so difficult that
material transportation costs would be a major element in any foreign con-
tractor's bid price. After project submission and appraisal, the possibility
of using PVC for wellscreens and casings was re'sed. -As experience with this
material in well construction is limited to a single example in West Pakistan,
and technical specialists consulted have considerable reservations regarding
the ability of PVC to meet vigorous testing, it was decided to use PVC in a
number of trial wells and only then if the project consultants were satisfied
that there was a real prospect of using this material in future stages.
15.       The considerations set forth above led to the selection of the
following design for the project wells:
Total depth                         160 ft
Drilling diameter                    20 ft
Pump housing (14 in dia)             60 ft
Blind pipe   ( 8 in dia)             20 ft
Well screen  ( 8 in dia)             80 ft
Pump - deep-well turbine
Ehgine - 20-hp Diesel
Selection of Priority Areas
16.       The project area was reduced from that proposed in the loan
application report, in order to concentrate the wells, to ease contract
administration and to facilitate a relatively intensive agricultural
development effort.
17.       Each thana within the project area was examined and the preliminary
area suitable for wells estimated, in consultation with Dr. H. Bramnmer of
the Soil Survey of Pakistan. The fractional areas shown in the tablus
which follow are preliminary and would be reassessed, using detailed maps,
during the process of selecting well sites. Certain thanas have been
omitted because, on present information, there is no land suitable for develop-
ment because of deep flooding, unsuitable soils or unfavorable topography
or geological conditions. The attaehed tables show the details, and the
approximate number of well sites involved. (Pages 10-12 of this Annex).



ANNEX 5
Page 6
EPADC Contract Procedure
18.       The specifica.tion used at present by EPADC ignores some of the
precepts set out above in the section on design considerations. One of
the principal reasons for this is the EPADC method of letting contracts.
In the pa.st they have insisted on the contractor being responsi.ble for pro-
ducing a well with a specified discharge using a predetermined size of pump
and engine. In order to make sure that this is achieved, the contractor in-
stalls as much screen as possible and thus constructs the most expensive
well that he can persuade EPADC to accept.  In some cases such wells are twice
as deep as they need to be. Contracts let in this way are common in the
United States where single wells are constructed for domestic or industrial
use and the only groundwater knowledge is that of the contractor who has
local experience. They are very unsatisfactory and uneconomic for widespread
development of groundwa.ter such as is proposed in East Pakistan. The
West Pakistan practice should certa.inly be adopted and EPADC should specify
the length of screen to install in wells and the kind of material that is
to be regarded as a suitable aquifer.  With this specification, the yield
of the well should be predictable with a. high degree of accuracy, but in any
case, EPADC should accept responsibility for the design and the resulting
discharge, unless the well construction can be shown to be faulty.
B. Other Project Works
Field Channel Distribution Systems
19.       Under the TIP, farmers ccnstruct their own field channels.  In the
past, water from TIP tubewells has often not been distributed efficiently due
to farmers' inability to overcome technical and organizational constraints
without outside assistance. The problems that have to be confronted include,
amongst other difficulties, the disinclination of some landowners to permit
construction of field channels across small-sized but high-valued parcels of
land, irregular micro-topography in old rice paddies where fields have been
leveled and bunded for rainfed cultivation, and the reluctance of some farmers
within the service area of a, well to join the cooperative group. None of these
problems is insurmountable but effective solutions can be found only if tech-
nically sound planning is carried out and the members of a group can be con-
vinced of the advantages of having a. field channel system.  To provide the
services that are needed, EPADC would design in the field, under the guidance
of its consultants, a. distribution system for each well which would be ac-
ceptable to the group; then the Department of Agriculture, together with the
loca.l ERADC TIP irrigation officer and the Thana Council, would advise the
members how to construct it to the agreed design.
20.       To ensure that all local problems ha.d been overcome before a well
were drilled or, alternatively, if they ha.d proved to be insoluble, to pre-
vent a.well being drilled in any site where indications were unfavorable to
the construction of a satisfactory distribution system, it would be a prior condi-
tion to the drilling of any well that the irrigation group had undertaken
to construct its field channel system within 6 months of the well's completion
and had also agreed that, if they did not do so, EPADC should construct it at
farmers' expense.



ANNEX 5
Page 7
Field Trial Farms
21.       A field trial farm of about 50 ac would be set up on an easily
accessible site on each of the 3 main land classes included in the project
area, i.e., Barind tract, Tista. floodplain and Ganges/Brahmaputra ridge.
Each farm would be irrigated by a. tubewell to be installed under the project.
At least part of its irrigation distribution system, which would be designed
to provide the maximum degree of flexibility for investigations into diversi-
fied cropping and water management, would be of an improved type. The farm
installations would include staff accommodation and offices, stores for e-
quipment and materials, including seeds and fertilizers, a workshop and a
lecture room. Farm equipment, which would be selected with the assistance
of the consultants, would include a. mechanical tiller, a power thresher,
and plant protection and transportation equipment, as well as improved
animal-drawn implements. The progran of work which would be carried out on
the farms is outlined in Annexes 5 and 8.
Experimental Wells and Improved Distribution Systems
22.       The analysis of tubewell design (paragraphs 5-10 of this Annex) in-
dicates tha.t if wells larger than 2 cusecs were installed the total cost per
ac-ft of developed supply would be substantially lower. Similarly, it can
be shown that theoretically it would be more economic to obtain additiona.l
irrigated acreage by reducing distribution losses than by drilling more wells.
A lump sum allowance would be included in the credit to permit the project
consultants to test these propositions by installing a number of wells of
greater capa.city than 2 cusecs and a. number of improved distribution systems
(possibly buried concrete pipe).






ANNEX 5
Page 8
FIGURE 1
discharge pipe
ground level         |:   T
v     static  water
tble level                                      _
v    level\/ I
pump bow I
suction pipe
pump housing--i
blind pipe
screen
SCH EMATIC
TUBEWELL LAYOUT
IBRD - 4802(2R)






ANNEX 5
Page 9
FIGURE 2
0D
O~ E
' 53000
0
OPTIMUM
SCREEN LENGTH
Q2)
00)
15000   2
0
u
41000                                                       0D
40  14000   z
z
z
uZ
Lfl~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~L
0   40000                            X0
_                                                       13000   >
3    w                                -~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~I
z
. /            Q~~~Q- 2 cusecs
38000   /f = 8.5 (10% over 20 years)
/ .t = 1 200 h rs/a nn1um
U~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~
37000     80            90          100
SCREEN LENGTH (feet)
IBRD - 4806 (4R)






ANNEX 5
FIGURE 3             Page 10
COST OF WATER
AND WELL CAPACITY
a)
O            1         2          3         4___
*I 40
0
0
LU
~30
ce
a-
20
0
0         1         2          3         4
WELL CAPACITY (cusecs)
IBRD - 4808(2R)






PAST PASEAN
uBadEflS P.1ECT
Tbanas Selected for DilliAng of Wells
Estimated Area                                 Apprvinate :.er of
an Ganges/Bahexpatrn   gstieated Area mn            Well Sites
Gross krea     KstI!ed Prioity  rea        Ridge Soils               Barind Soils              in Priority            Peasons for Reduoiica           Contract
I?istrict              31              (sm t.L . Lba  (q i                         (s)  i)                 (sq i)                       Area                 of rea froml70G°/o 10 
26U7sm                Patnital          13 8                        5                                        15                          30                        S,0                  aA
Dbx=r-at          115            80          92                                        75                          70                       s
Bodalgacd          83            80          66                                        40                         50                        S
Aadeb7ar          152            50          76                                        76                         60                        S,R;
aS                159            30          48                                        40                          30                        S,% *F
aogaon            106           e0           85                                        LO                         60                        s
Eangar             95            60          57                                        57                         ]10                       5,F                   .         t
SUgra             204            30          61                                        61                          50                       SFr
Pafa              101            50          50               50                                                   30                       S,                   jd
Mobalsj-           63            50          32               32                                                   20                       S.F              
Bag-a             141            50          70               70                                                   50                       S,F                   *
D-rgap-r          Tn             50          39                39                                                  30                        s,r                   U
Pathia             75            25          32               32                                                   20                       S,T,F                 i
h-argbae          1143           50          72               72                                                   60                       S,F
N,ator            156            50          78               78                                                   50                       S,F
Bagatipa           54            50          26               26                                                   20                       S,F                   i
L.lpor            127            50          63               63                                                   40                       S,F                    U
Dibtotal                                                 992
Siragani          126            30          38                                                                    40                       S,F                    Rice
Raignj            103            30          31                                        15                          20                       S,F                          P rNA-
Taras             116            30          35                                        30                          20                        S,F
Atglunis           72            50          36         36                                                         20           S,?
I1rdi              (1d           50          52               52                                                   40                        S,F
Fabra.           115             50          72               72                                                   50                       S,F
Subtotal                                                  M
8COIIA                Panc!bbi.       109             80           87                                       60                          60                        5                     Rice     4
Joypurhat         92             80          73                                        50                          50                        S
deardighi        120             20          24                                        25                          20                        S,F                   ,
D:rchwhia         63             80          51                                        50                          30                        S                     .     B:?
KhezalJ.         119             SO          95                                        95                          70                        s
Sib'an          122             50          61                                        40                          40                        S,o                   i
Ir,hfal          93              50          46                                        45                          30                        S,Gw                         <
Sadigran         103             oo          82                                        80                          70                        S
berpur           115             50          57                                        60                          5°                        80'
Bogra           J57              14o         63                                        45                          50                       S,0, BFi,.
Gabtali          132             hO          53                                         0                          40                        S,G,?2
Drinat            95 i                       38                                         0                          30                        Sg,F
Sharikatdl       1 S0                        72                                         o                          60 S00,F
Subtotal                                                 802                       Y /
TC"-kL                                                  2,058                                      505       -
I' 5 - Set-le-.ent; 0 - ceology; P - -cod:rng; T - Topography
cf   e c' -let on Barlnd or C-B ?24ges are on .ista :!cod Plain S0o.1



EST .PALISTA
TUBWIa,S PlDJgCT
Tba.s Selected for Drilling of Wells
istimated 4ra              Approxmte );er of
Estimated Area on       on Ganges/brabautra            Well Sites
Grcss Area       stImated Pority Aa           Bri:d 3oils            aidge Soils                     in Priority       RePaons for Petti'             Ctrwt
D:sV-'t               _,~ia                                        ts)                 i)       (sq          mSi) !           __e_    a                       of Srea fr)  1 Ar eaf/   Cr^ e--t
?:a;c-d:aaJ1l       127             70          Bg                 0                                                    60                    S,33                     e
ilhAinarl           134             30           ,0               0o                                                    30                    S,So,T,W              *'       --:
Sddpa-               17 70                      33                10                                                    20                    S,So                   '      'A'
Kusborgaus          102             70          7t                 0                                                    5°                    S,so
aliganj             167             70         l18                 0                                                    90                    S,S0
Ga-gacbare           83             70          58                 0                                                    4z0                   S,SO
Kotwali             123             70          86                 0                                                    60                    S,S0                   *
Udargm 3            166             30          SD                15                                                    30                    5,SD,W
Mthapukur           200             60         120                ho                                                    90                     5,so                  '
ftrganj             160             60          96                50                                                    70                    S,SO
Pirgacha            103             60          62                 0                                                    4a0                   S,SG
xa=nla               58             70         41,                 0                                                    30                    S,5C
Bri4airi             89             60          53                 0                                                    l0                     s, SO,rg                      1 -
Sagesuari           161             60          n                  0                                                    70                     S0,s,r                *    Swin
flbari               63             60                             0 Q                                                  30                    S,3O,F,z
allnirhat           131             7°          s1                 0                                             30    60                     s,so,E
KIzrigra            107             70          T5                 0                                                    50                    SSO
Mipur               209             60         105                 °                                                    90                     SSO,}
Chima4              110              0          't7                '                                                    50                    s,so,r                 *
GcbinaaN            Vt6             60                                                                                  60                    5,SO,F,g
Palasbab             75             60          J5                 5                                                    30                    $,S0,Yg                *
SlliSr      SO             7°          63         °~TO                                                 3°°                           B'0 5a0         
S1 3dnr2gi3         162             79         10                                                                                             S,SO,g
Gaibanda            124             TO          87  .0                                                                                        S,SO
Ftlehari            121             20          f4                                                                      20                    S-SO,rsB
Sagbatta             87             30     *     6                                                                       0                    S,50,7,B               '
5/   - Settlemenet; SC - Soils; T -  opograpkv; F -Flooding, I - frw1.ma; W - WXPA  Project
~/All e'-e's not on Barind or G-3 Ridges are or. Ti3ta Fl-ood Plain Soils.                                                                                                                      -



EASr PAKSTAN
?DBEWES PAOJ=C
Thnaa Selected for D          fn of Wells
Estimated Area         Apprmimate Number of
Estimated Area on       on Ganges/3raha:utra       Well Sitea
Grow Area       lted  Mmiorl   a             Barind Scils           Ridges Soils               in  -iority            Reasozns for Rsduction          Contract
District               _Tb__           (sa mi)          &eL                        (3q ni)                  (sq si)                     Area                  of_ Area from 100°/o Y    Cr    ____t
DflIA.-T,            Ranianksil        110            5o!/          55                 0                                                 30                        S,S                   c e      F
Ea~~ipi~~r    77            50           38                  0                                                 30
PirgrnJ           152            50           71                 0                                                  50                                             a
Bcchags!j          87            50           03                 °                                                  30
Birol             13S            50           69                40                                                  50
Kc'x2Ai           139            50           70                 30                                                 50                                                      t
Kahcrole           80            50           40                 25                                                 30
Dirganj           157            50           75                  0                                                 50
Chiribandar       121            50           60                 15                                                hO
Kansalna           69            50           35                  0                                                 20
Prbatiapur        165            5°           82                 15                                                 6C                                                  DI5L?R
Trzlpari          123            50           61                 2040Fa
ia;kipur           78            50           39                 20                                                 20                         .                   .       B
Savsagasnj        152            50           76                 30                                                 50
Ghoraghat          57            50           29                 30                                                 20
Subtal                                                    839               225                                                600
sn22                 DewOganj          163            25            40                                       I t40                                                                       ed   T
Sribordi          121            50           60                                        60                          hO
_svar            1Is3           25           36                                        36                          30                                            e 0
.''elandaha        9Is           50           1:7                                       92                          30
Ja-zTh?ir         185            50           92                                        92                          60                          1
133            50           83 83                                                                 60                         .
67            60           Lo                                        ILO                         30                         .                           A
Sainaghat         165            70          115.                                      115                          80
rmapur            257            60          155                                                                   120                          0
Nalitabari        206            70          145                                       145                         10
S;,btotal                                                 c6
Tto+l                                                    1 ',7                  -/9-                                          1 2'0
Tol-a                                                                         9751-
S - SettWerZA; SO - Soils; F - Flooding
2/ AZ we'-ecr- on 3.-rind or G0- Ridges
aze cn  isa F-ocd Blain Soils.






ANNEX 6
EAST PAKISTAN
TUBEWELLS PROJECT
Agricultural Development
1.        The change from present cropping patterns and practices to those
planned under the project would be accomplished by demonstration and extension
work amongst the irrigation groups, and by providing them with adequate farm
inputs, including credit and improved plant protection services.  Responsi-
bilities for these fields of activity are divided amongst the Directorates
of Agriculture and Co-operatives of the Department of Agriculture, and the
EPADC; coordination between them would therefore be essential. Coordination
committees exist at departmental and district levels, while at the thana
level activities would be coordinated in the Thana Councils.
Phasing of Agricultural Development Work
2.        The work ol agricultural development in the areas irrigated by the
tubewells would be undertaken in b phasesi
(I) Agricultural investigations, in field trial farms, to select
the most suitable crop varieties and cultural and irrigation
practices for the specific conditions of the 3 land classes
on which project tubewells would be constructed. Extension
staff would be appointed and trained.
(II) Farm demonstrations of the selected crops and practices on
closely supervised demonstration plots scattered throughout
the project area. Training of extension staff would continue
and training of farmers, irrigation group managers and tubewell
operators commence.
(III) Farm extension work in all the tubewell areas to guide farmers
in using the irrigation facilities efficiently. Training
of farmers would continue.
(IV)  Intensification of extension work and farmer training to bring
the project to full development.
3.        Phase I would be initiated, by acquiring land for the 3 field trial
farms, in advance of project construction act"ivities and would continue for
at least 5 years. Phase II would commence as soon as the first tubewells
were drilled, with irrigation demonstrations with IRRI rice varieties and would
then proceed to demonstrations of crop diversification as soon as results
became available from the field trial farms. It would continue indefinitely
as a-permanent service to farmers. Phase III, which would also commence as
soon as the first tubewells were. drilled, with extension work on irrigation
methods and IRRI rice varieties, would merge into Phase IV after about 2
years, when the trial farm results have provided a firm base on which to
build intensified extension work. The extension program would then also
continue as a perrmanent service .to farmers.



ANNJEX 6
Page 2
Agri cultural Investigations
b.        Three field trial farms would be established, one on each of the
three land classes on which the project tubewells would be drilled. All 3
farms would investigate irrigated rice production, with special attention to
crop consumptive use of irrigation water, and trials with new rice varieties
and alternative crops suitable for the local conditions. Their work would
determine whether it would be feasible to enlarge the service area of wells
beyond 60 ac. The farm on Ganges/Brahmaputra ridge soils would specialize
in the irrigated cultivation of wheat, sugarcane, groundnuts, cotton, potatoes,
tobacco and vegetables, including crop varietal introductions and trials with
fertilizers, pesticidess herbicides and irrigation techniques applicable to
each crop. Each farm would also conduct water management studies to determine
the most efficient techniques of field irrigation for the crops and soils
under investigation.
5.        The Agriculture Directorate wculd set up a new field trials branch
to do this work, under a senior agronomist, who would be assisted for the
irst 4 years of the project, by consultants with experience in agricultural
investigations with all of the major crops mentioned above. The consultants
would have responsibility for carrying out the field trials and for training
counterparts to succeed them. The field trial farm staffs would include
agronomists and specialists in water management and plant protection, who
would also have extension responsibilities.
Training of Extension Staff
6.        Training would be given to all newly appointed extension staff,
both graduate and non-graduate.  The training would commence with courses
in irrigation and in extension methods, and in later phases, would continue
with instruction in cultivation and field irrigation techniques for the crops
planned for introduction as a result of findings at the field trial farms.
Initial training would be carried out at the Pakistan Academy for Rural
Development, at Thana Training and Development Centres (TTDCs) and elsewhere
as convenient; later in-service training would be done in the TTDCs and at
the field trial farms.
PHASE II
Farm Demonstrations
7.        Demonstrations would be organized on farmers' own lands by the
extension 5ervice, assisted by the field trial branch. Block development farms
and the far, s owned by "model farmers" would be used for this purpose. Demon-
stration programs and targets would be established annually by the project
oirector, assisted by the consultants, working towards the objective of con-
duc ving at least 1 demonstration of each recommended crop in every union in
which project tubevells would be drilled.
Training
8.        In-service training of extension staff would continue in thts phase;
~'armer-training program would commence.



ANNEX 6
Page3
PHASES III A'N  IV
Extension
9.        Extension work conducted by the Agriculture Directorate's TIP field
staffs to guide farmers to adopt improved crop varieties and practices, would
be based primarily on the farm demonstrations. These would provide a practical
illustration of the value of the new farming practices advocated, The demon-
strators would use modern visual aids, including posters, flamel-graphe, slides
and film-strips, prepared by a now visual aids production branch. To ensure
that the extension work would be fully coordinated with the field trial farm
investigations, extension staff would receive regular briefing by the field trial
farm staffs. The specialist staff at the field trial farms would be available
for advisory work at the requeat of the extension staff.  The extension staff
would include an agricultural economist who would be responsible for the
collection of data and for production planning.
Training
10.       In-service training courses at the field trial farms would be given
to all TIP officers. Model farmers, irrigation group managers and tubawell
operators would attend weekly claases, given by the TIP officers either at
the TTDC or the field trial or demonstration farms.
11.       Members of the irrigation groups would attend weekly village meetings
where the manager and model farmer would discuss what they had learned at their
training classes. These meetings would be attended in rotation by a TIP
officer and would provide a forum for discussion of agricultural problems.
Formulation of Farm Plans
12.       Seasonal and annual farm plans would be prepared by each pump group,
listing members' names, the area of crops to be grown, improved methods to be
used, inputs and credit needed. The manager would learn how to make the plan
at the TTDC and would teach rembers at the village weekly meetings, Super-
visoryJ help would.be given by the union agricultural assistants and cooperative
officers. The completed plans would be peased to the district project officers
who would prepare requisitions for Inputs to the government agencies concerned.
Supply of iDnputs
13.       The project's requiremeta of seeds and fertilizers would be supplied
by the EPADC and pesticides by the Agriculture D)irectorate through the cooper-
atives at the thana level.
Supply of Credit
1l.       Credit applications would be appraised according to requirements
indicated in the farm plans. Credit would be supplied to farmers through their
irrigation group. Loan repayments would be collected by the manager of the group
who would make lugp sum payments in the nam of the society to the Thana Central
Association or designated bank.



ANNEX 6
Page 4
Staffig the IDevelopmsnt Progrm
15.       The following staff would need to be appointed, according to a
tietable to be agreed between IDA and the goverrnts
(a) an experienced senior officer, with adequate powers to
administer the special rli t acount and coordinate
the entire agricultural devalopust program;
(b) a senior agronomist to administer the field trial farms;
(c) an agricultural economist to prepare production targets
and evaluate the progress of the project;
(d) agronomists and junior staff for the field trial farms and
demonstration program;
(e)  district, thana and union extanion staff; and
(f) cooperative staff to organiza# register and administer
the irrigation group cooperatives and Thana Central
Co-operative Associations.
Selection of Tubewell Sites
16.       Prerequisite for successful agricultural development in the project
area would be the selection of satisfactory tbevell sites.  The success of
the project would depend upon siting the wlls correctly in relation to soils
and topography, and encouraging rapid and effective utilization of the water
they will produce. Sinoe the agencies operating the individual wells would be
Independent cooperative societies specially set up fbr the purpose, the problem
of siting and utilizing the wells properly in intimately bound up with the
problems of organizing societies in  uitale areas and persuading the farmer-
mebers to accept oivuitmenta as to their operation and utilization.
17,       The following system for selecton of well dtes was agreed during
negotiations:
(a) Thana Councils - of thaz.. in the project area would solicit
applications for tubewell from prospective farmersI irrigation
groups.
(b) The Councils and thbir TIP staf wld organize irrigation
jroups in these selected thama, register them aa cooperative
societies and aesist them in preparing the applications,
(c) The applications would inclade the lsgally binding undertaking
of the rumbers of the society tot
(i) collaborate in the operation of a tobwell and in
the utilization of its water;



ANNEX 6
Page >
(ii) accept as final the decision of EPADC as to the
siting of the well;
(iii) acquire from its owner and register in the name of
the society, EPADC or Province, prior to construction
of the tubewell, the parcel of land to be occupied by
the tubewell and its pumphouse;
(iv) permit unrestricted access to the site during
construction activities; and
(v)  construct, within a period of 6 months after the
drilling of the tubewell, a main channel distribution
system to irrigate not less than 60 ac from the well,
in default of which the society would permit EPADC
to construct the system at the expense of its members.
(d)  Upon receipt of an application, EPADC would examine the
proposed site in relation to the criteria for site selection and
establish its suitability before including it in the drilling
program.
(e)  Before drilling the well, EPADC would design a suitable main
channel distribution system for it and supply copies of plans
to the irrigation group and the TIP staff.



ANNEX 6
Page -
APPENDIX
General Criteria for Tubewell Site Selection
The criteria for selection of tubewell sites should include the
following:
1. Soils
The sites would be limited to soils of the Barind tract, Tista
floodplain and Ganges/Brahmaputra ridge classifications. Within these areas,
sandy soils and soils with sand at shallow depth would be excluded, as would
areas near major rivers liable to suffer river-erosion or burial by new alluvium.
2. Topography and Depth of Flooding
Tubewells would not be drilled in areas of irregular relief, or
land subject to deep seasonal flooding.
3. Establishment of Irrigation Groups
Irrigation groups should have been established as entities with
legal personality, and have accepted the revised TIP conditions, as shown on
page 2 of this Annex.
A. Ownership of Well Site
The owner of the land in which the tubewell would be drilled must
have agreed to convey to the irrigation group, the EPADC or the Province, the
piece of land to be occupied by the well and its pumphouse.
5. Service Areas
Within the area in the immediate vicinity of, and commanded by, the
well, as high a proportion of the irrigable land as possible should be irrigated.
Priority for inclusion in the drilling program should be allocated to sites
on the basis of the intensity of their proposed irrigation coverage; in all
cases the proportion of irrigable land to be acutally included in the proposed
service area must exceed 80%, in default of which the site should be rejected.
6. Access
The site should be reasonably accessible to vehicles for construction,
maintenance and agricultural extension purposes for as many months in the year
as possible.



ANNEX 7
EAST PAKISTAN
TUBEWELLS PROJECT
Water Resources, Quantity and Quality
1.        No systematic inventory of groundwater resources has yet been
undertaken in East Pakistan. Such an inventory is planned, however, for
the immediate future, to be undertaken by the United States Geological
Survey (USGS) in cooperation with EPWAPDA. At present, a small number of
wells are drawing upon a very large resource, so that considerable further
development can take place before overall water availability becomes a
matter for serious concern.
2.        The evidence provided by over 970 existing wells confirms the
existence of an extensive, highly transmissive aquifer. Although the province
contains some areas of limited potential for groundwater development, (i.e.,
adjacent to the Assam foothills in Sylhet district, and in the Chittagong
hill tracts to the south) most of these are far from the project area.
To provide for the possibility that groundwater conditions under some portions
of the project area might prove to be less favorable than expected, the
project is sufficiently flexible to permit the re-siting of up to 30% of the
wells to more favorable locations.
Quantity of Water Available
3.        On the average, the project wells would be 1¼ miles apart, so that
the area surrounding each well would be 960 ac in extent. The average of
75 in of rainfall annually, on this area, amounts to approximately 6,000 ac-ft.
4.        In West Pakistan, on generally medium-textured soils, recharge to
groundwater amounts to between 26% and 30% of applied water. In the project
area the surface soils are only slightly less permeable. If it is assumed
on this basis that only 20% of prec4pitation enters the profile as recharge,
this would amount to about 1,200 ac-ft per year.
5.        The project wells are expected to extract only 240 ac-ft/year of
which about 120 will return in the form of deep percolation, for a net with-
drawal of 120 ac-ft/year. It may be concluded, therefore, that the availability
or recharge is not a constraint on the present project.
Quality of Water Available
6.        With total salinity of 100-600 ppm the groundwater is very suitable
for irrigation. The principal ions reported are those that are normally ex-
pected and none are present in quantities that would affect the water quality
for irrigation.
7.        Hydrogen sulphide is reported to be present in a number of wells,
indicating the possible occurrence of sulphate-reducing bacteria which,
operating under similar conditions in West Pakistan, have caused considerable
damage to metal well-screens and casings. The possibility of a similar problem
in East Pakistan supports the decision to use a non-corrosive material such as
fiberglass.






ANNEX 8
EAST PAKISTAN
TUBEWELIS PROJECT
Consultant Services
1.         Consultants would be employed (a) to provide consultant services
in engineering and agriculture for the construction and utilization of the
project's tubewells and (b) to prepare feasibility studies for (i) the pro-
posed seed multiplication, processing and distribution project and (ii)
future stages of the present tubewells project.
Tubewells Project Consultants
2.         All other work would be carried out by "project consultants," who
would supply 2 distinct but closely related types of servicess firstly, en-
gineering consultant services concerned with the construction and maintenance
of the tubewells and secondly, agricultural consultant services related to
the utilization of the irrigation water and the improvement of government
agricultural supporting services in the project area. Engineering consultants
would work with EPADC, but the agricultural advisory services would be pro-
vided principally to the Department of Agriculture. In view of the need for
close coordination between the engineering and agricultural aspects of the
project, it is desirable that both types of service should be provided either
by the same firm of consultants or by an association of firms administered
as one group. In the latter case the firm providing the services in engineering
would be the leader of the association and the eontract would be with that
one firm only. The other member(s) of the association would be sub-contracted
to the leading firm. The consultants would propose their own staffing pattern3
to provide the services required throughout a 4-year period. Suggested staffing
patterns are given on page 9 of this Annex.



ANNEX 8
Page 2
Outline of Terms of Reference for the Project Consultants-/
I. Engineering Services
The consultants will be directly responsible to EPADC for the tech-
nical sufficiency and quality of designs, specifications and contract
documents; for construction supervision; and for training kPADC person-
nel on all engineering aspects of the project. These responsibilities
are set out in more detail below:
A. Preliminary Phase
(a) Review previous groundwater exploration a-id planning studies
for the project area.
(b) Work with EPADC, Department of Agriculture and Soil Survey
of Pakistan personnel to finalize well-siting criteria and
define on paper the high-priority areas for well drilling.
(c) Work with EPADC personnel on preliminary (office) siting of
all wells.
(d) Train EPADC and Department of Agriculture personnel in all
aspects of final (field) aelection of well sites. Supervise
the field siting of wells and design of water distribution
systems.
(e) Prepare specifications and contract documents for supply of
items of equipment which would be procured directly by ADC.
These may include pumps, engines and well screens and casings.
Establish procedures for maintaining logistic control of this
equipment.
(f) Prepare a design report on the subject of the depth of project
wells.
(g)  Prepare designs, drawings, specifications and coritract dcucwnrent.:
for well construction.
(h)  Establish criteria and procedures for prequalification of drilling
contractors, participate in the process of prequalification, and
prepare a recommended list of prequalified bidders.
(i) Advise on all matters pertaining to interne.tional competitive
bidding. Evaluate bids and prepare recomnEndations for awards
of contracts.
(j) Participate in development and effective implementation of a
modern project control system. This may, but need not
necessarily, be computerized. It should, however, have the same
logical basis as Critical Path or PERT techniques, and should
serve the same functions, providing prior warning of the develop-
ment of bottlenecks and facilitating systematic progress reporting.
(k) Carry out a cost-of-service study to establish criteria for elec-
trification of those tubewells capable of being served by electric
power.



ANNEX 8
Page 3
B. Construction Phase
(a) Train EPADC personnel in all aspects of construction supervision.
Participate in supervision of construction of first wells drilled,
thereafter supervise as necessary to maintain quality of construction.
(b) Certify contractors' payment certificates.
(c) Participa.te in prepara.tion of progress and final reports by
EPADC.
(d) Draft project operation and maintenance manuals.
(e) Tra.in EPADO personnel in all aspects of equipment inspection.
Participate in inspection of first shipments of pumps, engines,
well screens and casings, to the extent necessary to ensure
that specifications are being met. Continue to supervise EPADC
inspection personnel as required to maintain quality of inspection.
(f) Train EPADC personnel in equipment operation and maintenance pro-
cedures. Review existing procedures for supply of spare parts,
and maintenance and repair organization with particular reference
to adequacy of regional and local workshops.
(g)  Establish and train EPADC personnel in operating an adequate
project monitoring service.
C. Design of Experimental Facilities
It is anticipated that a lump sum for construction of experimental
tubewells and distribution systems will be included in the project
financing arrangements. The reason for this is that more economic
approa.ches to groundwater development and distribution may exist.
It will be the responsibility of the consultants to consider the
alternatives available, to develop designs and specifica.tions for
these alternatives, and to advise EPADC on the most appropriate
construction methods. Provisional lump sums wculd be included in
the standard well-drilling contracts to cover the cost of execution
of this work.
II. Agricultural Services
The consultants will be required to assist the Department of
Agriculture and EPADC, as appropriate, to:
(a) Set up a. project office responsible for the coordination of
agricultural development in the project, the setting of pro-
duction targets, the collection of performance data. and the
evaluation of results. Provide a. chief agriculturist and
an agricultural economist as advisers to this office.



ANNEX 8
(b) Prepare criteria for the selection of tubewell sites and
train project staff to select sites in the field. In these
fields of work they would collaborate closely with the en-
gineering consultants.
(c)  Select sites, set up and operate three new field trial farms,
each of about 50 acres, to be established respectively on land
representative of one of the three broad land classifications in
which tubewells will be drilled under the project, i.e., Barind
tract, Tista. floodplain and Ganges/Brahma.putra ridge soils.
These farms will be used to conduct irrigated crop variety in-
troduction trials on all rops suitable for cultivation on the
particular land class, to investigate crop cultivation and ir-
rigation techniques, to train extension staff and farmers in
the use of improved practices and to demonstrate these practices.
It is expected that one expatriate agronomist would be required
for each field tria.l farm. These men would also assist in or-
ganizing demonstration activities on block development farms in
the project area.
The crops to be investiga.ted, of which the expatriate staff
would be required to have extensive previous tropical experi-
ence, would include: rice, wheat, potatoes, groundnuts and
other oilseeds, tobacco, cotton and sugarcane.
Other consultants' advisory staff should include a. specialist
irrigation agronomist to advise on water management and crop
consumptive use trials on all three farms, and a plant protec-
tion officer to advise on the provision of plant protection
services throughout the project area.
It may be necessary at a. later stage for the consultants'
team to include (for a period of about 1-2 years) a.specialist
in land classification, if the services of the present UNDP
land classification specialist shoul.d cease to be available
to the project.
(d) Train project staff in agricultural development techniques.
(e) Establish and staff a project extension service to provide
advisory, training and demonstration services to farmers
in the districts included in the project a.rea. The expatriate
staff would be expected to include an extension specialist
and a training officer, who should ha.ve experience in the pro-
duction of visual training aids (including posters, flannel-
graphs, slides, film strips, etc.).
(f) Carry out a survey of farmers' repayment capacity in the three
main land classification subdivisions in the project area,
and make recommendations as to the level at which the govern-
ment should recover project costs and the system of recovery
which should be adopted.



ANNEX 8
Page e
III. Feasibility Study for Future Stages
The project consultants would prepare a feasibility study relating
to the next and perhaps several further stages of a groundwater develop-
ment project for East Pakistan. In addition to the standard engineering,
agricultural and economic analyses normally included in feasibility studies,
this would include:
(a) a brief review of the general progress in wnter development
throughout the province in the preceding two years;
(b) a thorough review of the additional information on ground-
water development generated through this project and the
USGS groundwater survey; and
(c) a review of the results of the construction of the experi-
mental wells and distribution systems included in the project,
leading to conclusions regarding the economy and feasibility
of alternative possible approaches to groundwater develop-
ment in East Pakistan.



ANNEX 8
Page
COST SUMMARY
1. ProJect Engineering Consultants
Local   Foreign   Total
(us$  000
Salaries, Overheads and Fees
Dacca Staff Salaries                                   117.6    420.0    537.6
Head Office Overheads (25%)                             29.4    105.0    134.4
Head Office Salaries                                        -     86.h     86.4
Overheads (100%)                               -     86.4      86.4
1h7.0    697.8    844.8
Fee (15%)                                               22.0    104.7    126.7
Sub-total                                  169.o    802.5    91.5
Air Travel
Return Fare w/family      - 15 @ $6,ooo                    -      90.0     90.0
w/o family     - 4 @ $1,500                      -      6.o       6.o
Living Expenses
Dacca Staff (initial)    - 10 @ $6,ooo                  50.0      10.0     60.0
Head Office Staff (visits)-24 @ $1,500                  30.0       6.0     36.0
Shipment of Household Goods -10 3 $20,000                 60.0    140.0    200.0
Housing                    - 324 @ $200                   64.8         -     64.8
Vehicles                   -  10 @ $3,000                     -     30.0     30.0
Travel within East Pakistan  12 @ $4,500                   8.0      46.o    s4.o
Sub-total                                  212.8    328.0    540.0
TOTAL                                      381.8  1,130.5  1,512.3
1/ Details of proposed staff and estimated salaries are given on page 9
of this Annex.



ANNEX 8
Page 7
2.  Pro1ect ARricultural Consultants
Local      Foreizn      Total
1/
Salaries, Overheads and Fees
Dacca Staff Salaries                                    87.0       333.0       420.0
Head Office Overheads (25%)                              21.8       83.2        105.0
Head Office Salaries                                        -       86.4         86.4
Overheads (100%)                               -       86.4         86.4
108.8      589.0        697.8
Fee (15%)                                               16. 3       88.4        104.7
Sub-total                                  125.1      677.4        802.5
Air Travel
Return Fare w/family        -  12 @ $6,000                  -       72.0         72.0
w/o family        -  17 0 $1,500                 -        25.5        25.5
Living Expenses
Dacca Staff (initial)       -   7 a $6,ooo              35.0         7.0         42.0
Head Office Staff (visits) -  76 @ $1,500               98.0        16.0        114.0
Shipment of Household Goods  -   70 $20,000               40.0       100.0        140.0
Housing                       - 226 e $200                45,2           _         45.2
Vehicles                      -   6 0 $3,000                  -       18.0         18.0
Travel Within East Pakistan      12 a $4,500                5.0       40.0         45.0
Sub-total                                  223.2       278.5       501.7
TOTAL                                      348.3       955-9     1,304.2
1/ Details of proposed staff and estimated salaries are given on page 9
of this Annex.



ANNEX 6
Page 8
3. Feasibility Study
3 consultants for 6 months = 18 man-months
Salaries
18 x $2,000                                           $36,000
Air travel
6 round trips x $2,000                                 12,000
Accommodation and living expenses
9 man-months in East Pakistan x $1,000                  q,CO(
TransportUtion
2 vehicles x 3 months x $200                            1,200
Report printing and miscellaneous expenses                 2,000
Head office overheads (50% of salaries)                   18,000
$78,200
Say     $80.000



EASI PAKI3T iL
TUHEWLS PICN2T
.tiatted SalarY CGcss of Consustants
roxixate       Apprexinate_                Salary Cc3ts                      Aonrcx;-a'e Se7rize S
Ti.aeReqAred         Local.     Fr eSgn       Sotal           1                     = 1571  I 72  1 77 
tCSS/tonth )  (mar^/:str.-;.7      ~~(US$ ' 96)
1,  .I-ecr Yz.-
Pr'ect .t:ae
(5hief Engtnetring Adviser)                              2,200                  48'            25,6CO     38000       105,5C 6x
S-:^r -n-eerig Advisers:
1,800                 12               3,600     18,200        21,600            xrxxXX
1,800                 24               1,200     36,0O O       3,200            x^7xrXzzx
-.a4:g                                                   1,80                  24              7,200     36,000 X3,2X                    ]D       M
Pteld Emnineers (6)                                        1,50C                 216             Th,000   250, 00        32h.200            X:XIxxICXXX
32h            117.650    420,orO       537,So0o
Ec2e O0'ice Back-un
Des-"n                                                  l1,800                 18                  -    21,600         21,600            xx x   x.x   x x
Contract Acinistraticn                                  1,80o                  18                  -    21,600         21,600            X7 X       X     X  X XX
C'tSu                                                   1,800                  24                  -      h3,200       h3,200
5::                 -    85, 400       86, L490
2.
'-ef A=rizualt'trt                                         2,000                  48             21,000     75,000         56,m x,-
L-r:at:cn Agnmnmits (3)                                    1,800                 108             44,GoO   150,C00        1h4,L7Jx
:X;er.sor Adviser                                          1,800                  36              10,800     5,1i, o      6L,80 xFxx xx
,rai=g Advisw                                              1,800                  24              7,200     36,ooo        I 3,200           rxxx r
Agricutural Eccnist                                        1,800                  12              3.60C      18, 00       21S600             XxX
238             87 c-0   3330 or-lo  _   2J, Y
?ae Orfice Back-uP
Water Yaage.ent Spectalist                               1,800                  12                   -     21,600        21,600            x xx    xx Ix
Tra_- -g Snec-.altst                                     1,800                   6                   -    10,800         10,8                             xx  xx                  ,
Pant ?rotecti-a  Specia1ist                              1,800                   6                   -    10,o00         10, 8X             xx   x_
1,800                 12                   -     21,600        21,60          r0 xx XX   x             X XX
CtS.er                                                   1,800                  12                   -    21,600         21,600             xx   xx     x    xx
50                  -     86, .o        e6, L99






EAST PAKISTAN TUBEWELLS PROJECT
IMPLEMENTATION SCHEDULE
C  A  L  E  N    D  A  R         Y  E  A  R  S
1970              1971               1972               1973               1 974
MONSOON           MONSOON            MONSOON
TUBEWELLS                                                 .X,V6,,
a. Design & Prepare Specifications
b. Bid & Award Contracts                        _XX
c . Construction
2. PUMPS, ENGINES & CASINGS                                   7                  //
a. Prepare Specifications                   _              'X$                                   /7,,/7
b. Bid & Award Contracts                                   ;X;X;               XX                ""'i "/
c. Supply Equipment                                                    -
3. DISTRIBUTION SYSTEMS                                      /77//7              XX                  XX
Improved (Experimental)                                      _' '                                   7
a. Design                                                    XX_              XX                  //7
b. Bid & Award Contracts                                   ,,,,,,,             XX
c. Construction                                            /7/7/7/             /7/
Earth Channels                                     _                          ,,,,,,
________,,,,,,7,7                    7/7/7/             /7/7/7.
4. FIELD TRIAL FARMS                                         ,XX                                     , ,,,'
a. Land Acquisition                               _                            XXX.              XXXI
b. Construct Buildings                                         X               XXX               XXX.
& Irrigation Facilities                                  /77/7/7             ///7              ///7
5. VEHICLES & MISC. EQPT.                                    CXXX                XX<                XXX
.   .      .                 *               ,~~~~~ ~ ~~~/7/77/7  /7/7/7           7/7/7//
a. Prepare Specs.                                          ,,,,./,            /7/7/              /7/77/                                Z
b. Bid & Award Contracts                     U             ,"   ,                                 77/7/7                               P1
c. Supply                                        _         ,,,',,.             ",/",,                                              f-G X
I BRD-4833(3R)






EAST PAKISTAN TUBEWELLS PROJECT
CONSTRUCTION SCHEDULE - TUBEWELLS
C  A  L  E  N   D  A  R         Y  E A  R  S
1970              1971               1972              1973              1974
MONSOON           MONSOON            MONSOON
3 CONTRACTS OF 300                                    :,,,,,            ,    ,,I
WELLS EACH:*                                          ;,;,;,              /7
50  ,',,          100  "'/'=,_  100 '////,_   50
1. PABNA - RAJSHAHI                             50         ,       100               100   ////,-5
50                100//  110
2. BOGRA                                               SO o                .s
50   ',,,',       100  /,;;          100 ///</          0
3. MYMENSINGH 'A'
2 CONTRACTS OF 600                                     '";;;
I OF 900 WELLS:*
90    /           180  "/-"',        180  '"''-        150
1. RAJSHAHI A&B                   -_0
.  0 z/ _ 180  Z180  /               150
2. DINAJPUR A&B                                                                       300  ///////      150
3. RANGPUR A,B&C
TOTALS                                          480                960                960               600
* Contract units fixed at 300 wells, but number of units to each                                                                       z
contractor will not be determined until completion of                                                                             >  Z
prequalification and bidding process.                                                                                             m  X
IBRD-4832(3R)






EZAST PAKIS7A:l
TU3EWELLS PROJEJT
COS ' ESTIMA=-S
1. Single 2-Cusec Well
Descrip: ion            Quantity      Uhits      Unit Cost               Rupees                      U. S. Dollars
(Rs)         Loca'   Foreign   Total       Local   Foreign   Total
Construction Items
Move in and ouv                 1          Lump sun      4,500      4,050      450       4,50       851       94 
Drill well                    160         Lin ft            47      2,660   4,940        7,60C      559   1,037      1,596
Install tubewell hardware   160           Lin ft            12      1,760      2140      2,0C0      370       5°        420
Gravel pack                   100         idn ft            15      1,395      105       1,500      293       22        315
Install pump & engine           1         L1ip surn    1,000          900      100       1,0GC      189       21        2 1
Develop &c test well            1         Lump sum      2,000       1,600      1400      2,000      336       84        4220
Build pumphouse                 1         Lump sUn      4,500       4,005      495       4,500      841      104        945
Fiberglass Components
8" casing                      20         Lin ft            50        100      900       1,000       21      189       210
8" wellscreen                  80         Lin ft            55         440   3,960       4,400       92      832        924
114" purnp housing              60         Lin ft            75        450  L,050        4,50C       95      850        9145
8" - 114" reducer               1         No.             500          50      450         500       10       95        105
Mechanical Equipnent
20hp diesel engine              1         No.            6,00G         900   5,1 00      6,000      189   1,071       1 ,26C
Turbine pump                    1         No.            5,50o      3,300   2,200        5,5°0      693      462      1,155
Spare parts                     1          Lump sum      2,500      1,100   1,400        2,500      231      294        525
22,710  24,790    247,500                         $975
2.   Total for 3,000 Wells
Rs million                 US$ million
Construction Items                                                 49.11    20.19       69.30    10.31    4.24    11.,5
Fiberglass Components                                                3.12    28.08      31.20      o.66    5.90       6.56
Mechanical Equipment                                                15.90    26.10      42.00      3.34    5.48 *.              >
T8 `11337            42.50   11431   15.62    2S.93   ?h<



ANNEX 10
Page 2
3.       Experimental Wells & Distribution Systems
These facilities would be designed in detail by the consultants as
they identify possible improvements in either tubewell or distribution
system design.  Lump sums totalling Rs 5.2 million (US$ 1.1 million equivalent)
allowed for construction were actually based on 20 4-cusec wells, and buried
concrete pipe distribution system for both these large wells and 20 of the
standard 2-cusec wells. This is not intended to constrain the consultants
in any way, but was used simply as a basis for estimating the lump sum allowance.
4.     Engineering Consultants
See Annex 7.
5.    Agricultural Staff & Transportation
STAFF                     Annual              Numbers Required
Salary
(Rupees)     1970     '71      '72
Project Director              21 ,000       1       1         1       1
Chief Agronomist              18,000        1       1         1       1
Agronomist                    15,000                3         3       3
District Project Officer      15,000        4       4         4       4
Asat. Project Officer          9,300       40      80        80      80
Asat. Agronomist               9,300                3         3       3
ProJect Overseer               2,700              200       400     600
Farm Overseer                  4,500                6         6       6
STAFF COSTS (Rupees)
1970         '71             '72        '73
Project Director              21,000        21 ,000        21,000     21,000
Chief Agronomist              18,000        18,000         18,000     18,000
Agronomist                                  45,000         45,000     45,000
District Project Officer      60,000        60,ooo         60,000     60,000
Asst. Project Officer        372,000       744i,00        744,000    744,000
Asst. Agronomist                            27,900         27,900     27,900
Project Assistant                           541,000       108,000    162,000
Farm Overseer              _27,000                         27000      27,000
471 .000      997,000      1.051.000  1,104,000



ANNEX 10
Page 3
TRANSPORTATION
1970           '71     '72      '73
No. of Vehicles Required        6            10      10        10
Operation Cost @
Rs 8000/yr. each      488,ooo      80,000  80,000   80,000
SU,MMARY(Thousands of Rs)
1970           '71     '72      '73     TOTAL
Staff                          471           997    1051    1104       3623
Transportation                  48            80      80       80       288
519         1077    1131      1184     3911
6.     Agricultural Consultants
See Annex 7.
7.     Field Trial Farms
Land - 3 x 50 i    150 acres @ Rs 6000                     900,000
Buildings                                                  100,000
TOTAL Rs                1,000,000
a.     Vehicles & Imported Equipment
1. Vehicles (4 wheel drive)
ADC Project Headquarters           6)
ADC Field Engineering Staff       20)   36 @ Rs 15,000
Agricultural Services             10)   Rs 540.000
2. Motorcycles
For Agricultural Assistant
Project Officers 80 @ 3,000             Rs 240,000
3. Implements & Workshop Equipment
For Field Trial Farms                    Rs 300,000
4. Planting Materials and Special
Supplies for Field Trial
Farxms                                   Rs 160,000
5. Miscellaneous Survey and
Laboratory Equipment, Technical
Books and'Training Material      -       Rs 100,000
Total           Rs 1.34 million



ANNEX 1 0
Page e
EAST PAKIS'AN
TUBEWELLS PROJECT
Estimate of Operation and Maintenance Costs-
Number
Staff                                 Required         Annual SalaryAmount
Superintending Engineer                  1                21,600              21,600
lxecutive Engineer                      12                12,900             154,800
Assistant Engineer                      43                 9,300             399,900
Sectional Officers                     105                 4,800             504,000
(Sub-Assistant Engineers)
Mechanics and Assistant Mechanics    210                   3,8h0             806,400
Greologist                               1                 5,h00               5'4°
Assistant Geologist                      1                 4,200               4,200
U. D. Officers                           2                 8,400              16,800
L. D. Officers                           2                 4,200               8,400
Accountants                              6                 4,800              28,800
Clerk/Typists                          100                 1,920             192,000
.eons                                   50                 1,000              50,00o
2,1 92,300
Add Personnel Allowance arnl Benefits (EPADC Scale) 88%                    1 ,929.20Q
h,121,500
'Pransportation 60 vehicles d@ Rs 8,00                                        280,500
°ffice and Workshop Space                                                    150,000
%dorkshop Maintenance, too] replacement, etc.                                100,000
4,851 ,500
Add EPADC Dacca Overhead and Administration - (2½V)                          121,300
Total - 3,000 Wells                                                        4,972,800
Per well                    1,ffb
Add. Operator                 660
2,318
A//  BFADC exoenses only.  Fuel, lubricants, and spares paid separately by
irrigation groups.



ANNEX 1 1
EAST PAKISTAN
TUBEWELLS PROJECT
East Pakistan Agricultural Development Corporation
General
1.        The East Pakistan Agricultural Development Corporation (EPADC)
is an agency of the East Pakistan Government, established in 1961. It is
administered by a board of not more than five directors, of whom not more
than four are appointed by, and at the pleasure of, the Provincial Government
and one (the Registrar of Co-operative Societies or Commissioner, Co-operative
Societies and Agriculture), is a director ex-officio. The Provincial
Government appoints one of the Directors to be chairman and chief executive.
2.        As the board is constituted at present, its chairman is a former
Secretary for Agriculture in East Pakistan and the incumbent Secretary
for Agriculture is one of the directors. A close relationship, therefore,
exists between EPADC and the Department of Agriculture (see the organization
chart on page 4 of Annex 12).
3.        The Corporation has powers to act independently of government
procedures in carrying out its functions, in all matters except matters of
policy and audit and accounts (see para. 8) in which it is strictly bound to
follow the directions of the Provincial Government. It has powers to recruit
staff under its own conditions of service and possesses disciplinary powers
defined by its own regulations.
Functions of the Corporation
14.       EPADC's primary function is to procure, transport, store and
distribute to farmers supplies of agricultural inputs including seeds, fertilizers,
plant protection chemicals and agricultural machinery and equipment. To
do this, it has powers to promote the setting up of co-operative societies,
through whom its distribution to farmers is normally done, and to encourage
their establishment for other agricultural development purposes. It is also
empowered to take over and manage government-owned seed multiplication and
livestock breeding farms and fruit businesses, on terms laid down by government;
it may promote the manufacture of improved agricultural machinery but may
not itself undertake such manufacture.
5.        Its most important secondary function is to promote the development
of irrigation in East Pakistan by organizing the supply, maintenance and
operation of low-lift pumps and tubewells. It has adequate powers to execute
this function. In designated project areas it may also undertake a complete
range of agricultural development functions, including research, extension,
marketing and the provision of credit.



ANNEX 11
Page   2
Finance
6.        The Corporation derives its funds from:
(a) grants and loans from the Provincial Government;
(b) grants from local authorities;
(c)  proceeds of sales of bcnds issued by the Provincial
Government;
(d) loans sanctioned by the Provincial or central Governments;
(e) development fees it levies on beneficiaries of its projects; and
(f) other fees and charges (including tubewell rental charges)
sanctioned by the Provincial Government in EPADC project areas.
7.        Its annual budget is subject to the approval of the Provincial
Government.
Audit of Accounts
8.        The Corporation's accounts, which must be maintained in a form
prescribed by the Provincial Government in consultation with the Auditor-
Ceneral of the central Government, are subject to annual audit both by
auditors appointed by the Provincial Government and by the Auditor-General.



EAST PAKISTAN TUBEWELLS PROJECT
EPADC TUBEWELL DIVISION
OVERALL ORGANIZATION
PROVINCIAL HEADQUARTERS
(Chief Engineer - Tubewells)
DEPARTMENTAL & OTHER                                          PROJECT
CONTRACT WELLS
(Supt. Engineer)                                            HEADQUARTERS
FIELD                                           OPERATION &
ENGINEERING            HEADQUARTERS             MAINTENANCE
(Supt. Engineer)       STAFF                    (Supt. Engineer)
z
R  -m
IBRD - 4836 (3R) -  -_






EAST PAKISTAN TUBEWELLS PROJECT
EPADC TUBEWELL DIVISION
PROJECT HEADQUARTERS
PROJECT DIRECTOR
TRAINING          DESIGN            PROJECT            MECHANICAL          ACOUNTS             ADMIN.
(Exe. Eginer) (Exe. Eginer) CONTROL           ENGINEERING         - Contractors       -Personnel
(Exec. Engineer)    (Exec. Engineer)    (Exec. Engineer)    (Exec. Engineer)  - Payments       &Records
a|z
) rn
mx
IBRD - 4835 (3R)






EAST PAKISTAN TUBEWELLS PROJECT
EPADC TUBEWELL DIVISION
ORGANIZATION FOR FIELD ENGINEERING AND CONTRACT SUPERVISION
*                   | ~~~~~FIELD ENGINEERING    l
(Superintending Engineer)
I        |        ,          l_-   . ,           |        .I                  ,L
CO NTRACT
#1           ~~     ~~#2   ZONE  #3                  #4                  #5                  #6
(Exec. Engineer)
FIELD OFFICE       FIELD OFFICE
(Asst. Engineer)   (Asst. Engineer)
z
NOTE: The organization for well operation and maintenance                                                         > |
would be a duplicate of this orgonization.                                                                rn
IBRD - 4834(2R)






ANNEX 12
EAST PAKISTAN                                                             Rog-
TUBEWELLS PROJECT
ORGANIZATION OF DEPARTMENT OF AGRICULTURE
SECRETARY FOR AGRICULTURE
r EAST PAKISTAN          l       l   EAST PAKISTAN                                                                                 DIRECTORATE OF
...,.......  AGRICULTURAL DEVELOPMENT            FISHERIES DEVELOPMENT CO
E   CORPORATION                     CORPORATION
DRECTORATF              DIRECTORA  OF             DIRECTORATEOF        IDIRECTORATOF                DIRECTORATEOF
_  LIVESTOICK           MARKETiNGO                                        FISHERIES                 FORESTRY
SEARCH AN                                                                ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~PLANT PROTECTION
~~~~~~~~~~TRAINING    AGICLTRA
EAST PAKISTA. ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~~~~~ASITATPRJC
TRAININGAGRU                                                                                                           P       ARAL  U  EAST PAKISTAN
E   ThAINING   RESEARCH  RIERSAC)
_      INSTITUTE~~~~~~~INTIUT
E~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~                                         STRC EWROLJEPROJEC
L   DISTRICTS    | SSISTRICT PROJECT
|  TH A N AS        O FFICE ERS
|  UNIONS      |     ROJECT ASSISTANTS
BRID - 4837(2R)






ANNEX 13
EAST PAKISTAN
TUBEWELIS PROJECT
Market Prospects and Prices for Agricultural Commodities
1.        Rice is the staple item in the East Pakistan diet.  Total consump-
tion of milled rice in 1968/69 was estimated at approximately 10.0 million
lg tons, of which 9.8 million were prockeed locally. Wheat is becoming in-
creasingly important in the province, with consumption rising from about
170,000 lg tons in 1959/60 to 1.0 million in 1968/69. Imports of rice were
250,000 lg tons, and wheat 950,000 lg tons in 1968/69. Imports of both averaged
869,000 lg tons annually during 1959/60-1968/69. Most rice imports have
come frcm Burma, Thailand and China on govermnent contracts.  The bulk of the
wheat has been imported from the United States and West Pakistan.
2.        In the Fourth Five-Year Plan it is estimated that East Pakistan will
require 16.1 million tons of foodgra.ins in 1974/75, of which about 1 million
tons will be wheat and the balance mainly rice. With domestic output of wheat
projected a.t 200,000 tons, it is expected tha.t 300,000 tons of wheat will have
to be imported from abroa.d in addition to 500,000 tons from West Pakistan.
The Plan calls for Ea.st Pakistan to produce sufficient rice to meet domestic
requirements of 15.1 million tons plus 500,000 tons for export. By 1980,
demand for wheat and rice in East Pakistan is projected to reach more than
20 million lg tons.!/ Foodgrains consumption at that time would have to reach
about 18.9 million tons just to keep pace with projected population growth.
3.        East Pakistan produced 7.3 million tons of sugarcane in 1968/69,
compared with 6.2 million tans in 1964/65. The Fourth Plan target for 1974/75
is 11 million tons. White sugar is produced in 12 factories (1967/68).
Output is about 170,000 tons annually, which East Pakistan plans to raise
by 47%, to 250,000 tons in 1974/75. Most sugarcane at present is consumed
as gur (jaggery). Demand for both white and non-mill sugar is projected to
increase markedly in the future with population growth and improvement in diets.
4l.       According to the Fourth Plan, a.s East Pakistan moves towa.rd self-
sufficiency in foodgrains production, efforts will be made to shift emphasis to
other food crops to improve the nutritiona.l content of diets. With increased
output, prices can be lowered and consumption raised.  More attention will be
paid to comparative advantage in policy decisions affecting both food and
cash crops. Within this context, demand for such crops a.s groundnuts, potatoes,
vegetables, cotton and tobacco, which would be expected to be grown in the
project area, should rise significantly in the future. Targets for 1974/75
production compared with the Third Plan benchmark include a 55% expansion in
potatoes, 29% in other vegetables, 38% in cottonseed, 79% in other oilseeds,
39% in cotton and 32% in toba.cco.
5.        Improvements in marketing facilities in East Pakistan will be necessary.
Some improvements already have been made and others are planned over the next
5 years.  In 1964 , the East Pakistan Govermnent passed the Agricultural Produce
Markets Regulation Act which by 1968/69 had brought 75 markets under its purview.
1/ S.A. Abbas, Supply and Demand of Selected Agricultural Products in
Pakistan, 1961-75 (Lahore, 1967).



ANNEX 13
Page   2
Additional markets will be covered during 1970-75. A vegetable and fruit
wholesale market is being constructed at Dacca, and encouraging construction
of more such markets in the private sector is planned. In rural areas, the
development of Thana Central Co-operative Associations will aid marketing of
produce by local growers.  Foodgrain storage capacity in East Pakistan totaled
about 816,000 tons in June 1970 and further construction is under way. In the
project area, given the available and planned transport, storage and marketing
facilities, no serious problems of marketing are anticipated.
6.        For project economic evaluation, projected world prices of agricul-
tural commodities have been used. These prices are given in the accompanying
table. For rice, the principal item of production, a price of about US$ 102
per lg ton (US$ 100 per m ton) FOB Rangoon has been taken, roughly equivalent
to US$ 110 per lg ton CIF Chittagong. Recent world market prices of rice have
been at their highest since the 1950's. Landed prices in East Pakistan of
imported rice during the pa.st 3 yea.rs have ranged from approximately US$ 113-lh2
per lg ton for Burmese to US$ 144-147 for Thai rice. At the official exchange
rate (Rs 4.76 - US$ 1.00), these prices are approximately equivalent to Rs 22-29
per maund of rice. Actual prices have been substalitially higher, ranging from
about Rs 25 to more than Rs 40 per maund for rice.Y   The release prices of
foodgrain from government depots in 1968/69 were Rs 30.80 per maund of rice
and Rs 20.80 per maund of wheat.
7.        Over the next several years a large upswing in production and sup-
plies available for export is expected to cause a substantial decline in world
rice prices. The average FOB price for Burmese rice during that time is pro-
jected to decline to about US$ 100 per ton (US$ 102 per lg ton) and for Thai
rice to about US$ 14O per m ton. In terms of Pakistan rupees at Rs 4.76 n
US$ 1.00, these prices would approximately equal Rs 12.50, and Rs 18 per maund
of paddy in the project area (allowing for transport and processing). Taking
Rs 9.52 a US$ 1.00 as a more adequate reflection of the scarcity value of for-
eign exchange in Pakistan, these prices would be about Rs 25 and Rs 36 per
maund of paddy. Rice output in the project has been valued at Rs 25 per maund
of paddy, or about Rs 680 per Ig ton. In terms of rice, the price would be
about Rs 1,015 per lg ton.
8.        The prices used to value wheat and sugarcane production in the project
are projected world prices converted into local currency at Rs 9.52 = US$ 1.00.
1/ The a.verage retail price of rice at the village level in East Pakistan
between 1959/60 and 1967/68 ranged from Rs 2h to RB 40 per maund for
coarse, and fron Rs 27 to Rs 43 for medium, varieties. (At the official
exchange, these prices were US$ 137 to US$ 229 per lg ton of coarse and
US$ 154 to US$ 2h6 per lg ton of medium, rice.)  In April 1969, the price
was Rs 44 for medium, and Rs 41 for coarse rice, equivalent to Rs 1,200
and Rs 1,115 per lg ton respectively.



EAST Pr?KISTIAN'
T LTLELT 5 P3.OJ_ 0i
Farm Prcec
'967/65
Local Prices         Proected           - World Pricesl3        _         e r, a r k s
:.s per mawnd     Rs per naund         Rs per lg ton
vdt , S22                                  25                   681                US.S 102 oer 1i  ton (U;S; 1OC! per rI t
FOB Rangoon, or USi 109 per lg ton
CIF Chitta2ong.
Vhe ai                  16                 20                   51S4                Approximate equivalent to U3.J 1. 
per bu CIU  Chittagong.
Cilseed- (nustari)      15                 45                 1,222                Appro.-:La+e equivalent to TU',,? 12-
per lg ton CIF Chittagong.
~u-^rc-no                3                  3                    82                Approximate equivalent to 133 14
per lb of raw sugar CIF Zhittagcng.
1/ -           _  1. 00
CD~
'I :






ANNEX 14
EAST PAKISTAN
TUBEWELIS PROJECT
Agricultural-Production Costs and Returns to Farmers
Agricultural Production Costs
1.        Table 1 (page 2 of this Annex) gives estimated variable costs of
production, excluding fuel and interest on production loans, for each crop.
Present costs are based upon average prices paid by farmers for inputs in
1967/68. Future costs, both "without" and "with" project are based on the
same prices, but are adjusted to eliminate current subsidies on chemical
fertilizers (60%) and pesticides (100%). The Fourth Five-Year Plan proposes
that such subsidies be reduced or eliminated by 1975. Future costs of pro-
duction of paddlyIwithout" project are slightly higher than present costs due
to the introduction of improved IRRI broadcast aus.  This improved variety
would mean larger labor and seed costs.
2.        In Table 2 (page 3 of this Annex), the cost of production per cul-
tivated ac is worked out for each of the 3 soil types in the project. The
cost in each case is based upon the cropping patterns shown in Annex 4. The
variable costs are frcm Table 1, but exclude labor since the family presumably
would supply this input. The costs in Table 2 also include interest on pro-
duction loans, taken as 10% on ona-half of the variable costs, fuel and spare
parts for the operation of the tubewell (Rs 62 per ac), and land tax (Rs 5
per ac).
Returns to Farmers
3.        The lack of informa.tion regarding actual conditions in the project area
seriously limits any analysis of farm family budgets. Tables 3 and h (pages
4i and 5 of this Annex) illustrate the increase in net returns to the farmer
on an average cultivated ac which would be expected with the project.  Table 3
shows that the increase would vary markedly among the 3 soil types. Table h
illustrates the expected increase on an average ac (weighted average for the
entire project area) and for an average 4-ac holding.  The latter is the ap-
proximate avera.ge size of holdings in the districts where the project is lo-
cated. It is assumed that the entire 4 acres are cultivated and that 2 acres
are irrigated as a result of the project. The remaining 2 acres are assumed
to give the same returns per a.c as an acre "without" project.
4.        Per capita. net value of production from a 4-ac holding is calculated
on the basis of 8.3 family members at present, increasing 3.25% annually over
7 years to 10.4. "Without" project, which assumes modest increases in yields
and returns over 7 years, would just keep pace with estimated population growth.
"With" project would increa.se per capita net value of production by about 84%
over "present."



EAST PAIISTAN
TUBEL12 PROJECT
Cron Pro,uction Costs-/
(r.s/ec )
Fertilizer                                            Plant
Iabor              Power & Eqfuirument        and/or Man.ure                 Seeds            Protection Materiial               Total
Without   Witb           lithout   with            With out  With          'Without  With             Without Witlb             Withcut  'With
Present ?roject Project Present           Prs_ect Present Project Project Present Proiect Proiect Present Pro&ect Prs,ject Present Proiect P.-,.ect
Pad(b
T. Aman           165      165      -       10       40       -       20       20      -        15      15       -        -       -        -      2140     240       -
T. Aman (MEI)    -          -      285       -       -        50      -        -      125        -      -        20       -       -        40       -       -       520
Boro               -       -       295      -        -       50       -        -      125        -      -        20       -       -        20       -       -       510
B. Aus            165       -       -       145      -        -       20       -       -        30      -        -        -       -        -      260       -        -
B. Aus (MRI)       -       190     250       -       145      50      -        20     100        -      IcO      40       -       -        20       -      295      460
T. Aus (IRRI)      -        -      285       -       -        50      -        -      125        -      -        20       -       -        40       -       -       520
Other Crops
Sugarcane         4a20    420      570      90       90     110       50       50     140       80      80       80      20       20      120     660      660   1,020
Mustard            82       82      -       28       28       -       15       15      -         14      4       -        -       -        -      130      130       -
Theat              -       120     155       -       35       40      -        20      80        -      15       15       _       10       60       -      200      350
/ Excluding fuel and interest on productior loans (see Table 2).
Notes:  (1)  Present costs are based on prices paid by farmers for inputs in 1967/68.
(2)  Future costs, both "witbout* and 'with" project, are based on prices paid by farmers in 1967/68 adjusted fcr current subsidies on fertilizers and
pesticides
(3)  "Withorat Pro.,ectl and '"With Project" oosts refer to productian in the seventh year of operation of a&T tubewell, when it would attain full
development.x



EAST PAKISTAN
TUBEWET.IS PROJECT
Farm Production Costs
(Rs per cultivated ac)
Barind Tract             Tista Floodplain         Ganges/Br      utra Ridge
without   With             Without   With              Without   With
Pr-esent Project Project   Present Project Project   Present Project Project
Variable Production Costs, Excluding Labor
Paddy                                          75       75     450        170     180      470         85      95      183
Sugarcane                                      -        -       -          -        -       -          24      24       45
Mustard                                         -       -       -          -        -       -          24       24      -
Wheat                                          ___                        _       ___                                  175
Subtotal(l)     70 70                       7-      i&5     70-        -T      M3-    ;09
Fuel, Lubricants & Spare Parts                    0        0      62          0       0       62          0       0       62
(of which tax)                                  0        0     (2h)         0       0      (24)         0       0      (24)
Subtotal(2)     77       7       W-        170      160     532        133     i7
Interest on Production Loan
/I0% on i of subtotal(2)7                        4       4      29          9        9      46          7        7      23
Depreciation on Housing, Bullocks and
Equipment                                        32       32      32         32       32      32         32       32      32
Veterinary Charges                                13      13       13        13       13       13        13       13       13
Land Tax                                           5       5        5         5        5        5         5        5        5
TOTAL, Excluding Labor & Tubewell Rental        129      129     625        229     239      662        190     200      578
Notes:  (1)  fWithout Project" is 7 years from Present and projects the introduction of IRRI broadcast aus with
slightly increased production costs (Table 1).
(2) "With Project" is at full development 7 ypars from Present.
(3)  Variable production costs are from Table 1 adjusted for cropping patterns (Annex h).                t 



utS'! PAPKTSTAN
TUBFWFlL3 PROJECT
Produrtion and tReturns on On' Acre of Cultivated tAnd on Different Projnct Soil rype5
Barind Tract                Tiatn F`3oo'lplin            Ganpin/Brahm.iputrn Ridge
Without     With               Wihothut     witF                     f
Present   Project   Project   Pre3ent   ProJect   Project   Present   Project   Project
Paddy
Yield (mds/ec)                      15.0      16.5        h5.O!/  155.5/    18.31/       42.5;V  16.0        20.0       30.0
Area cropped (ac)                    1.0       1.0         2.0       2.0       2.0         2.0     0.9        0.9        0.9
Production (mds)                    15.0      16.5        90.0     31.0       3f-5       85.o0   1L4.        18.0       27.0
Gross value (Rs)                   330.0     363.0    1,980.0    682.0       803.0    1,870.0   317.0       396.0      594.0
Sugarcane
Yield (meds/ac)                      -         -           -        -          -           -     350.0 h    400      1,0200QI
Area cropped (ac)                    -         -           -        -          -           -       0.1iV      0:1-       0.1-
Production (mds)                     -         -           -        -          -          -       35.0      40.0       120.0
Gross value (Ps)                     -         -           -        -          -           -     105.0      120.0      360.0
Mustard
Yield (mds/ac)                       -         -           -        -          -           -       L.7       6.0         -
Area cropped (ac)                    _         -           _        _          -           -       0.5        0.5        -
Production (mds)                     _-                                                    -       2.4        3.0        -
Oross value (Rs)                     _-                                                   -      108.0     135.0         -
Wheat
Yield (mds/ac)                       _         _           -        _          _          _           _       _          O.0
Area cropped (ac)                    -         -           -         -         -           -       -          -          0.9
Production (mdds)                    -         -           -        _                     _        -          _         36.0
Oross value (Rs)                     -         -           -         -         _           -       -          -        576.o
Total
Area cropped (ac)                    1.0       1.0         2.0       2.0       2.0         2.0     1.6        1.6        2.0
Oross value of production (Rs)   330.0       363.0    1,980.0    682.0       803.0    1,870.0   530.0      651.0    1,530.0
Production costs (Rs)              129.0     129.0       625.0    229.0      239.0       662.0   190.0      200.0      578.0
Net return, excluding labor
Costa & tubewell renzAl (Hs)       201.0     234.0    1,389.0    b53.0       56L.o    1,242.C   3tr0.0     651.0       5L6.o
1/  Transplanted aman (0 mds/ac) 6nd boro (50 mde/ac).
2/  Broadcast aus (16 mds/ac) and transplanted aman (15 sads/ac).
3/  Broadcast aus (20 mds/ac) and transplanted waan (16.5 rds/ac).
h/  Transplanted aus (IrS mds/ac) and transplanted aman (LO rds/ac).
Notes:  (1)  Cropping patterns and yields Pre from Annex L, page 2; production costs are from Tables 1 and 2.
(2)  Present prices for inputs and production are 1967/68 farmTrs' prices (Anncox 13).                                   I
(3)  Future prices for inputs excludo present subsidies and they value imported items at Rs 9.52 - USt 1.00,
Future prices for production sre 1967/68 prices (Annex 13).



ANNEX lb
PR ge 5
EAST PAKISTAN
TUBEWELIS PROJECT
Value of Production on Average Farm Holding
Rs per Cultivated acl/      Rs per h-ac Holding2/
Withiht ith                Without  With
Present ProJect Project   Present Project Project
Gross Value of Production       550     648    1,814       2,200   2,592  4,924
Production Costs
(exciudiig labor)               188     195       530       752      780   2,120
Fuel, lubricants & spares       0       0        62          0       0     124
Land tax                       5        5         5        20       20      20
Net Return (excluding labor   357       448    1,217       1,428   1,792   3,330
& tubewell rental costs)
Number of Family Members                                       8.3    10.4    10.4
Per Capita Net Return (Rs)                                   172     172      320
(us$   36) (US$ 36) (US$ 67)
1/ Weighted average for project lands (Table 3).
2/  2 ac of project irrigated land and 2 ac of non-irrigated land taken as
"without project" (Table 3).






ANNEX 1 5
EAST PAKISTAN
TUBEWELLS PROJE:CT
Rate of Return to the Economy
1.        The expected rate of return from the project has been calculated to
be about 32%, excluding the costs of farm labor. Including all farm labor costs
at the rate of Rs. 3.50 per man - day would reduce the expected rate of return
to about 20%.  This calculation is based on a 24-year period; installation of
wells in the years 197C/71 - 1973/74h, followed by 20 years of operation to
1993/94. The life of a well has been taken to be 20 years (screen and casing)
with the pumps having a useful life of 10 years and the engines 5 years.
Costs
2.        The costs of the project include:
a) construction and implementation,
b)  operation and maintenance, and
c) replacement of well screens, casing, pumps and engines.
Farm production costs (Annex ll) are not included in the above but
are subtracted from the gross value of production each year to obtain the annual
net value of production. The costs of fuel and lubricants for operating pumping
units are included under the heading of operation and maintenance. Foreign com-
ponents of all cost items have been converted to local currency at Rs. 9.52
US $ 1.00, and all costs have been adjusted for taxes and subsidies.
3.        Construction and implementation costs are as shown in Annex 9.  They
include costs of additional agricultural services required for the project during
1970/71 to 1973/74, but exclude the costs of the feasibility studies for a seed
project and future groundwater development. The cost estimates for the project
works include a 25% contingency allowance. Construction and implementation costs
are summarized belows
FY 1970/71      1971/72     1972/73      1973/74      Total
---------Rs millions equivalent-------------
Local     17.9             32.5        32.5         20.9        103.8
Foreign   37.7             68.6        67.1         4.3.8      217.2
(at Rs 9.52 - $1.00)
TOTAL     55.6           101.1         99.6         64.7      320.0
4.        Annual operation and maintenance costs are based on the following
EPADC estimatea:
Per Well                   3.OOO Wells
(Rs)                    (Rs. million)
EPADC Expenses          2,270                        6.9
Spare Parts               5143                       1.6
Fuel & Lubricants       2L625                        8.0
5,43                        19-



ANNEX 15
Page 2
5.        The cost of fuel above is based on R8 2.50 per imperial gallon
(the approximate cost to the farmers). The economic cost for calculation
of the rate of return is estimated to be Rs 1.00 per gallon at the official
rate of exchange, or Rs 1.70 at an exchange rate of Rs 9.52 - US $1.00, as
followss
Cost to farmer        Economic cost
-- Rs per imperial gallon --
Direct Foreign Exchange                    0.70                  0.70 (1.40)
Import and Excise Duties                   1.08                   -
Defense Surcharge                          0.27
Development Surcharge                      0.01                   -
Freight (development surcharge)            0.15                  0.15
Dealer's Commission                        0.05                  0.05
Average octroi (tax)                        0.02                   -
Freight costs, dealer to pump site         0.07-0.22             0.10
2.35-2.50             1.00 (1.70)
( ) * at Rs 9.52 - US $ 1.00
6.        Taking this economic cost of fuel, and allowing for inclusion of
spare parts in replacement costs, leads to a total 0 & M cost per well of Rs
4055. Applying this figure to the project construction schedule gives the
project 0 & M cost stream:
FY 1971/72   1972/73   1973/74   1974/75 and thereafter
----Rs million---------
2.00     6.00      9.00       12.32
7.        Estimated replacement costs are shown in Table I.  For calculating
the rate of return, these were converted to economic costs by applying a factor
which reflects both the foreign cost of each item and the relative frequency
with which it is replaced.
8.        The annual costs of agricultural services added for the project
are shown separately in Table 2 for the years after the construction and
implementation period. They are assumed to continue at the same level as
during the construction and implementation phase. (See Annex 9).
Benefits
9.        The benefits of the project consist of the increased net value
of agricultural production resulting from it. The increases come from greater
cropping intensities and from higher yields with the use of improved (IRRI)
varieties, larger amounts of inputs and improved cultural practices.
`C;.     Each well, except those constructed in 1970/71, the initial year
of construction, is assumed to irrigate 30 ac in the first year and 60 ac
thereafter. Wells constructed in 1970/71 are presumed to give no benefits
in the initial year, serve 30 ac in the second year and 60 ac in the third
and subsequent year. Yields on the land served by each well are assumed to
increase in a linear fashion, reaching full development in the seventh year
of well operation, as shown in Annex 4.



ANNEX 1 
Page 3
11.       The yearly increases in production value are the differences
between "without" and "wit,h" project.  "Without" project assumes moderate
increases in yields over the seven year transition period without any
intensification of cropping or any change in crops grown. The value of
product,ions is calculated on the basis of projected world prices translated
in local currency at Rs 9.52 = US$ 1.00 for rice and wheat of 1967/68
average growers' prices for sugarcane and mustard. Rice is valued at
Rs ?N per md of paddy, which, after allowing for processing and transport,
is approximately equivalent, to US$ 102 per ig ton of milled rice FOB Rangoon
Prices of other commodities is given in Annex 12. Product,ion costs are
those shown in Annex 13.  They have been adjusted for subsidies and taxes
with foreign cost,s at the Rs 9.52 = US$ 1.00 rate of exchange.
12.       The benefits at "present", "without" and "wit.h" project at full
development are summarized below.
At Full Development
Without             With
Present          Project,           Project.
Paddy
Cropped area ('000 ac)              262.5            262.5               310.A
Yield (mld/cropped ac) 1/            15.8             18.2                41.6
Production ('000 lg tons)           152.2             175 .              474.6
Gross value of production           103.6             119.5              323.2
(Rs million)
Sugarcane
Cropped area ('000 ac)                4.5               4-h                4.5
Yield (md/cropped ac)               350.0            400.0             1,200.0
Production ('000 lg tons)            57.8              66.1              198.2
Gross valuze of production (Rs        4.7               5.4               16.3
mil lion)
Must.ard
Cropped area ('000 ac)               22.5              22.5 ?
Yield (md/cropped ac)                 h.7              6.0                -
Production ('000 lg tons)             3.9               5.0               -
Gross value of production (Rs         4.8               6.1               -
million)
*Wheat.
Cropped area ('000 ac)               --0.5
Yield (md/cropped ac)                                                    o40.0
Production ('000 lg tons)                                                 59.5
Gross value of production (Rs mill.) -                 -                  32..4
Total
Culltvated area ('000 ac)           180.0             180.0              180.0
Cropped area ('000 ac)              294.0             294.0              360.0
Gross value of production           113.1             131.0              371.9
Production costs (Rs mill.)          24.4              26.2               80.9
Net. value of production (Rs mill.) 88.7              104.8              291.0
1/ weighted averawe.



ANNEX 1 5
Page 4
Sensitivity
13.       The rate of return was tested for aensitivity to changes in
construction costs, the area served by each well, the length of the transition
period to full development, and the value of paddy produced in the project.
The results, summarized below, indicate that the projeot's rate of return
is relatively Insensitive to changes in construction costs, but is highly
sensitive to changes in the value of paddy and the area ultimately served
by each well. It is lese sensitive to changea in the time required to reach
full development.
Rate of Return
Exeluding Costa   Including Costs
of farm labor    of all farm labor
Expected conditions (7 years to reach full
development, each well ultimately serving
60 ac, paddy valued at Rs 25/md)                         32%             20%
Construction costs
+ 25%                                                26%              14%
Years to reach full development
10                                                 24%              14%
Area ultimately served by each well (ac)
21%             10%
80                                                 40%              27%
Value of paddy (Rs/md)
20                                                 24%              11%
30                                                 37%              26%
Benefit Streams
14.       The benefit streams under the different assumptions are shown in
Table 3 (page 7 of this Annex).



EBt  ?AISTA  - TuBw=z PR=cr
(XflihJons of R'pees)-/
480 Wells                           960 Wells                         960 wells                           600 Wells
1970-71 Constrtio                   1971-72 Cw-trwtion                1972-73 Construction                1973-76 -ro=sttion
Sereens                            Screens                           Screens                             Scen
and                                and                                and                                 and
yar                  A35i      P        Engnenf  Pop                                      Casings    ps -s                   Casinps    Ps    Eignes             T0'AL
1973
1973
1576
1975
19F76                                     2.88                                                                                                                    2.88
5.76                                                                                  5.76
1F7                                                                                                            5.76                                               5.76
1 579                                                                                                                                               3.60          3. 60
19e1                  .          2.64    2.88                                                                                                                     5.52
152                                                                5.28     5.76                                                                                 11.04
199S'                                                                                                5.28      5.76                                              11.04
1SBi.                                                                                                                                   3.30        3.60          9.90
15:-5
1SS6                                      2.58                                                                                                                    2.88
1F67                                                                        5.76                                                                                  5.76
-'55!                                                                                                         5.76                                               5.76
153                                                                                                                                                3.60          3.6
1 950
1591                5.76        2.66      2.88                                                                                                                   11.28
1992                                                   11.52       5.26    5.76                                                                                  22.56
1993                                                                                       11.52      5.28     5.76                                              22.56
159g6                                                                                                                        7.20       3.30        3.60         1.410
1935
15;c                                      2.88                                                                                                                    2.88
,1,<                                                                        5.76                              5.76
1999                                                                                                                                                3.60          3.66
20C;
2;01                            2.66      2.88                                                                                                                    5.52
2CC.2                                                              5.28     5.76                                                                                 11 .oe
2XC3                                                                                                  5.28      5.76                                             11.04
20C64                                                                                                                                   3.30        3.60          6.90
/1 Pb-eigi excaarge isl=ed at official rate (Rs 4.76 - US$ 1.00)



ANNZX1 
Table 2
Page 6
EAST PAKISTAN - TUBEWELLS PROJECT
COST STS
RS (inilJiona)
Foreign Cost Component Valued at Rs 9.52 - $1.00
Conatruction &     Operation &       Replace-  Agric.
Yoar   I _tAtion   Maintenance       Monte      Services      Total
1970/71           55.60                                                       55.60
72          101.10           2.00                 -         t           103-1C
73           99.60           6.00                 -      Impl. Costs  105.60
74           614.70           9.00                                       73.70
75             -             12.32                _         1.18         13.50
1975/76                           12.32              1.)3        1 18         18.83
77                                             lo 1.66.                  24.16
78                                              10.66                    24.16
79                                              6.66                     20.16
80                                                -                      13.50
1980/81                                               9.02                    22.52
82                                              18.04                    31.07
83                                              18.04                    31.07
84                                              11.27                    24.77
85                                             .                          13.50
1985/86                                               5.33                     18.83
87                                              10.66                     214.16
88                                              10.66                     24.16
89                                               6.66                     20.16
90                             ,                                          13.50
1990/91                                              19.85                     33-35
92                                              39.70                     53.00
93                                              39.70       +             53.00
941                         12.32               24.82                     38.32



ANNEX 15
Table 3
Page 7
EAST PAKISTAN - TUBEWELIS PROJECT
BIEIT STRUMS§
Re (millions)
Alternatives for Sensitivity Analysis
lExpected ~    Area Served             Transition            Paddcy Value
40 Ac   80 kc         4 YrE    10 yrs       Rs 20   Rs 30
1970/71      0              0       0             0         0            0       0
72   7.73          4.97    94;*         14.00       5.50        5.71    9.21
73  34.87         23.99   44.46         62.00      19.50       25.86   40.86
74  68.27         43.41   86.80        113.50      38.05       50.27   79.97
75  96.32         61.35  122.67        148.50      59.50       70.23  113.83
76 125.62         80.31  160.58        169.00      79.50       93.52  147.42
77 146.69         94.33  188.61        178.02      99.75      109.85  173.15
78 169.06        108.37  216.69                   120.00      126.36  198.76
79 180.53        115.72  231.39                   137.50      134.95  212.24
80 185.29        118.67  237.30                   153.50      138.47  217.57
168.50
176.00
178.02
1994/95 185.29        118.67  237.30        178.02    178.02       138.47  217.57
1/ 7 year transition to fiull yield
30 acres irrigated first year, 60 thereafterv
Rice valued at Rs 25 per meuind of p*.dy.






MAP I
EAST PAKISTAN
TUBEWELLS PROJECT
F   Frmes
DivtaC k EA 6A  o                                         s1
ARCN ?97O   --'--S                      -                                                  ta gu 



