CONFORMED COP
CREDIT NUMBER 341 BD
Development Credit
Agreement
(Northwest Region Tubewells Project)
BETWEEN
PEOPLE'S REPUBLIC OF BANGLADESH
AND
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
DATED NOVEMBER 6, 1972


﻿CONFORMED COPY
CREDIT NUMBER 341 BD
Development Credit
Agreement
(Northwest Region Tubewells Project)
BETWEEN
PEOPLE'S REPUBLIC OF BANGLADESH
AND
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
DATED NOVEMBER 6,1972


﻿DEVELOPMENT CREDIT AGREEMENT
AGREEMENT, dated November 6, 1972 between PEOPLE'S REPUBLIC
OF BANGLADESH (hereinafter called the Borrower) and INTERNATIONAL
DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION (hereinafter called the Association).
WHEREAS (A) on June 30, 1970 the Association agreed to make available
a development credit (hereinafter called Credit No. 208) in an amount equivalent
to fourteen million dollars ($14,000,000) to assist in the financing of a project
for irrigation by tubewells within the districts of Dinajpur, Rangpur, Bogra,
Rajshahi, Pabna, Mymensingh and Tangail (hereinafter called the Tubewells Project);
(B)   on June 30, 1970 the Kingdom of Sweden (hereinafter called Sweden)
agreed to make available a development credit in an amount of thirty-one million
five hundred thousand Swedish Kronor (SKr3 1,500,000) to assist in the financing
of the Tubewells Project;
(C)   withdrawals from the credit account opened by the Association and
from the special account opened by the Sveriges Riksbank, Stockholm, acting as
agent for Sweden, under the aforementioned development credits were suspended
on December 29, 1971 and February 1, 1972, respectively;
(D)   by an exchange of letters between Sweden and the Borrower on
May 31, 1972 and June 2, 1972, Sweden agreed to extend financial assistance
to the Borrower as an interim source of financing for certain projects of high
developmental priority in the territories of the Borrower, including the Tubewells
Project;
(E)   by agreement between the Government of Canada and the Borrower
(hereinafter called the Canadian Grant Agreement), the Government of Canada has
agreed to make available to the Borrower, by way of grant, certain goods and
services required for the Tubewells Project in value equivalent to six million
Canadian dollars (Can$6,000,000) approximately;
(F)   the Borrower has requested Sweden and the Association, jointly, to
extend financial assistance to the Borrower for the continuation and completion
of the Tubewells Project, as modified as hereinafter set forth, and to include in
such joint financial assistance provision for repayment to Sweden of the financial
assistance extended by Sweden for the Tubewells Project under the development
credit and the interim financing arrangements referred to in paragraphs (B) and


﻿4                                            6
(D) above and for repayment to the Association of the principal amount of Credit
No. 208 withdrawn from the credit account opened by the Association thereunder;
(G)   Sweden has agreed to extend a development credit to the Borrower
in a principal amount of twenty-nine million six hundred thousand Swedish Kronor
(SKr29,600,000) upon the terms and conditions set forth in an agreement of even
date herewith (hereinafter called the Swedish Credit Agreement);
(H)   the Association has agreed, on the basis inter alia of the foregoing,
to extend a development credit to the Borrower upon the terms and conditions
hereinafter set forth;
(I)   by an agreement of even date herewith (hereinafter called the Joint
Financing Agreement) the Borrower, Sweden and the Association deem it to be
in their mutual interest that the allocation, withdrawal and use of the proceeds
of said credits and the execution of the project, as well as other matters relating
thereto, be regulated therein;
NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:
ARTICLE I
General Conditions; Definitions
Section 1.01. The parties to this Development Credit Agreement accept all
the provisions of the General Conditions Applicable to Development Credit
Agreements of the Association, dated January 31, 1969, with the same force and
effect as if they were fully set forth herein, subject, however, to the following
modifications thereof (said General Conditions Applicable to Development Credit
Agreements of the Association, as so modified, being hereinafter called the General
Conditions):
(a)  The second sentence of Section 3.02 is amended to read as follows:
"A service charge at the rate of one-half of one per cent (1/2 of 1%)
per annum shall be payable on the portion to be paid out of the Credit
Account of the principal amount of any special commitment entered into
by the Association pursuant to Section 2.07 of the Joint Financing
Agreement and outstanding from time to time if, under such special
commitment, the Association shall have agreed to pay such principal amount
notwithstanding any subsequent suspension or cancellation of the Credit."


﻿5
(b)   Article V is deleted.
(c)   Section 6.01 is amended to read as follows:
"Section 6.01. Cancellations by the Borrower. The Borrower may by
notice to the Association cancel any amount of the Credit which the
Borrower shall not have withdrawn prior to the giving of such notice, except
that the Borrower may not so cancel any amount of the Credit in respect
of which the Association shall have entered into a special commitment
pursuant to Section 2.07 of the Joint Financing Agreement."
(d)   Section 6.02(h) is deleted and Section 6.02(i) is renumbered into
Section 6.02(h).
(e)   Section 6.02 is amended by inserting the words "or the Swedish Credit
Agreement or the Joint Financing Agreement or the Canadian Grant Agreement"
after the words "the Development Credit Agreement" wherever the latter words
appear in Section 6.02.
(f)   Section 6.04 is amended to read as follows:
"Section 6.04. Aimounts Subject to Special Commitment Not Afeicted
by Cancellation or Suspension by the Association. No cancellation or
suspension by the Association shall apply to amounts subject to any special
commitment entered into by the Association pursuant to Section 2.07 of
the Joint Financing Agreement."
(g)   Section 6.06 is amended by inserting the words ", the Joint Financing
Agreement" after the words "the Development Credit Agreement".
(h)   Section 8.01 is amended by inserting the words "and the Joint
Financing Agreement" after the words "the Development Credit Agreement" in
the first sentence of Section 8.01 and by inserting the words "or the Joint Financing
Agreement" after the words "the Development Credit Agreement" in the second
sentence of Section 8.01.
(i)   Section 8.02 is amended by inserting the words "or under the Joint
Financing Agreement" after the words "the Development Credit Agreement".
Section 1.02. Wherever used in this Development Credit Agreement, unless
the context otherwise requires, the several terms defined in the General Conditions


﻿6
have the respective meanings therein set forth and the following additional terms
have the following meanings:
(a)   "Project Area" means an area of approximately 180,000 acres within
the distr-ts of Dinajpur, Rangpur, Bogra, Rajshahi and Pabna in the northwest
region of People's Republic of Bangladesh.
(b)   "BADC" means Bangladesh Agricultural Development Corporation, a
corporate entity established under Ordinance No. XXXVII of 1961, and includes
any successor thereto.
(c)   "TIP" means the Thana Irrigation Program of the Borrower's Ministry
of Local Government, Rural Development and Cooperatives.
(d)   "Irrigation Group" means a group of farmers duly constituted as an
irrigation group under the Thana Irrigation Program.
(e)   "Water Board" means Bangladesh Water Development Board, a body
corporate constituted by the Bangladesh Water and Power Development Boards
Order No. 59 of 1972, and includes any successor thereto.
ARTICLE II
The Credit
Section 2.01. The Association agrees to lend to the Borrower, on the terms
and conditions in this Development Credit Agreement set forth or referred to,
an amount in various currencies equivalent to fourteen million dollars
($14,000,000).
Section 2.02. (a) The Association shall open a Credit Account on its books
in the name of the Borrower and shall credit to such Account the amount of
the Credit.
(b)  The amount of the Credit may be withdrawn from the Credit Account
as provided in, and subject to the rights of cancellation and suspension set forth
in, this Development Credit Agreement and in accordance with Article II of the
Joint Financing Agreement.
(c)  Except as shall otherwise be agreed between the Borrower and the
Association, no withdrawals from the Credit Account shall be made on account
of expenditures in the territories of any country which is not a member of the


﻿7
Bank (other than Switzerland) or for goods produced in, or services supplied from,
such territories.
Section 2.03. The Borrower shall pay to the Association a service charge
at the rate of three-fourths of one per cent (3/4 of 1%) per annum on the principal
amount of the Credit withdrawn and outstanding from time to time.
Section 2.04. Service charges shall be payable semi-annually on April 1 and
October 1 in each year.
Section 2.05. The Borrower shall repay the principal amount of the Credit
withdrawn from the Credit Account in semi-annual installments payable on April I
and October 1 commencing April 1, 1983 and ending October 1, 2022, each
installment to and including the installment payable on October 1, 1992 to be
one-half of one per cent (1/2 of 1%) of such principal amount, and each installment
thereafter to be one and one-half per cent (1-1/29) of such principal amount.
Section 2.06. The currency of the United Kingdom of Great Britain and
Northern Ireland is hereby specified for the purposes of Section 4.02 of the General
Conditions.
ARTICLE III
Use of Proceeds of the Credit;
Execution of the Project
Section 3.01. (a) The Borrower shall cause the proceeds of the Credit to
be applied in accordance with Article III of the Joint Financing Agreement.
(b)   If the Association  shall have reasonably  determined  that the
procurement of any item in any Category of Schedule 1 to the Joint Financing
Agreement is inconsistent with the procedures set forth or referred to in Section
3.01 of the Joint Financing Agreement, no expenditures for such item shall be
financed out of the proceeds of the Credit and the Association may, without in
any way restricting or limiting any other right, power or remedy of the Association
under the Development Credit Agreement, by notice to the Borrower, cancel such
amount of the Credit as, in the Association's reasonable opinion, represents the
amount of such expenditures which would otherwise have been eligible for financing
out of the proceeds of the Credit.
Section 3.02. The Borrower shall carry out the Project in accordance with
Article IV of the Joint Financing Agreement.


﻿8
ARTICLE IV
Taxes and Restrictions
Section 4.01. The principal of, and service charges on, the Credit shall be
paid without deduction for, and free from, any taxes imposed under the laws of
the Borrower or laws in effect in its territories.
Section 4.02. This Development Credit Agreement shall be free from any
taxes on or in connection with the execution, delivery or registration thereof,
imposed under the laws of the Borrower or laws in effect in its territories.
Section 4.03. The payment of the principal of, and service ciarges on, the
Credit shall be free from all restrictions, regulations, controls and moratoria of
any nature imposed under the laws of the Borrower or laws in effect in its
territories.
ARTICLE V
Remedies of the Association
Section 5.01. If any event specified in Section 7.01 of the General Conditions
or in Section 5.03 of this Agreement shall occur and shall continue for the period,
if any, therein set forth, then at any subsequent time during the continuance
thereof, the Association, at its option, may by notice to the Borrower declare
the principal of the Credit then outstanding to be due and payable immediately
together with the service charges thereon and upon any such declaration such
principal, together with such charges, shall become due and payable immediately,
anything in this Development Credit Agreement to the contrary notwithstanding.
Section 5.02. For the purposes of Section 6.02 of the General Conditions,
the following additional events are specified:
(a)   The right of the Borrower to withdraw the proceeds of the Credit
provided for in the Swedish Credit Agreement or to receive the goods and services
provided for in the Canadian Grant Agreement shall have been suspended, or the
Borrower shall have been unable to withdraw such proceeds or to receive such
goods and services, in whole or in part, and the Borrower shall have failed to
obtain funds or goods and services from other sources in substitution therefor,
on terms and conditions satisfactory to the Association, and such event shall have
continued for a period of one hundred and twenty days;


﻿S 9
(b)   A default shall have occurred in the performance of any covenant or
agreement on the part of the Borrower tinder the Joint Financing Agreement and
such default shall have continued for a period of sixty days; and
(c)   The outstanding principal of the credit provided for in the Swedish
Credit Agreement, or any part thereof, shall have been declared, or become, due
and payable in advance of the agreed maturity thereof in accordance with the
terms of said Agreement.
Section 5.03. For the purposes of Section 7.01 of the General Conditions,
the following additional event is specified:
Any event specified in Section 5.02 of this Agreement shall occur.
ARTICLE VI
Effective Date; Termination
Section 6.01. The following event is specified as an additional condition to
the effectiveness of this Development Credit Agreement within the meaning of
Section 10.01(b) of the General Conditions:
The execution and delivery of the Swedish Credit Agreement, the Joint
Financing Agreement and the Canadian Grant Agreement on behalf of the parties
thereto respectively, other than the Association, shall have been duly authorized
or ratified by all necessary governmental action, and all conditions precedent to
the effectiveness of each such Agreement or the right to make withdrawals
thereunder or to receive goods and services thereunder, except only the effectiveness
of other of such Agreements or of this Development Credit Agreement or the
right to make withdrawals thereunder, shall have been fulfilled.
Section 6.02. The following are specified as additional matters, within the
meaning of Section 10.02(b) of the General Conditions, to be included in the
opinion or opinions to be furnished to the Association:
(a)   the Joint Financing Agreement, the Swedish Credit Agreement and
the Canadian Grant Agreement have been duly authorized or ratified by, and
executed and delivered on behalf of, the Borrower and constitute valid and binding
obligations of the Borrower in accordance with their terms;
(b)   BADC has full power and authority (i) to construct and maintain Part
A(i), (ii), (iv) and (v) of the Project, (ii) to provide equipment, materials and other


﻿10
goods under Part B of the Project to the extent required to carry out said
construction and maintenance and also the functions of BADC inder Part C of
the Project, (iii) to employ consultants under Part C(i) of the Project as set forth
in the Joint Financing Agreement, (iv) to provide guidance and assistance under
Part C(ii) of the Project, and has all necessary rights and powers in connection
therewith and that all acts, consents and approvals necessary therefor have been
duly and validly performed or given;
(c)   The Borrower's Ministry of Agriculture has full power and authority
to (i) construct, operate and maintain Part A(iii) of the Project, (ii) provide
equipment, materials and other goods under Part B of the Project to the extent
required to carry out Part A(iii) of the Project and also the functions of the
Borrower's Ministry of Agriculture under Part C of the Project, (iii) provide guidance
and assistance under Part C(ii) of the Project, and has all necessary rights and
powers in connection therewith, and that all acts, consents and approvals necessary
therefor have been duly and validly performed or given; and
(d)   The Borrower's Ministry of Local Government, Rural Development and
Cooperatives has full power and authority to implement and enforce TIP and to
do all such things, either by its own agencies or in conjunction with BADC and/or
said Ministry of Agriculture, as may be required to carry out Part C(ii) of the
Project, and has all necessary rights and powers in connection therewith, and that
all acts, consents and approvals necessary therefor have been duly and validly
performed or given.
(e)   The Water Board has full power and authority to implement Part D
of the Project, and has all necessary rights and powers in connection therewith,
and that all acts, consents and approvals necessary therefor have been duly and
validly performed or given.
Section 6.03. The date of January 6, 1973 is hereby specified for
the purposes of Section 10.04 of the General Conditions.
ARTICLE VII
Miscellaneous
Section 7.01. The Closing Date shall be December 31, 1976 or such other
date as shall be agreed between the Borrower and the Association.


﻿11
Section 7.02. The Chief of the External Resources Division of the Planning
Commission of che Borrower is designated as representative of the Borrower for
the purposes of Section 9.03 of the General Conditions.
Section 7.03. The following addresses are specified for the Durposes of
Section 9.01 of the General Conditions:
For the Borrower:
Planning Commission
Bangladesh Secretariat
Dacca
Cable address:
PLANCOM
Dacca
For the Association:
International Development Association
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America
Cable address:
INDEVAS
Washington, D.C.
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their
representatives thereunto duly authorized, have caused this Development Credit
Agreement to be signed in their respective names and to be delivered in the District
of Columbia, United States of America, as of the day and year first above written.
PEOPLE'S REPUBLIC OF BANGLADESH
By /s / A.M.A. Muhith
Authorized Representatire
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
By /s/ I.P.M. Cargill
Vice President, Asia


