CONFORMED COPY
CREDIT NUMBER 208 PAK
Development Credit
Agreement
(Tubewells Project - East Pakistan)
BETWEEN
ISLAMIC REPUBLIC OF PAKISTAN
AND
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
DATED JUNE 30, 1970


﻿CONFORMED COPY
CREDIT NUMBER 208 PAK
Development Credit
Agreement
(Tubewells Project - East Pakistan)
BETWEEN
ISLAMIC REPUBLIC OF PAKISTAN
AND
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
DATED JUNE 30, 1970


﻿DEVELOPMENT CREDIT AGREEMENT
AGREEMENT, dated June 30, 1970 between the ISLAMIC REPUBLIC
OF PAKISTAN, acting by its President (hereinafter called the Borrower) and
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION (hereinafter called the
Association).
WHEREAS (A) the Borrower and the Province of East Pakistan have
requested from the Association a credit to assist in financing a project for irrigation
by tubewells in the northwest of East Pakistan;
(B)   the Borrower and the Province of East Pakistan have requested from
the Kingdom of Sweden a credit to assist in financing said project, and by an
agreement of even date herewith (hereinafter called the Swedish Credit Agreement)
the Kingdom of Sweden has agreed to make available to the Borrower, for relending
to the Province of East Pakistan for said project, a credit in a principal amount
of thirty-one million five hundred thousand Swedish Kronor (SKr 31,500,000)
equivalent at present parity rate as nearly as possible to six million dollars
($6,000,000), on the terms and conditions set forth in the Swedish Credit
Agreement;
(C)   by an agreement of even date herewith the Borrower, the Province
of East Pakistan, the Kingdom of Sweden and the Association deem it to be in
their mutual interest that the allocation, withdrawal and use of the proceeds of
said credits and the execution of said project, as well as other matters relating
thereto, be regulated therein;
(D)   the Borrower, concurrently with said credits, will receive from the
Government of Canada, for relending to the Province of East Pakistan, a credit
in a principal amount of seven million Canadian Dollars (Can$7,000,000) equivalent
at present parity rate as nearly as possible to six million five hundred thousand
dollars ($6,500,000), for the acquisition of certain goods and services required for
said project;
(E)   the Association is willing, on the basis of the aforegoing, to make
available to the Borrower for said project a development credit in an amount in
various currencies equivalent to fourteen million dollars ($14,000,000), on the terms
and conditions provided herein;
NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:


﻿40
ARTICLE I
General Conditions; Definitions
Section 1.01. The parties to this Development Credit Agreement accept all
the provisions of the General Conditions Applicable to Development Credit
Agreements of the Association, dated January 31, 1969, with the same force and
effect as if they were fully set forth herein, subject, however, to the following
modifications thereof (said General Conditions Applicable to Development Credit
Agreements of the Association, as so modified, being hereinafter called the General
Conditions):
(a)   Paragraph 5 of Section 2.01 is amended to read as follows:
"5. The term 'Borrower' means the Islamic Republic of Pakistan acting
by its President."
(b)   The second sentence of Section 3.02 is amended to read as follows:
"A service charge at the rate of one-half of one per cent (1/2 of 1%)
per annum shall be payable on the portion to be paid out of the
Credit Account of the principal amount of any special commitment
entered into by the Association pursuant to Section 2.07 of the Joint
Financing Agreement and outstanding from time to time if, under such
special commitment, the Association shall have agreed to pay such
principal amount notwithstanding any subsequent suspension or
cancellation of the Credit."
(c)   Article V is deleted.
(d) Section 6.01 is amended to read as follows:
"Section 6.01. Cancellation by the Borrower. The Borrower may
by notice to the Association cancel any amount of the Credit which
the Borrower shall not have withdrawn prior to the giving of such
notice, except that the Borrower may not so cancel any amount of
the Credit in respect of which the Association shall have entered into
a special commitment pursuant to Section 2.07 of the Joint Financing
Agreement."
(e)   Section 6.02 is amended by inserting the words "or the Swedish Credit
Agreement or the Joint Financing Agreement or the Canadian Credit


﻿0                                 5
Agreement" after the words "the Development Credit Agreement"
wherever the latter words appear in Section 6.02.
(f)   Section 6.04 is amended to read as follows:
"Section 6.04. Amounts Subject to Special Commitment Not
Affected by Cancellation or Suspension by the Association. No
cancellation or suspension by the Association shall apply to amounts
subject to any special commitment entered into by the Association
pursuant to Section 2.07 of the Joint Financing Agreement."
(g)   Section 6.06 is amended by inserting the words ", the Joint Financing
Agreement" after the words "the Development Credit Agreement".
(h)   Section 8.01 is amended by inserting the words "and the Joint
Financing Agreement" after the words "the Development Credit
Agreement" in the first sentence of Section 8.01 and by inserting the
words "or the Joint Financing Agreement" after the words "the
Development Credit Agreement"      in  the  second  sentence  of
Section 8.01.
(i)   Section 8.02 is amended by inserting the words "or under the Joint
Financing Agreement" after the words "the Development Credit
Agreement".
Section 1.02. Wherever used in this Development Credit Agreement, unless
the context otherwise requires, the several terms defined in the General Conditions
have the respective meanings therein set forth and the following additional terms
have the following meanings:
(a)   "Province" means the Province of East Pakistan, a political subdivision
of the Borrower.
(b)   "Project Area" means an area of approximately 180,000 acres within
the districts of Dinajpur, Rangpur, Bogra, Rajshahi, Pabna, Mymensingh
and Tangail in the northwest of East Pakistan.
(c)   "EPADC"    means the East Pakistan     Agricultural Development
Corporation, a corporate entity established under Ordinance No.
XXXVII of 1961, and includes any successor thereto.
(d)   "TIP" means the Thana Irrigation Programme of the Local Government
Department of the Government of East Pakistan.


﻿6
(e)   "Irrigation Group" means a group of farmers duly constituted as an
irrigation group under the Thana Irrigation Programme.
(f)   "Joint Financing Agreement" means the agreement of even date
herewith referred to in recital (C) to this Agreement, between the
Borrower, the Province, the Kingdom of Sweden and the Association,
as amended from time to time by agreement of the parties thereto.
(g)   "Canadian Credit Agreement" means the agreement between the
Borrower and the Government of Canada whereby the Borrower will
receive the credit referred to in recital (D) to this Agreement, as
amended from time to time by agreement of the parties thereto.
ARTICLE II
The Credit
Section 2.01. The Association agrees to lend to the Borrower, on the terms
and conditions in this Development Credit Agreement set forth or referred to,
an amount in various currencies equivalent to fourteen million dollars
($14,000,000).
Section 2.02. (a) The Association shall open a Credit Account on its books
in the name of the Borrower and shall credit to such Account the amount of
the Credit.
(b)   The amount of the Credit may be withdrawn from the Credit Account
as provided in, and subject to the rights of cancellation and suspension set forth
in, this Development Credit Agreement and in accordance with Article II of the
Joint Financing Agreement.
(c)   Except as shall otherwise be agreed between the Borrower and the
Association, no withdrawals from the Credit Account shall be made on account
of expenditures in the territories of any country which is not a member of the
Bank (other than Switzerland) or for goods produced in, or services supplied from,
such territories.
Section 2.03. The Borrower shall pay to the Association a service charge
at the rate of three-fourths of one per cent (3/4 of 1%) per annum on the principal
amount of the Credit withdrawn and outstanding from time to time.
Section 2.04. Service charges shall be payable semi-annually on April 1 and
October 1 in each year.


﻿7
Section 2.05. The Borrower shall repay the principal amount of the Credit
withdrawn from the Credit Account in semi-annual installments payable on each
April 1 and October 1 commencing October 1, 1980 and ending April 1, 2020,
each installment to and including the installment payable on April 1, 1990 to
be one-half of one per cent (1/2 of 1%) of such principal amcunt, and each
installment thereafter to be one and one-half per cent (1-1/2%) of such principal
amount.
Section 2.06. The currency of the United Kingdom of Great Britain and
Northern Ireland is hereby specified for the purposes of Section 4.02 of the General
Conditions.
ARTICLE III
Use of Proceeds of the Credit
Section 3.01. The Borrower shall cause the proceeds of the Credit to be
applied to expenditures on the Project in accordance with Article III of the Joint
Financing Agreement.
ARTICLE IV
Particular Covenants
Section 4.01. The Borrower shall cause the Project to be carried out with
due diligence and efficiency and in conformity with sound administrative, financial,
engineering and agricultural practices, and shall provide or cause to be provided,
promptly as needed, the funds, facilities, services and other resources required for
the purpose.
Section 4.02. The Borrower shall relend the proceeds of the Credit to the
Province on the same financial terms as those of the Credit except that the principal
amount of, and service charges on, the credit provided for in such relending shall
be repayable to the Borrower by the Province in the currency of the Borrower.
Section 4.03. The principal of, and service charges on, the Credit shall be
paid without deduction for, and free from, any taxes, and free from all restrictions,
imposed under the laws of the Borrower or laws in effect in its territories.
Section 4.04. This Development Credit Agreement shall be free from any
taxes that shall be imposed under the laws of the Borrower or laws in effect in
its territories on or in connection with the execution, delivery or registration
thereof.


﻿8
ARTICLE V
Remedies of the Association
Section 5.01. If any event specified in Section 7.01 of the General Conditions
or in Section 5.02 of this Agreement shall occur and shall continue for the period,
if any, therein set forth, then at any subsequent time during the continuance
thereof, the Association, at its option, may by notice to the Borrower declare
the principal of the Credit then outstanding to be due and payable immediately
together with the service charges thereon and upon any such declaration such
principal, together with such charges, shall become due and payable immediately,
anything in this Development Credit Agreement to the contrary notwithstanding.
Section 5.02. For the purposes of Section 7.01 of the General Conditions,
the following additional events are specified:
(a)   A default shall have occurred in the performance of any covenant or
agreement on the part of the Borrower or the Province under the Joint
Financing Agreement and such default shall have continued for a period
of sixty days; and
(b)   The outstanding principal of the credit provided for in the Swedish
Credit Agreement or in the Canadian Credit Agreement, or any part
thereof, shall have been declared, or become, due and payable in
advance of the agreed maturity thereof in accordance with the terms
of said Agreements respectively.
Section 5.03. For the purposes of Section 6.02 of tiie General Conditions,
the following additional event is specified:
The right of the Borrower to withdraw the proceeds of the Credit
provided for in either the Swedish Credit Agreement or the Canadian Credit
Agreement shall have been suspended, or the Borrower shall have been unable
to withdraw such proceeds, in whole or in part, and the Borrower shall have
failed to obtain funds from other sources in substitution therefor, on terms
and conditions satisfactory to the Association, and such event shall have
continued for a period of one hundred and twenty days.
ARTICLE VI
Effective Date; Termination
Section 6.01. The following events are specified as additional conditions to
the effectiveness of this Development Credit Agreement within the meaning of
Section 10.01 (b) of the General Conditions:


﻿0                                 9
(a)   the Canadian Credit Agreement providing for a credit to the Borrower
of not less than seven million Canadian Dollars (Can$7,000,000), for
the acquisition of tubewell screens, casings and pumphousings and for
shipping costs, shall have been executed and delivered by the parties
thereto;
(b)   the execution and delivery of the Swedish Credit Agreement, the Joint
Financing Agreement and the Canadian Credit Agreement on behalf
of the parties thereto respectively, other than the Association, shall
have been duly authorized or ratified by all necessary governmental
action, and all conditions precedent to the effectiveness of each such
Agreement or the right to make withdrawals thereunder, except only
the effectiveness of other of such Agreements or of this Development
Credit Agreement or the right to make withdrawals thereunder, shall
have been fulfilled;
(c)   the Province shall have established (or caused to be established) and
made the initial payment into, the Project Construction Revolving
Fund, as required under paragraphs (a) and (b) of Section 4.02 of
the Joint Financing Agreement;
(d)   a Senior Officer (Construction) shall have been appointed pursuant
to paragraph (c) of Section 4.02 of the Joint Financing Agreement;
(e)   the Province shall have established (or caused to be established), and
made the initial payment into, the Project Agriculture Revolving Fund,
as required under paragraphs (a) and (b) of Section 4.03 of the Joint
Financing Agreement;
(f)   a Senior Officer (Agriculture) shall have been appointed pursuant to
paragraph (c) of Section 4.03 of the Joint Financing Agreement;
(g)   Engineering and Agricultural Consultants shall have been engaged in
accordance with Section 4.05 of the Joint Financing Agreement; and
(h)   the Tubewells Division of EPADC shall have been enlarged and
reorganized in accordance with Section 4.06 of the Joint Financing
Agreement.
Section 6.02. The following are specified as additional matters, within the
meaning of Section 10.02 (b) of the General Conditions, to be included in the
opinion or opinions to be furnished to the Association:


﻿10
(a)   the Joint Financing Agreement has been duly authorized or ratified
by, and executed and delivered on behalf of, the Borrower and the
Province and constitutes a valid and binding obligation of the Borrower
and the Province in accordance with its terms;
(b)   the Swedish Credit Agreement has been duly authorized and delivered
on behalf of the Borrower and constitutes a valid and binding
obligation of the Borrower in accordance with its terms;
(c)   the Canadian Credit Agreement has been duly authorized and delivered
on behalf of the Borrower and constitutes a valid and binding
obligation of the Borrower in accordance with its tLrms;
(d)   EPADC has full power and authority (i) to construct and maintain
Part A (i), (ii), (iv) and (v) of the Project, (ii) to provide equipment,
materials and other goods under Part B of the Project to the extent
required to carry out said construction and maintenance and also the
functions of EPADC under Part C of the Project, (iii) to employ
consultants under Part C (i) of the Project as set forth in the Joint
Financing Agreement, (iv) to provide guidance and assistance under
Part C (ii) of the Project, and has all necessary rights and powers in
connection therewith and that all acts, consents and approvals
necessary therefor have been duly and validly performed or given;
(e)   East Pakistan Department of Agriculture has full power and authority
(i) to construct, operate and maintain Part A (iii) of the Project, (ii)
to provide equipment, materials and other goods under Part B of the
Project to the extent required to carry out Part A (iii) of the Project
and also the functions of East Pakistan Department of Agriculture
under Part C of the Project, (iii) to provide guidance and assistance
under Part C (ii) of the Project, and has all necessary rights and powers
in connection therewith, and that all acts, consents and approvals
necessary therefor have been duly and validly performed or given; and
(f)   East Pakistan Department of Local Government has full power and
authority to implement and enforce TIP and to do all such things,
either by its own agencies or in conjunction with EPADC and/or said
Department of Agriculture, as may be required to carry out Part C
(ii) of the Project, and has all necessary rights and powers in connection
therewith, and that all acts, consents and approvals necessary therefor
have been duly and validly performed or given.


﻿Section 6.03. The date of September 30, 1970 is hereby specified for the
purposes of Section 10.04 of the General Conditions.
ARTICLE VII
Miscellaneous
Section 7.01. The Closing Date shall be June 30, 1975 or such other date
as shall be agreed between the Borrower and the Association.
Section 7.02. The Secretary to the Government of Pakistan, Economic Affairs
Division, is designated as representative of the Borrower for the purposes of Section
9.03 of the General Conditions.
Section 7.03. The following addresses aie specified for the purposes of
Section 9.01 of the General Conditions:
For the Borrower:
The Secretary to the Government of Pakistan
Economic Affairs Division
Islamabad, Pakistan
Cable address:
Economic
Islamabad
For the Association:
International Development Association
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America
Cable address:
Indevas
Washington, D.C.
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their
representatives thereunto duly authorized, have caused this Development Credit


﻿12
Agreement to be signed in their respective names and to be delivered in the District
of Columbia, United States of America, as of the day and year first above written.
ISLAMIC REPUBLIC OF PAKISTAN
By /s / A. R. Bashir
Authorized Representative
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
'By /s/ J. Burke Knapp
Vice President


