Document of
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Report No. 2220b-BB
BARBADOS
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT ON A
FIRST EDUCATION PROJECT
November 20, 1978
Projects Department
Latin America and Caribbean Regional Office
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
(since July 1975)
Currency Unit                  Barbados Dollar (BDS$)
BDS$2                          US$1
BDS$1                          US$0.50
BDS$1 million                  US$500,000
WEIGHTS AND MEASURES
I hectare (ha)   2             2.47 acres
I square meter (m )   2  =    10.76 square feet
1 square kilometer (km ) =    0.39 square miles
GLOSSARY OF ABBREVIATIONS
BCS      -     Barbadian Civil Service
BIMAP    -     Barbados Institute of Management and Productivity
CARICOM  -     Caribbean Common Market
CFTC     -     Commonwealth Fund for Technical Cooperation
CIDA     -     Canadian International Development Agency
IDB      -     Inter-American Development Bank
MCW      -     Ministry of Communications and Works
MOE      -     Ministry of Education and Culture
OAS      -     Organization of American States
UWI      -      University of the West Indies
GOVERNMENT OF BARBADOS
FISCAL YEAR
April 1 - March 31



BARBADOS              FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT ON A
FIRST EDUCATION PROJECT
Table of Contents
Page No.
BASIC DATA
I.   SOCIO-ECONOMIC FACTORS RELATED TO EDUCATION DEVELOPMENT .                1
II.   THE EDUCATION AND TRAINING SECTOR           ..........                   2
A.   Assessment of the Education System.                                2
Administration and Structure.                                2
Enrollment Characteristics        .        .                 2
Efficiency and Productivity .               .                3
Curriculum and Teacher Education.                            4
B.   Formal and Non-Formal Vocational Training                          5
C.   Education Finance and External Aid        ..                       6
D.   Education Development Strategy.                                    8
Government Sector Policy, Strategy and
Priorities                   . .8
III. THE PROJECT                           ...    9
Objectives and Content.                                                 9
The Elements of the Project.                                           10
General Education (Primary and Secondary) .............              10
Teacher Education ...........        .. .....                        12
Industrial Training ..13
Technical Assistance and Professional Fees                           15
IV.   COST ESTIMATES, FINANCING AND IMPLEMENTATION OF THE PROJECT             15
Cost Estimates                     .....    15
Financing Plan ....     ......................................         17
Project Implementation ......       ............................       18
Procurement .....       ........................................       19
Disbursements        ...........................................       19
This report is based on the findings of an appraisal mission which visited
Barbados in July 1978. The mission comprised Messrs. C.L. Germanacos
(education planner, consultant), A. Stocker (economist), A. Alberti
(vocational education specialist) and S. Kadleigh (architect, consultant).
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance
of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



Table of Contents (Continued)
Page No.
V.  BENEFITS, RISKS AND EVALUATION ..........................        20
Benefits  ............................................................  20
Risks .......... o    ......................................    20
Evaluation  ................................... ............. ..o ......  21
VI.  AGREEMENTS REACHED AND RECOMMENDATIONS       ..................  21
ANNEXES
ANNEX I Supporting Tables and Charts
TABLES
T-1  Comparative Education Indicators
T-2  Actual and Projected Enrollments and Teacher Requirements
T-3  Primary Education:  Enrollments in Government Schools
T-4  Enrollments in Secondary Schools
T-5  Public and Private Expenditures in Education
T-6  Capital Cost Estimates
T-7  The Project Secondary Schools
T-8  Accommodation Proposals for Construction, Equipment and
Furniture
T-9  Technical Assistance for BIMAP
T-10 The Project Unit
T-11 Disbursement Schedule
CHARTS
C-1  Organization Chart--Ministry of Education and Culture
C-2  Structure of the Formal Education System
C-3  Project Implementation Schedule
ANNEX 2 Selected Documents and Data Available in the Project File
MAP



BARBADOS
Basic Data
Area                                             431 km2
Population (1976) Total                          247,000
Density                                       574 per km2
Average Annual Population Growth (1970-76)  0.7%
Literacy                                      99%
GNP Per Capita (1977)                            US$1,760
Public Education Expenditures as
% of Total Government Expenditures (1976)
-  Recurrent                                23.7%
-  Capital                                  16.2%
-  Total                                    22.1%
Education Expenditures as % of GNP (1976)
-  Public                                   8.1%
-  Private                                  1.6%
-  Total                                    9.7%
Enrollments (1976-77)
Total               Gross
Primary Level             32,724              106%
Second Level              29,488               94%
Higher Education           2,562              ....
Qualified Teachers (1976-77)
Primary                                       75% (data incomplete)
Secondary                                     75% (data incomplete)
Teacher-Student Ratio (1976-77)
Primary                                       1:21
Secondary                                     1:17






I. SOCIO-ECONOMIC FACTORS RELATED TO EDUCATION DEVELOPMENT
1.01      Barbados is a medium-income developing country in the Caribbean,
with a per capita GNP of US$1,760 in 1977. The island's major natural
resources include climatic and soil conditions which favor the traditional
cultivation of sugarcane and extensive beaches which attract tourists. The
quality of the country's human resources is unusually high for the region, as
72% of the population over 15 years of age had attained secondary level
schooling in 1976, and adult literacy is estimated at 99%. Total population
has grown by only 0.7% annually between 1970-76 as a result of a successful
family planning program and of high emigration prompted by the island's
extreme population density. In consequence, enrollments in the education
system have been relatively stable in the past few years. The poor economic
performance in the early 1970s is attributable to the world recession, which
led to a decline in tourism and investment. Economic growth picked up in 1976
(to about 5%), although the fall in international sugar prices in that year
delayed the recovery, illustrating the economy's continued vulnerability to
external disturbances.
1.02      The slow pace of economic expansion and reduced emigration in recent
years have created serious unemployment in Barbados, amounting to 12.5% of the
labor force in mid-1978. Employment in agriculture has fallen by over 60%
since 1960, and this sector engaged only 10% of the labor force in 1976. The
decline is attributable to the increasing mechanization of sugarcane cultiva-
tion and limited land availability for the production of other crops. The
industrial sector, including construction, retained about a quarter of the
labor force, while employment in services (including tourism and government)
increased from 46% in 1960 to nearly 66% in 1976.
1.03      The Government's current development program is focused on diversify-
ing the economy to reduce its dependence on a few sectors and to ensure more
stable growth. Promotion of manufacturing exports forms the central strategy,
while in the agricultural sector, a higher priority is being given to produc-
tion of food crops for local consumption. The manufacturing and non-sugar
agricultural sectors achieved impressive growth rates of almost 18% and 7%,
respectively, in 1976, as a result of new private and public sector investments.
However, serious weaknesses which have appeared in the balance of payments and
public finances could undermine the economic recovery unless firm corrective
action is applied. The Government has already begun to adopt measures to curb
the expansion of imports and improve public savings performance.
1.04      Whether the Barbadians can reach and maintain the 5% annual rate of
economic growth envisioned by Government will depend largely on their success
in utilizing the country's well-educated labor force to develop a comparative
advantage in manufacturing for the region. Specifically, a major effort is
needed to provide training in the skills needed by industry for the promotion
of export manufacturing. The Government recognizes this fact and will continue
to devote a major part of its budgetary expenditures to the education sector.



- 2 -
A high priority has been assigned to vocational training, and the Government
proposes to give further impetus to science learning and technical studies
in the general secondary schools which for some years have been diversifying
their curricula in this direction.
II. THE EDUCATION AND TRAINING SECTOR
A. Assessment of the Education System
2.01      A brief review and assessment of the major substantive features of
the education system will highlight its strengths and weaknesses and point up
the key issues to be dealt with in the present effort to reshape the system
into a more powerful instrument for economic advancement and equitable social
progress.
Administration and Structure
2.02      The Ministry of Education and Culture (MOE) has jurisdiction over
almost all education and training activities on the island except for the
University of the West Indies (UWI) campus which is administered by the
regional council. The section of the UWI School of Education which is located
in Barbados, however, is fully financed by the Barbados Government. Key divi-
sions or sections in the MOE (Chart C-1) are: (a) the Curriculum Development
Unit which is responsible for preparing related equipment lists and textbook
materials; (b) the Audio-Visual Aids Service which designs and produces a
variety of simple audio-visual aids and develops and produces radio and tele-
lessons on a limited scale; (c) the School Buildings and Maintenance Section
which is responsible for school maintenance and major repairs, and preparation
of furniture norms; and (d) the Planning Section, under the Senior Assistant
Secretary for External Planning, which is responsible for educational planning,
determination of physical requirements of new schools and overall execution of
investment programs.
2.03      The structure of the formal education system remains traditional
except that since 1977, following the decision to extend the school leaving
age from 14 to 16, all second-level students are expected to have a five-year
course. The basic structure, therefore, comprises three levels (Chart C-2):
primary (grades 1-6, normal age group 5 through 10); secondary (grades 7-11,
normal age group 11 through 15) and 6th form (grades 12 and 13, normal age
group 16 and 17); and higher (grades 12/13/14 to grades 13/16).
Enrollment Characteristics
2.04      The quantitative characteristics for 1976-77 are summarized in the
table below (see Annex 1, Tables T-1 - T-4 for details):



-3-
Teacher-
As %            %         %                 Student
Level        Enrollment   Age Group /1   Female   Private   Teachers   Ratio
Primary             32,724         106            49        9       1,727 /3   1:21
Second Level /2    29,488           94            51       20       1,098 /4   1:17
Higher               2,562 /5        -            48        1           -
/1   Gross rates, i.e., includes over-age students.
t       /2   Including primary school "tops"; because of insufficient places in
secondary schools to accept all children completing primary education, a
number of such children (about 15X in 1977) remain in the primary schools
to carry on second level studies in what are called the "all-age tops"
of the primary school. Also included is the 6th form, but age group
refers to ages 11-15.
/3   Public school teachers only, including those of pre-primary schools and
primary school "tops" (grades 7-9).
/4   Public school teachers only, excluding those of primary school "tops,"
the Polytechnic, Hotel School and Housecraft Center.
/5   Incomplete data.
Efficiency and Productivity
2.05      The gross enrollment rates shown above remain remarkably high when
translated into net rates--virtually complete registration of the 5 through
10 years age-group and the equivalent of 84% of the normal 11 through 15
age-group or 80% of the 11 through 16 age-group. Wastage in grades 1 through
11, other than in cases of emigration, is now negligible. There was some
loss before 1977, when the school-leaving age was 14, among older students
who were following second-level courses in the "tops" of extended primary
schools for lack of places in the secondary schools. Repetition is insigni-
ficant except in grade 11, the year of the coveted external school-leaving
certificate and higher education entrance qualification requirement. The
average daily attendance rate is at a high 90% in both primary and secondary
education and unpunctuality is marked only when inclement weather delays
arrival. There is no disparity between male and female enrollment. It needs
to be pointed out that these impressive achievements have been realized in a
country in which there is no compulsory education law. This achievement
underscores the intense interest of parents in their children's education as
an instrument of social mobility and economic progress as well as of personal
fulfillment. This high level of motivation among parents and students is a
factor which cannot be ignored when assessing the feasibility of proposed
changes.
2.06      But there are weaknesses in the education system.  The system is
beginning to show signs of strain as the aging physical resources have
manifested their inability to cope with the task of expanding enrollments in
secondary education and with the diversification and practical work of the
new curricula in both primary and secondary levels. Primary school buildings,



- 4 -
often churches or church halls, are old and costly to maintain (always at
Government cost). Most secondary schools, particularly outside the capital,
have to use old plantation mansions and/or temporary wooden huts to house
their students. Moreover, the majority of these primary and secondary schools
will require new buildings since repair or renovation of existing buildings
are no longer economical. As a result, both primary and secondary class
groups are small (22-30) and teacher-student ratios uneconomical (1:21 in
primary and 1:17 in secondary) because the individual physical spaces available
and/or the type of old furniture used cannot accommodate a bigger class size.
Modern active teaching methodologies are often ruled out because there is
physically no space for student (or teacher) movement. Most of the secondary
schools have makeshift spaces for the practical activities essential to
learning of the sciences, home economics, commerce and handicrafts; others do
not have adequate numbers of such spaces to deal with the increased allocation
of time now included in the curriculum. This problem is compounded by the
increasing number of students (the majority) in the upper grades of the
secondary schools who are participating in programs biased in practical
pre-vocational directions, and which follow upon the inclusion of these
subject areas in the core curriculum for all students in the lower grades.
2.07      Briefly, the majority of schools in Barbados are obsolescent and
non-functional in terms of the activities inherent in modern curricula.
Recurrent unit costs are high compared with other countries (see para. 2.20).
The education system of Barbados has, until recently, been of high academic
standard in comparison with most Latin American and other Caribbean countries.
There is a high rate of graduation from the primary level and of completion of
the five-year secondary course (sometimes in six years). Appropriate develop-
ment to avert deterioration and to upgrade these standards calls for action to
rehabilitate the physical resources. Most schools must be replaced or renovated
and expanded, when the site conditions make expansion possible, to achieve an
acceptable and relevant educational environment and a more economic size.
Curriculum and Teacher Education
2.08      The question of curricula has been discussed above in connection
with the physical plant. The new curricula also make demands upon the form
and content of teacher education. The present regular course of two years'
duration for primary and secondary teacher qualification at the Erdiston
Teacher Training College requires that the trainees have three or more
years' experience in teaching as unqualified teachers and have attended a
15-hour-per-week evening course for one year. This ensures that those entering
the regular program have been tested in the field and have every intention
of continuing in the education field on graduation. Hence, failure or drop-
out is negligible; but this, however, raises the primary school salary bill
since trainees are paid their full salary while at college. Both the regular
and in-service courses are well-designed and curricula modified in line with
the new curricula introduced into the schools.
2.09      However, there are issues to be resolved.  Erdiston Teacher Training
College is not fully equipped to undertake some of the new types of courses
and activities which should become a normal part of a modern teacher education
curriculum. Moreover, a small expansion is necessary to increase intake in
order to clear the backlog of unqualified teachers in the schools (about 25%)
and then gradually introduce a pre-service course.



- 5 -
2.10      Another shortcoming in the system is the inadequate provision, at
present, of technical and vocational training as compared with general secon-
dary education, as discussed below. However, it should be observed that two
IDB projects in support of the Community College and the Polytechnic will
ensure adequate facilities for all levels of skill training and technical
education. In addition, the proposed inclusion of technical subjects in all
secondary general schools will complement this effort.
B. Formal and Non-formal Vocational Training
2.11      The MOE operates institutions for training of production and related
workers at the Samuel Jackman Prescod Polytechnic (the Polytechnic), girls and
women at the Housecraft Center, workers and middle-level personnel for the
tourism industry at the Hotel School, and technicians in engineering and
construction trades at the post-secondary level Community College. The Ministry
of Health conducts programs for nurse training. The Ministry of Agriculture
training effort is limited to ad hoc courses and assistance to the MOE to
train qualified general subject teachers in agricultural education.
2.12      The Polytechnic prepares, in full-day and in evening courses, skilled
operatives and craftsmen for direct entry into the job market and also provides
programs which lead to technician-level training at the Community College.
The courses include commercial studies and a one-year agricultural course.
Other courses are of various duration, depending on job analysis requirements
and/or full-time or part-time nature of the course. The Polytechnic is to
be relocated and substantially expanded from its enrollment in 1976-77 of 737
in day courses and 1,000 in part-time and evening to a capacity of 2,500.
This will open up more than 1,000 new places at upper secondary school level.
This project (total cost of US$9.5 million) is supported with a loan of US$6.6
million by the IDB. The loan includes technical assistance to the Polytechnic
in addition to about four man-years of specialists to help develop the planning
process in the MOE (an education planner, an economist, a specialist in
financial administration and one in school organization).
2.13      The Community College has recently moved into its new premises built
and equipped with a US$2.8 million loan from IDB and of grant equipment from
the UK. It can now provide day courses for 1,500 or more students and take
in an equal number of evening students; presently it is under-utilized but
should build up during the next session. The College will continue to expand
its present functions in one, two and three-year courses as appropriate:
(a) for grades 12 and 13 secondary school students studying the arts or
sciences for university entry; (b) training technicians in commercial studies,
tourism trades, engineering and technology, health sciences and the arts; and
(c) in conjunction with Erdiston Teacher Training College, training teachers
for practical subjects.
2.14      Training within industry is still largely on an ad hoc basis.  The
apprenticeship scheme is no longer in operation and enterprises which provide
training do so on their own initiative. The Government is considering a new



apprenticeship scheme in connection with the envisioned National Training
Board which would be set up under the aegis of the Ministry of Labor and
Community Development. The Board would be charged with the expansion,
promotion and coordination of all vocational training activities on the island
and elaboration of plans to reduce unemployment. It would be responsible for
manpower studies, job classification, trade testing, certification and
apprenticeship.
2.15      Barbados also uses regional facilities for training of technicians
and professionals: the Eastern Caribbean Institute of Agriculture and
Forestry in Trinidad, the Jamaica School of Agriculture (extension workers
and home economics), the Regional Educational Program for Animal Health
Assistants in Guyana, the Caribbean Fisheries Training and Development
Institute in Trinidad, and the University of the West Indies at all its
campuses.
2.16      Management and supervisory training is carried out by the Barbados
Institute of Management and Productivity (BIMAP). This non-profit legal
entity linked to the Ministry of Caribbean Affairs, External Trade and Industry
was established in 1972 to help business, industry and government improve
efficiency and productivity. It has a membership of 320 private firms apart
from a number of Government agencies. It provides training programs and
consulting services, carries out research studies, and disseminates relevant
information. The training program at present is for some 400 managers and
200 supervisors each year. BIMAP now proposes to increase its services to
small-scale enterprises and to undertake in-plant training schemes. The
Government and the private sector endorse this policy.
2.17      In regard to training in agriculture, the Bank mission also appraised
and redesigned on more cost-effective lines a project item for a Farmer
Training and Extension Services Center under the Ministry of Agriculture. The
appraisal determined that the Center could be the focal point of the extension
services' component of the Rural Development Project (about US$13 million)
which is to be appraised by IDB in Autumn 1978. The Government therefore
decided to transfer the item for appraisal in the IDB project.
2.18      With the completion of the Community College, and proposed expansion
and relocation of the Polytechnic, formal vocational training facilities and
resources for day and evening students and for operation of non-formal courses
will be adequate in range and extent in Barbados and in regional institutions
to meet Barbadian needs. Moreover, the provision of workshops and practical
subject spaces in the secondary general schools throughout the country makes
available resources for further non-formal adult education and skill upgrading
activities.
G. Education Finance and External Aid
2.19      In the past four years total education expenditures, including
estimated private contributions, ranged from 8.5% to 9.7% of GNP (Table T-5).
The public sector accounted for some 7.0% to 8.1% of this. These levels are
very high in comparison to most other countries (Table T-1).  In 1976-77,



- 7 -
expenditures for education amounted to 22.1% of the total Government budget,
comprising 23.7% of the recurrent budget and 16.2% of the capital budget,
reflecting the high priority given to human resource development in Barbados.
Public education is free, but student subsistence costs for uniforms, meals
and stationery are considerable. The Government heavily subsidizes transpor-
tation and school meals in primary schools.
2.20      Because the volume of resources that the country devotes to education
is high, the cost-effectiveness of such effort should be improved. The main
problem, as already explained, is the comparatively small size of classes lead-
ing to uneconomical teacher-student ratios. As a result also of relatively high
teacher salaries, recurrent expenditures per student were a high US$250 1/ in
primary and US$400 in secondary education in 1976-77. At the primary level,
salaries account for 84% of recurrent expenditures and at the secondary level
for 87%. An increase in teacher-student ratios from 1:21 to about 1:29 2/ in
primary and from 1:17 to about 1:23 2/ in secondary education would decrease
unit costs per student and could lead to economies in recurrent expenditures
by over 11% in both primary and secondary education compared with the costs
of the system using 1977-78 norms.
2.21      The required capital investment for a major effort in rehabilitating
the school infrastructure is included under the proposed Bank project. The
project cost would represent about 45% of planned public investments in the
education sector in the period 1978-81. Together with the IDB Polytechnic
development, the two projects account for 83% of planned investment in the same
period. The Ministry of Finance, which is particularly interested in improved
cost-effectiveness in the education sector, is allocating the necessary
counterpart funds for the projects in its investment plan.
2.22      External aid through bilateral and multilateral agencies has been a
significant factor in the development in recent years of the education sector
in Barbados. The major source of external assistance at present is the Inter-
American Development Bank (IDB). In 1972 IDB approved a US$2.8 million loan
for the construction and equipment of the Community College; the project has
been completed. In 1976 IDB approved a loan of US$6.6 million for rebuilding
and expanding the Polytechnic; construction is expected to start in 1979. IDB
has also supported a student loan fund. OAS is providing technical assis-
tance under its regional educational development program of about US$0.2
million in 1978 and 1979 mainly to the MOE Curriculum Development Unit and for
education technology purposes and to support training programs for unemployed
youths. The USAID regional lending program for the Caribbean benefits
Barbados through support to the University of the West Indies. The British
Government provides under its Commonwealth Fund for Technical Cooperation
(CFTC) some technical assistance (one architect) to the Ministry of Education.
The Canadian International Development Agency (CIDA) is assisting BIMAP with a
grant of Can$600,000 to supplement BIMAP revenues from its participating
members to operate programs in aid of small enterprises.
1/   Excluding School Meal Service.
2/   Including the school principals in both cases.



- 8 -
D. Education Development Strategy
2.23      In planning development in the education sector, the significant
interacting factors are the smallness of the island, the small but high density
of the population, the comparative smoothness of the island's configuration,
the extensive road network and the subsidized inexpensive bus service. The
distinction between "rural" and "urban" is of relatively minor importance
in regard to education and training resources; a tradition of mobility has
been established and school catchment boundaries have become inoperative.
Centralized services can in most cases be planned with little, if any, incon-
venience to students and teachers. Nevertheless, the expansion of the secon-
dary schools in the rural areas would open up more spaces to accept more of
the local students and reduce the extent of daily influx to the secondary
schools in the capital.
Government Sector Policy, Strategy and Priorities
2.24      The most important education policy objectives of the Government
are: (a) equalization of educational opportunity through extension of educa-
tion to all at least up to the age of 16 and elimination of the "tops" of the
extended primary schools; (b) modernization of the educational content and the
physical resources and redirection of the education system to make it a more
productive development tool through greater emphasis on vocational training
and expanded and improved resources for technical, science and other practical
studies; and (c) realizing the above aims without increasing the relatively
high costs of the present system.
2.25      The basic strategy to achieve this redirection and modernization
of the educational system is two-pronged: (a) to further support develop-
ment of qualitative instruments and aids (teacher education and retraining
in particular); and simultaneously (b) to introduce cost-effective measures
to assure more rational and economic use of resources in the education-training
sector. The proposed project is designed to help achieve the policy objectives
and to implement the basic strategy.
2.26      The Government policy aimed at a well-educated and skilled labor
force accounts for the assignment by the Government of highest priority to
vocational training directly related to the needs of Barbadian industrial
development and to secondary education. The IDB is supporting the training
programs at technician and skilled worker level. The proposed Bank project
complements this by assisting the Barbados Institute of Management and Pro-
ductivity (BIMAP) in a program directed toward upgrading Barbadian management
and supervisory staff expertise and introducing a more systematic program of
in-plant training for skilled workers.  The base for the level of skill
training the Barbadians are aiming at is a sound general education in which
students are exposed to practical orientations and activities and in which
positive attitudes and self-understanding of aptitudes are encouraged. The
proposed Bank project is developed on these lines.



- 9 -
2.27      The importance of application of relevant curricula and promoting
a more equitable distribution of good quality education is reflected in
the strategy adopted in regard to secondary general education and the
elimination of the remaining "tops" of the extended primary schools. Some
4,000 new places are required in secondary general education by 1985 (see
Table T-2) including the 1,000 places for upper secondary diversified general
education that will be made available on completion of the IDB-supported
Polytechnic project. The additional places may be provided either by building
new secondary schools or by expanding existing schools on a countrywide basis
and making some allowance for replacement of completely unsuitable existing
places. The latter course was decided upon. The project would make additional
places available in seven localities rather than three; and the expansion
L          would take the form of providing the existing secondary schools with the
essential practical facilities and equipment. This approach also relieves the
pressure on more neighboring overcrowded primary schools (by taking off the
students in the primary "tops") and reduces the number of additional places
required in primary education by 1985 (Table T-2). The critical need for
replacement of obsolescent primary places which are costly to maintain would
be effected by construction of functionally designed schools combining
wherever feasible two or more obsolescent small primary schools into one
larger one.
2.28      The Government realizes that the teaching force must be upgraded
or retrained in line with the new objectives and curricula of education, if
the high expenditures on education are to achieve commensurate results in
terms of quality, standards, attitudes and orientation of the output. This
could be achieved by planning (Table T-2) of the education system on the basis
of reasonable class sizes (about 35 in primary and secondary) and reasonable
teacher-student ratios (about 1:29 in primary and about 1:23 in secondary).
The Government also recognizes the need to conduct, on an even more intensive
scale than is done at present, in-service courses of various durations to
qualify presently unqualified teachers, to upgrade or retrain and reorient the
present qualified force, and to retrain principals, deputy principals and
education administrators. In addition to supporting specifically organized
programs for this continuing education of teachers, the proposed project would
provide practicing teachers with the facilities, tools and advisory services
to prepare their own materials and aids.
III. THE PROJECT
Objectives and Content
3.01      The proposed project supports the Government policy of combining
equality in educational opportunity and improved and more relevant education
with measures to enhance the effectiveness of the system. Serious considera-
tion of alternative approaches to the issues of cost-effectiveness, equal
educational opportunity and broader curriculum scope is reflected in the
modifications made during appraisal. The project was modified not only by
reducing it to a more manageable size but also by eliminating duplication and



- 10 -
also financially and/or technically unsound or otherwise inadequately justified
items. Some components were redesigned and significant savings made in both
capital and recurrent costs. The strategy would make possible the effective
application in the general school system of the modern and relevant curricula
prepared by Barbadians for Barbados and would strengthen and revitalize
existing institutional structures. The project would also promote com-
plementary action to the assistance being provided by other agencies (IDB,
OAS, CIDA) and the UK in this area of institution-building (para. 2.22).
Finally, the project aims at strengthening the national capability in non-
formal management and in-plant worker training and advisory services.
3.02      More specifically, the measures in support of this strategy are:
(a) relocating obsolescent primary schools to provide an appropriate learning-
teaching environment; (b) providing some secondary schools with the tools and
the functionally designed spaces in which practical fields of study, such as
the sciences, industrial arts, home economics, agriculture, handicrafts and
commercial studies can be carried out; moreover, the physical places so
provided would be instrumental in eliminating the remaining "tops" from the
primary schools; and (c) in the course of preparing for (a) and (b) above,
ensuring that: (i) related physical norms and standards and school organiza-
tional practices are further studied for purposes of cost-effectiveness;
(ii) the teacher education sub-system reflects the new objectives and
approaches and incorporates the concept of continuing education; and (iii) the
MOE program and project execution capability in general is reinforced.
3.03      The proposed project thus comprises (Table T-6 for details):
(a) construction, furnishing and equipping of 10 (replacement) primary schools
with 5,880 student places, but essentially no additional enrollments to
present enrollments; (b)(i) construction, furnishing and equipping to expand
six existing secondary schools mainly through provision of new practical
facilities equivalent to 2,600 student places; and (ii) equipping and furnish-
ing of one secondary school (1,225 student places) presently under construc-
tion; (c) expansion of Erdiston (Primary and Secondary) Teacher Training
College to function also as a teacher training resource center; (d) expansion
of the Barbados Institute of Management and Productivity to undertake in-plant
training; (e) equipment and furniture for the Project Unit; and (f) technical
assistance (30 man-months of fellowships and the equivalent of 144 man-months
of consultant services) in support of institution-building, project management
and professional services.
The Elements of the Project
General Education (Primary and Secondary)
3.04      The 10 new primary schools to be constructed, furnished and equipped
comprise: (a) seven schools which would replace 10 existing obsolescent
primary schools in the rural areas; and (b) three new schools on the out-
skirts of the capital which would serve the population shift to new lower-
income housing development areas and facilitate transfers of pupils from



- 11 -
the overcrowded urban schools where sites are no longer available for new
construction or expansion of existing primary schools. The capacity of
5,880 student places thus would not mean increased enrollments, but improved
learning resources. The new facilities would include spaces and equipment to
facilitate the teaching of the redesigned primary school curriculum which
includes elementary science and agriculture, crafts, basic homecrafts and
health education. A nutrition area would be included for the hygienic distri-
bution of school meals and for teaching purposes (basic nutrition and cookery
in the upper grades).
3.05      More significant than the minor economies of scale effected by
amalgamation in certain instances of small neighboring schools would be
the economies to be gained by applying the more reasonable class size (about
35) and teacher-student norms (about 1:29 1/) in the project schools. The
Government gave appropriate assurances that these norms would be applied in
the completed project schools and that it intends to introduce the same norms
gradually in the whole system (where the physical conditions permit). The new
primary schools would also incorporate resources for remedial work to ensure
that slower learners are given a chance to make the necessary progress.
Erdiston Teacher Training College already provides trainees with the basic
principles of diagnostic and remedial work and has the capability to go deeper
into this area. The Government gave assurances that an intensive course for
retraining a group of qualified primary school teachers in more advanced
remedial work would be conducted annually during the period 1979-83, and one
such qualified primary school teacher would be assigned to each of the
project schools.
3.06      The project secondary school component addresses itself even more
directly to the issues of cost-effectiveness, equal educational opportunity
and improved quality and relevance of education. Six existing schools,
including four of the older, more prestigious schools, would be expanded
on site by the construction, furnishing and equipping mainly of: 17 science
and agricultural laboratories, seven science demonstration rooms, six commer-
cial studies rooms, six industrial arts shops and home economics centers to
supplement existing shops and centers, three technical drawing rooms, 11 arts
and crafts rooms, eight other practical activities rooms, and 18 ordinary
classrooms. Replacement equipment would be provided for existing practical
rooms in these schools, as well as complementary audio-visual aids and other
equipment. In addition, one secondary school presently under construction
would be fully equipped and furnished; it includes five science areas, seven
industrial arts and home economics areas, six for commercial studies, and two
handicrafts spaces.
3.07      The total project schools' enrollment of 7,100 would represent about
35% of total projected secondary general or diversified education enrollment in
1985. Consequently, its impact should be considerable in helping pioneer the
move toward a more rational use of resources in the education sector. With the
1/   Including the principals.



- 12 -
application in the project schools of the agreed reasonable class size (about
35) and teacher-student ratio (about 1:23 1/), in respect of which the
Government gave the necessary assurances, operational costs would be reduced
by over 11% as compared with recurrent expenditures if the schools were
expanded and worked on the present average teacher-student norm of 1:17.
3.08      In support of educational opportunity, the intake capacity of the
schools would be increased from about 830 2/ at present to 1,480, thus making it
possible for the equivalent of about 70% of children presently left behind
in the primary "tops" to enter secondary schools.  The total enrollment
(including the Trent Secondary School) would be increased by about 2,700, almost
equivalent to the number of students who must be transferred from primary
"'tops" to regular secondary schooling. In terms of physical places provided,
the project would construct and/or equip the equivalent of about 3,800 student
places for an enrollment of about 3,200 at an 85% utilization factor. 3/
3.09      The project schools would provide the rural areas with a broader
coverage of appropriate learning-teaching resources for school-age children
and for the extensive evening youth and adult education programs traditional
in Barbados for upgrading, further education and community education activi-
ties. The one school to be equipped would serve the lower-income new housing
development on the outskirts of the capital.
Teacher Education
3.10      Present enrollment in the Erdiston Teacher Training College is
251 students in the full-time regular two-year course, all of whom have had
at least three years of teaching experience as unqualified teachers and
have attended the one-year Preliminary In-Service Course. Intake is to be
increased to 150 in the regular course (from 120) and to 200 in the
Preliminary In-Service Course (from 180) (see para. 2.09). The Preliminary
Course is now to be lengthened by three weeks using the vacation periods. It
is also planned that new courses would be introduced in the period 1978-83 as
resources become available, including two-year courses in physical education,
arts and crafts, music and industrial arts for primary and secondary school
teaching. Special refresher and retraining courses for qualified teachers
would also be introduced from 1980. The courses would be run on the credit
system and for the most part would be conducted during the long summer
vacation. More time would be given to practical work, remedial teaching,
simulation exercises, micro-teaching, and production of teaching aids.
1/   Including the principals.
2/   Excluding the intake into Trent Secondary School, the project school
scheduled for equipment but which is still under construction.
3/   The apparent disparity between the actual additional enrollment of
2,700 and the possible enrollment of 3,200 is accounted for by the fact
that each of the existing project schools has a number of spaces which
are totally nonfunctional for modern teaching purposes and would be
used for other purposes when the new blocks have been built.



- 13 -
3.11      Facilities, equipment and materials would be provided at Erdiston
to enable the institution to broaden and expand the range of its activities
and services as described above and operate as a teacher education and resource
center. The facilities provided would include a well-stocked reference and
study library, a demonstration and micro-teaching area, a lecture theater, a
well-equipped general workshop and learning-teaching aids' design and production
area. An existing vacant accommodation on the campus, previously the deputy
principal's house, with minor rehabilitation, would provide some of the
smaller tutorial and work areas required for the resource center activities.
The facilities would be used for the regular courses of Erdiston, for in-
service and other special groups, by practicing teachers in groups or indivi-
dually, by the Curriculum Development Specialists of the MOE and, in particular
the micro-teaching resources by the Barbados section of the UWI School of
Education.
3.12      Erdiston thus would provide the resources for the continuing
education needs of the teacher corps. This would be an important function in
the next four years in view of the retraining or reorientation requirements
of the new curriculum developments in primary and secondary education and
the increasing need to effect economies in equipment purchases of learning-
teaching aids through production of aids by teachers themselves.
3.13      The full-time staff of 22 and seven part-time tutors includes two
full-time tutors and two part-time tutors in the Extension Division which is
responsible for the Preliminary In-Service Course. Two additional extension
service tutors would be required to help with the demonstration, tutorial and
skill instruction functions of the resource center and for on-the-job counsel-
ling services. In addition, the new facilities would require the appointment
of a fully qualified librarian, two workshop assistants and ancillary staff.
Assurances were given by the Government that timely appointments of the
additional staff would be made.
3.14      Erdiston, in conjunction with the Community College, the Pine
Valley Agricultural Center and the Housecraft Center, has designed programs
to retrain qualified teachers who have special skills and interest to become
teachers for the practical subject areas of primary and junior secondary
level grades--i.e., industrial arts, agriculture, home economics and handi-
crafts. The UWI School of Education, on the other hand, is complementing this
program with courses for teachers for the arts, science and mathematics.
Industrial Training
3.15      The industrial training project component would broaden and expand
the Barbados Institute of Management and Productivity (BIMAP) capability to
enhance productivity through in-plant training for workers and supervisors.
The project would finance:



- 14 -
(a) construction, furnishing and equipping of the additional facilities
on the existing site required to expand its training capacity and
services offered; and
(b) provision of the equivalent of 30 man-months of fellowships
for BIMAP's present and newly appointed staff (see para. 3.21).
3.16      BIMAP would seek to improve productivity through technical assistance
provided by its senior staff to enterprises and through special programs
as the demand and need arise.  Its assistance would embrace the fields of
industrial engineering (production control, quality control, lay-outs),
marketing and financing. The in-plant and institutional training programs
would include 600 supervisors and training officers annually, in addition
to the programs for 480 managers and middle-management personnel. Also,
in-plant training would aim at the upgrading of 1,500 workers annually.
The project-supported program would train 80 managers, 400 supervisors and
1,500 workers over and above present activities of BIMAP.
3.17      Different modes of training approaches would be used as appropriate
to the particular requirements of a group of workers or a firm. Ad hoc
courses would be provided as and when called for by industry or the Government;
in some cases, BIMAP would develop more systematic courses as their study of
needs pointed up areas of general and special interest to groups of member
firms. Most courses would be short (about 30, 45 or 60 hours) not to deter
possible candidates in the first place. In addition, courses of a cumulative
pattern would be conducted. A basic aim of BIMAP would be to stimulate member
and non-member firms to set up viable training programs within their own
establishments. CIDA is assisting with a grant of Can$600,000 over 1979-82
to supplement BIMAP revenues from its participating members to initiate the
programs for the small-scale enterprises.
3.18      To undertake its new activities, the present staff of BIMAP of
nine full-time professionals would need to be increased to 16, of whom, in
general terms, four would be assigned full-time to the in-plant training
programs, five to management training, four to the small enterprises programs
and three to the programs for the larger firms. No problem is foreseen in
appointing additional staff. BIMAP salary structure is such that there is
no dearth of applicants.
3.19      Occasionally BIMAP might need to use the special facilities of such
institutions as the Polytechnic or Community College, or the micro-teaching
facilities at Erdiston Teacher Training College. During negotiations, pro-
posals for evaluation of the BIMAP training activities were developed and
agreed upon.
3.20      The Government gave assurances that:  (a) MOE would be required to
make facilities available when required, as indicated above, at reasonable
cost to BIMAP; (b) BIMAP would appoint at least three new professional staff
by January 1, 1980, and the remaining four by July 1, 1980; and (c) annual
evaluation reports would be submitted to the Bank starting in 1981 through
project completion.



- 15 -
Technical Assistance and Professional Fees
3.21      This component, at a total cost of US$0.45 million, applies only
to BIMAP and to the project management services. It takes into account
the considerable assistance already provided or about to be provided by
other agencies (paras. 2.12, 2.22) and, moreover, the fact that Barbados has
substantial expertise of its own in the MOE or which could be obtained from
other Government sources. The component comprises: (a) 30 man-months of
fellowships for BIMAP at a cost of US$50,000 to upgrade BIMAP staff, parti-
cularly for assistance to small-scale enterprises and in-plant training
programs (details and schedule in Table T-9); (b) US$400,000 in support of the
project management services to: (i) safeguard against possible d-fficulties
or delays in mobilizing Barbadian civil servant specialists (Table T-10)
necessitating hiring of consultants or specialists (about US$100,000); (ii)
hire architectural consultants for the BIMAP project item and consultants as
may be required from time to time to help in other project architectural
studies and design work (about US$150,000); (iii) hire the services of short-
term consultants (about nine man-months at a cost of about US$50,000) to help
Erdiston Teacher Training College and/or the UWI School of Education (Barbados
branch) develop and conduct special intensive courses for key school and
MOE administration staff in 1980, 1981 and 1982; and (iv) hire the services of
a quantity surveyor over a period of about three years at a cost of about
US$100,000. Technical assistance and professional fee costs have been esti-
mated at a lower rate (US$34,000 per man year for consultants) than the
standard figure used by the Bank, because it is likely that, for the major
part, Barbadian and other West Indian consultants and specialists would be
hired.
3.22      Specific proposals for the fellowship program should be submitted
to the Bank by June 30, 1979, for review. During negotiations the Government
gave assurances that all specialists and their terms of reference and
conditions of service would be acceptable to the Bank, and candidates for
the fellowship programs would be selected in consultation with the Bank.
IV. COST ESTIMATES, FINANCING AND IMPLEMENTATION
OF THE PROJECT
Cost Estimates
4.01      The total cost of the project is estimated at US$14.5 million, as
summarized below; further details of physical facilities and costs by
category of expenditure and project institution are provided in Table T-6:



- 16 -
BDS$(000)-                        US$(000)
Local    Foreign   Total         Local    Foreign   Total
Primary Schools      4,795.5   6,463.1  11,258.6    2,397.7   3,231.6   5,629.3
Secondary Schools   3,023.7   5,475.3   8,499.0    1,511.8   2,737.7   4,249.5
Teacher Education      318.8      716.7   1,035.5        159.4     358.4      517.8
Industrial
Training             197.8      390.0      587.8        98.9     195.0      293.9
Project
Administration       209.5      640.5      850.0       104.7     320.3      425.0
Base Costs 2/  8,545.3  13,685.6  22,230.9    4,272.5   6,843.0  11,115.5
Contingencies
Physical (10%)   854.5   1,368.6   2,223.1         427.3      684.3   1,111.6
Price (18.4%)  1,635.2   2,864.7   4,499.9         817.6   1,432.2   2,249.8
TOTAL COST    11.035.0  17,918.9  28,953.9    5,517.4   8,959.5  14,476.9
ROUNDED TOTAL 11,000    18,000    29,000         5,500      9,000    14,500
1/   US$1.00 = BDS$2.00 as of January 1, 1979.
2/   Base cost estimate expressed in prices as of January 1, 1979.
4.02      Design critieria have been agreed with the Government; these would be
further studied, and when applied to the project civil works should increase
the cost-effectiveness of school buildings in Barbados: first, by the
adoption of more economical school planning and space standards to reduce the
size of buildings required; second, by climatic design to conserve energy
and improve the quality of the buildings; and third, by the use of more
appropriate materials and building systems to lessen the financial burden
on the country.
4.03      Base costs of civil works are expressed in estimated prices as of
January 1, 1979, and have been based on actual recent costs of construction in
Barbados. Accordingly, primary school buildings are costed at US$269 per
square meter of gross floor area and secondary school buildings at US$295 per
square meter, with site works estimated at 15% of the cost of buildings.
Construction areas for project schools have been established using appropriate
and economic space standards and schedules of accommodation developed during



- 17 -
appraisal. Equipment costs have been estimated for each teaching and admin-
istrative area, and furniture costs have been taken at 10% of the value of
construction. Imported equipment and furniture would be exempt from customs
duties and have been costed accordingly. The Government gave assurances that
design drawings, equipment and furniture lists and all contractual documents
would be presented for Bank approval prior to bidding. Specialist services
and fellowships are estimated at an average of US$34,000 and US$20,000 per
man-year, respectively.
4.04      Contingency allowances have been added to the base costs for:
(a) unforeseen physical factors averaging 10% of the base cost estimate; and
(b) expected annual price increases above the base cost estimate plus
physical contingencies for:  civil works (including buildings, site works
and professional services), technical assistance and project administration
averaging 9% during 1979, 8% during 1980 and 7% per year during 1981-82;
and for furniture and equipment averaging 6.5% during 1979 and 6% annually
during 1980-82. Total contingencies amount to US$3.4 million, equal to about
30% of the base cost estimate (Table T-6).
4.05      The total foreign exchange cost of the project is estimated at
US$9.0 million, representing 62% of the total project cost. Foreign exchange
costs have been calculated as follows: site works 35%, buildings 60%, furni-
ture 58%, equipment 90%, and technical assistance 75% (Table T-6).
Financing Plan
4.06      The total capital cost of the proposed project would be met by
Bank financing of US$9.0 million and a US$5.5 million budgetary contribution
from the Central Government, as follows (in US$'000).
1978 1/  1979       1980      1981       1982      1983    1978-83
Bank Loan          -      457.0   1,714.6   2,905.5   3,457.8    465.1    9,000.0
Government
Contribution      55.0    684.0   3,695.6       910.6     154.8       -      5,500.0
TOTAL             55.0  1,141.0   5,410.2   3,816.1   3,612.6    465.1   14,500.0
1/   Calendar Years.
The Government gave assurances that it would make sufficient and timely
budgetary allocation to meet the annual requirement for counterpart funds
to implement the proposed project.



- 18 -
4.07      The recurrent costs generated by the primary and secondary school
components would be about 11% less than if the same enrollments attended
schools with the present average teacher-student ratios. This saving already
takes into account higher non-salary costs (materials, etc.) in project
schools due to the increased practical work in laboratories and workshops.
The teacher training component would cause an increase in annual recurrent
expenditures of a modest US$80,000 over the 1977-78 level. The expanded
activities of BIMAP would double its 1977-78 level of expenditures by 1982.
BIMAP expects that the fees charged for services rendered would cover about
90% of the annual recurrent expenditures. The Government would contribute the
remaining 10%, which means its contribution would remain stable at the present
level of about US$40,000 (at 1977 prices). The overall impact of the project
would be considerable savings in recurrent costs, if compared with the present
less efficient system. The project impact is expected to help the Government
in achieving higher efficiency and consequent cost savings on an even larger
scale when the new standards are applied to all primary and secondary schools.
However, the Government would have to make a substantial capital investment to
achieve these results.
Project Implementation
4.08      The project would be implemented by a Project Unit which would be
established within the MOE. A full-time Project Manager would be responsible
for the execution of the project and would report directly to the Permanent
Secretary of the MOE. Furthermore, the Government gave assurances that the
Curriculum Development Section and the operational divisions of the MOE would
provide the Project Manager with assistance on education matters, as required.
The BIMAP component would be executed by the Executive Trustee of BIMAP with
consultant services procured through the construction division of the Industrial
Development Corporation to which BIMAP is closely connected. All accounting,
however, would be the responsibility of the Project Manager in the MOE.
4.09      The Project Unit would design and supervise the construction of the
project civil works.  It would include, besides the Project Manager, three
architects, one quantity surveyor, one structural engineer, one accountant and
adequate supporting staff seconded or transferred to the MOE from other
Government sources, and/or new appointees as necessary (Table T-10). Staff is
available (except for a quantity surveyor); suitable premises for the section
have been allocated and operational funds approved by the Government; assurances
were given by the Government that the necessary transfers of personnel would
be made by June 30, 1979, and continued operational funds be made available
for project management. Technical assistance for project implementation has
been discussed in para. 3.21. Retroactive financing up to a maximum of
US$200,000 may be necessary as of August 1, 1978, to assure immediate oper-
ational status for the Project Unit. Expenditures may be incurred to equip
the new premises and to meet consultant services and other costs to bring the
project to an advanced stage of readiness for contractual purposes by the time
of Loan Agreement. To ensure that bid documents are ready by March 31, 1979,
or earlier, the main tasks to be set in motion immediately are the preparation
of site surveys, surveys and inventories of existing project institutions and
the preparation of preliminary designs of the first phase project schools,
Erdiston and BIMAP construction.



- 19 -
4.10      A Project Implementation Schedule (Chart C-3) has been prepared
on the general lines evolved during appraisal in order to assist the Project
Manager in planning, organizing and controlling project execution. The
schedule was discussed during negotiations and it was mutually agreed that the
Project Manager would update it regularly for use as a project implementation
monitoring tool.
4.11      Sites are needed for the 10 primary schools in the project which
would be built in two phases of five schools. Of the first phase schools all
the sites have been selected, two are already vested in MOE. The Government
gave assurances that all sites would be acquired by March 31, 1979.
4.12      Maintenance of schools is carried out reasonably efficiently by the
MOE School Buildings and Maintenance Section. However, most of the existing
schools were not conceived with economy of maintenance in view, and the amount
of repairs and maintenance now needed are out of proportion with the MOE's
limited resources. Consequently, project schools would be designed to require
the minimum routine maintenance. The Government gave assurances that criteria
acceptable to the Bank would be established to determine annual budgetary
allocations to be made for project school maintenance, and to this end would
prepare by December 31, 1979, a maintenance handbook establishing procedures.
Procurement
4.13      Contracts for civil works and the procurement of furniture and
equipment would be awarded on the basis of international competitive bidding
in accordance with Bank guidelines. However, furniture and equipment which
cannot be grouped into packages of at least US$50,000 and civil works contracts
of less than US$100,000 would be procured on the basis of local procedures
acceptable to the Bank. The total cost of furniture and equipment procured in
this manner would not in the aggregate exceed US$300,000 (equivalent to about
12% of the estimated total cost of furniture and equipment); the total cost of
civil works procured in this manner would not in the aggregate exceed US$500,000.
In the case of procurement under international competitive bidding procedures,
domestic furniture and equipment manufacturers would be accorded preferential
treatment in bid evaluation, limited to 15% of the CIF price of imported goods
or the actual tariff application, whichever is lower, and regional preferences
for other members of the Caribbean Common Market (CARICOM) would be limited to
15% of the CIF price of non-regional goods or the difference in tariffs,
whichever is lower. Suppliers would be required to deliver to site, install,
test and replace all damaged goods under the terms and conditions of their
contracts.
Disbursements
4.14      Disbursements from the proposed loan of US$9.0 million (equivalent
to 62% of the estimated total project cost of US$14.5 million) would finance
the total estimated foreign exchange component as follows: (a) 50% of total
expenditures for civil works; (b) 100% of foreign expenditures for imported
or 85% of expenditures for locally procured furniture and equipment; and
(c) 100% of total expenditures for technical assistance and professional fees.
The loan would be disbursed over a period of 4.5 years through June 30, 1983,
with construction scheduled to be completed by September 30, 1982 (Chart C-3).



- 20 -
V. BENEFITS. RISKS AND EVALUATION
Benefits
5.01      The major benefits derived from the project focus on:  (a) introdu-
cing cost-effective measures which would reduce unit costs in primary and
secondary education; (b) providing an effective learning-teaching environment
for some 5,880 primary school children (16% of total enrollments) in the
rural and poorer urban areas; (c) assuring increased opportunity, mainly in
the rural areas, through admission to recognized secondary schools of some
70% of those children who would otherwise be relegated to the primary "tops";
(d) supporting the full application in the project secondary schools of
modern and relevant curricula for the benefit of some 7,100 students (about
35% of total enrollments in secondary education), and in so doing also provid-
ing appropriate resources in the rural areas for upgrading evening courses and
other adult education and community programs; (e) additional institution-
building by providing for the continuing education of practicing teachers and
a broader framework of preparation for trainee teachers; and (f) enabling
BIMAP to expand its activities to fill the existing void in in-plant training
for 1,500 workers and reaching out to small businesses and entrepreneurs; this
would be in addition to its increased capacity to deal with training of
managers and supervisors (additional training of 480 middle-management
personnel).
5.02      The norms and standards applied in the project to schedules of
accommodation, equipment requirements, building design and systems and the
criteria applied in determining conversion needs and amalgamation possibi-
lities would also serve as models for any further education investment program
carried out by the Government. The project looks forward also in assuring not
simply the efficient implementation of this project but also the continued
capability of the MOE to deal competently with future physical requirements of
the education sector, with recourse to expensive consultant services only in
exceptional circumstances. This further institution-building aspect of the
project complements what the IDB and the OAS are doing or proposing to do in
their technical assistance programs in support of the MOE Curriculum Development
and Planning Units.
Risks
5.03      There are three risks.  (1) Even though the Government has expressed
its intention to introduce cost-effective norms in regard to class size and
teacher-student ratios, there may initially be considerable resistance by
teachers' unions and parents. The Government is aware of this and should be
able to carry out its policy starting with the new and expanded project schools
in 1980 and 1981, and moving stage by stage to reduce the teacher-student ratio
in all schools as the physical conditions permit. (2) Efficient implementation
depends on the early and timely reinforcement of the project implementation
mechanism by the appointment of technical personnel and/or the secondment or
transfer of technical personnel from other ministries. The Cabinet has already
taken action to have posts created and funds appropriated for project implemen-
tation. The Ministry of Finance has also undertaken to require the necessary



- 21 -
transfers to be made. Moreover, funds have been included in the project costs
for appointment of consultants to meet any contingency or delay which may
arise in obtaining the timely appointment/transfer of the required personnel.
(3) The additional recurrent expenditures to be incurred by BIMAP would be
substantial; poor support of its new services would reduce its revenue-earning
capability. However, the past demand for BIMAP services suggests that the
risk of a negative response to the expanded services may be discounted, par-
ticularly as the private sector is well-represented on the BIMAP Board of
Trustees. Furthermore, CIDA is providing a substantial subvention to subsidize
the new services to small-scale enterprises. As a further safeguard, the
Government gave assurances that it would make good any shortfall in BIMAP
revenues in meeting expenditures on approved programs.
Evaluation
5.04      As part of the regular reporting procedures, the Government would
undertake to keep the Bank informed of progress in the education system as a
whole in moving towards the major rationalization objectives, and to provide
for Bank review through project completion an annual statement on any major
education policies and plans formulated. Within six months of the closing
date of the Loan Account, the Government would send to the Bank a full comple-
tion report providing a preliminary assessment of all components of the
project, their results and the experience gained during implementation.
VI. AGREEMENTS REACHED AND RECOMMENDATIONS
6.01      During negotiations, the Government gave assurances that:
(a) norms and standards will be applied regarding agreed class
size and teacher-student ratio in project schools at latest in
the school session immediately after which project works have
been completed, and gradually in the general education system
as a whole as the physical facilities make it practicable
(paras. 3.05 and 3.07);
(b) specialized remedial teachers will be trained and one appointed
to each of the project schools (para. 3.05);
(c) appointment of additional staff to Erdiston Teacher Training
College will be made on an agreed time schedule (para. 3.13);
(d) appointment of additional staff to BIMAP will be made on an
agreed time schedule and annual evaluation reports will be
submitted to the Bank (para. 3.20);
(e) agreement will be reached between MOE and BIMAP by June 30, 1980,
on the use of MOE facilities from time to time for special short
BIMAP training programs (para. 3.20);



- 22 -
(f) intensive training courses will be organized for key personnel and
education administrators (para. 3.21);
(g)  arrangements acceptable to the Bank for carrying out the felluwship
program will be completed by June 30, 1979 (para. 3.22);
(h) design drawings, equipment and furniture lists and all contractual
documents will be presented for Bank approval prior to bidding
(para. 4.03);
(i) all sites for the project schools will be acquired by March 31,
1979 (para. 4.11);
(j) provision will be made for timely and adequate budgetary allocations
to meet annual requirements for counterpart funds (para. 4.06),
operational costs of the project institutions, including BIMAP, and
satisfactory maintenance of project schools (paras. 4.12, 5.03);
(k) the Project Unit will be established, adequately staffed, funded and
equipped for efficient operation by June 30, 1979; it will be
established within the MOE and directed by the Project Manager, who
will report directly to the Permanent Secretary of the MOE; and the
Curriculum Development Section and the operational divisions of MOE
would provide the Project Manager with assistance on education matters,
as required (paras. 4.08, 4.09);
(1) the Bank will be apprised of progress in the achievement of the
major educational objectives and of major policies and plans
formulated (para. 5.04); and
(m)  a project completion report will be submitted by the Government
within six months of the closing date of the Loan Account
(para. 5.04).
6.02      Prior to Board presentation, the Government submitted evidence that
action had been taken, or reached a point of realization, satisfactory to the
Bank in regard to:
(a) preparation of final equipment and furniture lists so that
draft contractual bid documents for equipment and furniture
procurement and for bids for the first phase of construction
will be ready by March 31, 1979, or earlier (paras. 4.03, 4.09);
(b) establishing, housing, and equipping the Project Unit for project
implementation purposes (para. 4.09); and
(c) preparation of site surveys, surveys and inventories of
existing institutions and preliminary scheme designs of the
first phase of the primary and secondary school construction,
Erdiston Teacher Training College and BIMAP (para. 4.09).



- 23 -
6.03      Subject to the conditions described in paras. 6.01 and 6.02
above, the project constitutes a suitable basis for a loan of US$9.0 million
to Barbados for a period of 15 years, including three years of grace.
November 20, 1978



- 24 -
BARBADOS                                                   AiMMEX I
FTRST EDUCATION PROJECTTable T-1
FIRST EDUCATION PROJECTPage 1 of 2
Comparative Education Indicators
--- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- --   - --(November  5-,  1978)  - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - -
GN oP/ 15GNP   :5 TOTAL:%  OF PUB LIC ::                                     :PRI .:AV. PRI .                :        SEC
: CAPITA: DEvOTED:PUBLIC: EDUCATION               L ITER-    PRI. ICOMPLE-~ :STU- :SCH.TEACH:PRC:RESS-: SEC. :STU- :HITHER:
* :AT  ITO EDU.:   EXP. :RECURRENT    IACY               :ENRO..L:TIOCN      :CENTS:SALASY 1N:1IC3 SATE :ENR3LS:DENT SENNLDLL:
*   MAARET:  )PUBLIC:OEVCTEO:EXP ALLOCATED:  RATE  RATIO I:RATE FOR:PER    RELATION14  FROM. PRI .RA TIO   PER   RAtIO0 
POP. :PRICES: EXP.          TO            TO:      :)7 OF    NET   :PRI.SCH. ITEACH: TO GNP/  :TO SEC.: NET   :TEACH- GAGAS:!
YR:MILLS.1 (US$): ONLY)          ElU. :PRI. SEC. HI.:ADULTS):  (5         :CYCLE)%):ER      : CAPITA :()             :()   :ER    I1%
ADVANCED
AUSTRIA         74   7.5F 4,870?        5.37    B. 5E7  24Y  51Y7  157   99          99       930       260       2.00D      990      51D      19D    lOAST65
CANADA          75  22.9  7 ,1 35       7.3    1 6. 7    30   37   2A       94       99       97        1 9       2.0        AR       90       19 8    16 .00
GBEPANT F.REP.75  6 1 .9  6 . 670       5 . 0   10. 2    31E7 64. 26EY  9R           90       99        23EY      . . .      997      947      22C    20.26T
J1APAN          75 11 1 . 6R4AD         4.3E  20.70    4DUY 37UY IhUY  AR            BAD      ABC       25        2.0        AR 9C    9577    20C    24.69Y
NETHERLANDS    75  1 3.75 , 425         A .4   22. qD   2 1 39   25    99            95       9S        29        2.0        97       80       20      1 2.00
NEW ZEALAND    733   Il F4,2OF          5.2    . ..      39   24   29    99          9R       99        26        .99.       A        67       1 9    24.00
NOR,4AY         76   4.0  9.043          7 .2    14. 4   54   24    1 5     9A       9R       RR        1 9       1.5        ARE      62       II 1    11.00
SE~EDEN         76   8.2  5.150         9.9    14.0      23   29    12    99         99       99        16        . ..       907      85C      13     30.DOC
U.K.            75  56.0  3790          7.1    13.9      26   41   19       99       99        . ..     24        2.0        . ..     69       17      2 DI 00
U.S.A.          76 214.6  7,950         5.4    16.9    .. .   72** 29       99E      99       99        22        . ..       99       93       19     24.00
EUROPE
GREECE          79    9.1  2,590        2.6    10.4      37   26   21    866         99        920      31       2.0         70E      80       27      15.00
IRELAND         74    3.1? 2,390F    5.1    13.90    43Y  417  147   99             bRIE(    R9A        35       . ..        R5A      6509    19      15.47Y
PORTUGAL        75    9.6  1,57 0       4.4    17.9      52   27    13    70         99        55       21       3.0         70       29       14       7.60
ROMANIA4        75  21.2  1,24 0        4.0      6.4     36    19    13    99        1017      ...      21       ...         98       49       22      10.00
SPAIN           74  35.3F 2,750F        2.49  15.2A   497  227   157    94A    115XY           ...      35A      ..          ...      78XY   30        17.68Y
AFRICA
ALGERIA         77  19.9       9920     7.5    14.3FY  42    . ..  21       39       790      45        39        4.0        55       26X      13      6.00
BENIN           74   3A1F    lADE       7.2N  35.07    470  230  100    10if         44X7     706       537      2R.TB       439       1117    39B    0.T4Y
BOTSRANA        76   0.7       410      4.0    19.2      53   20    14        3      720      AS        32        3.0        60       12       22      0.30
BURUNDI         74   3.7?    11Cr       2.9    19.90    47R  419   125    10         207      207       39       10.0        14         27     19       1.0
CAUMEROON       73    7.4F   29Cr       5.9   20.0       397  29E   177    ..        74        . ..     51DY    . .          .                 2307    0.9007
CA.R.           74    1.9F   220?        3.00   17.00    566  199 ..         ...    79X1       25       69Y      ...         19         877    27B7    0.21Y
CHAD            79    4.0      1 20     2.0    10.0      78   22 ..    19            29XB7   30         699Y   15.0           6         2097   30       0.01B7
CONGO(S)        74    1.3F   512?        5.0    19.3     40   32   21    50?    1330           63       63        6.0        49        33X     22       3.40
EGYPT           76  38.2       310      5.9N    . ..    30   32   25    44           79        90       31        .          79        45      20       12.00
ETHIOPIA        76  29.0       100      2.9    15.9      29    25    10       7      21       ...       50        6..         3         8      34       ..
GAOCN            74    0.5? 2,542F       5.00  20.60    250    90   110    1..      100        250      46C       5.0        18A       317     210      0.29Y
GAMABIA         76   0.5       170       3.3    11.5     46   25       6    10       27        90       33       ...         92        13      25
GHANA           74   9.9F   59DF         . ..   19.77    437  22T  20YQ  ..          EDIT      629      307      . ..        149       3577    16C7    I.097
GUINEA          76   4.7       162F    4.3NQ . ..        30   31    30       ..    307         64       45        12F        86        13X     29       4.00
IVORY COAST    74   6.7?    54IF        9.3   24.7       38Y  37Y  18Y    9A         SEXY     57A       457      ...         ...      17XY   250        1.64Y
KENYA           76  13.9       240      5.9   26.0       67   23    10    40         50?       607      34        6.0        30        16      27       1.0
LESOTHIC        75    1.2      160    12.OP  23.0        49    IS   20      40       85       50        52      7.TON        81        10      26       1.00
LIBERIA         75    1.5      410      2.4    13.2      27    15   20      73       59        ...      35        2.0        ...      12       26       1I.10AY
MAOAGASCAR      74   9.9?    200F        3.2   22.1      51    24    25      40      68X       30       63       15.0        48         90     26       1.00
MALAWII          77   5.6      140       2.2     0.3     40    17   22       25      561       21       91        5.0         9         RI     21       0.47
MALI            75-  5.7F    90?        4.2M  33.OF   45F  37F  18?    10?           22XF      . ..     48F    9.5?          50?        90     21        ..
MAURITANIA       71    1.3?    320?     4.17  20.07..            .....10OA           1707      ...      224       .. .       ...        3Y 244          ..
MAURITIUS        76    O.9L   660        4.7    12.1     00    26      5    B00      94        99       24        4.5         90       45      32       1.52
MIOROCCO         76  19.2      5 40     9.1    15.2      39R  499   13R   28         657       33       40        .          33        17X     22       4.00
NIGERIA          74  75.0?    340?       4.107 24.2DY  237   16Y  427    ...         49XY      ...      340Y       .         . ..      loOT    2007    0.497
RIIANlDA        73   4.1?    100?       3.20  29.D0...... ..23                       52        . ..     51        .                     2      13       0.2307
SENEGAL         79    5.1      390      3.3   29.0       46   34   20        ID      32        . ..     49       10.0        20        10      21       1.5
SIERRA LEONE  73   3.0?    200?         3.4    23.4      31   36    30       157     347      45        32        4.06       69        137     21       0.5387
SOMALIA          75   3.2      ill       3.70  10.9Q   490  160  15Q   So?           347      96        35       10.0        60         3      IS       0.10
SUDAN           79  15.9       2 91     4.5    19.9      46   36    19      20       24        74       33        3.9        33        14      24        1.24
SWAZILAND       75    0.5      470      3.9      ---     30   31    19    50         73        71       39        3.8        SI       24       22       1.00
TANZANIA        76  15.1       1980     6.6    17.4      42   21    12    90         930      91        49        6.6         6         47     19       0.24
TUNISIA         73    5.9?    731?      9.3   23.4       37   43    19      55       72       81        41        6.0        31       T4       21       3.00
UGANDA          70   11.6      23 0     3.407 15. 707   34EY 40EY 22EY  254          5377      ...      34EY      .. .       145        6707   21A      0.5667
UPPER VOLTA    77    5.9       115      3.4    23.9E   31    16   32          SC     13        23F      SI       24.0        19         2      25       1.0
ZAIRE           79  25.6       140      6.0    22.0      49   26   25        15      967       44       42X       2.0        41        137     27       1COX0
ZAMSI A         76    0.1      440      6.9    15.9. 54   22    22    39             977       90       49        7.0        21        16      23       1.50
CENTPAL AMERICA AND THE CARIBBEAN
SAR3AIAS        76   0.2  1,620         9.1    22.1      43   31   TB       99    106X         99       21        3.0        99       94X    17         ..
COSTA RICA      75   2.v       960       5.29  22.79    578  259  129   899         1 097R     658      298       3.00       599       527Y   256    17.15Y
DOMINICAN REP.72    4.7?    720?         3.0    13.9     42   24    22       51      90        17       54        3.00       93        13.5    24       70
El. SALVAVUR    T5   4.0       450       3.6   23.9      El1    5   22      508      650       ...      39CY      .. .       39        1370    2107    4.3597
GUATErIIALA     73   6.3?    570?        1.9    19.0     55   23    14       47      64        26       35        3.0        69         8      25       4.09Y
HAITI           76   4.7       2 00      1.0     8.0     61   21    11      209      25F       13       56U       3.0        62         4      ...       0.7
HONDURAS        75   2.9       1970     4.20   18.90    62G  15G  190    93          78        30       35        3.0        66        II      17       4.00
0A0A5ICA        74    2.0? 1,110?        7.17   20. 27    39Y  327   19Y   8E       11177      ...      397       .. .        -..      5477    190      6.6907
MEXI co          75  59.9  lOSO          3.100 12.000Q  51Y  267   127    76        1 1277Y    3 1      46        3.0        63        3507    23A      8.97EY
NICARAGUA       74    2.3?    70TF    2.5    14.2        91    13    13    57        65        21       37        2.0        93        17      24       7.00
TRINI0A0 & T. 76    1.00 1I875E          3.4N  10.90    506  25E  T3E   900           91       93       34        2.OQ~   49           44_    25         ..
SOUTH AMERICA
BOLIVIA         76   5.6       31SF      5.0    17S5F.                      38       175       290      24        5? F                  48     180
BRAZ IL         75 107.0  1 , 031        5.0    12.4     426  20E   37E  64A         562       ...      2707CY               ...       260      iSCY    6.005
CHILE           75  10.2       990       3.9R7  12.5RY  237   107  50Y   . ..    11907         . ..      35Y                  . ..     4677    . ..   16.55Y
COLOMBIA         74  23.6F   590?        3.307 21.2D7  4407 2207 11Y   73           10507      20        33Y      4.0        90        3677    14A    6.67Y
ECUADOR         75    7.1      590       3.70  27. 70  .......   69                 10277      .. .     38C        . ..      . ..      3577    140        .
GUYANA           74    .B.F   510?       5 .91N1t4.7Q   47   35    14        83A     927       39        33       6.0        19        627      24      1.00
PARAGUAY         74    2.6?    580?      1.9    11.0     55    13  .22    61         92        26        30      -1.9        65        17       12      5.00
PERIJ            75  15.4      760       4.207 21.70Y  407  327Y  151   72          11107      36        390Y     3.0        70        48XY   2307   14.41Y
URUGUAY          75    2.8  1,300        2.5    15.3     46   34    20       94      937       ...       24        .         83        ...      10
VENEZUELA        73  12.0F 2,290?        4.6    19.9     300  290  350    77A        eI        . ..      33      . 2.4        .. .     33       .. .   12.953CR



- 25 -                                                   ANNEX 1
Comparative Education Iniatr                                                    Table T-1
(November 5, 1978)Pae2o2
-   -- - - -- -- -- -- -- -- - -- -- -- --    - -- -- -I  --                                                                     -  - --  - -  --     - -
*    GNP/   % GNP  :  TOTAL:%  OF PUBLIC .                        .PR!.  :AV.PRI.                                    :SEC
: CAPITA: DEVC.TED:PUBLIC IEDUCATION    :LITER-    PRI. :COMPLE- : STU- :SCH.TEACH:PROGRESS-I  SEC. : ST U-  HI GHERI
*      AT       TO EDU. I  EAP.    RECURRENT    :ACY       :ENROLL:TION       :DENTS:SALARY IN::,ON RATE tENP3LL:DENTStENPOLL,
: MARKET: (PU6BLICODEVOTED:EXP ALLOCATED:  RATE :RATI P0:ATE FOR:PER   :RELATION :FRGM PRI. RATO 1:PER   :RATIO  
POP. P FR IC ES: E      :  TJ)            TO :     :(% OF     NET   :PRI.SCH. :TEACZHI  To GNP/ :1-0 SEC.:  NET  :TEACH- GROSS:
YIR:MILL.,I  (USS): CNLY)        EDU,  :PRI. SEC. HI. IADULTS): (%)  :CYCLE(%):ER             CAPlTA    I (5   I    (5)   :ER         I ()
ASIA AND OCEANIA
AFGHANISTAN    77M 14.3        160       1.8Ia     11. 6  47    19   15      12      29X       69       37        3.0OG       62        BR     1 7      1.00
BANGLADESH      73  78.6F       POF      1 .2    20. 2   44Y  22Y  21Y   230         55X       ...      48D       . . .      . ..     23XD    28        ...
CHINA(T4IWAN) 73   l6ACF   93DF         3.2    1 4. 0    28    4 1   22      82      980       94       40       14. 0       84       610      26     20 . 0C
NE)I A         75 808.-1     14 D      2 . VY ...298                               65XY      . ..      43A       . . .     .. .      2PXT    20AY   2. 34EY
INDONESIA       74 1 32 .IF   2OFO    3.9F  lIO. 0F    69    21    10    606         79X      43        30        2. OG      52       1Rx      1 4     2. 00
IRPAN           73  33.4F lAB6OF        3 .3    1 2. 6   5DB   BRF  12B   50         77        74A      32        5.0 OE      O8A     24       32      4. 32CY
IRPAQ           75   1 1.1I  1.,250     6.70   1 6.-30  ........   260               93XY      ...      22        ...        ..       35XY   260       8.47Y
'JORDAN         73    2.7F   4J30F      7 .0     8.8B    52    15   21      59       PIE      76        38        5. 0       84       508      22      4.0DO
KOREA            75  35.3      980       2.9    16.09    65    33      2    920    104K        PB       52        3.5        77       55K      38       7.8
LEBANON         72    3.2F 1,070F       3.5    1 8. 0    39    40    1 0    68       88       68        1 9       2.0        63       26LU     25     23.00O
MALAYSIA        76l  1 2 .6    850      8. 7    28.0     42    34    1 5     80C     95        93       32        3.7        78       48       28       3.00
NEPAL.           76  12.6F       OE 11 10F I,I I0. 0     29    20   4 1      1 9     59        28       3 1       2.3        64        1 4     24       0.8B
D,IAN            7 2    0.8F 2 ,300F     I .7N    3.9B    96    -   -        20      24X       99       33        7.0        ..        0.4X    9        . 
PAK ISTANJ      75  69.2       160       1.86   186.2    45    25    1 8    21       47X       80       39        2 .0       ...       i7K     lBa     6 .00
P'APUA N.G.     75    2.8      4 70      5.6    1 6. 1   38    1 6   24     32       57?       73P      31       11 .0       90        12X?    24       0.90?
PHILIPf'INES   74  42.2F   380F         2.5    14A.9     73    1 5    1 2   87      104X       ...      34       15. 0       . ..     46X      .. .    21 .00
SINGAPORE        74    2.3F 2, 450F     2.7Y    9. 2Y   39Y  399   17Y   75A    10989          728      319y      . . .      99A      44XY   24         7.68Y
SYRIA           70    7 .4     70 0     3 .6   6.9       39    25   28      53       89        70       35        2. 0       92       45       21      12 .0 0
THAILAND        73  41S.F    350F       4.ONF 20. 7F   65       9    1 5    82       878       930      32        3.0 U      91 C     21X      24      2 .0 0
TURKEY           73  40 .2F   9COF      5.60Y 20.60Y9......... ..                    85Y       . ..     34Y       . . .      . . .    249      270Y   5 .83Y
YEMEN           73    5.9F   200F       0 .5     4.0     45P  21 P  73P   I10        15X      I18       36        5.0        75         2K     19      0 .0589
YEMEN P.D.R.  78    1 .7       280       6. 6     I     57    28       B    20       898       46       30        5.0        94       21KX    24        0 .1 0
SUMMARY FOR DEVELOPING COUNTRIES:
NUMABER OF COiUNTRIES:                  82      79      77   72    73      76       84       59        84          56       63       83       80        74
RANGE:                               (0.-5-  ( 3. 8-   (25- (5-   ( 2-    (3-    (14-      (13-      (19-       (1.9-    (7-       (4-    (8-        (.0-
1 2. 0 ) 33.0)   96 ) 47)  41)    98)        1 33K)    99)    69)    25.0)   99)               so  )  39 )   23 .0)
QUARTILES:UPPER                       6 .1    21 .2    54    32    22     73       94       76        46          7        83       36       25      7.0
MEDIAN:                   3.9    16. 3     45   23    18      50       78       55        26          4        63       1 7      23      2 .3
LOWER 1                   3.0    1 2. 4    38   18    12      20      53        30        32          3       43         9       20        . 9
SYMABOLS: ... DATUM UNAVAILABLE                 A=1P70 OR BEFORE            M=CURRENT PRICES                           SOURCES:
-  MAGNITUDE NIL DR NEGLIGIBLE B6=I 71                            N=GDP----
?  QUESTIDIJABLE                     C=1972                       P=INCLUDING FOREIGN AID                    COLUMNS:1 AND 2 WORLD BANK ATLAS
*  INCLUDES PART-TIME STUDENTS 0=1 973                            Q=CENTRAL GOVT. ONLY                                          DR IORD MISSIONS
**COMBINED WITH PRIMARY             E=1 974                      R=MINISTRY OF EC.UCATICN (MOE) ONLY                  3 TO 14 IBRD MISSIONS
**UNDER REVIEW                      Fs1 975                      S=MOE AND STATE GOVT. ONLY                                     AND/OR UNESCO
G-1976                      T=EXCLUDING CENTRAL GOVT.                                      STATISTICAL
U.PUBLIC ONLY                                                 YEARBOOK
V-INCLUDING PRIVATE EXPENDITURE
X.INCLUDING OVERAGED STUDENTS
Y-UNESCO SOURCES
COMPARATIVE EDUCATION DATA ARE USEFLUL IN THE EVALUATION OF VARIOUS EDUCATION SYSTEMS AND ANALYSIS OF RELATIVE STAGES OF EDUCATIONAL
DEVELOPMIENT BETWEEN VARIOUS CO'UNIRIES. HOWEVER.ON THE BASIS OF THE PRESENT DATA,CROSS-NATIONAL CCNI,PARISO4 SHOCULD BE APPROACHED WITH
GREAT CAUTION. DATA T'RESENTED IN THE ABOVE TABLE HAVE BEEN COLLECTED LARGELY SY THE SANK MIISSIONS FROrM GOVERNNMENT SCURCFS; THE
REMAINDER ARE STAFF ESTIMATES CS DATA FROM UNESCO. EFFDRTS HAVE BEEN MAADE To STAVNDAROIZE DEFINITIONS AND WITHIN LITTIITS. TO CHECK THE
ACCURACY OF THE DATA. NEVERTHELEASSSUCH DATA ARE STI'LL IMPERFECT IN SEVEPAL. RESPECTS AND THE BANK IS WORKING TO IITFYOVE THEM
PROGRESSIVELY ON THE OCCASION OF ITS DPERATIONAL WORK. IN THE USE OF THESE DATA, THE FOLLOWING QUALIFICATIONS SHOULD BE BORNE IN
MIND:I
(1IPEDUCATION~ AS DEFIILED INi THE TABLE INCLUDES ALL EDUCATION AND TRAINING, FORMAL AND NON-FORMALI
(2)'PRIMARY EDUCATION REFERS TO EDUCATION AT THE FIRST LEVEL AND "SECONDARY' EDUCATION REFERS TO ALL EDUiCATION AT THE SECONDARY
LEVEL REGAPDLESS OF TYPE IEOC. GENECAL. TECHNICAL, AGRICULTURAL) 
(3)"LITERACY RATES' (COL.6) ARE OFTEN OBTAINED FROM COUNTRY CENSUSES. IN MIANYCOUNTRIES THEY ARE ONLY APPROXIMATIONS AND IT IS
DOUBTFUL THAT ANY UNIFOR'J1 DEFINITION OF "LITERATE" HAS BEEN FOLLOWNED CONSISTENTLY:
(4)'PUBLIC EXPENDITURE IN EDUCATION` (COL5.3,4 AND 5) REFER TO ALL CAPITAL AND RECURRENT EXPENDITURES DEVOTED TO EDUCATION By
PUBLIC AND QUASI-PUBLIC AGENCIES;
(W)ENROLLMENT RAT:05 (CCLV 7, 12 AND 14) REFER TO SCHOOL YEAR AND MEAN THE PERCENTAGE OF ELIGIBLE CHILDREN ENROLLED FULL-TIME
IN THE APPROPRIATE SCHOOL, PUBLIC AND PRIVATE By LEVEL. THEY ARE OFTEN SUBJECT TO A WIDE MARGIN DF ERROR IN THE DEVELOPING
*            ~~~COUNTRIES OWING TO VARIATION IN THE ACCURACY OF BASIC QATA(I.E. AGE-SPECIFIC POPULATION AND ENROLL'AENTS). ENRO)LLMIENT FIGURES
FREQUENTLY ARE HIGHER THAN THE NUMBER OF STUDENTS ACTUALLY IN SCHOOL. CVERAGED STUDENTS WHOSE INCLUSION IS INDICATED BY
FOOTNOTES ALSO CAN INFLATE THE RATIOS.



- 26 -                                                                                        Table 1-2
FIRST toettAvOON PrOJECT
Actua1 and Peoleoted  raroll-snt  ted Teacher Reaci-amata
Leve  & Tone of Id.catlon                        RSalasata  1976 - 77                       T   har.  1976 - 77         School-Ace        lerelt. 1985 - 8b                Teces  198c -S 8          Add. Re. t  1995 over 1976
Total   A, t oblite   aht                       Total   F-1.i  Thir-Etd-c   Pop. ProJ.   Total    Ac1Ae   Pii                     qed. on Tchr.-tdt.           rocec            lbs,i
-       AS&etfron 7!_O seleri _SAIJAB........            M...J.  ...,,U2..          1t           i985  _   teen uD ..               Peat        A3AiO.5. P1'   In lob. S_ Ils. Pob. Oils..
7R8-7E7YAN2                           2,375-       N.A.         .         100S                                                         5,030      N.A.      5,000(1007)) 1,510         1028.5            2,600
PRI1M&rY (Iradra 1-6)                32,724      i0e!s-        49!        911S         1,72P1    70S   7 21(tecl.       38,00013/   38,0003    1002    36,000(9517)                                     2 650 f
E _______2___                                                                    7,2I71                             8S// 8002
ND044  LEVEL50                                                                                                                                            1,0(8%
PrsP   Tp'(G-rde. 7-90        3,55        12!          39t        lO7l                 , 1         1: j4/                                                           020
All types secoond (Grade. 7-111      243,6797     811          53!        1757         1,098      51X   1:173 (tac.                   25,500                    0         1       i    1:                2,5300 
Secod. 6th Foem (Grad. 12/13)                     N.&          48S        100S               19/         toheon I-ee)                    504/                 500(100%)
Polytc-hicr & ether tr-nin              774/       2           ...        100S             60 II           NA                          2,000-               2,000(1002)   130          1:15              1,200            70
Octel Sohool                                        . .. 5'1001
No-acor ft C anna                        42/                  100         11011
Total Seco.d.leveL:             29,488     942-/         51!         80!                                           26,500-      26,000        98%    23,300(0951  1,150           1:20
iecohee Tral el g                       268/                   66!         900             22""          l:12                            30,500                              25         1:11
1octty Collge                          ,5                      461        .100                                                         1,00"                                             :1
Honaeocrafr Carter                       200rohr.trru)        IS000      1000
UnIversIt  of 'eat lodie.               69581                 453         1001
Other Unit-reiti                         ..
N9A.- Wo  applIoble.
- Sara not a.ilbla.
Tcrh.-Stdnt. - Teier-Stedent.
1/  i.a  Goveruent-enred and  hoveeat cienatnaid                  I ience enoldes approved irdep ndet and private .rchola
2/  Poblio only.
3/ A#e-,ro-, 5 thro-b 10.
4/  Day ctcdcnts enly, cotico 1,000 evenIng p-rt-tihe  atcdans.,
5/ Ao.th_o 260 I0 r n i         .lsara.
f/ Ae-groep 11 thro8gh 15, btt 80% if rhlcclatdd in trees of 11 tironsh 16 8ad incoiding ecrolloeta in gr-doc 12/13.
7/  Mont 4,200 to approved icdaponde-t and 1,800                     _ I pevate shools.
8/ NGt icicdling 170 ic in-eeeelot res
9i/ 0r-r 302 is ovcir8 olasaea.
10   headan   o Ui WC.I    h  larhadoc o-ro  hoe -  enro1een  of 1,063 and ieclodee 41 ic tIe Srhol of,atd-eda.
11/ In pwblit %chooie only; of ths    274 priay  te cie.   end 140 ese Ddeey techa c                Iv   f  bv   c   n othr tfatn/high-
12/ roll-thea tahar- only; elcceosie5r170 i-a-srice contR  pctittl=                     -
13/ illcenca (2,000) foe Barbadlee ohildeen free ontaide B1rbadoe eetorinvg iron oversea, for nicholing is Baebcdoe.
i4/ Al:c 350 iN peivate  .chonc  cith a L117 r_tio; fil_-tir oqoialaccy not availcile
r5, Aascnin  80 op leave of beance.
11/ Inlc.ding prIDOipa...
17/ Icolcdlng 100 ic-aaelyce coorsea.
i/ Ac addittoicl 1,000 io ovaclog coneses.
79/ Ase,,in e  that 34 parst-tee teach:are are auivclont so 13 ftll-tie  teachere,
20/ Aantieg tier 74 part-tIne teachqe             i are egnivalent to 25 fIl-ti_  teachers.
S-onre:  1976-77 data .spiled free tE.. staiartal materIals prolassloes by eiaiaon 00mes of polioy ohja,1s.
.e--r 20, 1978
1.



- 27 -
ANNEX 1
BARBADOS                                                           Table T-3
FIRST EDUCATION PROJECT
Primary Education: Enrollments in Government Schools by Grade and Sex, and Grade-to-Grade Flow Rates-
1972/73 to 1976/77
Q       _rade  1972/7T3        cP         1973/74         C           1974/75        CPR         1975/76         CPE         1976/77
M      P      tlF    _     M      F      !      %     M      F      MP     %     M       P      ,,    %      4 M       2 F
clas IV    2,661  2,459  5,120        2,565  2,366  4,931         2,501  2,468  4,969        2,469  2,460  4,929         2,597  2,409  5.oo6
Grade 6                          86.9                       884                        883                          8
Cl"s III   2,882  2,790  5,672        2,829  2,795  5,624         2,831  2,751  5,582        2,617  2,446  5,063         2,584  2,373  4,957
Grade 5                          oo.4                       99.2                       99.1                        98.9
ClAss XI    2,858  2,746  5,604       2,858  2,768  5,626         2,606  2,503  5,109        2,579  2,434  5,013         2,529  2,492  5,02;
Grade 4                          99.                       99.4                       99.4                        99.0
Class 1    2,880  2,801  5,681        2,630  2,509  5,139         2,604  2,439  5,043        2,540  2,530  5,070         2,447  2,295  4,742
Grade 3                          99.5                       02.0                       00.5             .          01.5
Ia=nta B   2,61b  2,548  5,164        2,561  2,384  4,945         2,536  2,507  5,043        2,370  2,302  4,672         2,302  2.304  4,606
Grade 2                          58.9                      105.5                       88.6                        88.2
Infant. A   4,284  4,114  8,598       2,454  2,325  4,T79         2,718  2,556  5,274        2,698  2,522  5,220         2,835  2,722  5,557
Grade 1                                                  _
Hecoption    _             - _          _         _                 695    738  1,433          890  1,058  1,948         1,160  1,215  2,375
Totsl    18,1881 17,458 35,639       15,897 15,147 31,044      16,491 15,962 32,453       16,163 15,752 31,915        16,454 15,810 32,264
Source:  Compiled from annual Ministry of Educatibn Statistics by UNESCO Project Identification Mission, 1978.
v  The crude flow rate (CPR)is calculated by dividing the total enrollment in a grade by the enrollment
in the next lower grade in the previous year.
November 20, 1978
I.



- 28 -
BARBADOS
ANNE" 
FIRS- EDUCATION PROJECT                                   Tablc T-4
Enrollments in Secondary Schools by Age, Sex and Grade-
October 1976
Enrollments by Age
Form/Grade        Sex                          -                                              1  n
9     10      11     12     13     14     15     16     17      18   19vnd         Total
_____________________  _ _____  _ _____                __ ____   ______   ______   over   __________________ov e
Form I/7            M     5      13   2,234    188      19      6    -                                   2,465      9
F     -     25   2,252    195      22       2      1                                 2,497 9
Form II/8           M                    150  2,027    309     50      6      1                          2,543      2
246    ~ ~ ~ ~ ~   ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ K5,215
F                   156  2,207    246      59     35      1                          2,672 9
Form III/9          M             5       10    103  1,983    314    116     25     3                    2,559 )
. FP         5       10    1511,902    472    164        32     6                    2,742    5,301
Form IV/10          M             2      _        5     70  1,260    299    184    38    10              1,868    4,198
F            -        1      5     96  1,615    377    184    40    12              2,330 5 4,9
Form V Lower/li     M                                  _       41    397    285   153    62       12       950 )
F                                   4      53    803    462   210    94        7    1,63315   2
Form V Upper/il-2 M_                                           14   1381    522   244    16        -     1,177    2420
F                                   1     20    387    596   222    16         1    1,24315
Sub-Total        .        5      20   2,394  2,323  2,381  1,685  1,199  1,017   438    88        12   11,562   2
Forms I-V                        30F  1    2,419  2,558  2,271  2,221  1,735  1,275   478   122    8   13,117   24,679
Form VI Lower       M                                                  8     75    42      2               127      251
/12-13            F                                                 17    102     5    -                 124       5
Form VI Upper       M                                                         1    60    46        _       107      196
/1J-14            F                                                         6    713    9        1        89)    19
Sub-Total           M                                                  8     76   102    48        -       234
Form VI             F                                                 17    108    78     9        1       213 9   447
Total               M     5      20   2,3;94  2,323  2,381  1,685  1,207  1,C093   540   136      12   11,796 ) 25,126
I ______ _0_F  -  1 1 2,419  2,558  2,271  2,221  1,752  1,1383   556   131    9   13,330
Source: Compiled from Ministry of Education Statistics 1976/77.
1/ All schools, government owned and maintained, approved independent and private.
nvemln1pr 20. 1978



- 29 -
BARBADOS                                                                            A_NSE  I
FIRST EDUCATION PROJECT
Public and Frivote i.cpynditure5 iv Edecatian
(in D8$ millions)
-   1975/76 -    __        __ _         1976/77                                                                  1 _  -  1927/2EV  -978/79_!  ______
Recurrent    Capital       Total   Recurrent    Capital        Total    Recuren       Capital        T.tal   Recurrent    Canital        Trtal
A. PUBLIC DRCr
mlinitry of Education                43.1        6.8         49.9        51.5         9.8       61.3          56.1         7.8        63.9        63.5         8.8         72.3
O)thers -                             1.7         -           1.7         1.8          -         1.8           1.9          -          1.9          2.0         -           2:0
8ubtotal              44.8         6.8        51.6         53.3        9.8        63.1         58.0         7.8        65.8         65.5        8.8         74.3
. Private CojttiuSns                     7.6          -          7.6         8.0          -         8.0           9.0          -          9.0          9.0         -           9.(
to Public Seioolu_
C.  PRIVATE CSECTiR2/- 4.0                                        4.0          4.3         -         4.3           4.8          -          4.8          4.8         _           4.8
TOTAL.                 16.4        6.8         83.2       65.-6        9.8        71.4_         71.8        7.8         79.6        79.3         3.8        8311
A u '' of Public
8ector inpenditures                    24.3       14.1         22.2         23.7       16.2       22.1          21.6        9.3         18.7         22.0       10.4         19.4
(184.41     (48.3)     (232.7)      (225.1)     (60.4)    (285.5)       (268.2)      (83.7)     (351.9)      (293.1)     (84.4)      '382.5)
A u 7.   GN78 (at                                                 7.0                                 8.1                                  7.4                                  7.3
ear      .ct prne)                                           (742.4)                            (775.3)                               (891.1)                            (I 011.23
A+B+C as 2. oG CNP                                                8.5                                 9.7                                  8.9                                  8.7
1/ Miniutry of Health (Nuran Training), Public Service Diviisins (Trainiag os Civil Servants)
27 Don'< erotirtes basud on a survey of some oniucing private schoo's and enpenditures of children in p-blic .cho..s
3/ inoluding gooernnent grants .*hioh are included under Mlinistry sf Education
4' Prolinln.ry figiure
53 Budget eutinates
_ruces   AroAJn-'s and Stanoors of th  Accoo...tnt Geaer1 (1975-78). Budget Ratia-ten 1978/79 Mifiutt- oP Finance
Novenb-r 20, 1978



- 30 -                                                                    ANNEX I
BARBADOS                                                                   Table T-6
FIRST EDUCATION PROJECT
Capital Cost Estimates (BDS$'000)
Net Area           Civil Works                                              Technical                 Total Costs
(n2)        Site Works    Buildings         Furniture    Equipment        Assistance         (BDS$'000C    (US$000)o    '
A.1 PRIIMARY SCHOOLS
1.  Eden Lod,,e                               1,655           182.5        1,216.6           121.6          24.0              _               1,566.7           772.4
'.  G-ace Hill                               1.655            182.5        1,216.6           1?1.6          24.0              -               1,544.7           772.4
3.  Ed.ehill-Mont                            1,655            182.5        1,216.6           121.6          24.0              -               1,544.7           772.4
PinaI-Wildey                             1,655           182.5         1,216.6          121.6           24.0             -                1,544.7           772.4
'.  St. Ann's                                   485            53.4          356.4            35.6          12.0              -                  457.4          228.7
r, t. Lukp's                               920            101.4          676.2           67.6           16.0              -                 861.2           430.6
.  Sharon                                       920           101.4          676.2            67.6          16.0              -                  861.?          430.6
3.  Tsbor                                       970           101.4          676.2            67.6          16.0              -                  861.2          430.6
.  St. Ssviour's                               920           101.4          676.2            67.6          16.0              -                  861.2          430.6
10. b. Georpe's (I ;                         1 260            138.9          926.1            92.6          20.0              -               117.6            _588.8
Sub-total       12   0        45 1,327.9        ,3.7                           1920                              11,58.6                5
A.? SECONDAR,Y SCHOOLS -
Alexandra (G)                              860             57.1          713.4            71.3         140.0             -                  981.8           L90.9
Coleridge-Parry (B)                         745            49.4          617.6            61.8         160.0              -                  888.8          1,. It
3.  Alleyne (M)                              1.005             66.7          833.3            83.3         180.0              -               1,163.3           581.7
L.  r:. St. osenha (M)                        7.285           151.9        1,898.9           189.9         274.0              -                2,514.7        1,257.4
r e Lod,e (B)                              725            48.1           601.0           60.1          142.0             -                  8S1.2           125.6
t',  ParKinsonDs                              1 080            71.7          895.9            89.6         182.0              -                1,239.2          619.6
Sub-total        6,700                955,560.0                             1,078.0       _                       7,639.0          ,819.6
Trent                        t                              _             _              260.0         600.0             _860.
Sub-total        'I,700        _VT-_9i                          816.o          6 ,5 1  ,67.0                                     L -  V0,
A.3 TEACHSE EDUCATION
2.  B-di ton ITC                                790            13.4          542.0            90.1         360.0             -                1,035.5           517.5
A.1, PROJECT ADMINISTRATIOII
TOE Project UJnit                          -                -             -               1L.0          16.0          800.0                 850.0           425.0
1D. INDUSTRIAL TRAINING
'.  RIAFP                                      392             2,.i          313.6            50.8          99.3          100.0                 587.8       _293
BASE COSTS'                                 19.927          1 841.3       15 26o 4         1855.9        2,364.3          900.0              29.23.          l
PIly pcal Contingencies                                       I                              18526 2361                    90.0               7,773.0         1,,11.
.'')                                                        (10)            (10)           (10)           (lo)          ('0)                  (10)            (lo)
Base Cost plus Physical   Co n                              2,025.1       16,796.3         7,041.5       2,600.7           990.0             71,153.9        12, 97.1
Pjice Contingencies                                           329.4        3,585.2           205.5         232.9         1i47.0               4,500.0         2,7119.5
('1)                                                         (16.26)      (21.34)         (10.06)         (8.9S)         (14.84)              (:8.1)          (8.8L)
T'OPAL PhOJECT COSTS                                        2,354.8       20,381.5         2.247.0       ?.833.6        1,137.0              28,953.9        11,476."
or- -'n E-chan-o Co,-onent                                    821.>       12,388.6        1,303.0        2,550.C          8V3.1              17,918.9         8,959.5
(35.0)         (60.8)         (58.o)         (90.0)         (75.01               (61.B8)        (61.88)
1' Enrepcd  n nrice- as of lqnuFnr 1, 107Q.
L/ Us$1.00 = BOS$2.00 as of January 1, 1979
5/ G=Girls, B=Boys, M=Mixed
November 20, 1978



ANNEX 1
- 31 -                                                        Table T-7
BARBADOS
FIRST EDUCATION PROJECT
The Project Secondary Schools
Present Enrollment                                         Proposed in Full Operation   _
Teacher-                                                  Teacher-       Teacher Rqrmts.
1/     Student          Enrollments                       1/     Student         Under Existing
Boys    Girls   Total       Teachers           Patie       Boys   Girls   Total        Teachers           Ratio       Tchr.-Stdnt.  Norm
Alexandra                     -         474      474          24             1:20        -        875      875          36             1:24                 44
Coleridge & Parry           483          -      483           22            1:22       875         -      875           36             1:24                 44
Alleyne                      243        246     489           27             1:18      435       440       875          36             1:24                 44
West St. Joseph's            492        536   1,028           57             1:18       610       615   1,225           51             1:24                 61
_                    ~~~~~~~~2/
The Lodge Boys               594         -       594          32            1:19       800         -      800           35             1:23                 40
4/
Parkinson's                 942         376   1,318           63            1:21       615       610   1,225            51             1:24                 61
3/                                          ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~5/
Trent                     1 225          -    1,225          (60)           1:20        610       615   1  225          51             1:24                 61
TOTAL:               3,979      1_632   5_611           285            1:20    3.945    3.155   7.100            296             1:24                355
If principals included:            292            1:19                                      303             1:23.4
I/ Excluding principal; full-time equivalency.
2/ Has a 6th form (i.e.,Grades 12 and 13).
3/ Equipment and furnishing only: still under construction.
4/ About 930 only on campus which the project is concerned with.
5/ Assuming 1:20 ratio as for other schools' average.
November 20, 1978



C         i,            i   ii _               P
*i~              I                 Ii
t1 
ii I1        -1              I   H1 
*~~ &
~~I  ~  b$0               - 0IN 
1121   ii 8                                                6 
In                 I                                                      -it
8"jc #              -      -   -,       I I
Sit.  _. , ,_it                      |n   
045 b1- -4  -  - ~ 1 -  s=I
it B ~     -                           I          
e               l 1 1   -    *
v~~~ oi   ii  I-    iln
E ~    ~     i   -   it                                         itl -   
it   i C                                       _ t            it
a~~~~~~~~~~    V



- 33 -
ANNEX 1
Table T-9
Page 1 of 3
BARBADOS
FIRST EDUCATION PROJECT
Technical Assistance for BIMAP
Total   1979   1980   1981
------- man-months -------
Fellowships
Specialists in supervisor and in-plant
training (3 x 4 months)                    12        -      8       4
Specialist in middle-level management
( x 3 months)                               3        3      -
Specialist in general management and
senior staff (1 x 3 and 1 x 4 months)       7        4      3
Specialists in small-scale enterprises
(2 x 4 months)                              8        4      4
30      11      15      4
Brief Terms of Reference
I.   Fellowships in Supervisory and In-Plant Training
The purpose is to give Barbadian professionals some background in
supervisory and in-plant training together with other experiences that
could be useful in the consideration of further action in Barbados.
The fellows would visit institutions, consulting firms and
industries (selected by their success in implementing in-plant training
schemes) in order to observe techniques such as:
(a) determination of training needs for particular industries;
(b) training planning;
(c) costs;
(d) organization of training units in sizable firms;



- 34 -                       ANNEX I
Table T-9
Page 2 of 3
(e) training for small enterprises (working with real cases);
(f) basic pedagogical principal for in-plant training;
(g) elaboration of curricula, teaching materials, and
audio-visual aids;
(h) supervisory training (type of courses, techniques for its
development); and
(i) instructor training.
(Possible countries: UK, USA, Canada, Trinidad, etc.)
II. Fellowship in Middle-level Management Training
The purpose of this fellowship is to expose a Barbadian professional
to some experience in middle-level management training in other countries.
This staff member would visit some institutions and universities which provide
middle-level management training to study:
(a) training techniques for middle-level management;
(b) development of curricula and teaching aids;
(c) some specific areas, such as organization, administration,
production planning and control, industrial engineering,
and retail management.
(Possible countries: UK, USA, Canada, Trinidad)
III. Specialists in General Management and Senior Staff
The purpose is to expose senior staff and a specialist in general
management training to new ideas and experiences in universities, productivity
centers and institutions involved in this activity. Some of the subject
matters would be:
(a) training techniques for management;
(b) development of curricula and teaching aids;
(c) some specific area, such as organization, administration,
marketing, finance, etc.
(Possible countries: UK, USA, Canada, Switzerland, etc.)



- 35 -
ANNEX I
Table T-9
Page 3 of 3
IV. Specialists in Small-scale Enterprises
The purpose is to give further training to the two specialists
who will provide technical assistance to small-scale enterprises. The
persons should visit specialized institutions providing technical assistance
to small-scale industries. Most of the time should be devoted to practical
work in conjunction with the institutions providing technical assistance to
the small-scale industries. In addition, the fellows may attend seminars
providing a more theoretical information base.
(Possible countries: the Netherlands, Belgium, Sweden, Japan, etc.)
November 20, 1978



- 36 -
ANNEX 1
Table T-10
BARBADOS
FIRST EDUCATION PROJECT
The Project Unit
(Under the direction of a full-time Project Manager, who will be
responsible for the execution of the project and who will report
directly to the Permanent Secretary of the MOE)
A.  Personnel Required               Possible Source of Funding                    *
1.   Architect (presently on post           Additional funding for three years
and funded by the CFTC;                is being requested by Government
contract expires in June 1979)         from CFTC.
2.   Structural Engineer (part-time)        Until January 1979, services avail-
able from the engineer provided by
CFTC. Replacement to be made avail-
able from within the Barbadian Civil
Service (BCS); Government funding
of replacement.
3.   Architect                              To be seconded by Government from
the Ministry of Communications and
Works (MCW) for 3 man-years.
Government funding.
4.   Architect as full-time appointment    Government funding.
to MOE to carry on after project
5.   Quantity Surveyor as full-time         Initial project financing of
appointment to MOE to carry on         up to 3 man-years--US$100,000.
after project
6.   Draftsmen from within the BCS.         Government funding.
7.   Superintendents or clerks of           Government funding.
works or the equivalent from
within the BCS
8.   Secretarial and other ancillary        Government funding.
staff
9.   Reserve funds in case of difficulty   Project financing US$100,000.
in mobilizing BCS personnel
10.  Architectural consultants for the      Project financing US$150,000.
Project Unit and the BIMAP component
11.  Short-term consultants for Erdiston   Project financing US$50,000.
Teacher Training College or UWI
B.   Physical Resources
1.   Government will provide adequate premises (already done).
2.   Equipment and furniture to be project-funded (US$25,000).



- 37 -                        ANNEX 1
Table T-11
BARBADOS
FIRST EDUCATION PROJECT
Disbursement Schedule
(US' >000)
Accumulated     Undisbursed
Fiscal Year    Semester     Disbursements    Disbursements      Balance 1/
1979          1
2             42.9             42.9            8,957.1
1980          1            414.1            457.0             8,543.0
2            403.3            860.3            8,139.7
1981          1          1,311.3          2,171.6             6,828.4
2          1,981.5          4,153.1             4,846.9
1982          1            924.0          5,077.1             3,922.9
2          1,353.7          6,430.8            2,569.2
1983          1          2,104.1          8,534.9               465.1
2            465.1          9,000.0
1/ At the end of each semester.
November 20, 1978



-38-                                                                                           ANNEX 
Chart C-1
BARWADOS
FIRST EDUCATION PROJECT
Orpniwi Chwt - Mllry" of E*io CuId Cultum -1078
.M  Aw-  A.-  Al-              S.W,          AW-            A.0-              S-                          1~~~~~~~~~~~~SmO ,  001,lrk                           Oo
L-I                               e-u Mo
T-                                                               i,l G.,id,I
i,             A              01-i C I                                       0,,k   I,
eta,                                                                                                                 Ar io.3  f hiorAtieAti  A-O.,k-
3ia,r  erfv fie.c, em-o M 
L________ Ioi IkI 0. .sia.  I.  .o ImCcsi, e. tIs
t i;; t1 |<;;i;;71 |E; X | eder=3ion Oh icor 1 | | fdtion Offiar I | < < | edw?i010,OhAicr-f10014
dsildinr S~~~~~eo,ySne eonywn  Uir,tr,  e_YII   ont IIe iorOf_      dee.inOfrr3lAdie,ated    OEF;-......   .... ER$   dkifOf D=6Az 



-39-                                                                   ANNEX 1
Chart C-2
BARBADOS
FIRST EDUCATION PROJECT
Structure of the Formal Education System, 1978
AGE:    5/6    6/7          7/8    8/9   9/10  10/11       11/12  12/13  13/14       14115        15/16
ALL-AGE PRIMARY
INFANT SCHOOL                                                                       _n...........|Medical and
2                     3UNIVERSITY       TSta duatie
Grade  PRIMHARY SCHOOL                                    Se Sh                  o
Houscraf Ceter     oa eco rafCetry
Grade  1 -                                         ~~~~~~~SECONDARY |SCHOO LS{                                                    
L- 8      1       1  1 Pot                     Community College r
: >  .   9    i3~~~~~~~~~~ ~~~ In-Service
In-ServiceTeacher Education
I n-Servi ce
Nurse  Training        Nurse Training
N   =oReception Class or Nursery School
*     Examination Point
O    Phasing Out
=Extra Year mn Grade 1 1 for Slower Learners or for Grade 1 1 Repeaterx
=Temporary Arrangements Pending Phasing out of All-Age Primary "Topx"
O  = Conducts Evening and Part-Time Courses also
Word Bank - 19255



-4   -                                                                                  ANNEX  I
Chart C-3
BARBADOS
FIRST EDUCATION PROJECT
Project Implementation Schedule
C6sroer Yi5r    1978                      1979                               1990                              1991                               1992                              1993
a I 9 3PC 11999 S SEONDARY12                       - 01]                   DI               1                                                  11I                        ~      12 1j             IlDOS91
29-
2  I E 2 IPMAIMAI Y S SECO DA RlY SCHOO0LS                                                                                                                                                     '
I P.r'r,rrn-.y Sdiwest
Coi-rOC -.                                                                                                                                                                                                                      26
2  OCrIrI Plr,r1)& 9omg CrOg6ig                     _      _                                                                                                                   /
Cr a  3sg:f Oe..ICCnCrrrrbC1O_                                                                                                                                              /                                                    2: 
1 CCCC1,r-                                                                                                                                                                   /                                                     2 
s  CoCs,uCr -o                                                                                                                                                            -/ -O
?I-s1 Two                                                                                                                                                               /
B  Nas.e- PaN & SOnere Di   2s _-
9Fi-a Dwigns f. C--rlai,n_i
|  9. YTreneirinr9                                                                                                                                                                                         uratePr                    23-
I     gConrrtruanion                                                                                                                           -                                                     _             P___  C   __
Ai Errire                                                                                                                                                                                                                         22 -
10  B9d nYumen.sr  & BiddOg                                                                                                                                                                                                         2 
11  Msurrrlsrre & Diiery                                                                                                                                                                                                            21-
i2  1,rrr,al, for_                                                                                                                  _/_
! ECr}ipCrerr                                                                                                                                                                                                                     20-
13- Bid Docraerr & 8dd n9
19 I1,rIrI.SIiCC~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~9
Ai3  TEi X ER EDUCATION - ERDISTON TTC O-
.11  CCisiWCr,r,                                                                                                                                                                                                ,.-
1  PrelhiCjarv Sr,,aee 4/. -1 
2E1Ie,Cr Plan A 6herGe D_ign                                                                                                                                                                                                       is
3  Fina Desrgns foC ConsrellcECr_                                                                                                           S                                                    :t
A C Te-i-rig A.
A   -OJECT  DKNIS-R-TIO
6'  CMntuto                                                                                                                                                  __A__,w
Cb  FCCn ICC                                                                                                                          /
6 Cr3 DoCrrCCrrC B BiUddi                                     6                                                                     /                                                                                              14-
7 ManirLfrrre & Dr9el;hry                                                                                       
I    C       All 1159CC                                                                                                  /                                                                                                          11
a 4   PROJECT 9DM-NISCRATION                                                                                             /                                        .-19
Furaitarr a Equipmentr                                                                                            / 
Othere, Yrrr                                                                                                                                    e
R    TNDUSTRIAL TRAININ6-    AP                                                                                    /                                                                                                                  8-
a Civ W1Aorks                                                                                                   /                             ,
2  P1IrrelimnrC Sloarel                                                                                     / 
3  Melter Plan & Sdherer Resignr                                                                           /                                                                                                                        A w  
|  OTIrCerCig                                                                                                                      I I
d~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ ~~                                                      ~            ~        ~       ~     ~ ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ eosrut  C >      _ GiateePro 
|  CI FrrCIrrre                                                                                        /                        ;                                                      
| A d OCCr1eCIC t& BkidiCg                           S                S                5 z  
9.B  MarrlacrCre&Oe;lCr9                                                                          /.                                                                                                                                   3 
10  9,C3atoCClSl N__dC                                            -  -11                                                                                                                                                               >1 
|   __________d ________ce_  __   __                               _      _ _                                              _ __   ___                    __ __ _- _   I  _    ___                      _    __         _   I1I



- 41 -
ANNEX 2
BARBADOS
FIRST EDUCATION PROJECT
Selected Documents and Data Available in the Project File
A.   Selected Sector Reports
Al. Barbados: Prospects for Educational Development: UNESCO, 1974
A2. Barbados: Prospects for Educational Development: UNESCO, 1978
A3. Economic Memorandum on Barbados: World Bank, March 31, 1978
A4. Draft Development Plan - Education: Barbados, 1978
B.   Selected Project-Related Reports and Studies
Bi. The Government Request: Barbados, May 1978
B2. Erdiston College: Development Proposals: Barbados, May 1978
B3. Erdiston - Educational Development Project: Barbados, July 1978
C.   Selected Working and Implementation Papers
(Prepared by the World Bank Appraisal Mission)
Cl. Demographic Projections - Selected School-Age Groups
C2. Educational and Architectural Working Papers - Project
Primary Schools
C3. Educational and Architectural Working Papers - Project
Secondary Schools
C4. Educational and Architectural Working Papers - Erdiston
Teacher College
C5. Working Papers - BIMAP






_    IBRD 13839
0  c \ 80   o         70-           SEPTEMBES 197S
A/orth Point                                           K     f         AT      NTIC
OCEAN             4
CRABHIL*L                                                                                                I .KM$.   400
.                  O /  te4t t  ,   _ DOMINICAN  MILES
PIE CORNER                                c                      RE9 PUERTO RICO       201-
2  4    ST.  LfU C Y      X      v                             JAMAICA   TIES E
Caribbean    Sea                    BARIBADOS
CLINKETTS_
SOUTH   AMERICA
SPEIGHT S-    T. P  ET ER         MILL             BELLPL AINE
TOWN                         S AM\S
s    I         I    j W11 HILL By7  /  CATTLEWAS   BATHSHEEiA
| lP~LUMTREEA  ,  
/ WLHA)    ( \     u        z              / s
HOLETTWN                     T THOtA    0                                
|  ;) /  // J   /   CT~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~kgga Pad:bnt
lb
z  |        I \CYACKSO WOW~~~~~RKM                                     '                 )
TE_H r                                                                                        THE CRANE
BRIDGETOWN    _\E R Ea 
HAST                                                        ARATINGS  T   p h /  l   Seks  f
sT. LAWREC__K               
~~~~~00wrdesofterptto hisk  t s etehd  rh  deoi.jo  ce   o   h
BARBAC)tO?S                                        so          pointd|
FIRST EDUCATION PROJECT 
O     PRIMARY SCHOOLS
SECONDAR>Y SCHFOOLS
TEACH[ER TRAINING
1-40YWSTRIAL TRAINfNa                               7hismvnp h" bshte rpleredbDythe WorldBlan7k's staf f xclush,ely for th. conv nience
MA4JOR TOWNS                                     of the mdars of the f port to which it is attuhed, The deriminadion v, d end the
o    SeACHES    ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~budifises shonyl Pon thismp donotmly, on ythopatrt hbtoof theWorld Sankand Its
atSceptence~ ~ ega sttu ofC tOutrtoy ran ndrsmnto
MAJO8R ROADS
PARtSi- 30OJIVDARIES
-.-   INTERNATtONAL BOUJNDARIES                                 0      1      2      3      4      5
I     I      I      I            i
MlILES



