Page  1
CONFORMED COPY 
 
IDA GRANT NUMBER H070 KG 
 
Development Grant Agreement 
 
(Village Investment Project) 
 
between 
 
KYRGYZ REPUBLIC 
 
and 
 
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION 
 
Dated December 23, 2003 
 
Page  2
IDA GRANT NUMBER H070 KG 
DEVELOPMENT GRANT AGREEMENT
 
AGREEMENT, dated December 22, 2003, between the KYRGYZ REPUBLIC 
(the Recipient) and INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION (the 
Association). 
WHEREAS (A) the Recipient, having satisfied itself as to the feasibility and 
priority of the Project described in Schedule 2 to this Agreement, has requested the 
Association to assist in the financing of the Project;  
(B) 
the Project will be carried out by the Community Development and 
Investment Agency (ARIS) with the Recipient’s assistance and, as part of such 
assistance, the Recipient will make available to ARIS the proceeds of the grant as 
provided for in this Agreement; and 
WHEREAS the Association has agreed, on the basis, inter alia, of the foregoing, 
to extend the Grant to the Recipient upon the terms and conditions set forth in this 
Agreement and in the agreement of even date herewith between the Association and 
ARIS (the Project Agreement); 
NOW THEREFORE, the parties hereto hereby agree as follows: 
ARTICLE I 
General Conditions; Definitions 
Section 1.01. The “General Conditions Applicable to Development Credit 
Agreements” of the Association, dated January 1, 1985 (as amended through 
October 6, 1999), with the modifications set forth in Schedule 4 to this Agreement (the 
General Conditions), constitute an integral part of this Agreement. 
 
Section 1.02. Wherever used in this Agreement, unless the context otherwise 
requires, the several terms defined in the General Conditions and in the Recitals to this 
Agreement have the respective meanings therein set forth and the following additional 
terms have the following meanings: 
Page  3
-
2
-
(a) 
“Beneficiary Community” means an eligible community which is a 
recipient or proposed to be a recipient of a Community Grant under Part B of the Project 
for the implementation of a Community Investment Plan; 
(b) 
“Community Grant” means a grant provided or proposed to be provided 
to an eligible community from the proceeds of the Grant to finance expenditures in 
respect of goods, works and consultants’ services necessary for the implementation of a 
Community Investment Plan under Part B of the Project; 
(c) 
“Community Grant Agreement” means an agreement between a 
respective local investment union executive committee, a respective village council and 
ARIS for the provision of a Community Grant to a Beneficiary Community; 
(d) 
“Community Investment Plan” means an investment plan prepared by an 
eligible community in accordance with the principles and procedures and eligibility 
criteria set forth in the Operational Manual and financed or proposed to be financed by a 
Community Grant; 
(e) 
“Financial Monitoring Report” means each report prepared in accordance 
with Section 4.02 of the Project Agreement; 
(f) 
“Micro-project” means a micro-project included or proposed to be 
included in a Community Investment Plan under Part B of the Project and to be financed 
from proceeds of a Community Grant; 
(g) 
“Operational Manual” means the operational manual referred to in 
Section 3.04 of this Agreement, as such operational manual may be amended from time 
to time; 
(h) 
“Project Agreement” means the agreement of even date herewith 
between the Association and ARIS, as such agreement may be amended from time to 
time, and such term includes all schedules and agreements supplemental to the Project 
Agreement; 
(i) 
“Project Implementation Plan” or “PIP” means the project 
implementation plan for the carrying out of the Project prepared and adopted by ARIS, as 
the same may be amended from time to time with the agreement of the Association; 
(j) 
“Special Account” means the account referred to in Section 2.02 (b) of 
this Agreement; and 
Page  4
-
3
-
(k) 
“Subsidiary Grant Agreement” means the agreement to be entered into 
between the Recipient and ARIS pursuant to Section 3.01 (b) of this Agreement, as the 
same may be amended from time to time, and such term includes all schedules to the 
Subsidiary Grant Agreement. 
Section 1.03.  Each reference in the General Conditions to the Project 
implementation entity shall be deemed as a reference to ARIS. 
ARTICLE II 
The Grant 
Section 2.01. The Association agrees to make available to the Recipient, on the 
terms and conditions set forth or referred to in this Agreement, an amount in various 
currencies equivalent to ten million five hundred thousand Special Drawing Rights 
(SDR 10,500,000). 
Section 2.02. (a) The amount of the Grant may be withdrawn from the Grant 
Account in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 1 to this Agreement for: (i) 
expenditures made (or, if the Association shall so agree, to be made) in respect of the 
reasonable cost of goods, works and services required for carrying out the Project and to 
be financed out of the proceeds of the Grant; and (ii) amounts paid (or, if the Association 
shall so agree, amounts to be paid) on account of withdrawals made by a recipient of a 
Community Grant to meet the reasonable cost of goods, works and services required for 
implementation of a Community Investment Plan under Part B of the Project in respect of 
which the withdrawal from the Grant Account is requested. 
(b) 
The Recipient may, for the purposes of the Project, open and maintain in 
Dollars, a special deposit account in a commercial bank on terms and conditions 
satisfactory to the Association, including appropriate protection against set off, seizure or 
attachment.  Deposits into, and payments out of, the Special Account shall be made in 
accordance with the provisions of Schedule 3  to this Agreement. 
Section 2.03. (a) The Recipient shall pay to the Association a commitment charge 
on the principal amount of the Grant not withdrawn from time to time at a rate to be set 
by the Association as of June 30 of each year, but not to exceed the rate of one-half of 
one percent (1/2 of 1%) per annum. 
(b) 
The commitment charge shall accrue: (i) from the date sixty days after 
the date of this Agreement (the accrual date) to the respective dates on which amounts 
shall be withdrawn by the Recipient from the Grant Account or canceled; and (ii) at the 
rate set as of the June 30 immediately preceding the accrual date and at such other rates 
Page  5
-
4
-
as may be set from time to time thereafter pursuant to paragraph (a) above.  The rate set 
as of June 30 in each year shall be applied from the next date in that year specified in 
Section 2.04 of this Agreement. 
(c) 
The commitment charge shall be paid: (i) at such places as the 
Association shall reasonably request; (ii) without restrictions of any kind imposed by, or 
in the territory of, the Recipient; and (iii) in Dollars or in such other eligible currency or 
currencies as may from time to time be designated or selected pursuant to the provisions 
of Section 4.02 of the General Conditions. 
Section 2.04. Commitment charges shall be payable semiannually on May 15 and 
November 15 in each year. 
Section 2.05. The Closing Date shall be August 31, 2008 or such later date as the 
Association shall establish.  The Association shall promptly notify the Recipient of such 
later date. 
ARTICLE III 
Execution of the Project 
Section 3.01. (a) The Recipient declares its commitment to the objectives of the 
Project as set forth in Schedule 2 to this Agreement, and, to this end, without any 
limitation or restriction upon any of its other obligations under this Agreement, shall 
cause ARIS to perform in accordance with the provisions of the Project Agreement all the 
obligations of ARIS therein set forth, shall take and cause to be taken all action, including 
the provision of funds, facilities, services and other resources, necessary or appropriate to 
enable ARIS to perform such obligations, and shall not take or permit to be taken any 
action which would prevent or interfere with such performance. 
(b) 
The Recipient shall make the proceeds of the Grant available to ARIS 
under a subsidiary grant agreement to be entered into between the Recipient and ARIS, 
under terms and conditions which shall have been approved by the Association. 
(c) 
The Recipient shall exercise its rights under the Subsidiary Grant 
Agreement in such manner as to protect the interests of the Recipient and the Association 
and to accomplish the purposes of the Grant, and, except as the Association shall 
otherwise agree, the Recipient shall not assign, amend, abrogate or waive the Subsidiary 
Grant Agreement or any provision thereof. 
Page  6
-
5
-
Section 3.02. Except as the Association shall otherwise agree, procurement of the 
goods, works and consultants’ services required for the Project and to be financed out of 
the proceeds of the Grant shall be governed by the provisions of Schedule 1 to the Project 
Agreement. 
Section 3.03. The Recipient shall maintain ARIS until completion of the Project 
with staff, resources and terms of reference satisfactory to the Association, shall not 
amend and shall cause ARIS not to amend its Charter without prior approval by the 
Association and shall assign to ARIS the responsibility for overall Project management 
and coordination, including: 
(a)  
preparation of withdrawal applications under the Grant; 
(b)  
management of the Special Account referred to in Section 2.02 (b) of this 
Agreement;  
(c) 
maintenance of records and accounts related to the Project and arranging 
for the audit thereof; 
(d) 
participation in administration of bidding procedures and of contracts 
under the Project; and 
(e)  
preparation of quarterly progress reports and submission thereof to the 
Recipient and the Association not later than 45 days after the end of each quarter, the first 
such report to be furnished to the Association not later than 45 days after the end of the 
first full calendar quarter after the effectiveness of this Agreement. 
Section 3.04. The Recipient shall cause ARIS to maintain the Operational 
Manual in form and content satisfactory to the Association and not to assign, amend, 
abrogate or waive the Operational Manual without obtaining the prior approval of the 
Association.  The Operational Manual shall cover, inter alia, the following matters: 
(a) eligibility criteria for Community Grants and Micro-projects; (b) the principles and 
procedures to be followed for the approval of Community Grants and Micro-projects; 
(c) regional allocation of the Grant funds; (d) community contribution requirements for 
Micro-projects; and (e) the indicators to be utilized by the ARIS in monitoring the 
progress of the Project. 
Section 3.05. The Recipient and the Association hereby agree that the obligations 
set forth in Sections 9.03, 9.04, 9.05, 9.06, 9.07 and 9.08 of the General Conditions 
(relating to insurance, use of goods and services, plans and schedules, records and 
reports, maintenance and land acquisition, respectively) shall be carried out by ARIS 
pursuant to Section 2.03 of the Project Agreement. 
Page  7
-
6
-
ARTICLE IV 
Financial Covenants 
Section 4.01. (a) The Borrower shall maintain a financial management system, 
including records and accounts, and prepare financial statements, all in accordance with 
consistently applied accounting standards acceptable to the Association, adequate to 
reflect its operations, resources and expenditures related to the Project. 
(b) The 
Borrower 
shall: 
(i) 
have the respective financial statements referred to in paragraph 
(a) of this Section for each fiscal year (or other period agreed to 
by the Association) audited, in accordance with consistently 
applied auditing standards acceptable to the Association, by 
independent auditors acceptable to the Association; 
(ii) 
furnish to the Association as soon as available, but in any case 
not later than six months after the end of each such year (or such 
other period agreed to by the Association), (A) certified copies 
of the respective financial statements referred to in paragraph (a) 
of this Section for such year (or such other period agreed to by 
the Association), as so audited, and (B) an opinion on such 
statements by said auditors, in scope and detail satisfactory to the 
Association; and 
(iii) 
furnish to the Association such other information concerning 
such records, accounts and the audit of such financial statements, 
and concerning said auditors, as the Association may from time 
to time reasonably request. 
(c) 
For all expenditures with respect to which withdrawals from the Grant 
Account were made on the basis of statements of expenditure, the Borrower shall: 
(i) 
ensure that all records (contracts, orders, invoices, bills, receipts 
and other documents) evidencing such expenditures are retained 
until at least one year after the Association has received the audit 
report for, or covering, the fiscal year in which the last 
withdrawal from the Grant Account was made;  
Page  8
-
7
-
(ii) 
enable the Association’s representatives to examine such 
records; and 
(iii) 
ensure that such  statements of expenditure are included in any 
audit that the Association may have requested pursuant to  
paragraph (b) of this Section. 
ARTICLE V 
Remedies of the Association 
Section 5.01. Pursuant to Section 6.02 (l) of the General Conditions, the 
following additional events are specified: 
(a) 
ARIS shall have failed to perform any of its obligations under the Project 
Agreement. 
(b) 
As a result of events which have occurred after the date of this 
Agreement, an extraordinary situation shall have arisen which shall make it improbable 
that ARIS will be able to perform its obligations under the Project Agreement. 
(c) 
The Edict of the President of the Kyrgyz Republic No. 330, dated 
October 15, 2003, shall have been amended, suspended, abrogated, repealed or waived so 
as to affect materially and adversely the ability of ARIS to perform any of its obligations 
under the Project Agreement. 
ARTICLE VI 
Effectiveness; Termination 
Section 6.01. The following events are specified as an additional condition to the 
effectiveness of this Agreement within the meaning of Section 12.01 (b) of the General 
Conditions, namely, that the Subsidiary Grant Agreement has been executed on behalf of 
the Recipient and ARIS. 
Section 6.02. The following are specified as additional matters, within the 
meaning of Section 12.02 (b) of the General Conditions, to be included in the opinion or 
opinions to be furnished to the Association: 
Page  9
-
8
-
(a) 
that the Project Agreement has been duly authorized or ratified by ARIS, 
and is legally binding upon ARIS in accordance with its terms; and 
(b) 
that the Subsidiary Grant Agreement has been duly authorized or ratified 
by the Recipient and ARIS and is legally binding upon the Recipient and ARIS in 
accordance with its terms. 
Section 6.03. The date ninety (90) days after the date of this Agreement is hereby 
specified for the purposes of Section 12.04 of the General Conditions. 
ARTICLE VII 
Representative of the Recipient; Addresses 
Section 7.01. The Minister of Finance of the Recipient is designated as 
representative of the Recipient for the purposes of Section 11.03 of the General 
Conditions. 
Section 
7.02 The following addresses are specified for the purposes of 
Section 11.01 of the General Conditions: 
For the Recipient: 
Ministry of Finance of the Kyrgyz Republic 
58 Erkindik Blvd., Bishkek City, 720040 
Kyrgyz Republic 
 
Telex:  
Facsimile: 
 
245-156NUR KH 
(996 312) 61645 
 
Page  10
-
9
-
For the Association: 
 
International Development Association 
1818 H Street, N.W. 
Washington, D.C. 20433 
United States of America 
 
Cable address: 
Telex: 
Facsimile: 
 
INDEVAS 248423 
(MCI) 
(202) 
477-6391 
Washington, D.C. 
  64145 (MCI) 
 
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their duly 
authorized representatives, have caused this Agreement to be signed in their respective 
names in the District of Columbia, United States of America, as of the day and year first 
above written. 
 
KYRGYZ REPUBLIC 
 
By: /s/ Baktybek Abdrisaev 
 Authorized Representative 
 
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION 
 
By: /s/ Dennis de Tray 
Authorized Representative 
Page  11
-
10
-
SCHEDULE 1 
Withdrawal of the Proceeds of the Grant 
1. 
The table below sets forth the Categories of items to be financed out of the 
proceeds of the Grant, the allocation of the amounts of the Grant to each Category and 
the percentage of expenditures for items so to be financed in each Category: 
 
Amount of the 
 
Grant Allocated 
% of 
 
(Expressed in 
Expenditures 
 Category
SDR Equivalent
)
to be Financed
(1)  Community Grants 
8,030,000 
100% of the  
 
under Part B 
 
disbursed 
 
of the Project 
 
amounts 
 
(2)  Works 
70,000 
70% of foreign 
 
expenditures and 
 
83%
of local 
 
expenditures 
 
(3)  Goods 
150,000 
100% of foreign 
 
expenditures, 
 
100%
of local 
 
expenditures 
 
(ex-factory cost)  
 
and 83% of local  
 
expenditures 
 
for other items 
 
procured locally 
Page  12
-
11
-
Amount of the 
 
Grant Allocated 
% of 
 
(Expressed in 
Expenditures 
 Category
SDR Equivalent
)
to be Financed
(4)   Consulta
nts’ 
1,250,000 
 85% of 
 
services,  
 
expenditures 
 
including audit 
 
for services of 
 
consultants 
 
domiciled within 
 
the territory of 
 
the Recipient, 
 
100%
of 
 
eligible social 
 
charges for such 
 
consultants and 
 
72%
of foreign 
 
expenditures 
 
for services of 
 
other consultants 
 
(5)    Training 
580,000 
100% 
 
(6)   Operating costs 
   380,000 
      100% of eligible  
 
social charges and 
 
83%
of other  
 
expenditures 
 
(7)   Unallocated 
     40,000
TOTAL 10,500,000
2. 
For the purposes of this Schedule: 
 
(a) 
the term “foreign expenditures” means expenditures in the currency of 
any country other than that of the Recipient for goods or services supplied from the 
territory of any country other than that of the Recipient;  
(b) 
the term “local expenditures” means expenditures in the currency of the 
Recipient or for goods or services supplied from the territory of the Recipient;  
Page  13
-
12
-
(c) 
the term “social charges” means any payments, premia, or contributions 
for, health benefits, unemployment benefits, disability insurance, workers’ compensation 
benefits, retirement (pension or social security) benefits, and life insurance, which 
constitute payment for the drawdown of future benefits to the staff concerned;  
(d) 
the term “Training” means Project related study tours, training courses, 
seminars, workshops and other training activities not included under goods or service 
providers’ contracts, including travel and per diem costs of trainees and trainers; and 
(e) 
the term “Operating costs” means incremental operating expenditures 
incurred by the ARIS on account of Project implementation, management and 
monitoring, including its staff salaries, social charges, office rent and maintenance, 
materials and supplies, communication costs, support for information systems, translation 
costs, bank charges and travel and per diem costs of the ARIS staff and other reasonable 
expenditures directly associated with implementation of Project activities, all based on an 
annual budget acceptable to the Association. 
3. 
Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1 above, no withdrawals shall be 
made in respect of payments made for expenditures prior to the date of this Agreement. 
4. 
The Association may require withdrawals from the Grant Account to be made on 
the basis of statements of expenditure for: (a) goods under contracts costing less than 
$100,000 equivalent each, except the first two contracts for goods to be procured in 
accordance with the procedures referred to in Parts C.2 and C.3 of Section I of Schedule 
1
to the Project Agreement; (b) works under contracts costing less than $50,000 
equivalent each, except the first three contracts for works to be procured in accordance 
with the procedures referred to in Part C.5 of Section I of Schedule 1 to the Project 
Agreement; (c) services under contracts costing less than $50,000 equivalent each for 
consulting firms and less than $10,000 equivalent each for individual consultants; and (d) 
Community Grants, operating costs and training, under such terms and conditions as the 
Association shall specify by notice to the Recipient.  
5. 
If the Association shall have determined at any time that any amount of the Grant 
was used in a manner inconsistent with the provisions of this Agreement, the Recipient 
shall, promptly upon notice from the Association, refund to the Association for deposit 
into the Grant Account, an amount equivalent to the amount so used. 
Page  14
-
13
-
SCHEDULE 2 
Description of the Project 
 
The objectives of the Project are to assist the Recipient with: (a) improving 
governance and capacity at the local level; (b) strengthening the provision of, and access 
to, essential infrastructure services; and (c) supporting private small-scale enterprise 
development. 
 
The Project consists of the following parts, subject to such modifications thereof 
as the Recipient and the Association may agree upon from time to time to achieve such 
objectives.  
Part A
:
Capacity Building and Empowerment
1. 
Provision of technical assistance and training to participating communities, local 
self-government institutions, community-based organizations and local non-
governmental organizations in community mobilization and capacity building, including 
social monitoring, communities’ needs and resources assessment, and participatory 
planning. 
2. 
Provision of technical assistance and training to local governments and 
community leaders to emphasize: (a) skills, mechanisms, processes and tools for good 
governance; (b) accountability and transparency in conducting public affairs; (c) 
awareness of local responsibilities and rights in fiscal relations with higher levels of 
government; and (d) strategic planning for community development.  
3. 
 Provision of technical assistance and training to participating communities and 
community-based organizations to build their skills and experience in business 
development, infrastructure planning and operation, good practices for avoiding or 
mitigating environmental impact of Micro-projects and in other areas of Community 
Investment Plans development and implementation. 
Part B
:
Village Investments
Provision of Community Grants to eligible communities to assist with 
Community Investment Plans implementation. 
Page  15
-
14
-
Part C
:
Project Management
Provision of technical assistance, including audit and training to ARIS for project 
management and monitoring and financing its Operating costs under the Project. 
*
*
*
The Project is expected to be completed by February 29, 2008. 
Page  16
-
15
-
SCHEDULE 3 
Special Account 
1. 
For the purposes of this Schedule: 
(a) the 
term “eligible Categories means Categories (1), (2), (3), (4), (5) and 
(6) set forth in the table in paragraph 1 of Schedule 1 to this Agreement; 
(b) 
the term “eligible expenditures” means expenditures in respect of the 
reasonable cost of goods, works and services required for the Project and to be financed 
out of the proceeds of the Grant allocated from time to time to the eligible Categories in 
accordance with the provisions of Schedule 1 to this Agreement; and 
(c) 
the term “Authorized Allocation” means an amount equivalent to 
$500,000 to be withdrawn from the Grant Account and deposited into the Special 
Account pursuant to paragraph 3 (a) of this Schedule, provided, however, that unless the 
Association shall otherwise agree, the Authorized Allocation shall be limited to an 
amount equivalent to $250,000 until the aggregate amount of withdrawals from the Grant 
Account plus the total amount of all outstanding special commitments entered into by the 
Association pursuant to Section 5.02 of the General Conditions shall be equal to or 
exceed the equivalent of SDR 1,400,000. 
2. 
Payments out of the Special Account shall be made exclusively for eligible 
expenditures in accordance with the provisions of this Schedule. 
3. 
After the Association has received evidence satisfactory to it that the Special 
Account has been duly opened, withdrawals of the Authorized Allocation and subsequent 
withdrawals to replenish the Special Account shall be made as follows: 
(a) 
For withdrawals of the Authorized Allocation, the Recipient shall furnish 
to the Association a request or requests for deposit into the Special Account of an amount 
or amounts which do not exceed the aggregate amount of the Authorized Allocation.  On 
the basis of such request or requests, the Association shall, on behalf of the Recipient, 
withdraw from the Grant Account and deposit into the Special Account such amount or 
amounts as the Recipient shall have requested. 
(b) 
(i) 
For replenishment of the Special Account, the Recipient shall 
furnish to the Association requests for deposits into the Special 
Account at such intervals as the Association shall specify. 
Page  17
-
16
-
(ii) 
Prior to or at the time of each such request, the Recipient shall 
furnish to the Association the documents and other evidence 
required pursuant to paragraph 4 of this Schedule for the 
payment or payments in respect of which replenishment is 
requested.  On the basis of each such request, the Association 
shall, on behalf of the Recipient, withdraw from the Grant 
Account and deposit into the Special Account such amount as 
the Recipient shall have requested and as shall have been shown 
by said documents and other evidence to have been paid out of 
the Special Account for eligible expenditures.  All such deposits 
shall be withdrawn by the Association from the Grant Account 
under the respective eligible Categories and in the respective 
equivalent amounts, as shall have been justified by said 
documents and other evidence. 
4. 
For each payment made by the Recipient out of the Special Account, the 
Recipient shall, at such time as the Association shall reasonably request, furnish to the 
Association such documents and other evidence showing that such payment was made 
exclusively for eligible expenditures. 
5. 
Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 3 of this Schedule, the Association 
shall not be required to make further deposits into the Special Account: 
(a) 
if, at any time, the Association shall have determined that all further 
withdrawals should be made by the Recipient directly from the Grant Account in 
accordance with the provisions of Article V of the General Conditions and paragraph (a) 
of Section 2.02 of this Agreement; 
(b) 
if the Recipient shall have failed to furnish to the Association, within the 
period of time specified in Section 4.01 (b) (ii) of this Agreement, any of the audit reports 
required to be furnished to the Association pursuant to said Section in respect of the audit 
of the records and accounts for the Special Account; 
(c) 
if, at any time, the Association shall have notified the Recipient of its 
intention to suspend in whole or in part the right of the Recipient to make withdrawals 
from the Grant Account pursuant to the provisions of Section 6.02 of the General 
Conditions; or 
(d) 
once the total unwithdrawn amount of the Grant allocated to the eligible 
Categories, minus the total amount of all outstanding special commitments entered into 
by the Association pursuant to Section 5.02 of the General Conditions with respect to the 
Project, shall equal the equivalent of twice the amount of the Authorized Allocation. 
Page  18
-
17
-
Thereafter, withdrawal from the Grant Account of the remaining unwithdrawn amount of 
the Grant allocated to the eligible Categories shall follow such procedures as the 
Association shall specify by notice to the Recipient.  Such further withdrawals shall be 
made only after and to the extent that the Association shall have been satisfied that all 
such amounts remaining on deposit in the Special Account as of the date of such notice 
will be utilized in making payments for eligible expenditures. 
6. 
(a) 
If the Association shall have determined at any time that any payment 
out of the Special Account: (i) was made for an expenditure or in an amount not eligible 
pursuant to paragraph 2 of this Schedule; or (ii) was not justified by the evidence 
furnished to the Association, the Recipient shall, promptly upon notice from the 
Association: (A) provide such additional evidence as the Association may request; or 
(B) deposit into the Special Account (or, if the Association shall so request, refund to the 
Association) an amount equal to the amount of such payment or the portion thereof not so 
eligible or justified.  Unless the Association shall otherwise agree, no further deposit by 
the Association into the Special Account shall be made until the Recipient has provided 
such evidence or made such deposit or refund, as the case may be. 
(b) 
If the Association shall have determined at any time that any amount 
outstanding in the Special Account will not be required to cover further payments for 
eligible expenditures, the Recipient shall, promptly upon notice from the Association, 
refund to the Association such outstanding amount. 
(c) 
The Recipient may, upon notice to the Association, refund to the 
Association all or any portion of the funds on deposit in the Special Account. 
(d) 
Refunds to the Association made pursuant to paragraphs 6 (a), (b) and (c) 
of this Schedule shall be credited to the Grant Account for subsequent withdrawal or for 
cancellation in accordance with the relevant provisions of this Agreement, including the 
General Conditions. 
Page  19
-
18
-
SCHEDULE 4  
Modifications to the General Conditions 
 
For the purpose of this Agreement, the provisions of the General Conditions are 
modified as follows: 
1. 
Sections 3.02, 3.03, 3.0 (a), 3.04 (b), 3.05, 6.05, Article VII, are deleted in their 
entirety. 
2. 
Wherever used in the General Conditions, the following terms are modified to 
read as follows: 
(a) 
The term “Borrower” is modified to read “Recipient”. 
(b) 
The term “Credit” is modified to read “Grant”. 
(c) 
The term “credit” is modified to read “grant”; except that where used in 
Sections 6.02 (a) (ii) and 6.02 (c) (i), as modified below, the term “credit” shall continue 
to read “credit”.  
(d) 
The term “Credit Account” is modified to read “Grant Account”. 
(e) 
The term “Development Credit Agreement” is modified to read 
“Development Grant Agreement”. 
3. 
Article IV is modified as follows: 
(a) 
Section 4.02 (a) and the heading of Section 4.02 are modified to read as 
follows: 
“
Section 4.02  Currencies in which Commitment Charges are Payable
 
(a)   
The Recipient shall pay the commitment charge on the Grant in 
the currency specified in the Development Grant Agreement or in such 
other eligible currency or currencies as may from time to time be 
designated or selected pursuant to paragraph (c) or (e) of this Section.” 
Page  20
-
19
-
(b) 
Wherever used in Section 4.02 (c) and (e) of the General Conditions the 
words “principal and service charges” are modified to read “commitment charge”. 
(c) 
Section 4.03 and its heading are modified to read as follows: 
“
Section 4.03.  Amount of the Grant
 
The amount of the Grant withdrawn from time to time shall be 
the equivalent in terms of SDR (determined as of the date or respective 
dates of withdrawal from the Grant Account) of the value of the currency 
or currencies so withdrawn.” 
4. 
Section 6.02 is modified as follows: 
(a) 
The phrase “any other development credit agreement” in Section 
6.02 (a) (ii) is modified to read:  “any other development grant agreement or any 
development credit agreement or development financing agreement”. 
(b) 
The phrase “any development credit agreement” in Section 6.02 (c) (i) is 
modified to read:  “any development grant agreement, development credit agreement or 
development financing agreement”. 
5. 
The words “The principal of, and any other charges on” in paragraph (a) of 
Section 8.01 are modified to read “The commitment charge on”. 
6. 
Section 12.05 and its heading are modified to read as follows: 
“Section 12.05
.
Termination of Development Grant Agreement. 
The obligations of the Borrower under the Development Grant 
Agreement shall terminate on the date 20 years after the date of the Development 
Grant Agreement.” 
 
