Page  1
RCA 248423. 
\09
WUI 64145 
\09
FAX (202) 477-6391
 
The World Bank 
1818 H Street N.W. 
(202) 477-1234 
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
 
Washington, D.C.  20433 
Cable Address:  INTBAFRAD 
I
NTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
 
U.S.A. 
Cable Address:  INDEVAS 
CONFORMED COPY 
 
May 30, 2003
 
Mr. Bolot Abildaev 
Minister of Finance 
Ministry of Finance 
Erkindik Boulevard, 58 
Bishkek 720874 
Kyrgyz Republic 
 
Re: 
Japan Social Development Fund  Grant for the  
 
Community Driven Village Investments Pilot Project 
 
Grant Number TF05269                      
Dear Mr. Abildaev: 
 
I
am writing on behalf of International Development Association (IDA) to indicate the 
IDA’s agreement, as administrator of grant funds provided by Japan under the Japan Social 
Development Fund, to make a grant in an amount not exceeding one million one hundred forty-
nine thousand five hundred US Dollars (US$1,149,500) (the Grant) to Kyrgyz Republic (the 
Recipient). 
 
The Grant is made in response to the Recipient's request for financial assistance for the 
project described in paragraph 1.2 of the Annex to this Letter Agreement (the Project) and on the 
terms and conditions set forth in the said Annex.  The Recipient represents, by confirming its 
agreement below, that it is authorized to contract and withdraw the Grant for the said Project and 
on the said terms and conditions. 
 
Please note that it is IDA’s policy to make publicly available this Letter Agreement and 
any information related thereto, after this Letter Agreement has become effective and the 
Recipient has given its consent to such disclosure.  The Recipient, by countersigning this Letter 
Agreement, confirms its consent to such disclosure. 
 
Please confirm your agreement with the foregoing, on behalf of the Recipient, by signing, 
dating, and returning to us the enclosed copy of this Letter Agreement.  Upon receipt by IDA of the 
copy of this Letter Agreement countersigned by you, this Letter Agreement will become effective 
as of the date of the countersignature. 
 
Very truly yours, 
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION 
 
/s/: Dennis de Tray 
Director 
Central Asia Regional Office 
Europe and Central Asia Region 
 
AGREED: 
KYRGYZ REPUBLIC 
 
By: 
/s/  Bolot Abildaev 
Title:  
Minister of Finance 
Date: 
July 16, 2003
 
Page  2
-2-  
 
ANNEX
Objectives, Terms, and Conditions of the Grant 
 
1. 
Objectives and Description of the Project
1.1 
The objectives of the Grant are to: (a) develop and test feasible approaches to help rural 
communities, through their elected governments and community-based organizations, address 
locally identified poverty alleviation priority needs by planning and implementing small-scale 
social and economic infrastructure investments and income-generating community enterprises; 
and (b) empower poor rural communities by strengthening the capacity of the local governments, 
community-based organizations, non-governmental organizations and communities to identify, 
prepare, implement and maintain locally initiated development undertakings that meet 
communities needs.  The Grant will also complement the Bank-financed Village Investment 
Project (P073973). 
1.2 
The Project consists of the following Parts, each of which includes the following 
activities: 
Part A
.
Village Community-Driven Development
Provision of financing, through matching grants, to rural communities to help them to 
plan and implement small community-driven micro-projects which support social and economic 
infrastructures and group-managed income-generating ventures.  These activities are estimated to 
cost US$700,000 equivalent. 
Part B.
Grassroots Institutional Capacity Development
Provision of technical assistance and training for:   
(i) 
strengthening the capacity of non-governmental organizations, community-based 
organizations and local governments;  
(ii) 
training of community leaders and local officials including on-the-job training of 
local community trainers in: (a) social mobilization and community planning; (b) transparent 
budgeting and accounting; (c) micro-project preparation, implementation and maintenance; and 
(d) participatory monitoring and evaluation and information dissemination.  These activities are 
estimated to cost US$401,850 equivalent. 
Part C
Project Management
Financing of incremental expenditures incurred in the management of the grant and 
annual audits.  This activity is estimated to cost US$47,650 equivalent. 
Page  3
-3-  
 
2. Implementation 
Generally
2.1. 
The Recipient through VIP Project Preparation Unit, shall: (a) carry out the Project  with due 
diligence and efficiency; (b) promptly provide the funds, facilities, services and other resources 
required for that purpose; (c) furnish all information covering the Project and the use of the proceeds 
of the Grant as IDA shall reasonably request; (d) from time to time exchange views with IDA's 
representatives on the progress and results of the Project; (e) take all necessary measures required to 
enable IDA to visit the territory of Recipient for purposes related to the Grant; and (f) cause all goods 
and services financed out of the proceeds of the Grant to be used exclusively for the purposes of the 
Project.  Without limitation on the foregoing, the Recipient shall, if IDA shall so request, prepare and 
furnish to IDA promptly upon completion of the Project a report, in form and substance satisfactory 
to IDA, on the results and impact of the Project. 
 
3. Procurement
3.1. 
 Except as IDA shall otherwise agree, procurement of the goods and consultants’ services 
required for the Project and to be financed out of the proceeds of the Grant shall be governed by 
the provisions of Attachment I to this Annex.  The Recipient shall execute the training activities 
under the Project in accordance with a bi-annual training program which it will prepare and 
submit to the Bank for review and “no objection” before implementation. 
3.2. 
The Recipient shall ensure that all imported goods to be financed out of the proceeds of the 
Grant shall be insured against hazards incident to the acquisition, transportation and delivery thereof 
to the place of use or installation, and that any indemnity for such insurance is payable in a freely 
usable currency to replace or repair such goods.  The Recipient shall ensure that any facilities 
relevant to the Project are at all times operated and maintained in accordance with appropriate 
practices and that any repairs or renewals of such facilities are promptly made as needed. 
 
4. Operational 
Manual
The Recipient shall develop and maintain an Operational Manual in a form and content 
satisfactory to the Association and shall not change it without obtaining prior approval of IDA.  The 
Operational Manual shall cover, 
inter alia
,
such matters as: (a) eligibility criteria for sub-projects; (b) 
the principles and procedures to be followed for the approval of sub-projects; (c) the terms and 
conditions to be included in the sub-grant agreements; and (d) the indicators to be utilized in the 
monitoring the progress of the Project. 
 
5. 
Withdrawal of Grant Proceeds
5.1. 
The amount of the Grant shall be credited to an account opened by IDA on its books in the 
name of the Recipient (the Grant Account), and may be withdrawn therefrom by the Recipient in 
accordance with the provisions of this Section 5, for expenditures in respect of the reasonable cost of 
goods and services required for the Project and to be financed out of the proceeds of the Grant. 
 
5.2. 
The table below sets forth the Categories of items to be financed out of the proceeds of the 
Grant, the allocation of the amounts of the Grant to each Category, and the percentage of 
expenditures for items so to be financed in each Category: 
Page  4
-4-  
 
Amount of the 
% of 
 
Grant Allocated 
Expenditures to 
 Category
(in US Dollars)
be Financed
(1) 
Sub-grants 
700,000 
100% of the amounts disbursed 
 
(2) 
Consultants’ services 
379,450 
100% 
 including 
audit 
   
 
(3) 
Training and workshops 
58,600 
100% 
 
(4) 
Goods 
4,500 
100% of foreign expenditures, 
 
100% of local expenditures 
 
(ex-factory cost) and 83% 
 
of local expenditures for  
 
other items procured locally 
 
(5) Operating 
Costs 
6,950 
83% 
 
TOTAL 1,149,500
For purposes of this paragraph, the term:  
 
(a) 
“foreign expenditures” means expenditures in the currency of any country other 
than that of the Recipient for goods or consultants’ services supplied from the territory of any 
country other than that of the Recipient; 
 
(b) 
“local expenditures” means any expenditures that are not foreign expenditures, 
provided, however, that if the currency of the Recipient is also that of another country from the 
territory of which goods or services are supplied, expenditures in such currency for such goods or 
services shall be deemed to be foreign expenditures; and 
(c) 
“training and workshops” means study tours, training courses, seminars, 
stakeholders consultations, travel and per diem of trainees and trainers, handout materials and 
other related expenditures as agreed with IDA. 
(d) 
“operating costs” means operating expenditures incurred for Project 
implementation, management and monitoring, including office rent and maintenance, materials and 
supplies, communication costs, support for information systems, translation costs and other 
reasonable expenditures directly association with implementation of Project activities as agreed with 
IDA.  
 
(e) 
“sub-grants” means grants provided to beneficiaries in seven oblasts of the 
Recipient to finance infrastructure, public goods and income-generating projects. 
5.3. 
Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 5.2 above: 
 
(a) 
No withdrawals shall be made from the Grant Account: (i) for payments made for 
expenditures prior to the date of signature of this Letter Agreement by IDA; (ii) on account of 
Page  5
-5-  
 
payments for any taxes levied by or in the territory of the Recipient; (iii) on account of expenditures 
in the territories of any country which is not a member of IDA or for goods produced in or services 
supplied from such territories; (iv) for the purpose of any payment to persons or entities, or for any 
import of goods if such payment or import, to IDA’s knowledge, is prohibited by a decision of the 
United Nations Security Council taken under Chapter VII of the Charter of the United Nations; or 
(iv) on account of Sub-grants under Category (1) set forth in the table in paragraph 5.2 above unless 
the Operational Manual referred to in paragraph 4 above has been adopted by the Recipient. 
 
(b) 
No withdrawals shall be made from the Grant Account after December 31, 2004, or 
such later date that IDA shall establish by notice to the Recipient (the Closing Date); and  
 
(c) 
If, in IDA’s opinion, an amount of the Grant allocated to any of the Categories in 
the table in paragraph 5.2 above will be insufficient to finance the expenditures under such Category, 
IDA may, by written notice to the Recipient, reallocate to such Category an amount of the Grant then 
allocated to another Category which, in IDA’s opinion, will not be necessary to meet other 
expenditures. 
 
5.4. 
When the Recipient shall desire to withdraw any amount from the Grant Account, it shall 
deliver to IDA a written application for withdrawal of such amount in the form specified by IDA.  
Withdrawal applications shall be: (a) signed on behalf of the Recipient by Minister of Finance or 
such other person as he or she shall have authorized in writing; and (b) accompanied by such 
evidence in support of the application as IDA shall reasonably request.  Authenticated specimen 
signatures of the person authorized to sign withdrawal applications shall be provided with the first 
application bearing his or her signature.  Each withdrawal application for an amount of the Grant and 
its supporting evidence must be sufficient in form and substance to satisfy IDA that the Recipient is 
entitled to withdraw such amount from the Grant Account and that such amount is to be used in the 
carrying out of the Project.  IDA shall pay the amounts withdrawn by the Recipient from the Grant 
Account only to or on the order of the Recipient. 
 
5.5. 
IDA may require withdrawals from the Grant account to be made on the basis of statement 
of expenditures under contracts for: (a) services of individual consultants costing less than 
US$10,000 equivalent; (b) sub-grants; (c) training and workshops; (d) goods; and (e) operating costs. 
 
5.6. 
Withdrawals of the proceeds of the Grant shall be made in the currency of the Grant.  IDA, 
at the Recipient’s request and acting as an agent of the Recipient, shall purchase with the currency of 
the Grant withdrawn from the Grant Account such currencies as shall be required to pay for 
expenditures to be financed out of the proceeds of the Grant.  Whenever it shall be necessary, for the 
purposes of this Letter Agreement, to determine the value of one currency in terms of another, such 
value shall be as reasonably determined by IDA. 
 
5.7. 
To facilitate the carrying out of the Project, the Recipient may open and maintain in US 
Dollars a special deposit account (the Special Account) in a bank of the Recipient on terms and 
conditions satisfactory to IDA, including appropriate protection against set-off, seizure or 
attachment.  Deposits into, and payments out of, the Special Account shall be made in accordance 
with the provisions of Attachment II to this Annex. 
 
6. Accounts 
and 
Audits
5.1. 
(a) 
The Recipient shall maintain or cause to be maintained a financial management 
system, including records and accounts, and prepare financial statements in a format acceptable to 
IDA, adequate to reflect in accordance with sound accounting practices the operations, resources and 
expenditures related to the Project. 
 
Page  6
-6-  
 
(b) 
The Recipient shall: (i) have the records, accounts and financial statements referred 
to in subparagraph (a) above and the records and accounts for the Special Account for each fiscal 
year audited, in accordance with auditing standards acceptable to IDA, consistently applied, by 
independent auditors acceptable to IDA; (ii) furnish to IDA as soon as available, but in any case not 
later than six months after the end of each such year, (A) certified copies of the financial statements 
referred to in subparagraph (a) above for such year as so audited, and (B) an opinion on such 
statements, records and accounts and report of such audit, by said auditors, of such scope and in such 
detail as IDA shall have reasonably requested; and (iii) furnish to IDA such other information 
concerning said records and accounts and the audit thereof, and concerning said auditors, as IDA 
shall from time to time reasonably request. 
 
(c) 
For all expenditures with respect to which withdrawals from the Grant Account 
were made on the basis of statements of expenditure, the Recipient shall: (i) maintain or cause to be 
maintained, in accordance with subparagraph (a) above, records and accounts reflecting such 
expenditures; (ii) retain, until at least one year after IDA has received the audit report for the fiscal 
year in which the last withdrawal from the Grant Account was made, all records (contracts, orders, 
invoices, bills, receipts and other documents) evidencing suc
h
expenditures; (iii) enable IDA’s 
representatives to examine such records; and (iv) ensure that such records and accounts are included 
in the annual audit referred to in subparagraph (b) above and that the report of such audit contains a 
separate opinion by said auditors as to whether the statements of expenditure submitted during such 
fiscal year, together with the procedures and internal controls involved in their preparation, can be 
relied upon to support the related withdrawals. 
 
7. Suspension 
and 
Cancellation
7.1. 
IDA may at any time, by notice to the Recipient, suspend the right of the Recipient to make 
further withdrawals from the Grant Account if any of the following events has occurred and is 
continuing: (a) the Recipient has failed to comply with any of its obligations herein specified; or (b) 
the right of the Recipient, or any other entity to which International Bank for Reconstruction and 
Development (IBRD) has made a loan with the guarantee of the Recipient, to make withdrawals 
under any loan agreement with IBRD or any development credit agreement with IDA shall have 
been suspended.  
 
7.2. 
IDA may, by written notice to the Recipient, terminate the right of the Recipient to make 
further withdrawals from the Grant Account: (a) at any time after the right of the Recipient to make 
withdrawals from the Grant Account shall have been suspended pursuant to the provisions of 
paragraph 7.1 above; or (b) if the Recipient shall have failed to take action, satisfactory to IDA, 
within six months after the effective date hereof, to carry out the Project.  
 
Page  7
-7-  
 
Attachment I  
 
Procurement 
Section I
.
Procurement of Goods
Part A
:
General
Goods shall be procured in accordance with the provisions of Section I of the “Guidelines 
for Procurement under IBRD Loans and IDA Credits” published by the Bank in January 1995 and 
revised in January and August 1996, September 1997 and January 1999 (the Guidelines) and the 
following provisions of Section I of this Schedule. 
Part B
:
Other Procurement Procedures
International Shopping
1. 
Goods estimated to cost less than $50,000 equivalent per contract may be procured under 
contracts awarded on the basis of national shopping procedures in accordance with the provisions 
of paragraphs 3.5 and 3.6 of the Guidelines. 
2. 
Goods and works under sub-projects shall be procured in accordance with the provisions 
of paragraph 3.15 of the Guidelines and the procedures set forth in the Project Operational 
Manual with respect to Sub-grants under Part A of the Project. 
Part C
:
Review by IDA of Procurement Decisions
Post Review
With respect to each contract not governed by paragraph 2 of this Part, the procedures set 
forth in paragraph 4 of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines shall apply. 
Section II
.
Consultants’ Services
Part A
:
General
Consultants’ services shall be procured in accordance with the provisions of Section I and 
Section IV of the “Guidelines: Selection and Employment of Consultants by World Bank 
Borrowers”, published by the Bank in January 1997 and revised in September 1997, January 1999 
and May 2002 (the Consultant Guidelines), paragraph 1 of Appendix 1 thereto, Appendix 2 
thereto, and the following provisions of this Section. 
 
Page  8
-8-  
 
Part B
:
Procedures for the Selection of Consultants
1. 
Selection Based on Consultants’ Qualifications
Services estimated to cost less than $100,000 equivalent per contract may be procured 
under contracts awarded in accordance with the provisions of paragraphs 3.1 and 3.7 of the 
Consultants Guidelines. 
 
2. Individual 
Consultants
Services for individual firms that meet the requirements set forth in paragraph 5.1 of the 
Consultant Guidelines shall be procured under contracts awarded in accordance with the 
provisions of paragraph 5.1 through 5.3 of the Consultant Guidelines. 
 
Part C
:
Review by IDA of the Selection of Consultants
1. Prior 
Review
(b) 
With respect to each contract for the employment of individual consultants 
estimated to cost the equivalent of US$10,000 or more, the report on the comparison of the 
qualifications and experience of candidates, and the terms of reference and terms of employment 
of the consultants shall be furnished to IDA for its prior review and approval.  The contract shall 
be awarded only after said approval shall have been given.  The provisions of paragraph 3 of 
Appendix 1 to the Consultant Guidelines shall also apply to such contracts. 
 
2. Post 
Review
With respect to each contract not governed by paragraph 2 of this Part, the procedures set 
forth in paragraph 4 of Appendix 1 to the Consultant Guidelines shall apply. 
Page  9
-9-  
 
Attachment II 
 
Special Account 
 
1. 
For the purposes of this Attachment: 
 
(a) 
the term "eligible Categories" means the Categories (1), (2), (3), (4) and (5) set 
forth in the table in paragraph 5.2 of the Annex to this Letter Agreement; 
 
(b) 
the term "eligible expenditures" means expenditures in respect of the reasonable 
cost of goods and services required for the Project and to be financed out of the proceeds of the 
Grant allocated from time to time to the eligible Categories in accordance with the provisions of 
paragraph 5.2 of the Annex to this Letter Agreement; and 
 
(c) 
the term "Authorized Allocation" means an amount equivalent to US$100,000 to 
be withdrawn from the Grant Account and deposited into the Special Account pursuant to 
paragraph 3 (a) of this Attachment. 
 
2. 
Payments out of the Special Account shall be made exclusively for eligible expenditures in 
accordance with the provisions of this Attachment. 
 
3. 
After IDA has received evidence satisfactory to it that the Special Account has been duly 
opened, withdrawals of the Authorized Allocation and subsequent withdrawals to replenish the 
Special Account shall be made as follows: 
 
(a) 
The Recipient shall furnish to IDA a request or requests for a deposit into the 
Special Account of an amount or amounts which do not exceed the aggregate amount of the 
Authorized Allocation.  On the basis of such request or requests, IDA shall, on behalf of the 
Recipient, withdraw from the Grant Account and deposit into the Special Account such amount or 
amounts as the Recipient shall have requested. 
 
(b) 
(i) 
For replenishment of the Special Account, the Recipient shall furnish to 
IDA requests for deposits into the Special Account at such intervals as 
IDA shall specify. 
 
(ii) 
Prior to or at the time of each such request, the Recipient shall furnish to 
IDA the documents and other evidence required pursuant to paragraph 4 of 
this Attachment for the payment or payments in respect of which 
replenishment is requested.  On the basis of each such request, IDA shall, 
on behalf of the Recipient, withdraw from the Grant Account and deposit 
into the Special Account such amount as the Recipient shall have 
requested and as shall have been shown by said documents and other 
evidence to have been paid out of the Special Account for eligible 
expenditures.  All such deposits shall be withdrawn by IDA from the Grant 
Account under the eligible Categories, and in the respective equivalent 
amounts, as shall have been justified by said documents and other 
evidence. 
 
4. 
For each payment made by the Recipient out of the Special Account, the Recipient shall, at 
such time as IDA shall reasonably request, furnish to IDA such documents and other evidence 
showing that such payment was made exclusively for eligible expenditures. 
Page  10
-10-  
 
5. 
Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 3 of this Attachment, IDA shall not be 
required to make further deposits into the Special Account: 
 
(a) 
if, at any time, IDA shall have determined that all further withdrawals should be 
made by the Recipient directly from the Grant Account; 
 
(b) 
if the Recipient shall have failed to furnish to IDA, within the period of time 
specified in paragraph 6.1 (b) (ii) of the Annex to this Letter Agreement, any of the audit reports 
required to be furnished to IDA pursuant to said paragraph in respect of the audit of the records and 
accounts for the Special Account; 
 
(c) 
if, at any time, IDA shall have notified the Recipient of its intention to suspend in 
whole or in part the right of the Recipient to make withdrawals from the Grant Account pursuant to 
the provisions of paragraph 7.1 of the Annex to this Letter Agreement; or 
 
(d) 
once the total unwithdrawn amount of the Grant shall equal the equivalent of twice 
the amount of the Authorized Allocation. 
 
Thereafter, withdrawals from the Grant Account of the remaining unwithdrawn amount of the Grant 
shall follow such procedures as IDA shall specify by notice to the Recipient.  Such further 
withdrawals shall be made only after and to the extent that IDA shall have been satisfied that all 
such amounts remaining on deposit in the Special Account as of the date of such notice will be 
utilized in making payments for eligible expenditures. 
 
6. 
(a) 
If IDA shall have determined at any time that any payment out of the Special 
Account: (i) was made for an expenditure or in an amount not eligible pursuant to paragraph 2 of 
this Attachment; or (ii) was not justified by the evidence furnished to IDA, the Recipient shall, 
promptly upon notice from IDA: (A) provide such additional evidence as IDA may request; or (B) 
deposit into the Special Account (or, if IDA shall so request, refund to IDA) an amount equal to the 
amount of such payment or the portion thereof not so eligible or justified.  Unless IDA shall 
otherwise agree, no further deposit by IDA into the Special Account shall be made until the 
Recipient has provided such evidence or made such deposit or refund, as the case may be. 
 
(b) 
If IDA shall have determined at any time that any amount outstanding in the 
Special Account will not be required to cover further payments for eligible expenditures, the 
Recipient shall, promptly upon notice from IDA, refund to IDA such outstanding amount. 
 
