Page  1
The World Bank 
1818 H Street N.W. 
(202) 477-1234 
I
NTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
 
Washington, D.C.  20433 
Cable Address:  INTBAFRAD 
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
 
U.S.A. 
Cable Address:  INDEVAS 
 
CONFORMED COPY  
January 8, 2002 
 
Mr. Temirbek Akmataliev  
Minister of Finance 
Erkindik Boulevard 58 
Bishkek 720874 
Kyrgyz Republic 
 
Re: Kyrgyz Republic: Japanese Grant for the
Preparation of the Community Investment Project Grant TF026808
Dear Mr. Akmataliev: 
 
I
am writing on behalf of the International Development Association (IDA) to indicate 
IDA’s agreement, as administrator of grant funds provided by the Government of Japan, to make a 
grant in an amount not exceeding four hundred ninety thousand two hundred ten United States 
dollars (US$490,210) (the Grant) to the Kyrgyz Republic (the Recipient). 
 
The Grant is made in response to the Recipient's request for financial assistance and for the 
purposes and on the terms and conditions set forth in the Annex to this Letter Agreement.  The 
Recipient represents, by confirming its agreement below, that it is authorized to contract and 
withdraw the Grant for the said purposes and on the said terms and conditions. 
 
Please confirm your agreement with the foregoing, on behalf of the Recipient, by 
signing, dating, and returning to us the enclosed copy of this Letter Agreement.  Upon receipt by 
IDA of the copy of this Letter Agreement countersigned by you, this Letter Agreement will become 
effective as of the date of the countersignature. 
 
Very truly yours, 
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION 
 
By:       /s/ Dennis de Tray 
 Country 
Director 
 
Central Asia Country Unit 
 
Europe and Central Asia Region 
 
AGREED: 
 
KYRGYZ REPUBLIC 
 
By: Minister of Finance 
 
Date:  01/02/2002
Page  2
ANNEX
Purposes, Terms, and Conditions of the Grant 
 
1. Purposes 
and 
Activities
1.1. 
The purpose of the Grant is to assist the Recipient, through its Office of the Prime 
Minister, in the preparation of the Community Investment Project, which has as its main 
objectives to alleviate rural poverty and to strengthen the capacity of rural stakeholders to design 
and implement developmental activities on their own (the Project).  The activities (the Activities) 
for which the Grant is given are as follows: 
 
(a)  Social and Environmental Assessment Component 
 
Provision of technical assistance to: (i) prepare a social assessment covering geographically 
and socially representative communities and prepare a baseline survey of pre-project conditions; (ii) 
prepare an environmental impact assessment and an environmental management plan; (iii) conduct 
workshops/consultations with the key stakeholders. These activities are estimated to cost US$89,375 
equivalent. 
 
(b)  Capacity Assessment of Rural and Community Institutions Component 
 
Provision of technical assistance to: (i) assess the institutional capacity of local communities 
and community groups and capacity building requirements; (ii) assess existing rural entrepreneurial 
capacity and opportunities and identify needs and ways to strengthen this capacity. These activities 
are estimated to cost US$39,125 equivalent. 
 
(c)  Development of a Typology of Micro-Projects Component 
 
Provision of technical assistance to: (i) assess business opportunities for rural off-farm 
employment and income generation; and (ii) develop a typology of micro-projects to be supported by 
the Project. These activities are estimated to cost US$185,450 equivalent. 
 
(d)  Design of Project Implementation Framework Component 
 
Provision of technical assistance to prepare and design the implementation arrangements for 
the Project. These activities are estimated to cost US$84,100 equivalent. 
 
(e)  Establishment of the Project Preparation Unit (PPU) Component 
 
Provision of technical assistance to: (i) support the establishment of a PPU under the Office 
of the Prime Minister of the Recipient, including the design and establishment of appropriate systems 
of financial management, procurement, Project monitoring and evaluation; (ii) develop a plan and 
timetable to convert the PPU into an autonomous Project funding and coordinating unit agency. 
These activities are estimated to cost US$92,160 equivalent.  
 
2. Implementation 
Generally
The Recipient, through its Office of the Prime Minister, shall: (a) carry out the Activities 
with due diligence and efficiency; (b) promptly provide the funds, facilities, services and other 
resources required for that purpose; (c) furnish all information covering the Activities and the use of 
Page  3
the proceeds of the Grant as IDA shall reasonably request; (d) from time to time exchange views 
with IDA’s representatives on the progress and results of the Activities; and (e) take all necessary 
measures required to enable IDA to visit the territory of the Recipient for purposes related to the 
Grant.  Without limitation on the foregoing, the Recipient shall, if IDA shall so request, prepare and 
furnish to IDA promptly upon completion of the Activities a report, in form and substance 
satisfactory to IDA, on the results and impact of the Activities. 
 
3. Procurement
3.1. 
Except as IDA shall otherwise agree, procurement of the consultants’ services and goods 
required for the carrying out of the Activities and to be financed out of the proceeds of the Grant 
shall be governed by the provisions of Attachment I to this Annex. 
 
3.2.  
The Recipient shall ensure that all imported goods to be financed out of the proceeds of the 
Grant shall be insured against hazards incident to the acquisition, transportation and delivery thereof 
to the place of use or installation, and that any indemnity for such insurance is payable in a freely 
usable currency to replace or repair such goods.  The Recipient shall ensure that any facilities 
relevant to the Activities are at all times operated and maintained in accordance with appropriate 
practices and that any repairs or renewals of such facilities are promptly made as needed. 
 
4. 
Withdrawal of Grant Proceeds
4.1. 
The amount of the Grant shall be credited to an account opened by IDA on its books in the 
name of the Recipient (the Grant Account), and may be withdrawn there from by the Recipient in 
accordance with the provisions of this Section 4, for expenditures in respect of the reasonable cost of 
goods and services required for the Activities and to be financed out of the proceeds of the Grant. 
 
4.2. 
The expenditures for the following items may be financed out of the proceeds of the Grant 
and shall be used exclusively in the carrying out of the Activities: 
Page  4
Item 
Amount of the  
Grant Allocated  
(in U.S. dollars)
%
of  
Expenditures to 
be Financed
(1) Consultants’ Services  
 
472,810 
100% 
 
(2) Goods 
 
(3) Workshops 
 
12,000 
 
5,400 
 
100% of foreign expenditures, 
100% of local expenditures (ex-
factory cost) and  85% of local 
expenditures for other items 
procured locally 
 
TOTAL 
 
490,210
For purposes of this paragraph, the term: 
 
(a)  “foreign expenditures” means expenditures in the currency of any country other than that of 
the Recipient for goods or services supplied from the territory of any country other than that 
of the Recipient; 
 
(b)  “local expenditures” means any expenditures that are not foreign expenditures, provided, 
however, that if the currency of the Recipient is also that of another country from the 
territory of which goods or services are supplied, expenditures in such currency for such 
goods or services shall be deemed to be foreign expenditures; and 
 
(c)  “workshops” means expenditures for non-consultants’ costs of the stakeholder consultations 
such as facilities, materials and supplies, and participants accommodation.  
 
4.3. 
Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 4.2 above: 
 
(a) 
No withdrawals shall be made from the Grant Account: (i) for payments made for 
expenditures prior to the date of signature of this Letter Agreement by IDA; (ii) on account of 
payments for any taxes levied by or in the territory of the Recipient; (iii) on account of expenditures 
in the territories of any country which is not a member of IDA or for goods produced in or services 
supplied from such territories; or (iv) for the purpose of any payment to persons or entities, or for any 
import of goods, if such payment or import, to IDA’s knowledge, is prohibited by a decision of the 
United Nations Security Council taken under Chapter VII of the Charter of the United Nations; 
 
(b) 
No withdrawals shall be made from the Grant Account after October 16, 2002, or 
such later date that IDA shall establish by notice to the Recipient (the Closing Date), provided that, 
except in special circumstances, the Closing Date shall not be extended beyond the expected date of 
IDA approval of financing for the Project.  However, withdrawals may be made after the Closing 
Date for expenditures incurred prior to the Closing Date if the corresponding withdrawal application 
is received by IDA within four months after the Closing Date, after which time any amount of the 
Grant remaining unwithdrawn from the Grant Account shall be canceled; and 
Page  5
(c) 
If, in IDA’s opinion, an amount of the Grant allocated to any of the items in the 
table in paragraph 4.2 above will be insufficient to finance the expenditures for such item, IDA may, 
by written notice to the Recipient, reallocate to such item an amount of the Grant then allocated to 
another item which, in IDA’s opinion, will not be necessary to meet other expenditures. 
 
4.4. 
When the Recipient shall desire to withdraw any amount from the Grant Account, it shall 
deliver to IDA a written application for withdrawal of such amount in the form specified by IDA.  
Withdrawal applications shall be: (a) signed on behalf of the Recipient by the Minister of Finance of 
the Recipient or such other person as he or she shall have authorized in writing; and (b) accompanied 
by such evidence in support of the application as IDA shall reasonably request.  Authenticated 
specimen signatures of the person authorized to sign withdrawal applications shall be provided with 
the first application bearing his or her signature.  Each withdrawal application for an amount of the 
Grant and its supporting evidence must be sufficient in form and substance to satisfy IDA that the 
Recipient is entitled to withdraw such amount from the Grant Account and that such amount is to be 
used in the carrying out of the Activities.  IDA shall pay the amounts withdrawn by the Recipient 
from the Grant Account only to or on the order of the Recipient. 
 
4.5. 
IDA may require withdrawals from the Grant Account to be made on the basis of statements 
of expenditure for expenditures under contracts for: (a) services of individual consultants costing less 
than US$50,000 equivalent each; (b) goods; and (c) workshops, all under such terms and conditions 
as IDA shall specify by notice to the Recipient.  
 
4.6. 
Withdrawals of the proceeds of the Grant shall be made in the currency of the Grant.  IDA, 
at the Recipient’s request and acting as an agent of the Recipient, shall purchase with the currency of 
the Grant withdrawn from the Grant Account such currencies as shall be required to pay for 
expenditures to be financed out of the proceeds of the Grant.  Whenever it shall be necessary, for the 
purposes of this Letter Agreement, to determine the value of one currency in terms of another, such 
value shall be as reasonably determined by IDA. 
 
4.7. 
To facilitate the carrying out of the Activities, the Recipient may open and maintain in 
United States dollars a special deposit account (the Special Account) in a commercial bank on terms 
and conditions satisfactory to IDA, including appropriate protection against set-off, seizure or 
attachment.  Deposits into, and payments out of, the Special Account shall be made in accordance 
with the provisions of Attachment II to this Annex. 
 
5. Accounts 
and 
Audits
5.1. 
(a) 
The Recipient, through its Office of the Prime Minister, shall maintain or cause to 
be maintained a financial management system, including records and accounts, and prepare financial 
statements in a format acceptable to IDA, adequate to reflect in accordance with sound accounting 
practices the operations, resources and expenditures related to the Activities. 
 
(b) 
The Recipient, through its Office of the Prime Minister, shall: (i) have the records, 
accounts and financial statements referred to in subparagraph (a) above and the records and accounts 
for the Special Account for each fiscal year audited, in accordance with auditing standards acceptable 
to IDA, consistently applied, by independent auditors acceptable to IDA; (ii) furnish to IDA as soon 
as available, but in any case not later than six months after the end of each such year, (A) certified 
copies of the financial statements referred to in paragraph (a) of this Section for such year as so 
audited, and (B) an opinion on such statements, records and accounts and report of such audit, by 
said auditors, of such scope and in such detail as IDA shall have reasonably requested; and (iii) 
Page  6
furnish to IDA such other information concerning said records and accounts and the audit thereof, 
and concerning said auditors, as IDA shall from time to time reasonably request. 
 
(c) 
For all expenditures with respect to which withdrawals from the Grant Account 
were made on the basis of statements of expenditure, the Recipient, through its Office of the Prime 
Minister, shall: (i) maintain or cause to be maintained, in accordance with subparagraph (a) above, 
records and accounts reflecting such expenditures; (ii) retain, until at least one year after IDA has 
received the audit report for the fiscal year in which the last withdrawal from the Grant Account was 
made, all records (contracts, orders, invoices, bills, receipts and other documents) evidencing such 
expenditures; (iii) enable IDA’s representatives to examine such records; and (iv) ensure that such 
records and accounts are included in the annual audit referred to in subparagraph (b) above and that 
the report of such audit contains a separate opinion by said auditors as to whether the statements of 
expenditure submitted during such fiscal year, together with the procedures and internal controls 
involved in their preparation, can be relied upon to support the related withdrawals. 
 
6. Suspension 
and 
Cancellation
6.1. 
IDA may at any time, by notice to the Recipient, suspend the right of the Recipient to make 
further withdrawals from the Grant Account if any of the following events has occurred and is 
continuing: (a) the Recipient has failed to comply with any of its obligations herein specified; or (b) 
the right of the Recipient, or any other entity to which the International Bank for Reconstruction and 
Development (the IBRD) has made a loan with the guarantee of the Recipient, to make withdrawals 
under any loan agreement with the IBRD or any development credit agreement with IDA shall have 
been suspended.  
 
6.2. 
IDA may, by written notice to the Recipient, terminate the right of the Recipient to make 
further withdrawals from the Grant Account: (a) at any time after the right of the Recipient to make 
withdrawals from the Grant Account shall have been suspended pursuant to the provisions of 
paragraph 6.1 above; or (b) if the Recipient shall have failed to take action, satisfactory to IDA, 
within six months after the effective date hereof, to carry out the Activities; or (c) if IDA has decided, 
at any time after consultation with the Recipient, to withdraw its support to the Project; or (d) if the 
Recipient has withdrawn its request for IDA’s assistance in financing the Project. 
 
Page  7
Attachment I  
 
Procurement 
 
Section I
.
Consultants’ Services
Part A
:
General
Consultants’ services shall be procured in accordance with the provisions of the 
Introduction and Section IV of the “Guidelines: Selection and Employment of Consultants by 
World Bank Borrowers”, published by the World Bank in January 1997 and revised in September 
1997 and January 1999 (the Consultant Guidelines), and the following provisions of this     
Section I. 
 
Part B
:
Procedures for the Selection of Consultants
Individual Consultants
Services for social and environmental assessment, capacity assessment of rural and 
community institutions, development of a typology of micro-projects, design of project 
implementation framework and support for the establishment of the PPU, under paragraph 1.1 (a), 
(b), (c), (d) and (e) of the Annex shall be procured under contracts awarded to individual 
consultants in accordance with the provisions of paragraphs 5.1 through 5.3 of the Consultant 
Guidelines. 
 
Part C
:
Review by IDA of the Selection of Consultants
1. Selection 
Planning
Prior to the issuance to consultants of any requests for proposals, the proposed plan for 
the selection of consultants under the Activities shall be furnished to IDA for its review and 
approval, in accordance with the provisions of paragraph 1 of Appendix 1 to the Consultant 
Guidelines.  Selection of all consultants’ services shall be undertaken in accordance with such 
selection plan as shall have been approved by IDA, and with the provisions of said paragraph 1. 
 
2. Prior 
Review
With respect to each contract for the employment of individual consultants estimated to 
cost the equivalent of US$50,000 or more, the qualifications, experience, terms of reference and 
terms of employment of the consultants shall be furnished to IDA for its prior review and 
approval.  The contract shall be awarded only after said approval shall have been given. 
 
3. Post 
Review
With respect to each contract not governed by paragraph 2 of this Part, the procedures set 
forth in paragraph 4 of Appendix 1 to the Consultant Guidelines shall apply. 
 
Section II
.
Procurement of Goods
Goods shall be procured: (a) in accordance with the provisions of Section I of the 
“Guidelines for Procurement under IBRD Loans and IDA Credits” published by the Bank in 
Page  8
January 1995 and revised in January and August 1996, September 1997 and January 1999 (the 
Guidelines); and (b) under contracts awarded on the basis of shopping procedures in accordance 
with the provisions of paragraphs 3.5 and 3.6 of the Guidelines.  The review procedures set forth 
in paragraph 4 of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines shall apply to such contracts, provided that the 
word “bids”, in such paragraph 4, shall be read as “quotations”. 
Page  9
Attachment II 
 
Special Account 
 
1. 
For the purposes of this Attachment: 
 
(a) 
the term "eligible items" means the items set forth in the table in paragraph 4.2 of 
the Annex to this Letter Agreement; 
 
(b) 
the term "eligible expenditures" means expenditures in respect of the reasonable 
cost of goods and services required for the Activities and to be financed out of the proceeds of the 
Grant; and 
 
(c) 
the term "Authorized Allocation" means an amount equivalent to US$75,000 to be 
withdrawn from the Grant Account and deposited into the Special Account pursuant to paragraph 3 
(a) of this Attachment. 
 
2. 
Payments out of the Special Account shall be made exclusively for eligible expenditures in 
accordance with the provisions of this Attachment. 
 
3. 
After IDA has received evidence satisfactory to it that the Special Account has been duly 
opened, withdrawals of the Authorized Allocation and subsequent withdrawals to replenish the 
Special Account shall be made as follows: 
 
(a) 
The Recipient shall furnish to IDA a request or requests for a deposit into the 
Special Account of an amount or amounts which do not exceed the aggregate amount of the 
Authorized Allocation.  On the basis of such request or requests, IDA shall, on behalf of the 
Recipient, withdraw from the Grant Account and deposit into the Special Account such amount or 
amounts as the Recipient shall have requested. 
 
(b) 
(i) 
For replenishment of the Special Account, the Recipient shall furnish to 
IDA requests for deposits into the Special Account at such intervals as IDA shall specify. 
(ii) Prior to or at the time of each such request, the Recipient shall furnish to IDA the 
documents and other evidence required pursuant to paragraph 4 of this Attachment for the payment 
or payments in respect of which replenishment is requested.  On the basis of each such request, IDA 
shall, on behalf of the Recipient, withdraw from the Grant Account and deposit into the Special 
Account such amount as the Recipient shall have requested and as shall have been shown by said 
documents and other evidence to have been paid out of the Special Account for eligible 
expenditures.  All such deposits shall be withdrawn by IDA from the Grant Account under the 
eligible item(s), and in the respective equivalent amounts, as shall have been justified by said 
documents and other evidence. 
 
4. 
For each payment made by the Recipient out of the Special Account, the Recipient shall, at 
such time as IDA shall reasonably request, furnish to IDA such documents and other evidence 
showing that such payment was made exclusively for eligible expenditures. 
 
5. 
Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 3 of this Attachment, IDA shall not be 
required to make further deposits into the Special Account: 
 
Page  10
(a) 
if, at any time, IDA shall have determined that all further withdrawals should be 
made by the Recipient directly from the Grant Account; 
 
(b) 
if the Recipient shall have failed to furnish to IDA, within the period of time 
specified in paragraph 5.1 (b) (ii) of the Annex to this Letter Agreement, any of the audit reports 
required to be furnished to IDA pursuant to said paragraph in respect of the audit of the records and 
accounts for the Special Account; 
 
(c) 
if, at any time, IDA shall have notified the Recipient of its intention to suspend in 
whole or in part the right of the Recipient to make withdrawals from the Grant Account pursuant to 
the provisions of paragraph 6.1 of the Annex to this Letter Agreement; or 
 
(d) 
once the total unwithdrawn amount of the Grant shall equal the equivalent of twice 
the amount of the Authorized Allocation. 
 
Thereafter, withdrawals from the Grant Account of the remaining unwithdrawn amount of the Grant 
shall follow such procedures as IDA shall specify by notice to the Recipient.  Such further 
withdrawals shall be made only after and to the extent that IDA shall have been satisfied that all 
such amounts remaining on deposit in the Special Account as of the date of such notice will be 
utilized in making payments for eligible expenditures. 
 
6. 
(a) 
If IDA shall have determined at any time that any payment out of the Special 
Account: (i) was made for an expenditure or in an amount not eligible pursuant to paragraph 2 of 
this Attachment; or (ii) was not justified by the evidence furnished to IDA, the Recipient shall, 
promptly upon notice from IDA: (A) provide such additional evidence as IDA may request; or (B) 
deposit into the Special Account (or, if IDA shall so request, refund to IDA) an amount equal to the 
amount of such payment or the portion thereof not so eligible or justified.  Unless IDA shall 
otherwise agree, no further deposit by IDA into the Special Account shall be made until the 
Recipient has provided such evidence or made such deposit or refund, as the case may be. 
 
(b) 
If IDA shall have determined at any time that any amount outstanding in the 
Special Account will not be required to cover further payments for eligible expenditures, the 
Recipient shall, promptly upon notice from IDA, refund to IDA such outstanding amount. 
 
(c) 
The Recipient may, upon notice to IDA, refund to IDA all or any portion of the 
funds on deposit in the Special Account. 
 
(d) 
Refunds to IDA made pursuant to paragraph 6 (a), (b) and (c) shall be credited to 
the Grant Account for subsequent withdrawal or for cancellation in accordance with the relevant 
provisions of this Agreement.  
 
