Page  1
CONFORMED COPY 
 
IDA GRANT NUMBER  H070 KG
 
Project Agreement 
 
(Village Investment Project) 
 
between 
 
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION 
 
and 
 
COMMUNITY DEVELOPMENT AND INVESTMENT AGENCY 
 
Dated December 22, 2003 
 
Page  2
GRANT NUMBER H070 KG 
PROJECT AGREEMENT 
 
AGREEMENT, dated December 22, 2003, between INTERNATIONAL 
DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION (the Association) and COMMUNITY 
DEVELOPMENT AND INVESTMENT AGENCY (ARIS). 
 
WHEREAS (A) by the Development Grant Agreement of even date herewith 
between the Kyrgyz Republic (the Recipient) and the Association, the Association has 
agreed to make available to the Recipient an amount in various currencies equivalent to 
ten million five hundred thousand Special Drawing Rights (SDR 10,500,000), on the 
terms and conditions set forth in the Development Grant Agreement, but only on 
condition that ARIS agree to undertake such obligations toward the Association as are set 
forth in this Agreement; 
 
(B) 
by a subsidiary grant agreement to be entered into between the Recipient 
and ARIS, the proceeds of the Grant provided for under the Development Grant 
Agreement will be made available to ARIS on the terms and conditions set forth in said 
Subsidiary Grant Agreement; and 
 
WHEREAS ARIS, in consideration o
f
the Association’s entering into the 
Development Grant Agreement with the Recipient, has agreed to undertake the 
obligations set forth in this Agreement; 
 
NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows: 
ARTICLE I 
Definitions 
 
Section 1.01. Unless the context otherwise requires, the several terms defined in 
the Development Grant Agreement, the Preamble to this Agreement and in the General 
Conditions (as so defined) have the respective meanings therein set forth.  
Page  3
-
2
-
ARTICLE II 
Execution of the Project 
 
Section 2.01. (a) ARIS declares its commitment to the objectives of the Project as 
set forth in Schedule 2 to the Development Grant Agreement, and, to this end, shall carry 
out the Project with due diligence and efficiency and in conformity with appropriate 
administrative, financial, engineering and environmental practices, and shall provide, or 
cause to be provided, promptly as needed, the funds, facilities, services and other 
resources required for the Project. 
 
(b) 
Without limitation upon the provisions of paragraph (a) of this Section 
and except as the Association, the Recipient and ARIS shall otherwise agree, ARIS shall 
carry out the Project in accordance with the Implementation Program set forth in 
Schedule 2 to this Agreement. 
 
 
Section 2.02. Except as the Association shall otherwise agree, procurement of  
goods, works and consultants’ services required for the Project and to be financed out of 
the proceeds of the Grant shall be governed by the provisions of Schedule 1 to this 
Agreement. 
 
Section 2.03. (a) ARIS shall carry out the obligations set forth in Sections 9.03, 
9.04, 9.05, 9.06, 9.07 and 9.08 of the General Conditions (relating to insurance, use of 
goods and services, plans and schedules, records and reports, maintenance and land 
acquisition, respectively) in respect of the Project Agreement. 
 
(b) 
For the purposes of Section 9.06 of the General Conditions and without 
limitation thereto, ARIS shall: 
 
(i) 
prepare, on the basis of guidelines acceptable to the Association 
and furnish to the Association not later than six (6) months after 
the Closing Date or such later date as may be agreed for this 
purpose between the Association and ARIS, a plan for the 
future operation of the Project; and 
 
(ii) 
afford the Association a reasonable opportunity to exchange 
views with ARIS on said plan. 
 
Section 2.04. ARIS shall duly perform all its obligations under the Subsidiary 
Grant Agreement.  Except as the Association shall otherwise agree, ARIS shall not take 
Page  4
-
3
-
or concur in any action which would have the effect of amending, abrogating, assigning 
or waiving the Subsidiary Grant Agreement or any provision thereof. 
 
Section 2.05. (a) ARIS shall, at the request of the Association, exchange views 
with the Association with regard to the progress of the Project, the performance of its 
obligations under this Agreement and under the Subsidiary Grant Agreement and other 
matters relating to the purposes of the Grant. 
 
(b)  
ARIS shall promptly inform the Association of any condition which 
interferes or threatens to interfere with the progress of the Project, the accomplishment of 
the purposes of the Grant, or the performance by ARIS of its obligations under this 
Agreement and under the Subsidiary Grant Agreement. 
ARTICLE III 
Management and Operations of ARIS 
 
Section 3.01. ARIS shall carry on its operations and conduct its affairs in 
accordance with sound administrative, financial and environmental practices under the 
supervision of qualified and experienced management assisted by competent staff in 
adequate numbers. 
 
Section 3.02. ARIS shall at all times operate and maintain its equipment and 
other property and from time to time, promptly as needed, make all necessary repairs and 
renewals thereof, all in accordance with sound engineering, financial and environmental 
practices. 
 
Section 3.03. ARIS shall take out and maintain with responsible insurers, or 
make other provision satisfactory to the Association for, insurance against such risks and 
in such amounts as shall be consistent with appropriate practice. 
 
Section 3.04. ARIS shall not amend its Charter or in any way change its legal or 
institutional character without prior approval by the Association. 
ARTICLE IV 
Financial Covenants 
Section 4.01. (a)  ARIS shall maintain a financial management system, including 
records and accounts, and prepare financial statements, in accordance with consistently 
Page  5
-
4
-
applied accounting standards acceptable to the Association, adequate to reflect its 
operations and financial condition and to register separately the operations, resources and 
expenditures related to the Project. 
(b) ARIS 
shall: 
(i) 
have its financial statements (balance sheets, statements of 
income and expenses and related statements) for each fiscal year 
(or other period agreed to by the Association) audited, in 
accordance with consistently applied auditing standards 
acceptable to the Association, by independent auditors 
acceptable to the Association;  
(ii) 
furnish to the Association as soon as available, but in any case 
not later than six months after the end of each such year (or such 
other period agreed to by the Association), (A) certified copies 
of the financial statements referred to in paragraph (a) of this 
Section, for such year (or such other period agreed to by the 
Association), as so audited, and (B) an opinion on such 
statements by said auditors, in scope and detail satisfactory to the 
Association; and 
(iii) 
furnish to the Association such other information concerning 
such records and accounts and the audit of such financial 
statements and concerning said auditors, as the Association may 
from time to time reasonably request. 
Section 4.02.  (a) Without limitation upon ARIS’s reporting obligations set out in 
paragraph 3 of Schedule 2 to this Agreement, ARIS shall prepare and furnish to the 
Association a financial monitoring report, in form and substance satisfactory to the 
Association, which: 
(i) 
sets forth sources and uses of funds for the Project, both 
cumulatively and for the period covered by said report, showing 
separately funds provided under the Grant and explains variances 
between the actual and planned uses of  such funds; 
(ii) 
describes physical progress in Project implementation, both 
cumulatively and for the period covered by said report and 
explains variances between the actual
 
and planned Project 
implementation; and 
Page  6
-
5
-
(iii)  
sets forth the status of procurement under the Project, as at the 
end of the period covered by said report. 
(b) 
The first FMR shall be furnished to the Association not later than 45 
days after the end of the first calendar quarter after the Effective Date, and shall cover the 
period from the incurrence of the first expenditure under the Project through the end of 
such first calendar quarter, thereafter, each FMR shall be furnished to the Association not 
later than 45 days after each subsequent calendar quarter and shall cover the period not 
covered by the previous FMR until the end of such calendar quarter. 
ARTICLE V 
Effective Date; Termination; 
Cancellation and Suspension 
 
Section 5.01. This Agreement shall come into force and effect on the date upon 
which the Development Grant Agreement becomes effective. 
 
Section 5.02.  This Agreement and all obligations of the Association and of ARIS 
thereunder shall terminate on the date on which the Development Grant Agreement shall 
terminate in accordance with its terms. 
 
Section 5.03. All the provisions of this Agreement shall continue in full force and 
effect notwithstanding any cancellation or suspension under the General Conditions. 
ARTICLE VI 
Miscellaneous Provisions 
 
Section 6.01. Any notice or request required or permitted to be given or made 
under this Agreement and any agreement between the parties contemplated by this 
Agreement shall be in writing.   Such notice or request shall be deemed to have been duly 
given or made when it shall be delivered by hand or by mail, telex or facsimile to the 
party to which it is required or permitted to be given or made at such party’s address 
hereinafter specified or at such other address as such party shall have designated by 
notice to the party giving such notice or making such request. Deliveries made by 
facsimile transmission shall also be confirmed by mail.   The addresses so specified are: 
 
Page  7
-
6
-
For the Association: 
 
International Development Association 
 
1818
H
Street, N.W. 
 
Washington, D.C. 20433 
 
United States of America 
 
Cable 
address: 
 
 Telex: 
  Facsimile: 
 
INDEVAS 
 
248423 (MCI) or 
 
(202) 477-6391 
 
Washington, D.C. 
  
64145 (MCI) 
 
For ARIS: 
 
Community Development and Investment Agency 
 
164-A Chui Avenue, Bishkek City, 
 
Kyrgyz Republic 
 
Phone: 
  Facsimile: 
 
(996-312) 611-306 
(996-312) 611-801 
 
Section 6.02. Any action required or permitted to be taken, and any document 
required or permitted to be executed, under this Agreement on behalf of ARIS, or by 
ARIS on behalf of the Recipient under the Development Grant Agreement, may be taken 
or executed by the Executive Director of ARIS or such other person or persons as the 
Executive Director of ARIS shall designate in writing and ARIS shall furnish to the 
Association sufficient evidence of the authority and the authenticated specimen signature 
of each such person. 
 
Section 6.03. This Agreement may be executed in several counterparts, each of 
which shall be an original and all collectively but one instrument. 
Page  8
-
7
-
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their duly 
authorized representatives, have caused this Agreement to be signed in their respective 
names in the District of Columbia, United States of America, as of the day and year first 
above written. 
 
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION 
 
By: /s/ Dennis de Tray   
Authorized Representative 
 
COMMUNITY DEVELOPMENT AND INVESTMENT AGENCY 
 
By: Baktybek Abdrisaev  
Authorized Representative 
Page  9
-
8
-
SCHEDULE 1 
Procurement 
Section I
.
Procurement of Good and Works
Part A
:
General
Goods and works shall be procured in accordance with the provisions of Section 
I
of
the “Guidelines for Procurement under IBRD Loans and IDA Credits” published by 
the Bank in January 1995 and revised in January and August 1996, September 1997 and 
January 1999 (the Guidelines) and the following provisions of this Section. 
Part B
:
International Competitive Bidding
1. 
Except as otherwise provided in Part C of this Section, goods and works shall be 
procured under contracts awarded in accordance with the provisions of Section II of the 
Guidelines and paragraph 5 of Appendix 1 thereto. 
2. 
The following provisions shall apply to goods and works to be procured under 
contracts awarded in accordance with the provisions of paragraph 1 of this Part B. 
Preference for domestically manufactured goods and domestic contractors
The provisions of paragraphs 2.54 and 2.55 of the Guidelines and Appendix 2 
thereto shall apply to goods manufactured in the territory of the Recipient and works to 
be carried out by domestic contractors. 
Part C
:
Other Procurement Procedures
1. 
National Competitive Bidding
Works estimated to cost less than $100,000 equivalent per contract may be 
procured under contracts awarded in accordance with the provisions of paragraphs 3.3 
and 3.4 of the Guidelines and the provisions of the Annex to this Schedule 1.  
Page  10
-
9
-
2. International 
Shopping
Goods estimated to cost less than $100,000 equivalent per contract may be 
procured under contracts awarded on the basis of international shopping procedures in 
accordance with the provisions of paragraphs 3.5 and 3.6 of the Guidelines. 
3. National 
Shopping
Goods estimated to cost less than $20,000 equivalent per contract may be 
procured under contracts awarded on the basis of national shopping procedures in 
accordance with the provisions of paragraphs 3.5 and 3.6 of the Guidelines. 
4. Community 
Participation
Goods, works and services required for Part B of the Project shall be procured in 
accordance with: (a) the provisions of paragraph 3.15 0f the Guidelines; and (b) 
procedures acceptable to the Association and set forth in the Operational Manual. 
5. 
Procurement of Small Works
Works estimated to cost less than $50,000 equivalent per contract may be 
procured under lump-sum, fixed-price contracts awarded on the basis of quotations 
obtained from three (3) qualified domestic contractors in response to a written invitation.  
The invitation shall include a detailed description of the works, including basic 
specifications, the required completion date, a basic form of agreement acceptable to the 
Association and relevant drawings, where applicable.  The award shall be made to the 
contractor who offers the lowest price quotation for the required work, and who has the 
experience and resources to complete the contract successfully.
 
Part D
:
Review by the Association of Procurement Decisions
1. Procurement 
Planning
Prior to the issuance of any invitations to bid for contracts, the proposed 
procurement plan for the Project shall be furnished to the Association for its review and 
approval, in accordance with the provisions of paragraph 1 of Appendix 1 to the 
Guidelines.  Procurement of all goods and works shall be undertaken in accordance with 
such procurement plan as shall have been approved by the Association, and with the 
provisions of said paragraph 1. 
Page  11
-
10 - 
2. Prior 
Review
(a) 
With respect to each contract for goods estimated to cost the equivalent 
of $100,000 or more and each contract for works estimated to cost the equivalent of  
$50,000 or more the procedures set forth in paragraphs 2 and 3 of Appendix 1 to the 
Guidelines shall apply. 
 
(b) 
With respect to the first two contracts for goods to be procured in 
accordance with the procedures referred to in Parts C.2 and C.3 of this Section I, and the 
first three contracts for works to be procured in accordance with the procedures referred 
to in Part C.5 of this Section I the following procedures shall apply: 
(i) 
prior to the selection of any supplier under shopping procedures, 
the Recipient shall provide to the Association a report on the 
comparison and evaluation of quotations received; 
(ii) 
prior to the execution of any contract procured under shopping 
procedures, the Recipient shall provide to the Association a copy 
of the specifications and the draft contract; and 
(iii) 
the procedures set forth in paragraphs 2 (f), 2 (g) and 3 of 
Appendix 1 to the Guidelines shall apply. 
3. Post 
Review
With respect to each contract not governed by paragraph 2 of this Part, the 
procedures set forth in paragraph 4 of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines shall apply. 
Section II
.
Employment of Consultants
Part A
:
General
Consultants’ services shall be procured in accordance with the provisions of 
Sections I and IV of the “Guidelines:  Selection and Employment of Consultants by 
World Bank Borrowers” published by the Bank in January 1997 and revised in 
September 1997, January 1999 and May 2002 (the Consultant Guidelines), paragraph 1 
of Appendix 1 thereto, Appendix 2 thereto and the following provisions of this Section. 
Page  12
-
11 - 
Part B
:
Quality- and Cost-based Selection
1. 
Except as otherwise provided in Part C of this Section, consultants’ services shall 
be procured under contracts awarded in accordance with the provisions of Section II of 
the Consultant Guidelines and the provisions of paragraphs 3.13 through 3.18 thereof 
applicable to quality- and cost-based selection of consultants. 
Part C
:
Other Procedures for the Selection of Consultants
1. 
Selection Based on Consultants’ Qualifications
Services of consulting firms estimated to cost less than US$100,000 equivalent 
per contract may be procured under contracts awarded in accordance with the provisions 
of paragraphs 3.1 and 3.7 of the Consultant Guidelines. 
2. Individual 
Consultants
Services of individual consultants for tasks that meet the requirements set forth in 
paragraph 5.1 of the Consultant Guidelines shall be procured under contracts awarded in 
accordance with the provisions of paragraphs 5.1 through 5.3 of the Consultant 
Guidelines. 
Part D
:
Review by the Association of the Selection of Consultants
1. Selection 
Planning
A
plan for the selection of consultants, which shall include contract cost 
estimates, contract packaging, and applicable selection criteria and procedures, shall be 
furnished to the Association for its review and approval prior to the issuance to 
consultants of any requests for proposals.  Selection of all consultants’ services shall be 
undertaken in accordance with such selection plan as shall have been approved by the 
Association. 
2. Prior 
Review
(a) 
With respect to each contract for the employment of consulting firms 
estimated to cost the equivalent of $50,000 or more, the procedures set forth in 
paragraphs 2, 3 and 5 of Appendix 1 to the Consultant Guidelines shall apply. 
Page  13
-
12 - 
 
(b) 
With respect to each contract for the employment of individual 
consultants estimated to cost the equivalent of $10,000 or more, the report on the 
comparison of the qualifications and experience of candidates, terms of reference and 
terms of employment of the consultants shall be furnished to the Association for its prior 
review and approval.  The contract shall be awarded only after the said approval shall 
have been given.  The provisions of paragraph 3 of Appendix 1 to the Consultant 
Guidelines shall also apply to such contracts. 
 
(c) 
Notwithstanding the provisions of sub-paragraphs (a) and (b) above, 
terms of reference for consultants’ services shall be furnished to the Association for its 
prior review and approval. 
3. Post 
Review
With respect to each contract not governed by paragraph 2 of this Part, the 
procedures set forth in paragraph 4 of Appendix 1 to the Consultant Guidelines shall 
apply. 
Page  14
-
13 - 
Annex 
To 
SCHEDULE 1
 
National competitive bidding procedures of the Recipient may be used for 
procurement of works under the Project provided that the following provisions are 
complied with: 
A. 
Registration and Licensing
(a) 
Bidding shall not be restricted to pre-registered/licensed firms. 
(b) 
Where registration or licensing is required, bidders: (i) shall be allowed a 
reasonable time to complete the registration or licensing process; and (ii) shall not be 
denied registration/licensing for reasons unrelated to their capability and resources to 
successfully perform the contract, which shall be verified through post-qualification. 
(c) 
Foreign bidders shall not be precluded from bidding.  If a registration or 
licensing process is required, a foreign bidder declared the lowest evaluated bidder shall 
be given a reasonable opportunity to register or to obtain a license. 
B. Advertising
Invitations to bid shall be advertised in the Bulletin of State Procurement and in 
at least one widely circulated national daily newspaper allowing a minimum of 30 days 
for the preparation and submission of bids. 
C. Pre-qualification
When pre-qualification shall be required for large or complex works, invitations 
to pre-qualify for bidding shall be advertised in at least one widely circulated national 
daily newspaper a minimum of 30 days prior to the deadline for the submission of pre-
qualification applications.  Minimum experience, technical and financial requirements 
shall be explicitly stated in the pre-qualification documents. 
D. 
Participation by Government-owned enterprises
Government-owned enterprises in the Kyrgyz Republic shall be eligible to 
participate in bidding only if they can establish that they are legally and financially 
Page  15
-
14 - 
autonomous, operate under commercial law and are not a dependent agency of the 
contracting authority.  Furthermore, they will be subject to the same bid and performance 
security requirements as other bidders. 
E. Bidding 
Documents
Procuring entities shall use the appropriate standard bidding documents for the 
procurement of goods, works or services, acceptable to the Association. 
F. 
Bid Opening and Bid Evaluation
(a) 
Bids shall be opened in public, immediately after the deadline for 
submission of bids.  
(b) 
Evaluation of bids shall be made in strict adherence to the monetarily 
quantifiable criteria declared in the bidding documents. 
(c) 
Domestic preference should not be applied. 
(d) 
Contracts shall be awarded to qualified bidder having submitted the 
lowest evaluated substantially responsive bid and no negotiation shall take place. 
G. Price 
Adjustment
Civil works contracts of long duration (for example, more than eighteen (18) 
months) shall contain an appropriate price adjustment clause. 
H. 
Rejection of Bids
All bids shall not be rejected and new bids solicited without the Association’s 
prior concurrence. 
I. 
Rejection of an Individual Bid
An individual bid shall be rejected only in the following cases: 
(a) 
The bidder is not qualified; 
Page  16
-
15 - 
(b) 
The bidder does not accept the correction of an arithmetical error in his 
bid by the Tender Commission of the procuring entity; 
(c) 
The bidder is not responsive to the requirements of the bidding 
documents; or  
(d) 
Under the circumstances referred to in Article 6 of the Law on State 
Procurement of Goods, Construction and Services. 
J. 
Resolution of the Government of the Kyrgyz Republic No.626 of 
October 3, 2003
The provisions of the Resolution of the Government of the Kyrgyz Republic 
No. 626 of October 3, 2003 shall not apply. 
K. 
State unit costs shall not be used for bidding and evaluation of bids for civil 
works contracts. 
 
Page  17
-
16 - 
SCHEDULE 2 
Implementation Program 
1. 
ARIS shall carry out the Project in accordance with the requirements set forth or 
referred to in the PIP and Operational Manual. 
2. 
ARIS shall maintain the Operational Manual in form and content satisfactory to 
the Association and shall not assign, amend, abrogate or waive the Operational Manual 
without obtaining the prior approval of the Association.  The Operational Manual shall 
cover, inter alia, the following matters: (a) eligibility criteria for Community Grants and 
Micro-projects; (b) the principles and procedures to be followed for the approval of 
Community Grants and Micro-projects; (c) regional allocation of the Grant funds; (d) 
community contribution requirements for Micro-projects; and (e) the indicators to be 
utilized by the ARIS in monitoring the progress of the Project. 
3. ARIS 
shall: 
(a) 
maintain policies and procedures adequate to enable it to monitor and 
evaluate on an ongoing basis, in accordance with indicators satisfactory to the 
Association, the carrying out of the Project and the achievement of the objectives thereof; 
(b) 
prepare, under terms of reference satisfactory to the Association, and 
furnish to the Association, on or about August 31, 2005, a report integrating the results of 
the monitoring and evaluation activities performed pursuant to paragraph (a) of this 
Section, on the progress achieved in the carrying out of the Project during the period 
preceding the date of said report and setting out the measures recommended to ensure the 
efficient carrying out of the Project and the achievement of the objectives thereof during 
the period following such date; and 
 
(c) 
review with the Association, by October 31, 2005, or such later date as 
the Association shall request, the report referred to in paragraph (b) of this Section, and, 
thereafter, take all measures required to ensure the efficient completion of the Project and 
the achievement of the objectives thereof, based on the conclusions and recommendations 
of the said report and the Association’s views on the matter. 
4. 
ARIS shall provide Community Grants to eligible communities on terms and 
conditions adequate to protect interests of the Recipient and the Association and 
accomplish the purposes of the Project, including the following: 
Page  18
-
17 - 
 
(a) 
a Beneficiary Community shall carry out a Micro-project with due 
diligence and efficiency and in conformity with appropriate technical, sanitary, financial 
and environmental practices, to maintain adequate records and to provide, promptly as 
needed, the funds, facilities and other resources required for a Micro-project; 
 
(b) 
a Beneficiary Community shall provide a portion of the cost of a Micro-
project, in accordance with the principles set forth in the Operational Manual; 
 
 (c) 
all works, goods and consultant’s services to be financed out of the 
proceeds of a Community Grant shall be procured in accordance with the procedures set 
forth in Schedule 1 to this Agreement and in the Operational Manual and shall be used 
exclusively for the carrying out of Micro-projects; 
 
(d) 
a Beneficiary Community shall take out and maintain such insurance, 
against such risks and in such amounts, as shall be consistent with sound business 
practice, including such insurance to cover hazards incident to the acquisition, 
transportation and delivery of goods financed out of the proceeds of a Community Grant 
to the place of use or installation, any indemnity hereunder to be made payable in a 
currency freely usable by a Beneficiary Community to replace or repair such goods; 
 
(e) 
ARIS shall have the right to inspect, by itself or jointly with 
representatives of the Association, if the Association shall so request, Micro-project sites, 
plans, goods and any relevant records and documents; and 
 
(f) 
ARIS shall have the right to suspend or terminate the right of a 
Beneficiary Community to the use the proceeds of a Community Grant and require the 
refund of the disbursed amounts, upon failure by such Beneficiary to perform its 
obligations under a Community Grant Agreement. 
 
