Document of
The World Bank
FOR OMCIL U  ONLY
.-Av 2q3-eM/
Repot No. 6326-UNI
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
FEDERAL REPUBLIC OF NIGERIA
HIGHWAY SECTOR LOAN
April 2., 1988
Infrastructure Operations Division
Western Africa Department
Africa Region
This document has a resticted disibution sue may be used by recipiet only In the performance of
their offcial duties. Its contents may not otherwse be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
Currency Unit - Naira (N)
The .exchange rate used for this report is US$1.00  N4.0.  The
auction foreign exchange market (FEN) has been fluctuating and
as of April 14, 1988 was US$1.00 - N4.17.
US$1.00 - N4.00
N1.00   - US$0.25
WEIGHTS AND MEASURES
Nigeria uses the International System (metric) of weights and
measures.
ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS
AFRC     -     Armed Forces Ruling Council
FED      -     Federal Highway Department
FMFED    -     Federal Ministry of Finance and Economic Development
FMA      -     Federal Ministry of Aviation
FMT      -     Federal Ministry of Transport
FMWH           Federal Ministry of Works and Housing
FOS      -     Federal Office of Statistics
GDP      -     Gross Domestic Product
GVW      -     Gross Vehicle Weight
LGC      -     Local Government Council
MoW      -    Ministry of Works
NAA      -     Nigerian Airports Authority
NPA      -     Nigerian Ports Authority
NRC      -     Nigerian Railway Corporation
NRSC     -     National Road Safety Commission
NTCC     -     National Transport Coordinating Commission
PP0U     -     Project Planning and Evaluation Unit
PEU      -     Pavement Evaluation Unit
SFEM     -     Second-Tier Foreign Exchange Market
TRS      -     Trunk Road Study
Vl)C     -     Vehicle Operating Costs
FISCAL YEAR
January 01 - December 31



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
FEDERAL REPUBLIC OF NIGERIA
HIGHWAY SECTOR LOAN
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
TABLE OF CONTENTS
Page No.
LOAN AND PROGRAM SUNMARY          .................................  i
I.  INTRODUCTION        .............................................   1
II.  THE TRANSPORT SECTOR         I..................................... 
A.  Ports, Rail and Aviation..................................          1
B  The Road Sub-Sector ......        2..............................   2
C.  The Road Transport Industry ..............................          6
D.  Road User Charges and Cost Recovery           ......................  7
E.  Bank/IDA Financed Transport Projects          7..................... 
IIX.  THE HIGHWAY SECTOR PROGRAM  .............        .......            8
Ae  Introduction       .............................................    8
B.  Program Objectives and Components           ........................  9
C.  Road Improvements ........       ................................   9
Do  Road Maintenance         .......................................*.  10
g.  Road Safety       ..............................................    10
F.  Institutional Development ................................    11
This report was prepared by Messrs. H. L. Beenhakker (Senior Transport
Economist) and P, Long (Senior Highway Engineer) on the basis of an Ap-
praisal Mission in April 1986 and follow-up missions in March 1987 and
February 1988. Secretarial work was done by Ms. Sylvie Danant, Ms. Vonita
Williams and Mrs. Una Raymond.
Thi ""cument ha a retritd distbutio and may be used by reipients only in to pformae
of th.'.r official duties Its contents may not othrwise be discosed without World Bank authoiation.



Table of Contents (continued)
Page No.
G.  Program Costs ........         .................   ..... ......    13
g.  Proposed Loan        ............................................    14
1.  Implementation ..........                                         ise................ ........... ..    15
J. Procurement  i...............                                      15
K.  Disbursements ...............                                     16
L.  Accounting and Auditing    ...............................        17
M.  Environmental Aspects .........        ...........................    18
N.  Benefits and Risks ................................,......        18
IV. AGREEMENTS, CONDITIONS AND RECONMENDATIONS ...............    19
Annex 1    -  Federal Ministry of Works & Housing Organization Chart
Annex 2    -  Federal Highway Department Organization Chart
Annex 3    -  Past Bank Involvement in the Sector
Annex 4    -  Road Sections for Advance Contracting
Annex 5    -  CAntracts ro be rebid under ICB
Annex 6    -  First Year Rehabilitation and Overlay Program
Annex 7    -  Road Safety Improv_ment Component
Annex 8    -  Technical Assistance Component
Annex 9    -  Indicative Costs of the Program
Annex 10   -  Economic Evaluation
Annex 11   -  Design Standards
Annex 12   -  Special Conditions and Program Actions
Annex 13   -  Action Plan
Annex 14   -  Allocation and Disbursement of IBRD Loan
Annex 15   -  Disbursement Schedule
tnnes 16   -  Documents in Project File
MAP
IBID No. 19742



FEDURAL REPUBLIC OF NIGERIA
HIGHWAY SECTOR LOAN
LOAN ANrD PROGRAM SUMMARY
Borrower:             Federal Republic of Nigeria
Beneficiary:          Federal Ministry of Works and Housing (FM1W)
Amount:               US$250 million equivalent
Terms:                Repayable over 20 years, including 5 years' grace, at
the standard variable interest rate.
Program Description: The Federal Highway Department (PHD) of FMWH will
carry out a Highway Sector P-ogram for 1989-91 with
the  following  main  objexives:   (a) to  protect
existing road assets with a realistic rehabilitation
program tailored to available resources; (b) to carry
out an appropriate and sustainable road maintenanLe
program; (c) to improve operational efficiency and
cost effectiveness through better contracting and
design practices; and (d) to improve road safety.
The proposed loan supports  MHD's  1989-91 Highway
Sector  Program,   which   consists   of:   (a) road
improvements:   sub-projects   for   strengthening,
rehabilitation and new construction by contract;
(b) road  maintenance:    routine  maintenance  by
contract  and  force  account;    (c) road  safety:
building up the capability of PHD to identify and
correct hazardous locations, to collect data and
analyze accidents, and run traffic safety courses;
and   (d) institutional   developWment:    cons lting
services, inter alia, to strengthen the planning,
design, construction and maintenance capebilities of
PMWH, and in particular of its PHD.
The proposed loan would finance: (a) about 33% of
FHD's  1989-91  capital  works  program  (US$230.0
million); (b) about 65S of the cost of specialized
equipment for road inventory and data processing, and
spare   parts   (US$9.0 million);   and   (c) about
70% of the cost of consulting services to support and
strengthen     FHD's     implementation      capacity
(US$11.0 million).
*1



- iI -
Estimated Costs:       Total capital and recurrent expenditures of PHD's
1989-91 Highway Sector program are as follows:
toIl  Ib4p Totald  local Ioirn   Totdal  Ue4P as
-     N d.llim-       -US$ MdlUM  -         Z of total
& DewCbas.           918.0  1836.0  2754.0  229.5  459.0   688.5     67
EWpoant                 19.4   36.0   55.4   4.8   9.0   13.8         65
C.iztait services       18.8   43.8   62.6   4.7   11.0   15.6        70
Sub-total:           956.2  1915.8  2872.0  239.0  479.0  718.0      67
PAwret hpxites
RoFagdwmt!  we         343.8  515.8  859.6  86.0  128.9   214.9       60
FquiPMt & SparenPrts    31.5   58.5   90.0   7.9  14.6   22.5         65
Sub-total:           375.3  574.3  949.6   93.9  143.5   237.4       60
Total Pograum       1331.5  2490.1  3821.6  332.9  622.5  955.4      65
P4rf Pim
Gmwemment of Nipr5a    1331.5  1490.1  2821.6  332.9  372.5  705.4    53
s lona                   -   1000.0  1000.0     -   250.0  250.0    100
Ttal Financi  Req.   1331.5  2490.1  3821.6  332.9  622.5   955.     65
Iaated D_sbus.wts:
I   IoWi                EY89   FY90   PY91   FM2   FY93
AMuiz                   25.0   77.0   73.0  50.0   25.0
,ullative               25.0  102.0  175.0  225.0  250.0
Benefits and Risks:   Quantifiable benefits consist of savings in vehicle
operating costs for normal traffic, plus diverted
traffic where applicable, as well as road maintenance
cost savings. The consulting services, specialized
invento,! and data processing equipment, and spare
parts are expected to enhance the efficiency of FHD's
operations while the safety component is to reduce
annual losses due to road accidents which are
conservatively estimated to cost US$500 million
equivalent.   Most  important  are,  however,   the
institutional   aspects   of   the   proposed   loan.
Improvement and construction works of the Highway
Sector Program will be subject to detailed design and
economic analysis before implementation.



- iii .
In addition, a concerted effort will be made to
ensure that improvements and maintenance works of the
entire Program will be adequately supervised. In the
past, supervision has been a problem.
One risk to the Program is that, if world oil prices
decline further, or if inflation accelerates, further
reductions in road transport investments may be
required, which would delay expected benefits. To
reduce this risk, FHD will schedule road works so as
to complete short segments which can be made fully
operationt.l.   Another  risk  concerns  the  required
counterpart  funding.   To  minimize  tbis  risk  the
Government will establish two local accounts (one for
capital investment expenditures and the other for
recurrent expenditures) for its share of Program
costs, and as a condition of loan effectiveness, will
deposit into these accounts one quarter of the annuei
budget   for  capital  expenditure   and  recurrent
expenditure,  respectively.   Annual  budget  review
procedures have been established as part of overall
Program monitoring.
Institution building components of previous highway
projects have been the least successful. To ensure
Government commitment, satisfactory completion of the
agreed action plan is a condition for Bank funding of
new commitments for subsequent years of the Program.
Economic Rate of      The minimum available Economic Rate of Return (ERR)
Return:               for civil works in the Higbhay Sector Program is 12%,
with most works expected to exceed 35%.
Memorandum of the
President:            No. P4398-UNI, dated April 21, 1988.
MAP:                  IBID 19742



FEDERAL REPUBLIC OF NIGERIA
HIGHWAY SECTOR LOAN
I. INTRODUCTION
A. Background
1.01      The Government of Nigeria has requested the Bank's assistance in
financing a part of the 1989-91 Federal Highway Program which would be
administered by the Federal Highway Department (MHD), a central government
agency which  is  responsible  for  all  fedetal highways.   The  Program
emphasizes rei^#bilitation, strengthening and maintenance of existing
highways, comblS.   with a set of measures to improve the overall efficiency
of the sector   In addition, it complements the Structural Adjustment
Program, and the Transport Parastatal Loan (Loan No. 2734-UNI of June
1986), which became effective in April 1987.
1.02      Bank support of the FMD Program would help the Government imple-
ment a coherent strategy covering a realistic package of policy measures,
institutional developments and sector expenditures based on apL-ed
objectives and annual reviews which would address FHD's principal
operational and institutional weaknesses.   The Program is expected to
increase the cost effectiveness of FHD's operations. The relatively quick
disbursing nature of the proposed loan would provide rapid assistance to
the Government in alleviating its acute foreign exchange shortage.
II. THE TRANSPORT SECTOR
A. Ports, Rail and Aviation
2.01      Since 1975 the port and aviation sub-sectors experienced rapid
development.   Port capacity is more than adequate for current traffic
levels.  The country is served by a satisfactory number of airports and
Nigerian Airwavs competes with private operators on selected domestic
routes. However, the Nigeria Railway Corporation (NRC) did not experience
the same rapid development as the other sub-sectors.
2.02      The Federal Government owns and operates parastatals in all
transport modes except roads. These range from the largest enterprises
such as the NRC, the Nigerian Airports Authority (NAM), and the Nigerian
Ports Authority (NPA) with federal government investments in excess of N1.2
billion, N1.3 billion and N0.8 billion respectively, to smaller enterprises
like the Central Water Transportation Authority. The NRC, NAA, and NPA
account for almost 15% of total Federal Government loans, equity and
subsidies  to  some  100  commercial  parastatals.   All  the  transport
enterprises incur operating losses.  NRC and NPA incurred the largest
deficits, amounting to approximately N100 million annually each in recent
years. The Federal Government has clearly indicated its intentions towards
policy reform in parastatals. These objectives called for: (a) significant
reductions in budgetary transfers in the case of commercially oriented
parastatals; (b) generation of more revenues within the parastatals; and



-2-
(c)  in some cases,  their privatization or liquidation.   However,  the
specific steps needed to achieve these objectives, together with a
realistic timetable,  are to be worked out.   The Transport Parastatal
Project was designed to help in this regard and particularly to improve the
performance of NRC and NPA;  as a first step, a Railway Revitalization
Study is being carried out.
2.03      The Federal Ministry of Transport (FM) and the recently created
Federal Ministry of Aviation (FMA) are responsible for all federal
transport matters other than the federal highway system, which is under the
Federal Ministry of Works and Housing (FNWH). The responsibilities of FMT
and FMA include, within their respective sectors,  the formulation of
transport policy, supervision of the federal transport parastatals, and the
provision of infrastructure and services not provided by either FMWH or the
parastatals themselves (e.g. en route air navigation and communication
systems, river ports, and river dredging). Through its National Transport
Coordination Commiu3ion (NTCC), FMT is responsible for planning and
coordinating investments and operations in all transport modes. So far
NTCC, whose membership includes the FMPH, FMT, FMA and the Federal Ministry
of Finance and Economic Development (FMFED), has had little influence on
the road sub-sector, because FMWH is a powerful ministry with a large
budget and because road transport regulations are a state government
responsibility. FMT has not been very effective even on matters within its
own jurisdiction, such as capital restructuring of its parastatals, and
economic assessment of its own investment programs. This is partly because
of a lack of government interest in these issues in the past, and partly
because of inadequate professional staff. With the recent much tighter
constraints on government spending, there is now more interest at both the
EMT and FMFED. The Transport Parastatals Project is providing technical
assistance to FMT and the parastatals.
B.  The Road Sub-Sector
The Road Network
2.04      The Nigerian road network consists of Federal, State and Local
Government Council (LGC) roads. The density of the total network is well
below the average for West Africa in terms of km/1,000 population. The
total network is about 117,000 km of which the federal trunk roads "A" are
the principal axes of the system, consisting of 12,500 km of which 94X are
bituminous surfaced.  The federal "F" roads consist of 15,500 km (69%
bituminous surfaced). State roads consist of approximately 30,000 km (35%
bituminous surfaced) while the LGC road system comprises about 60,000 km
(2% bituminous surfaced). Thus the federal network accounts for about 252
of the total network and 66% of the bituminous surfaced roads. Traffic
volumes on the federal network range from below 500 vehicles per day on
some "F" roads to about 20,000 vpd on the Lagos-Ibadan expressway. The
road network is shown on Map IBRD 19742.
2.05      Since 1975, some 10,000 kas of federal roads have been construct-
ed, 3,000 kms rehabilitated, and 4,000 kms strengthened.  Despite this
substantial program, the federal network is still underdeveloped; 28% is
unpaved and in poor condition. Some sections are only open to traffic in
the dry season, while a few exist only as lines on the map. Most roads
were constructed with relatively weak pavements with the intention of
strengthening them with asphalt-concrete overlays when needed. However,



-3-
this logical stage-construction approach proved difficult to put into
effect, mainly owing to the lack of adequate budgetary resources in recent
years. As a result, the strengthening works have not been carried out on
time. In addition, FHD's practice was to design pavements for the 10-ton
legal maximum axle load, instead of the considerably heavier loads Lctually
ex,'rienced, and problems with supervision led to instances of substandard
construction. All of these reasons, coupled with unexpectedly high traffic
growth of aDout 302 a year in the late 1970s, led to rapid deterioration
of the network. The latest field survey showed that of the paved federal
road network, 36% was in very good condition, 262 good, 15X fair, and 232
in poor or very poor condition. The strengthening and rehabilitation of
the federal network is thus the principal focus of the Piogram.
Road Administration
2.06      The federal highway system is the responsibility of the FMD.
Because of the evolution of the FHD from a division of the public works
department, it does not control all the services it requires such as repair
of  road  maintenance  equipment  and  the  materials  laboratory.   Its
organizational structure was examined in detail in a 1981 sector study
which concluded that both the federal and state highway organisations
needed to be strengthened to provide for effective management and
administration of the highway system. Based on this, FMWR has proposed the
creation of a Highway Authority. Organization charts of the present FMWH
and FD, Annexes 1 and 2, show the four main divisions of FH): planning,
design, construction and maintenance, and the decentralised representation
in each state by the Federal Controller of Works and Housing.
2.07      One of the nost important problems for many years has been the
shortage of professional and technical staff. This problem became even
more acute in 1985 due to the Government's decision not to renew contracts
for expatriate staff in the Ministry, who represented about 25% of profes-
sional manpower. The Ministry is still suffering from this loss and, as a
result, planning, project and contract supervision, and the execution of
maintenance have been weak, resulting in instances of poor quality of
construction and inadequate maintenance.
2.08      Currently,  PHD  field  staff  are  responsible  for  project
supervision, with the assistance in many cases of consulting firms. FHD's
target is to carry out all supervision with its own staff, which would
require the recruitment of a large number of engineers. In the interim,
supervision can only be assured by hiring consultants, with consultant
numbers decreasing over time. There are competent domestic engiLeering
firms, in addition to the Nigerian-foreign joint venture firms operating in
Nigeria, available to caTry  out this work.  The appointment of more
consultants would frae the few FHD staff now available for more important
tasks such as the overall planning, management and the supervision of the
work of consultants and contractors. This is envisioned under the Program.
2.09      In  1974 the Federal Government took over responsibility for
certain state trunk roads, which became part of the Federal Highway
Network. This left the States with what are essentially secondary roads,
including the more important LGC roads taken over by the states, also in
1974. The network is not completely defined in all states, and inventories
do not yet exist. An extensive program of construction by the states took
place during the 1970's, but since then the flow of funds has dried up.



- 4 -
2.10      To obtain a more balanced development of federal ana state roads,
a Trunk Road Study (TRS) is being carried out under the Sixth Highway
Project (Loan No. 1883-UNI of June, 1980). The study considers all roads
carrying traffic volumes of more than 300 vehicles per day, irrespective of
classification.  The results of this study will indicate priority state
roads for itprovement.   Under the proposed Progr=m, preparation of an
organization and action plan to implement state ro-ad improvements will be
carried out. This groundwork could provide the ba is for future Bank
assistance for state road networks.
Road Planning and Design
2.11      Road planning is carried out in principle at three levels: FMFED
assesses federal highway needs in relation to other sectors with respect to
resource allocations; PHD initiates programs for federal roads based on
need, and establishes construction priorities; and the state Ministries of
Works (MOWs) are responsible for performing similar tasks for state roads.
A fotrth level of planning, although not readily recognizable, exists at
the local government level where some decisions concerning LGC roads are
made. Coordination among federal, state and local government agencies is
not very effective.
2.12      Highway planning has so far  it been based on detailed economic
analyses, although a review of all 131 roads under construction by FHD and
the appraisal mission has shown that, excluding sunk costs, 98% of them
have satisfactory economic returns, and 95% of the roads have satisfactory
economic returno even if sunk costs are included. In fact, on this full
cost basis the majority of the roads have returns in excess of 35%.
Nevertheless, in view of the foreseeable scarcity of resources, highway
planning should include systematic economic analyses to optimize the
benefits to be derived from available resources. A first step towards this
vas taken under the Sixth Highway Project, with the establishment of a
Project Planning and Evaluation Unit in FHD.   This is to be further
developed under the Program.
2.13      The design standards used by FED are generally derived from U.S.
practice as described in the American Association of State Highway and
Transportation Officials' publication, "A Policy on Geometric Design of
Rural Highways." They are broadly. satisfactory for Nigerian conditions.
All design is carried out by consulting firms, either wholly Nigerian or
joint ventures of Nigerian and international firms.  Irn some instances
"design and build" contracts are let, in which case consultants are typi-
cally engaged by the contractor.
2.14      The collection and publication of highway statistics is the
responsibility of the Federal Office of Statistics (FOS), but FOS has
little current data available on accidents, traffic, fuel consumption,
motor vehicle registration, vehicle production, and imports. Informaticn
for the inventory of federal roads is being collected by the FED's Mainte-
nance Division and is being further developed by establishing a road data
bank under the ongoing TRS. Both of these activities are being financed
under the Sixth Highway Project, which will be continued under the Program.



Road Construction and Maintenance
2.15      Construction works are all carried out by contract, and the
construction Industry is now large and well equipped. Contractors are
registered and approved by FMW.   About  30 multinational contractors
operate in Nigeria, although most of the work is carried out by about 10
firms. In conformity with Nigerian law, these contractors are at least 601
Nigerian owned with proportionate representation on the Board of Directors.
They have undertaken very large contracts (up to US$300 million eq.ivalent)
let by FMWH in the last decade. Indigenous contractors include a wide
range of sizes from small companies to large, well-established civil
engineering contractors. In the past, they have tended to take the smaller
contracts let by FMW and the State MOWs, but more recently they have
participated widely in the contracts for maintenance let by PMVH. They now
occupy an important place in the industry.
2.16      Several different road maintenance arrangements have been tried
by PHD on the federal road network, but the changes have been too frequent
to give newly instituted systems time to function. After independence in
1960, maintenance was carried out by the then four regions as agents for
the Federal Government. This proved to be unsatisfactory and in the early
1970's MHD decided to carry out maintenance itself by force account. By
1979, after working for several years to establish this system, FHD decided
progress was too slow and reverted to employing the states as agents, and
ceded to them the equipment from the force account operation. After only a
year, FHD found results unsatisfactory and decided to maintain all fedaral
roads by contract.  However,  some of these contracts were awarded to
unqualified contractors and initial results were poor. Under the Sixth
Highway project, a small team of Bank-financed consultants was set up to
monitor the contracts.  They were graduallv able to reduce the worst
abuses, but their contract was completed in September 1985. Monitoring
since then has been weak and needs to be reinforced. Further improvements
in organization and supervision of the maintenance program are included
under the Program.
2.17      Maintenance by contract was an improvement over the previous
force account system but has not been entirely successful   Contractors
have tended to avoid routine maintenance in favor of periodic maintenance,
potholes  have  remained untreated  for  long periods,  and  contractors'
reaction time to emergencies has been slow. At the same time, FED was
experiencing good results on the sections of roads maintained by the three
Production Training Units associated with the training centers. For these
and other reasons, the Government decided to reintroduce a force account
elament  into  routine maintenance  operations  on  a  trial basis.   The
objective, which will be pursued under the Program, is to build up to a
capacity to maintain 5,000 km, or about 17S of the network by 1990. This
will provide a reasonable minimum capacity to cater for emergencies, and
will provide a basis for checking prices proposed by contractors.
Cotsultants financed under the Sixth Highway Project are helping to plan
and manage the force account operation, and this assistance will continue
under the Program.
Road Financing
2.18      Federal road works are financed from general government revenues;
there Is no ear-marking of user charge revenues for highways. Construction,



- 6 -
rehabilitation, and pavement strengthening are financed from the capital
budget, and light periodic and routine maintenance operations from the
recurrent budget, although the MHD has flexibility in the actual use of the
funds from the two budgets.
2.19      Following the decline In oil revenues after 1980, the budgetary
funds allocated for construction of the road network were cut severely.
Nevertheless many new contracts for additional construction continued to be
signed. Funds were not available to pay for either these new contracts or
the ongoing ones.   As a result, FHD has a long list of construction
projects in various stages of completion, which are proceeding very slowly
because of lack of cash.  Although the Government aims to devote more
resources to road rehabilitation and road maintenance, most of the ongoing
construction works have high rates of return and should be completed. The
deteriorating budget situation is making it difficult to satisfy these
competing aims.
Road SafetY
2.20      Only a few statistics, of doubtful reliability, are available,
but these suggest that the number of road accidents is very high.  A
comparison of available 1978 data showed that Nigeria had the highest
fatality rate per 10,000 vehicles of all 37 developing countries reviewed
(Bank report 5309-UNI on Nigeria Road Traffic Safety, October 1984). The
rate was significantly higher than that of neighboring African countries
and of other developing countries at the same level of vehicle ownership.
The annual economic loss to the country due to road accidents was
conservatively estimated at N2,000 million.
2.21      Road safety was identified as a problem In the 1981 road sector
study and a first step towards improving road safety was taken under the
Sixth Highway Project. This financed ambulances, heavy recovery vehicles
and patrol cars for the Federal Highway Patrol. Institutional needs were
reviewed during supervision missions and in the October 1984 Bank report on
Nigeria Road Traffic Safety.  A number of the recommendations in that
report are being implemented by the Nigerian authorities. A continuing
program for strengthening institutions over the period 1989-91 has been
designed (para 3.08).
C.   The Road Transport Industry
2.22      Road transport is largely in the hands of small-scale operators.
It is highly competitive since entry into the industry is free, and route
and rate regulations do not exist. Operators are only subject to an annual
vehicle inspection and payment of appropriate licensing fees. Lax in-
spection procedures, coupled with poorly trained drivers, lead to a high
accident rate. Until recently the Federal Government owned the highly
subsidised National Freight Company Ltd., but this company has now been
wound up as part of Governmentts policy to reduce unproductive investment
in the public sector.
2.23      Traffic regulations, including vehicle inspection, licensing, and
weight limits, are issued at the federal level but their application is a
state responsibility. The legal maximum gross vehicle weight (GVW) is 32
tons and maximum single axle weight 10 tons. However, gross overloading
(instances of 20 ton axles) is common, and the Nigerian Police Force, which



- 7 -
is short of manpower and equipment, does not regard this as a priority
problem. The FHD has been concerned for some time at the pavement deterio-
ration caused by these overloads and began a program to install weigh-
bridges several years ago, but the program was shut down by the last
civilian regime under pressure from the powerful road transport industry.
PHD is now gradually reopening the weighbridges and will review the entire
axle-load question in the context of the road user charge study (para 2.25)
under the Program.
D.   Road User Charges and Cost Recovery
2.24      A major issue in road transport has been the heavy subsidy on
fuel prices.  An increase in the domestic prices of motor fuels was a
condition for appraisal of the proposed loan, and on January 1, 1986, the
Government increased all fuel prices, except for kerosene, with the result
that the prices for gasoline, diesel oil and fuel oil went up by
approximately 100%, 170X, and 250%, respectively. April 1986 pump prices
of gasoline and diesel oil, were 10.40/1 and N0.30/1, respectively,
compared to border prices, calculated at the official - but then grossly
overvalued - exchange rate of US$1.00 - N1.00 and adjusted for cost of
distribution of NO.11/liter and NO.08/liter.  However, the devaluation of
the Naira on September 26, 1986 effectively lowered the pump prices
expressed in dollars and further adjustments were required. On April 11,
1988, the Government announced varying increases in fuel prices, for
different types of fuel, from 6.3X for gasoline to 375% for aviation
kerosene, with the weighted average of 33% (value weighted). This increase
eliminated about 15-20X of the economic subsidy and is to be followed by
further adjustments in fuel prices in order to fully eliminate the subsidy.
2.25      In 1986, after the increase in fuel prices, revenues collected
from road users included: (i) a surplus over border prices of motor fuels
amounting to some N1,540 million; (ii) import duties on vehicles and parts,
1100 million; and (iii) excise duties on tires and spares, tolls, etc., N20
million. Total recurrent expenditures on federal highways in 1986 were of
the order of N190 million. At the June 1986 level of prices and exchange
rate, revenues would, therefore, have been more than adequate to cover a
satisfactory level of expenditure on maintenance. The devaluation of the
currency eliminated the surplus over border prices for fuel and a subsidy
re-emerged, which is now being readjusted by the government under a phased
program. Improvement is also needed in the allocation of user charges. It
was agreed during negotiations that: (a) not later than September 1, 1989,
FMWH would prepare for Bank comments a study cand plan of action to
implement a system of action to recover at least recurrent costs from road
users through a combination, inter alia of fuel taxes, vehie? import taxes
and registration fees and tolls; and (b) not later than January 1, 1990,
FMW would implement the system of road user charges agre -. with the Bank.
E. Bank/IDA Financed Transport Projects
2.26      Past  Bank/IDA involvement  in Nigeria's  transport  sector has
consisted of one railway project, two port projects, a transport
rehabilitation  project,  and  six  highway  projects.   The  Transport
Parastatals Project (June 1986) supports the Government's effort to improve
the performance of parastatals, especially the NRC and the NPA. More
details are provided in Annex 3.



- 8 -
2.27      Transport parastatals, particularly NRC and NPA, suffer from a
surplus of lower level staff on the one hand, and from an acute shortage of
experienced professional and technical staff on the other. The Government
is now addressing these issues by imposing stricter guidelines on the use
of resources, improving the monitoring of performance, reducing surplus
staff, and introducing organizational reforms.  The Transport Parastatals
Project addresses a number of these issues.
2 .28     In general the physical construction components of projects have
b.ien completed satisfactorily, although often behind schedule. Institution
building  components  have  been  less  successful.   The  major  problem
encountered in both the Fifth and Sixth Highway Projects was with the
recruitment of individual experts to help develop FHD, resulting from
adainistrative difficulties and lack of agreement on terms and conditions.
This problem is being addressed under the proposed Program by supplying the
services through mostly local consulting firms. Progress will be monitored
by action plans and annual reviews which will be conditions of disbursement
for loan funds to help finance the subsequent year's program of works (para
3.21).
1II. THE HIGHWAY SECTOR PROGRAM
A. Introduction
3.01      The proposed loan would support PHD's highway sector Program
over the 1989-91 period and would address the issues discussed in Chapter
[I. It requires the following significant changes in FHD's past practices:
(a) highway expenditures to reflect substantial changes in favor
of routine maintenance, rehabilitation, and strengthening;
(b) improved planning and programming of proposed improvement
works by carrying out economic analyses;
(c) more orderly budgeting and planning, and systematic prepara-
tion of detailed designs;
(d) civil works lots to consist of road sections approximately
50 km long which will enable most contracts to be completed
in 12 to 18 months;
(e) better supervision of rehabilitation, strengthening, new
construction, and routine maintenance; and
(f) a maintenance management system to be developed to include
analyses of the advantages and disadvantages of routine
maintenance by contract and by force account.
Paragraphs 3.02 to 3.20 describe the FED 1989-91 Program while the remain-
ing paragraphs of this chapter discuss particular aspects of the proposed
loan.



- 9-
S. Program Objectives and Components
3.02      FHD'i 1989-91 Program of capital works and routine maintenance
seeks to: protect existing assets; carry out an appropriate and sustainable
road  maintenance  program;  improvo  operational  efficiency  and  cost
effectiveness through better contracting and design practices; and improve
road safety. It includes the following components which are discussed in
more detail below:
(a) Road improvements: sub-projects for strengthening, rehabili-
tation and new construction will be carried out by contract;
(b) Road maintenance: routine maintenance will be carried out
by contract and force account; and
(c) Road safety: the capability of FHD will be built up, through
data collection and accident analyses, and traffic safety
courses, in order to identify and correct hazardous
locations on the road network ; and
(d)  Institutional DevelopmenLt:   consulting  services will  be
provided to: (i) develop capacity and skills in the PMWH's
planning, maintenance and civil engineering divisions; (ii)
assist FMD to establish a data management system; (iii)
define an axle load policy; (iv) supervise construction and
routine maintenance operations by contract; (v) begin a
program of continuing education for FED engineers; (vi)
determine the best way to implement works to be done on
state roads; and (vii) assist FPD with the scheduling and
coordination of consulting and construction contracts.
C. Road Improvements
3.03      FHD's capital expenditures for the road improvement program in-
clude new construction, strengthening and rehabilitation. New construc-
tion, which is defined as roads constructed on a new alignment, consists
largely of completing some ongoing contracts which all have high economic
returns. This would normally Justify a larger budget, but in view of the
even more urgent needs for strengthening and rehabilitation, this component
is limiced to about 30% of capital expenditures for roads over the 1989-91
period. As discussed in para 2.05, the stage construction policy adopted
for construction of pavements subject to heavily overloaded azls requires
immediate attention to preserve the roads. Thus in 1986, as part of the
preparation for this project, FED developed a three-year program of works
to arrest deterioration of the network and bring the backlog up to date
over  approximately  a  10-year  period.   This  program  consisted  of
strengthening about 9000 km, rehabilitating 1500 km of surface dressed
roads and 2100 km of earth roads, and 600 km of new construction.
3.04      That program was developed on the basis of budget expectations in
early 1986 and far exceeds present budgetary resources. At present, the
structural adjustment program forecasts PHD's budget in 1988 prices of
N617.6 million in 1989 and N649.3 million in 1990 and at 575.9 in 1991
which represent about 12.5 percent of estimated annual federal ministerial
capital expenditures. The adjustment program takes into account the need
to restrict the overall size of the capital budget and the needs of other



- 10 -
sectors. However, from a transport sector view, the forecast expenditures
are far from optimal and may lead to large economic losses due to an inade-
quate road system.
3.05      During  negotiations,  it was  agreed  to:  (a) maintain  annual
federal expenditure allocations to the transport sector at a minimum of 15%
of the total annual capital expenditure allocations during 1989-91;
(b) allocate at least 80% of that expenditure to Federal Highways; (c)
maintain FHD's annual recurrent expenditure allocations at a sufficient
level to cover routine maintenance of the Federal highway network; and (d)
give priority to routine maintenance expenditures over capital expenditures
for roads. If, because of macro economic conditions, the size of the total
program has to be reduced, PHD's rehabilitation and strenththening program
would be delayed. To respond flexibly to such situations, construction
lots will, as far as possible, consist of road sections no longer than 50
km  to  ensure  completion  reasonably  quickly.   FHD's  first  year  road
improvement program includes advance contracting (para 3.26 and Annex 4),
ongoing contracts to be terminated and rebid (Annex 5), and the first year
rehabilitation and overlay program (Annex 6).
D. Road Maintenance
3.06      The objective of the maintenance part of the Program is to pro-
vide  routine maintenance for all roads  in  the federal system.   The
objective will be to maintain most of the system by contract, but to
maintain a relatively small force account capability, which will be built
up to maintain about 5,000 km (182 of the network) as a control and
emergency reserve. This is considered to be a reasonable balance, pending
results of the monitoring of performance of maintenance by contract and
force account (para 3.07). FHD has eaployed consultants under the Sixth
Highway Project to help organize and manage the force account operation
which began in 4 states and is being built up to cover all 21 states.
Continuation of this work over the period 1989-91 will require an estimated
96 man-months of consulting services. The cost of equipment and spare
parts to gradually build up this routine maintenance capacity is included
in FHD's recurrent budget.
3.07      The  estimated   annual  expenditures   required  for  routine
maintenance works are N264.4 million for 1989, N297.6 million for 1990, and
N297.6 million for 1991 in 1988 prices. (These figures were confirmed with
the government.)  FHD's Program also includes a maintenance management
system to improve planning, programing, and budgeting of maincenance ac-
tivities by the headquarters staff. The system will also comprise mon-
itoring performance and .omparing costs of maintenance by contract and
force account. This will require 32 man-months of consulting services.
E. Road Safety
3.08      The first phase of this program will set up accident data
collection, storage, retrieval and analysis systems, and establish FHD's
capability to identify and improve hazardous locations on the federal
highway network. The second phase will include: (a) the implementation of
accident analysis, and the identification and correction of hazardous loca-
tions on the road network using the data collection systems, and manpower
developed under Phase I; and (b) the establishment of a Traffic Operations
Unit.   The present Traffic Census Unit,  the Road Safety Unit to be



- 11 -
established under Phase I, and the Traffic Operations Unit would be grouped
under a new Assistant Director (Traffic). Botn phases will require an
estimated 37 man-months of consulting services.
3.09      One-week courses entitled: "Improving Traffic Safety by Low-Cost
Engineering Measures" will be given annually at three locations in Nigeria.
The courses are intended for road engineers in FHD and State MOWs. They
will be given by both FHD personnel and visiting lecturers. A total of 9
man-months of consulting services will be required to develop and assist
with giving the courses. In order to develop road research capability in
Nigeria, some collaborative researcia will be initiated between FHD and
Nigerian universities. For this purpose a total of 6 man-months of techni-
cal support and advice will be provided by road safety research specialists
from an overseas research institute over the three years 1989-91 plus 54
man-months of university research assistants. Annex 7 gives details of the
road safety component of FHD's Program.
F. Institutional Development
3.10      The creation of a Highway Authority to replace FHD has been under
consideration for some time (para 2.06). This would have the advantage of
grouping all activities required for highway management in one unit. How-
ever, the essential division of activities into the present four operating
divisions of planning, design, construction, and maintenance would remain
and FED intends to strengthen all of these activities under the Program.
3.11       In the Planning Division, the intention is to build up the
economic capacity of the Project Planning and Evaluation Unit (PPEU) so
that its staff can supervise economic analyses carried out by consultants
(para 3.12). This requires 24 man-months of consulting services and two
FMD counterparts. The Planning Division is also responsible for FHD's data
processing activities, An extension of data processing and management sys-
tems to cover all of FHD's divisions calls for 18 msan-months of consulting
services. The division will also carry out a road user charges and axle
load study, which requires 36 man-months of consulting services. It will
analyze specifications of trucks, both imported and locally assembled, in
order to assess the equitability of road user charges and the possibility
of regulating the specifications of trucks to avoid overloading.
3.12      The Design Division will be strengthened under the Progra&  to
improve its capability to prepare detailed designs, economic analyses, and
tender documents for all road and bridge works. A recent Bank review of
procurement procedures in Nigeria found that some practizes, such as
negotiating with contractors after reviewing their bids, lead to ineffi-
ciencies and are not acceptable to the Bar.k. Many of these practices
result from late decisions on funds to be made available, which leads to
hasty  action on the grounds of  expediency.   Revised  standard  tender
documents are being prepared for use by FHD which will help regularize
FHD's procurement procedures.   Designs and contract documents will be
prepared using about 330 man-months of consulting services in the Design
division each year of the program, totalling about 1,000 man-months. These
will  be  mostly  supplied  by  local  consultants.   In  addition,  road
strengthening overlay projects will be prepared by the offices of the
Federal Controller of Works, based on the overlay design methodology
develor,ed under the Sixth Highway Project, and pavement data collection by
the Pavement Evaluation Unit (PEU). It was agreed during negotiations that



- 12 -
not later than April 1, 1989, FMWH will complete detailed designs and
economic analyses of works to be carried out during the second year of the
project.
3.13      The Construction Division and the construction function in the
field offices have been the most hard hit by the shortage of staff in the
FHD. As noted in para 2.08, FHD's ultimate objective is to carry out
supervision with its own staff. There is some question as to whether a
better solution would not be a judicious balance between FHD staff and
consultants for supervision. However, to realize FHD's objective at any
realistic hiring rate would take several years to achieve, and a large
number of consultants will be required in the interim. During this period,
the ultimate objective can be reassessed.
3.14      For the period 1989-91, about 175 full-time engineers are re-
quired each year for supervisica of capital projects. At present only 48
FHD staff are available. The program therefore calls for the hiring of
consultants, mostly local, to ensure proper supervision. The number of
consultants (4000 man-months for the period 1989-91) will decrease over
time if, as planned, FHD recruits 20 additional engineers a year for
capital works supervision during 1989-91. The recruited FHD staff would be
graduate engineers with at least five years experience, and will be trained
on-site for one year. However, any staff shortages will be made up by
additional consultants. It is recognized that these requirements may be
changed,   depending  on  the  number  of  sub-projects  proposed  for
implementation the following year. Annex 8 gives details of the technical
assistance component including supervision consultants.
3.15      The  Maintenance  Division  plans  to  develop  a  maintenance
management system and to gradually build up a limited maintenance
capability by force account which have already been mentioned (paras 3.06
and 3.07). However, most of the federal highway network will be maintained
by contract. These contracts should be supervised by staff from the Office
of the Federal Controller of Works in each state, but these offices are
understaffed and supervision is thinly spread. A total of 40 full time
engineers is required to supervise the routine maintenance contracts and
force account works. The estimate of available FED staff (para 3.14) has
allowed for transfers so that the full complement of 40 FHD engineers are
assigned to maintenance supervision. However, depending on assignments,
some of the 4000 man-months of mostly local consulting services (para 3.14)
may be used to supervise maintenance works. It was agreed at negotiations
that assignment of sufficient qualified engineers to supervise the road
improvement and maintenance works Program during the first year of project
implementation will be a condition of loan effectiveness. FHD will review
maintenance performance and programming by both direct labor and contract
annually.
3.16      The Maintenance Division is also responsible for training FHD
staff. The operation of the training centers for skilled workers and tech-
nicians will be continued under the program, and training will be expanded
to begin continuing education for engineers, including, for example, the
traffic safety course (para 3.09). To maintain quality training centers,
pedagogic training for instructors will be provided. The total training
assistance is estimated at 72 man-months of consulting services.



- 13 -
3.17      Materials and pavement investigations are carried out by the
Civil Engineering Services Division, presently outside the FHD.  The PEU
(para 3.12) was established under the Sixth Highway Project and further
development of its scope is planned under the Program; this will require 36
man-months of consulting services (Anaex 8).
3.18      In a study financed under the Sixth Highway Project, priorities
will be established for the rehabilitation, strengthening, and upgrading of
the most important  State  roads.  FPD's  1989-91  Program  includes  six
man-months of consulting services to determine the manner and institutions
to implement and monitor works to be done on state roads (Annex 8).
3.19      The total consulting services and civil works represent a large
number of contracts. The scheduling, coordination, and monitoring of these
contracts are complex and FHD is establishing a special unit to undertake
these  tasks.   Forty-eight  man-onths  of  a  coordinating  consultant's
services will be employed to assist the unit to fulfill its function.
G. Program Costs
3.20      As explained in paras 3.04 and 3.05, the size of the Program is
governed by the total federal capital expenditure allocations. There are
more projects with high economic returns than can be financed under the
presently envisaged budget, so any increase in the budget which may become
available will be applied to expanding the physical works in the Program.
Similarly a shortfall will reduce the size of the Program. PlD's proposed
1989-1991 program, shown in Annex 9, is therefore indicative. The cost of
the program is summarized in the following table:
SLiUy  Cost Table
IPD's Pax2pOSs1 19891991 Pugmm
local  Forelp   Totalocal Ibreip  Total 1orelp as
-    amll  -u            W$ iMsmis -ll     % of total
&    C oawn.        918.0  1836.0  2754.0  229.5  459.0  688.5    67
30unot                 19.4   36.0   55.4   4.8   9.0   13.8        65
Ccuuultnt Sers         18.8   43.8   62.6   4.7  11.0   15.6        70
Sub-totaF:          956.2  1915.8  2872.0  239.0  479.0  718.0    67
Pwrrt e
Road sdutenwe         343.8  515.8  859.6  86.0  128.9  214.9       60
pipmmlt & SparePatts   31.5   58.5   90.0   7.9  14.6   22.5        65
SUb-total:          375.3  574.3  949.6  93.9  143.5  237.4       60
Total Program       1331.5  2490.1  3821.6  332.9  622.5  955.4   65



- 14 -
H. Proposed Loan
3.21      The proposed loan would broadly support the entire FHD program,
with the exception of most ongoing contracts. A fundamental requirement of
the loan is the annual exchange of views by FHD and the Bank on the
Program.   It was agreed at negotiations that FMWH will exchange views
annually with the Bank on progress achiev4d in carrying out the project and
on specified actions, including those as conditions of disbursement. These
are set out at Annex 12.  It was further agreed that, prior to these
reviews, FMWH will provide the Bank for its review and comments a report on
the above-mentioned including, inter alia, (a) the use of loan funds a3d
capital and recurrent expenditures in the highway sector during the
previous twelve months; (b) FHD's draft capital and recurrent budget and a
program of works and studies for the forthcoming year; and (c) FHD's
indicative program of works for the subsequent two years. Bank funds for
the civil works program would be available for disbursement in three annual
slices: the first at loan effectiveness, and the second and third at yearly
intervals following loan effectiveness, after satisfactory annual exchange
of views based on actions listed in Annex 12.   However, non-compliance
with the disbursement conditions would not mean that the Bank would suspend
on cancel disbursements for ongoing construction contracts.
3.22      A loan of US$250 million equivalent, which represents about 26%
of total Program costs, is proposed. The proceeds of the loan would be
used to finance 70% of the total amount of US$15.6 million for consulting
services  (about  US$11.0 million),  components  for  Bailey  Bridges  for
emergency  repair  at  river  crossings  that  have  collapsed  (about
US$4.0 million), spare parts for the force account operation (about US$3.0
million), and specialized equipment for road safety, traffic counting,
accident  analyses,  and  data  processing  (about  US$2.0 million).   The
remainder will be used to finance the Bank's share of contracts for road
works (US$230 millio5 .  The latter financing could apply to any of the
Program's sub-project , provided an economic analysis has been carried out
(para 3.34).
3.23      The total con, _ting services under the program are estimated at
5474 man-months. These services are broken down in various areas as shown
below. The services for the organization of the force account operation,
the preparation of the detailed designs and economic analyses, and road
safety, and the assistance to the program coordination unit, should
commence before loan effectiveness.



- 15 -
Breakdown of Consultant Services
under the Program: 1989-1991
Total
Areas of Assistance                                             Man-months
Force Account Operation                                                  96
Maintenance Management System                                            32
Road Safety, Second Phase                                               106
Strengthen Planning Capability of FHD                                    42
Road User Charges and Axle Load Study                                    36
Detailed Designs and Economic Analyses                                1,000
Road Improvement and Maintenance Works                                4,000
Continuing Education Program                                             72
Strenghthening of PEU                                                    36
Rehabilitate, strengthen and upgrade State Roads                          6
Program Coordination                                                     48
5,474
_. Implementation
3.24      Responsibility for implementation of the Program will be vested
In PNW. Road works contracts proposed for advance contracting (para 3.26)
have been selected by PHD, which is also carrying out pavement studies on
roads in the first year rehabilitation program. Terms of reference for the
consulting assignments are being prepared by FHD. From the date of loan
effectiveness, implementation is expected to take four years. Annex 13
summarizes the Action Plan to be undertaken under the proposed loan and
indicates responsibilities and deadlines to be met.
J. Procurement
3.25      Amounts and procurement methods are given in the table which
follows:
Amounts and Methods of Procurement
(US$ Million)
Item         Category               Procurement Metiaod         /a    Total
-CB,           LCB         Other
1.  Civil Works              277.7          410.8        214.9        903.4
(166.6)        (63.4) lb     (0.0)      (230.0)
2.  Equipment, spare parts     0.0           22.5          13.8        36.3
(0.0)         (0.2)        (8.8)        (9.0)
3.  Consulting services         0.0           0.0          15.6        15.6
(0.0)         (0.0)       (11.0)       (11.0)
Total         277.7          433.3        244.4       955.4
(166.6)        (63.6)       (19.8)      (250.0)
[a  Amounts in parentheses indicate IBID participation.
7W Advance contracting.



- 16 -
3.26      Advance contracting will be used for some works let between
appraisal and loan signature, of which the total contract value will not
exceed US$75 million (Annex 4). These contracts, which are each less than
N20 million (US$5 million) were procured under local procedures which were
reviewed and found acceptable to the Bank. The remainder of Bank financed
civil works under the loan will be procured by ICB following Bank
guidelines, with a total estimated contract value of about US$278 million.
As previously noted, these civil works will be organized into lots
consisting of  road  sections  approximately  50 km  long.   Lots will be
packaged into tender calls of at least US$10 million to be of interest to
international and large indigenous contractors who could bid for the
package as a whole, while smaller indigenous contractors could bid for one
or more lots of the package.  The invitation for bids will, however,
stipulate that, whether packaged or not, works will have to be completed in
12 to 18 months. In general, contractors will be prequalified for all the
ICB works, except for the initial program of rehabilitation where
post-qualification will be carried out to accelerate the start of the
works.   In accordance with Bank procurement guidelines,  foreign firms
awarded ICB contracts will be exempt from Nigerian laws regarding
incorporation and ownership.
3.27      Bailey Bridge components for emergency bridge repairs will total
about  US$4 million.   Some  of  these  will  be  procured  under  advance
contracting, by direct contracting with Lagos agents of the two
manufacturers of tbese components. Spare parts for equipment (about US$3
million) will be purchased directly from manufacturers or their authorized
agents; data processing equipment will be procured by local competitive
biddlng, under procedures acceptable to the Bank. Consultants will be
appointed in accordance with Bank Guidelines. All contracts estimated to
be more than US$1 million equivalent will be subject to prior Bank review
and approval, which will cover all civil works contracts bid under ICB;
other contracts will be subject to selective post award review.  The
procurement arrangements in paras 3.26-3.27 were agreed with the
Government.
K. Disbursements
3.28      Disbursements will be made on the basis of contracts approved by
the Bank. Disbursements for the civil works program, for the second and
third year of the project, will be dependent upon satisfactory annual
exchange of views on progress achieved and compliance with specified
actions for subsequent years (para. 3.21 and Annex 12). The allocation and
disbursement plan for the loan are shown at Annex 14.  In the past, delays
have occurred with the payment of local funds due on contracts, both by the
Bank and the Government.  In order to avoid this problem, three accounts
will  be  established  in  a  commercial  bank  to be  identified by  the
Government.  The first is a Special Account to disburse Bank funds.  The
second, Project Account A, is to disburse the Government component from the
Capital Investment budget, and the third, Project Account B, is to disburse
the Government component  from the Recurrent budget.  The latter June
project account will be in Naira, The Special Account in US dollars for
Bank funds will be used to pay the Bank's share of the local currency
component in Naira and small disbursements in foreign currency. Large
foreign currency disbursements will continue to be disbursed from Washing-
ton. The commercial bank will pay the Bank-financed share on instructions
from FHD. On request from the Government, the Bank will pay an initial



- 17 -
advance of US$20 million equivalent into the Special Account, representin3
about six months of project costs. Disbursements from the Special Account
will only be made on the basis of properly authorized supporting
documentation.
3.29      FHD will submit withdrawal applications monthly to the Bank for
replenishment of the Special Account to its agreed ceiling, subject to a
minimum withdrawal application amount of US$1 million. These withdrawal
applications will be supported by Statements of Expenditure (SOE), and the
supporting documentation will be retained by FMD. The Government will make
provision for an initial deposit of one-quarter of the FHD 1989 capital
budget into Project Account A in its 1989 capital budget, and one-quarter
of the FHD 1989 recurrent budget for highway maintenance into Project
Account B in its 1989 recurrent budget. Botk accounts will be replenished
quarterly to ensure that they have sufficient funds to meet expected needs.
Maintaining a sufficient balance in the accounts would be a pre-requisite
to Bank approval of the award of any new contracts in the Program. During
negotiations it was agreed that: (a) the establishment of the two Project
Accounts, in Naira in a commercial bank, will be a condition of loan
effectiveness; (b) not later than March 31, 1989, FMWH will deposit initial
amounts into the accounts, equivalent to one-fourth of the annual capital
and recurrent budgets, respectively, allocated to FHD for fiscal year 1989;
and (c) thereafter replenish the accounts not later than three weeks from
the beginning of each subsequent quarter.
3.30      Retroactive  financing will be provided  for the  civil works
procured with advance contracting, the Bailey Bridge components, and the
consulting assignments which must begin before loan effectiveness in order
to meet the target dates for project implementation. The total amount of
retroactive financing will not exceed $25 million.   The percentage of
expenditure to be financed is: 60% for civil works, 70% for consulting
services and 100% of foreign or 65% of local for equipment.
3.31      A standard disbursement profile for this type of loan does not
exist in the Africa Region.  The single experience had been a highway
sector loan which took seven years to disburse. This is not considered an
appropriate disbursement period for this loan, where execution is
programmed to take place over four years from the estimated date of loan
effectiveness of January 1, 1989. The loan completion date would therefore
be December 31, 1992, and the closing date six months after that, or June
30,  1993.  The percentages of the amo'nt for civil works to be made
available for disbursement against the first, second, and third review
phases are estimated to be 51%, 37%, and 12%, respectively.   All dis-
bursements would be completed within six months of the completion date,
that is by June 30, 1993, giving a total disbursement period from expected
effectiveness in January 1989 of almost five years (Annex 15). There is
some risk of not meeting this schedule as this period is shorter than has
been experienced with nearly all previous loans to Nigeria, where delays in
execution have been common. However, the objective of this loan is to
participate in three annual slices of MHD's Program, with the possibility
of cancelling outstanding balances on completion of the third phase.
L. Accounting and Auditing
3.32      The accounting for all Special Account transactions and for all
other project-related accounts will be maintained in accordance with
international accounting standards as defined by the International



- 18 -
Accounting   Standards   Committee.    Annual   financial   statements   of
Bank-financed components will be prepared and audited in accordance with
International Auditing Guidelines as defined by the International
Federation of Accountants, by suitably qualified, independent auditors
acceptable to the Bank. Audits will also be carried out, at the same time
and for corresponding periods in accordance with the Bank guidelines, for
SOB's against which disbursements have been made or are due to be made out
of the loan proceeds, and specific reference will be made in the audit
reports accompanying  the financial  statements.   It was  agreed  during
negotiations that the auditors retained will review the accounting systems
and supporting internal procedures and practices for the special and
project accounts, and recommend any needed changes thereto which would be
implemented after an exchange of views with the Bank and not later than
April 1,  1989.   (This would allow for three months' operation of the
accounts.)
M.  Environmertal Aspects
3.33      No physical risks or adverse ecological effects are expected from
the Program. However, some property may have to be expropriated in connec-
tion with  the  construction  of  the  Ibadan-Ilorin  Highway.   Terms  of
reference for consultants involved in the planning and design of these
works include:  (a) an analysis of how to minimize expropriations; and
(b) assistance to the Compensation Board (the Nigerian agency dealing with
expropriation) to ensure that a satisfactory resettlement plan will be
developed.
N. Benefits and Risks
3.34      The benefits of road improvements under the Project consist of
savings in vehicle operating costs (voc) from normal traffic plus diverted
traffic where applicable. Additional benefits will be derived from road
maintenance cost-savings.  Traffic levels and vehicle composition will be
determined by specific traffic counts. Vehicle operating cost tables will
be updated and refined by FHD on the basis of local surveys and the voc
module of the Bank's Highway Design Model. The economic evaluation, which
will be based on the methodology described at Annex 10, will be simplified
where possible since economic returns are expected to be high. All capital
works whether Bank-financed or not, will be subject to economic analyses.
The cost estimates of the economic evaluations will be based on detailed
engineering studies in accordance wit'i the design standards at Annex 11,
and  include  costs  of  supervision.   The minimum  economic  return  for
sub-projects to be included in the Program is 12%. Most rates of return
are expected to exceed 352. Economic analyses in accordance with these
guidelines are being done by consultants under the Sixth Highway Project.
Economic analyses have been completed for projects under advance
.ontracting (para 3.26).
3.35      The total consulting services under the program are estimated at
5474 man-months, including 5000 for design and supervision. The economic
evaluation of consulting services, training elements, and other special
components such as equipment for the road safety component, is of a
qualitative rather than quantitative nature. Consulting services proposed
for MHD are expected to significantly enhance the efficiency of its
operations.   Benefits  to be accrued from road safety investments are
substantial, but difficult to quantify (Annex 7).



- 19 -
3.36      The Program has been prepared on the basis of experience with the
Sixth Highway Project.  FHD wlll  schedule works in  such  a way  that
contractors are directed to focus on completing short segments which can be
made fully operational (para 3.05). Then, if funds are cut, at least the
benefits of the initial investment can be realized without significant
delay.
3.37      There is a risk of not attaining the institutional development
objectives for FMD as embodied in the training or technical assistance
services of the Program. These components have been the least successful
under past projects (Annex 3). However the present Government has shown a
willingness to implement cost recovery and more efficient operations, as
demonstrated by the increase in fuel prices, the reduction of surplus civil
service personnel, and the reduction in subsidies to parastatals. In addi-
tion, progress on the agreed Program will be a condition of disbursement
for the subsequent year (para 3.21).
IV. AGREEMENTS, CONDITIONS AND RECOMMENDATIONS
A. Agreements
4.01      During negotiations, the following agreements were reached or
confirmed:
(a)  (i)  not later than September 1, 1989, FMWH would prepare
for Bank comments a study and plan of action to
implement a system to recover at least recurrent costs
of Federal Highways from road users; and
(ii) not later than January 1, 1990, FMWH would implement
the system of road user charges agreed with the Bank
(paras 2.24 and 2.25).
(b)  (i)  the government would maintain annual federal capital
expenditure allocations to the transport sector at a
minimum of 15% of the total annual capital expenditure
allocations during FY89-91 and allocate at least 80% of
that expenditure to Federal Highways;
(ii) the government would maintain PHD's annual recurrent
expenditure allocations at a sufficient level to cover
routine maintenance of the Federal Highway network; and
(iii) the government would give priority to routine
maintenance expenditures over capital expenditures for
roads (paras 3.04 and 3.05).
(c)  not later than April  1, 1989, FMWH will complete detailed
designs and economic analyses of works to be carried out
during the second year of the project (para 3.12).
(d)  annual exchange of views based on a report giving progress
achieved against targets and compliance with specified
actions for subsequent years (para 3.21, Annex 12).



- 20 -
(e) proposed procurement arrangements (paraes 3.26 and 3.27) and
auditing   arrangements   (para   3.32)   which   Include
implementation of needed changes to accounting procedures
and practices after an exchange of views with the Bank and
not later than April 1, 1989.
(f) not later than March 31, 1989, FMWH will deposit Initial
amounts into Project Accounts A and B equivalent to
one-fourth the annual capital and recurrent budgets,
respectively, allocated to FHD for fiscal year 1989 and
thereafter replenish accounts not later than three weeks
from the beginning of each subsequent quarter (para 3.29).
B. Conditions
4.02      As conditions of effectiveness the following would be required:
(a) employment of qualified engineers to supervise PHD's road
improvement and maintenance works program during the first
year of project implementation (para 3.15); and
(b) opening of the two Projects Accounts in Naira in a
commercial bank (para 3.29).
4.03      As conditions of disbursement, satisfactory exchange of views,
not later than January 31, 1990 and January 31, 1991, respectively, (or
later dates to be agreed), on progress achieved the previous year, and
compliance with specified action programs for the subsequent year (paras
3.21, 3.28, Annex 12).
C. Recommendations
4.04      On the basis of the above agreements and actions, the proposed
loan would be suitable for a Bank loan of US$250 million at the prevailing
terms and conditions.
April 21, 1988



FEDMRAL REPUBLIC OF NIGEIA
FEDERAL MINISTRY OF WORKS & HOUSING
ORGANIZATION CHART
"lomw*                                                              Utimm & fte& Fling
T ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~
Met"l-of.. MOMNIMe .m l
camAnobleft  ~ ~ ~ ~     ~    ~    ~      aiIn Ltwo         ..                  I!aftlm
fti~~~~~ 



FD1ERAL REPUBLIC OF NIGERIA
FEDERAL HIGHWAY DEPARTt13E1T
ORGANIZATION CHART
A.D.  A.D.      A.D.                                               A.D.             A.D.~~~~~A.D.
'                           I
Or..to Plta~                       Orst  Os.t;gm                  | Di Z.cI                         I c3  |DlrFN       l
*                                                      4                  
t            .   I
pi  I ng                                D la,||8e1ig  PA*&    an          |            "t              ||| __  1  Planng T"aial
l sI
F loo4 Ith



- 23 -                         Annex 3
Page 1 of 4
FEDERAL REPUBLIC OF NIGERIA
HIGHWAY SECTOR LOAN
PAST BANK INVOLVEMENT IN THE SECTOR
Past Port and Railway Projects
1.        Past Bank Group support to the Nigerian transport sector has
totalled US$314 million and has been predominately for highways (65 per-
cent). Assistance to the railways was provided in 1958 (Loan 193-UNI,
US$28 million) and in 1970 as part of a Transport Rehabilitation Project
(Loan 694-UNI, US$25 million). The latter project provided US$11 million
for railways, mostly for spares and track material and equipment.
Implementation was delayed by over four years due to complete revision of
the list of goods twice during the first two years of the project, slow
procurement procedures, inadequate performance of NRC workshops, and lack
of consulting services to assist NRC.
2.        There have been two port projects (Loan 326-UNI, US$13.5 million,
19863 and Loan 922-UNI, US$55 million, 1978), primarily for the development
of Apapa Port. The more recent project included construction of 1,000
meters of deep-water container berths, procurement of container handling
equipment, and technical assistance in management and accounting. The
civil works and equipment components were completed on schedule, with an
eight percent cost overrun. The technical assistance also generally
achieved its objectives of improving data processing, revaluing assets, and
designing a cost accounting system. However, with the exception of asset
revaluation, which has recently been updated satisfactorily by NPA offi-
cers, these improvements have not been sustained primarily due to the lack
of qualified staff.
3.        The objectives of the Transport Parastatals Project (June, 1986)
would seek to increase the efficiency ol transport parastatals, especially
NRC and NPA by financing: (a) development and installation of management
information systems, and improved accounting, internal audit and data
processing in NRA and NRC; (b) manpower studies to identify staff
rationalization and training programs, and follow-up assistance in
implementing the recommendations of the studies; (c) urgently needed
workshop equipment and spares for NPA and NRC, and assistance to improve
workshop productivity; and (d) technical assistance and consulting services
to the Federal Ministry of Transport and Aviation (FMA) to carry a range
of policy studies for other transport parastatals and inter-modal
transport. The principal lessons from past projects in the sector have
been incorporated in the design of the Transport Parastatals Projects as
explained in the President's Report (No. P-4135-UNI, para. 56).



- 24 -
Annex 3
Page 2 of 4
Hi8hway Projects
4.        There have been seven projects in the highway sector, including
the road component of a transportation rehabilitation project. Tb summary,
the project content was as follows:
(a) Northern Road Prolect (Credit 73-UNI, March 1965). This
credit was made to the Northern Region of Nigeria, and
financed road construction, construction supervision by
consultants, and the supply of materials testing equipment
and weighbridges.
(b) Apapa Road Project (Loan 426-UNI, September 1965). This was
a section of urban road which consisted of the Ijora
Causeway (1.2 miles) and Apapa Road (2.5 miles) both to
4-lane divided standard.
(c) Western Road Project (Loan 427-UNI, September 1965). This
loan was on-lent to the Western Regior, It covered trunk
road improvements and consulting services for the
supervision of works and detailed engineering, and
reorganized maintenance operations. It also included the
procurement of maintenance equipment and spare parts.
(d) Road Rehabilitation Project (Loan 640-UNI, November 1969).
The project included the rehabilitation of about 200 miles
of roads in the Lagos-Kano corridor, and detailed engineer-
ing of the Lagos-Ibadan expressway.
(e) Transportation Rehabilitation Project (Loan 694-UNI, June
1970). This was intended to be a quick disbursing loan to
rehabilitate priority transport infrastructure that had been
damaged during the 1967-70 civil war. Project components
were only tentatively identified at appraisal, consisting of
eight road sections, and consultants for engineering and
construction supervision.
(f)  Fifth Highway Project (Loan 883-UNI, June 1974).  As ap-
praised, the project provided for (i) rehabilitation of 109
miles of highways and reconstruction of eight bridges, (ii)
consulting services for construction supervision,
feasibility studies and detailed engineering, plus technical
assistance for improvements in federal highway management
planning and maintenance, and (iii) acquisition of highway
planning and vehicle weight control equipment.
(g) Sixth Highway Project (Loan 1883-UNI, August 1980). The
project components would: (a) strengthen about 520 km of
federal trunk roads (b) undertake studies of the
Calabar-Ikom road, and to establish improvement priorities
on the federal trunk road system, (c) provide technical
assistance for a training program for technicians, and fill
posts concerned with planning, design, construction and



- 25 -
Annex 3
Page 3 of 4
maintenance in FHD, and establish a pavement evaluation
unit, (d) provide housing for technical assistance staff,
and (e) provide highway safety equipment and pavement
evaluation equipment.
5.        No Project Completion or Audit Reports were written on the
Northern Road Project. The road construction encountered significant
technical problems during and immediately after execution.
6.        The Apapa Road project (PPAR No. 1229, July 1976) was eventually
completed successfully, and in spite of cost and time overruns the project
was economically justified. Issues discussed in the Project Performance
Audit Review (Report No. 1229, July 1976) were:
(i) The quality of the original techni:al design: the
consultant chosen by FHD, (on the basis of price
as later revealed) to review the FHD design,
proved to be incompetent.
(ii) Use of consultants for construction supervision:
the consultants began work in July 1966, but were
not paid until January 1969; the Bank had proposed
supervision by consultants, but accepted a compro-
mise that the consultants act in an advisory
capacity to FHD which insisted it had competent
staff.   The subsequent Tribunal of Inquiry
considered that the Bank would have been justified
in insisting on full construction supervision by
the concaltants.
(iii) The traffic capacity of the initial design was
inadequate and was more than doubled during the
redesign.
(iv) The Government did not comply with some loan
covenants. The Bank may have chosen not to
enforce these because of the civil war in progress
at the time. Irregularities in the administration
of the project led to the appointment of a
Tribunal of Inquiry and the removal of the FHD
Director from office.
7.        The works included in the Western Road Project (PPAR No. 1639,
June 1977), were successfully completed, but there was only limited success
in improving maintenance operations as the Government lacked adequate
management personnel, funds, and control over heavy vehicles. The Govern-
ment was late with payments to consultants and contractors, and there was
delay in appointing the maintenance advisors because of disagreement
between the Government and the Bank over the terms of service for the
advisors.
8.        The main objective of the Highway Rehabilitation Project (PPAR
No. 1410, January 1977) was the rapid rehabilitation of two road sections.



- 26 -
Annex 3
Page 4 of 4
Project processing was prompt and flexible, but loan effectiveness and
contract awards were delayed, the first by 4 months more than expected, and
the second by a year. As a result the roads continued to deteriorate and
rehabilitation was much more extensive than expected, raising costs and
ultimately less than half the original length was built. The study of the
Lagos-Ibadan road led to a major disagreement between the Government and
the Bank about the timing of construction. During appraisal of the Sixth
Highway Project in December 1974 the Government informed the mission that
it had decided to stop seeking loans for the transport sector.
9.        For the Transport Rehabilitation Project (PPAR No. 2092, June
1978), despite modification of the Bank's procedures, the intended rapid
disbursements did not materialize. The delays were caused by the Bank's
need for economic analysis during the "identification" of sub-projects, and
by the Government's slow procurement. The slow procurement under the
Highway and Transport Rehabilitation Projects was partly related to the
ongoing Tribunal of Inquiry on the Apapa Road Project.
10.      The execution of the Fifth Highway Project (PPAR No. 3244,
December 1980), covered a period of major disagreement on highway matters
between the Government and the Bank (para. 7). As a result no supervision
missions visited Nigeria between September 1975 and May 1978. Execution of
civil works was generally satisfactory except for poor contractor perfor-
mance on one lot, which reduced the length of highways completed from 109
to 99 miles. All the bridges were completed satisfactorily. The
institutional development was less successful. Measures for improving
federal highway maintenance were well conceived but reallocation of
responsibility for maintenance from FHD to State MOWs made the consultants'
efforts of marginal relevance. The Government made only limited progress
on implementing loan covenants on axle-loading and building up a data base,
because these were not priority objectives for FHD. Apparently, conditions
offered were not sufficiently attractive to attract high caliber experts to
Nigeria to build the capacity of FHD, although eventually a traffic
engineer was seconded from the British Transport and Road Research
Laboratory for eighteen months. He was assisted by two experts funded by
USAID.
11.      The Sixth Highway Project was closed March 31, 1988 and itill be
completed September 30, 1988.  The road Ftrengthening works have bean
completed, together with the acquisition of highway safety equipment: and
pavement evaluation equipment. Institutional development has been limited.
The pavement evaluation unit has been established, although its future role
needs to be defined.  Other than the consultants for maintenance
monitoring, the posts foreseen in planning, design and construction have
not been filled. This was partly due to administrative delays, but also to
a Government desire to reduce the amount of expatriate assistance.



- 27 -
Annex 4
Page 1 of 2
P133A ,,,I; C aFNII
B~S SEfRI
P0d Sectu  for Adbn  2EME!al
Commracet Aready A -
NM,  of Qmtract     ('=act No.   a tract         Date of A*md
)UM
1.         4yece-~abba             1755B         13.00        2/18/87
2.    X     Aba-Omo                 2133          3.11         6/16/86
3.           siAM41min              212           5.57        6/16/86
4.         nlorin-Be Sadk           1296A        2D.95         6/30/86
5.         IBda.y'-Tlhea            2302         21.38         9/25/86
6.         4       _                2129          6.36         6/16/86
7.         R*ver&uli-A             2130          11.07        6/30/86
8.                                  2131         12.33         6/30/86
9.         tqfna-fmpru-Tzou         1783A        12.59        6/30/86
Ssn III
10.         UgbelU-CIah huntio    1705             9.35        6/16/86
11.         Gbmbe ye Pass           1812           8.43        8/6/86
12.         Biamm2i                 1768B         20.20        2/19/87
13.         Chi(fu-jar             2308           3.31        3/9/87
14.         QwG -Auna-Nm   Wbra     2310          12.55        3/9/87
15.         Torm-Qxgsm              2152           3.52        2/27/87
16.         VWWsdW&Oudt             2296           5.10        1/15/87
17.         Pb3kalkirxes            1989           3.70        9/19/86
18.          otqpnadfu NWad         2307           6.39        3/9/87
19.         9rid8 at Jamis Tom      2280          20.78          -
2D.         Talum-6acrm Glda          -           22.1           -
21.         Jamieson kidw             -           14.6           -
22.         NiIaia-Yago, Sect.I       -            4.9           -
23.         )Uam-Yaugoa, fect.II    -              4.5           -
24.         Ife-Sdacna              2151           5.34          -
Total                           251.13



- 28 -
Annx 
Page 2 of 2
FEDERAL REPUBLIC OF NIGERIA
HIGHWAY SECTOR LOAN
Advance Contracting
Category 2
CONTRACTS ON THE POINT OF AWARD
S/No.       Name of Contract       Contract Ne.       Contract Sum
(N million)
1.         Festac Interchange           -                15.00
2.         Minna By-Pass              1977               16.00
3.          Ibeto-Saika-Gurai         2309               11.00
Total                                   42.00
Bailey Bridge Component              15 million
TOTAL ADVANCE CONTRACTING
Category I                                  251.13
Category II                                  42.00
Bailey Bridge                                 5.00
Total                                N298.13 million
Equivalent to:                       US$74.53 million



- 29 -
Annex 5
FEDERAL REPUBLIC OF NIGERIA
HIGHWAY SECTOR LOAN
Contracts to be rebid under ICB
S/No.                Name of Contract                  Estinated Cos
ON millio-n) :/
1.              Kaura Namoda Bridge                        2.0
2.              Nkalagu-Ikem Road                          2.0
3.              Oleh Junction-Asaba Ase                   15.9
4.              Agbor-Sakpopa                              6.4
5.              Iseyla-Iwere Road (Sect. II)              10.5
6.              Lokoja-Agbaja-Jakura                       5.8
7.              Jaredi-Kaduru                             34.7
1, In 1986 Naira



- 30 -
Anmn 6
Pap 1 of 2
FNUAL tEE    1 OvW
First Yea      14tlialmi and Omlr1  Progrm
L.th~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ 
Pjwd Sectim       n          01 udflim -            1bflc Propxsd
Nm*ka-Uml  Pad               48              12.0                ALUbiltatlm
Diuri-FIya Poad              45              11.3               l*abiIl4ad
laad          25               6.3               1    lta1
awri Sqpe  ad.          48               6.0              Overy
OtO-0ju (lt s.ti)            50              12.5               Pa4d
Iaduwri Blai-aulk            70               8.8              O0eLz
amk_g               .68                      17.0               P 4
Yola-Qirn                    60              15.0               ldub flitam
Af9 _&adJa4rocbd=           51              12.8              bbaboMiltia
16              4.0                dubtau
Azar.n&yin                   32               8.0
54              13.5              PdbaWlfradm
_6   100       25.0
45               5.6              Overay
30               7.5              pAbilitatgra
1/n 1986 Nara



- 31 -
Ahu 6
l 2 of 2
HIG SEU M
That Year Ubbaltatimn wAr OwverlfayPuran, oanimd
Lwgh    rUtu   O Ct
Pad Sectkn            Ut          s1 ul)  /*d  Prpad
Mo4IML-Dwm BaIe              95              23.8              P&Altatim
96             24.0               p1      _ak
Klid.-Tabetti           50              12.5                 l     i
Nwdwk-Vaa                    24              6.0                bAm.1Satim
?.m 0 0- eDowd               40              10.0                   3t
an-ikl4-              55              11.3
17              4.3               RelubL1t&ado
56              7.0               Oerla
56             14.0               adibIftlmi
32              8.0                  olblatk
j/   Ia 1986 Nalr&



- 32 -
Annex 7
Page 1 of 3
FEDERAL REPUBLIC OF NIGERIA
HIGHWAY SECTOR LOAN
Road Safety Improvement Program
1.       The Bank report on Nigeria Road Traffic Safety (5309-UNI,
October 24, 1984) demonstrated that Nigeria now has one of the highest
accident rates in the world in terms of deaths/10,000 vehicles and its
current rates are about 50 times higher than those of more industrialized
countries such as the U.S.A. and the U.K. It also showed that every year
road accidents result in around 11,000 deaths and 27,000 injuries in
Nigeria, which account for more notified deaths than all major commnicable
diseases combined, and cost the Nigerian economy around N2#000 million/
year. That report also included a wide-ranging appraisal of the different
sectors affecting road safety and identified the areas requiring the most
urgent improvement.
2.        The proposed Highway Sector Loan is based on an Action Plan of
improvements which would be most beneficial towards the improvement of road
safety in the country. The principal areas singled out for priority
attention during the Action Plan are:
(a)   The need to introduce an improved Police Accident Data
Collection form for use throughout Nigeria.
(b)  The need to improve existing systems of accident data
storage, retrieval and analysis to allow the characteris-
tics of the problem to be identified so that the relevant
organizations can implement appropriate countermeasures.
(c)   The need to have some estimates of the cost of damage only,
injury, and fatal accidents in Nigeria.
(d)  The need to  wprove capability of the Federal Ministry of
Works and Housing (FMWH) to identify and improve the most
hazardous locations on the Federal network on a regular and
continuous basis.
(e)  The need to improve existing known blackspot locations on
the Federal network while establishing the capability,
procedures, etc. to carry out such improvements as part of
the normal work of FMWH.
(f)   Manpower development, training and institution building to
stimulate activities beneficial to a long-term improvement
of road safety in Nigeria.
(g)   The need to increase the effectiveness of the National Road
Safety Commission (NRSC) and the State Road Safety



- 33 -                         Annex 7
Fag-e 2 f 3
Committees (SRSC) by building upon the improvements already
introduced by the Nigerian authorities in recent years.
(b)   The need to gradually extend accident analytical capability
to State roads engineers so that hazardous locations on
State roads can be identified and improved.           4
3.        The Action Plan has been deligned to address and rectify the
deficiencies in each of these areas awd consists of a number of projects.
The individial projects included in the Action Plan have been designed and
formulated around outputs wbich must be produced rather than activities to
be undertaken during the project. This concentrates the attention of all
concerned, including any consultants appointed, on the real downstream
effects of activities, ensures greater likelihood of successful "mplement-
ation and facilitates easier monitoring and assessment of progress towards
development objectives.
4.        Implementation of the Action Plan has been scheduled to be
undertaken in 2 phases over a 3-year program and the specific projects
included in each phase are as follows:
(a)   Phase I
(i) Introduction of a revised Police Accident form.
(ii) Estimation of the economic lossta arising from damage,
Injury, and fatal accidents, introduction of TRRL micro
computer based accident storage, retrieval and analysis
system at Police HQ and within FMWH, and the training of
a Police Accident Unit (PAU) and a FMWH Road Safety Unit
(RSU) through "hands-on" experience and practical
demonstration projects.
(iii) Improvements to make NRSC and SRSC organizations -ore
effective in tackling road safety issues.
(b)   Phase II
(i) Establishment and training of a Traffic Section complete
with working manuals, design standards, guidelines, etc.
and continuation of the RSU accelerated hazardous
locations improvement program.
(Ii) Short specialist courses to train PMWH and State roads
engineers in safety conscious design and low cost
engineering countermeasures to improve road safety.
(iii) Collaborative research to develop local road safety
research capability.
(iv) Extension of computerized accident storage and analysis
capability to State roads departients and Police HQs,



- 34 -
Annex 7
Page 3 of 3
and review of accident data computerization needs at
Police HQ in Lagos.
5.        The proposed Action Plan incurs total capital expenditure by FMWH
of around US$2 million spread over the 3-year period 1989-1991 and requires
recurrent expenditures 1/ within the different divisions in the Federal
Highways Department as follows:
Planning Division                 11.3 million/year
Naintenance Division             N4.0 million/year
Construction Division            12.5 million/year
The recurrent expenditure within the Planning Division includes the annual
NSC allocation of around N0.8 million. The recurrent expenditure is
largely related to the cost of actual works needed to improve the most
hazardous and most traffic congested locations on the Federal road network.
6.        The proposed Action Plan has been devised to maximize benefits to
Nigeria with expenditure cf minimum resources and to bring about early
reductions In the numbers of accidents on Federal roads through the treat-
ment and elimination of the most hazardous locations. Adoption of such a
low-cost-countermeasures strategy results in one of the most cost-effective
areas for investment in the transport sector. Economic returns of 200-300%
(arising from accident savings) are not uncommon at sites which have been
improved. Given the potential for cost recovery and the fact that road
accidents currently cost the Nigeriain economy around N500 million annually,
the proposed expenditure to implement the recomended Action Plan seems a
very worthwhile investment in economic terms even if the social
consequences of the problem are ignored.
1/   All expenditure est4mates are in 1986 prices.



- 35 -
Annex 8
Page 1 of 3
FEDEW  REPUBLIC OF NIGERIA
EL13WAY SECTOR LOAN
Technical Assistance Component
1.       A number of areas where technical assistance and consulting
services will be required have been identified and noted in the appraisal
report. Other requirements may be identified during execution of the
program. Specific terms of reference and procurement procedures for each
assignment will be agreed by Bank staff during annual program reviews and
supervision missions. The areas already identified are as follows:
(a)  Maintenance, Direct Labor Management (para. 3.06):  Con-
sulting services will be recuired to organize and, for an
initial period, to manage the direct labor brigades which
are being progressively established. A contract with
consultants is in progress under the Sixth Highway Project
to start the scheme. The proposed loan will continue,
consolidate and extend this assistance to cover all states.
Terms of reference for these assignments are in Project
File Documents No. 19 and 22.
(b)  T.A. for Maintenance Division (para. 3.07):  The pressure
of work to execute the annual program of maintenance by
contract and by direct labor, together with the shortage of
staff and of data, has meant that little attention has been
given to managing the maintenance system. Development of a
maintenance management system would permit available
resources to be used more efficiently, and consulting
services to develop such a system are included in the loan.
In addition consultants will study the performance of
maintenance by contract and force account. Based on this
monitoring and cost comparison, the consultants will make
specific recommendations for improving contract and force
account operations and indicate specific differences in
performance and costs of the two systems. Terms of
reference will be agreed after further discussions with the
Government.
(c)   Road Safety (paras. 3.08 and 3.09): The role of the consul-
tants is described in Annex 7 and in more detail in Project
File Document No. 42.
(d)   T.A. for Planning Division (para. 3.11):  The Planning
Division is beginning to undertake economic analyses of
projects, and has established the Project Planning and



-36 -
Annex 8
Page 2 of 3
Evaluation Unit, to undertake th's. Continuing assistance
of a consultant economist would la required to consolidate
the functioning of the unit, under terms of reference
similar to those under the Sixth Highway Project.
(a)   T.A. for Data Management System (para. 3.11):  At present
FHD has no operational data processing system. There are
obvious advantages from installation of a basic data
processing system for PHD, covering the needs of each
headquarters division, as well as the road data bank for
the entire department. The consulting assignment would
include recommendations on systems, hardware, software and
training.
(f)   Study of Axle Loads and Road User Charges (para. 3.11):
Nigeria has a chronic problem of grossly overloaded trucks
which cause rapid deterioration of the pavements. In
addition to a survey and recommendations on legislation and
control methods, the study would cover user charges and
proposed regulations on the mechanical characteristics of
imported and locally assembled trucks.
(g)   Detailed Engineering Design (para. 3.12):  The program
includes provision for the Design Division of FHD to
appoint consultants for the preparation of detailed
des'gns, economic analyses and contract documents.  The
terms of reference will be similar to those in Project
Document No. 56.
(h)   Construction Supervision (paras. 3.13 and 3.14):  All
investment projects to be carried out over the period of
the program will require supervision by competent
engineers. The Federal Highway Department (FHD) as a
general policy supervises works with its own staff, with
the assistance of consultants for complex projects.
However, the present staff in FHD is very much below the
number required to supervise the program. The difference
will be made up by consulting services, most of which would
be locally procured. The consultants' tasks would be those
normal for construction supervision, for principal resident
engineers (PREs) and resident engineers (Rs).  PM's would
have 10 years experience and RE's 5 years. The scope of
work is more fully set out in Project File Documents No.
24A, 24B and 24C.
(M)   Maintenance, Supervision of Contract Works (para. 3.15):
An increasing length of the Federal road network is to be
maintained by contract. If FHD staff is insufficient to
supervise these contracts, consultants will be employed.
The terms of reference will be similar to those in Project
File Documents No. 24A, 24B, and 24C.



- 37 -
Annex 8
Page 3 of 3
(j)   Training (para. 3.16):  Three training centers were
established under the Sixth Highway Project to train
equipment operators and technicians. Because of the
increasing need for personnel due to the expansion of the
direct labor brigades, and because of staff turnover,
pedagogic training for instructors in the centers will be
provided under the proposed loan. In addition, FHD plans
to begin a program of continuing education for engineers.
This program would consist of short courses and seminars,
and the proposed loan would finance foreign costs associ-
ated with these.
(k)   T.A. for Civil Engineering Services (para. 3.17):  This
assistance was begun under the Sixth Highway Project, and
the Pavement Evaluation Unit was established. The use of
the unit to make an annual survey of the condition of the
network should be consolidated, together with its develop-
mnt of pavement design techniques for Nigerian conditions.
(1)   State Road Program (para. 3.18):  The way in which the
recommendations of the Trunk Road Study relating to state
roads can be implemented is complicated by constitutional
questions, which are beyond the authority of PMWH. Dia-
logue with the Government Is continuing to ascertain how
this can be resolved. Consultant services to assist with
the development of the manner and institution to implement
and monitor the works have been provided in the loan, and
terms of reference will be agreed after further discussions
with the Government.
(in) Coordinating Consultant (para 3.19): The management,
including scheduling,, coordinating, and monitoring, of the
above studies, and of the preparation and execution of the
annual works programs will be a full time job. Neither PHD
nor the Bank has personnel available for this. A high
level consultant will therefore be engaged to carry out
this task, over a period of about three years. The expert
will have a local office with a small administrative staff.
He should be engaged before effectiveness so he can be in
the field and operational by that date.



- 38 -
Annex 9
Ullton Naira                                Million US 8
1989    190     1991         TOTAL         10S9    190      1991        TOTAL
CAPITAL
CivilI Works
Ongoing  n w FHD fiennoWd    410.9   874.9   420..         1228.5        194.2    98.?   107.2         895.1
Advnce contracting           211.8   211.8      0.9        422.7          U2.8    52.6     0.0         106.7
Toseinat. and reeward         52.6    76.0    22.5          159.9         18.1    10.8     6.8          87.5
Rehabtiliottons overlay
first year               90.2   140.8    42.1         280.5         24.6    85.1    19.6          70.1
econd yer                 9.9   190.8   109.8 *       216.0          0.0    27.1    27.1          54.2
third year                9.0     9.0   108.0 *       10.8           0.0     0.9    40.9          40.9
Sub totea roh.   olay    98.2   240.0   814.2         o0o.9         24.6    02.1    78.5         165.2
Special project               75.0   190.0   120.0 *       800.0          18.8    20.8    89.O          75.0
Sub total works              058.9  1014.0   085.$         2764.0        218.6   253.7   221.8         088.6
Equipment                     49.0    15.4      0.0         55.4    10.0           8.8     0.0          13.8
Coneultanto                   20.0    18.4    16.8 o        02.6           7.0     4.0     4.1          15.0
TOTAL CAPITAL 31D0ET?         921.0  1940.0   901.0        2872.0        280.5   202.1   225.4         710.0
_W3rko                     264.4   297.0   297.0         869.0         60.1    74.4    74.4         214.9
Equipment                   09.0    16.0    15.0          90.0         16.9     3.8      8.0         22.5
TOTAL RECURENT BD301          824.4   812.0   812.0        949.0          81.1    70.2    78.2         287.4
TOTAL PROUAM                 1246.2  186.2  1214.2        3821.6         811.6   840.8   89.0          655.4
a/ In 1908 NaIra
I Include. Bank financed expenditures In 1992



- 39 -
Annex 10
Page 1 of 2
NIGERIA
HIGHWAY SECTOR LOAN
ECONOMIC EVALUATION
General
1.        From an economic point of view, the main objectives of the
physical components of FHD's road improvement program are to increase the
road transport capacity, reduce transport costs and protect past invest-
ments in the highway network. The purpose of the economic analyses is to
determine the appropriate design, timing and the works to be undertaken on
eacn road. The work on economic analyses, described below, is in progress;
it is being conducted by consultants under the Sixth Highway Project.
Methodology
2.        Benefits shall be evaluated on a "with and without" basis,
derived essentially from savings in vehicle operating costs, but the Impact
of variations in the costs of road maintenance shall also be analyzed.
Evaluation shall be based on the economic return of the proposed works.
Where applicable, simplifications such as those described in the Bank's
Staff Working Paper 610, may be applied. To determine the optimal timing,
the first year benefit-cost ratio will be used; however, the underlying
conditions of applicability (each annual benefit is independent of previous
or subsequent annual benefits) should be verified.
3.        Alternatives for determining the extent of works shall range from
minimal improvement works on the existing roads to complete reconstruction.
The depth to which each alternative is studied shall be related to its
likelyhood of being chosen as the optimal solution. Each component of the
most promising alternative (i.e. strengthening, rehabilitation, improvement
of alignment, new construction, etc.) shall, whenever technically
meaningful, be studied separately. The economic return shall be computed
separately for each component which shall be selected only if its economic
return is at least 12%. PMWH's Project Evaluation Manual prepared by Louis
Berger Inc. and Obi Obembe & Associates (July 1983) shall be followed for
details of the methodology.
Traffic
4.        Data available on traffic levels and vehicle composition will be
used. However, these data will be supplemented by specific traffic counts,
and, when necessary, origin and destination surveys. Traffic forecasts
over the economic life of a road improvement consist of forecasts of normal
and diverted traffic. Generated traffic is generally not expected to be
significant.



- 40 -
Ansex 10
Page 2 of 2
Vehicle Operating Costs (voc)
5.        Tables available for these costs will be updated and refined on
the basis of local surveys and the voc module of the Bank's Highway Design
Model: capital recovery concepts rather than the depreciation and interest
concept shall be used. Values of passenger time are only to be included in
the voc where existing road capacity is inadequate.
Sensitivity Analysis
6.        Throughout the analyses the sensitivity of the key variables
shall be tested. Whenever the sensitivity of a variable is such that a
different assumption may lead to a different investment recomendation, the
result of the sensitivity analysis shall be explicitly included in the
economic evaluation report.



- 41 -
Annex 11
Page 1 of 2
NIGERIA
HIGHWAY SECTOR LOAN
DESIGN STANDARDS
1.       New construction in Nigeria follows the Federal Highway Depart-
ment (FHD) design standards manual. These standards are based on the U.S.
AASUTO standards and are acceptable. Relatively little in the way of new
contracts for construction on new alignments will be undertaken in the
period 1989-1991.
2.        In Nigeria asphalt concrete overlays are the standard method of
applying strengthening courses to bituminous surfaced roads. The deteri-
orated state of the roads often requires extensive rehabilitation or
patching before the overlay is applied. In the past, the overlay thickness
applied was often 40 or 50mm, which was frequently insufficient to carry
the heavily overloaded axles found in Nigeria. The Pavement Evaluation
Unit (PEU) established under the Sixth Highway Project is developing a
methodology for the Nigerian environment for dimensioning overlays, which
will be applied in tha future. Some steps have been taken to control
overweight trucks with the opening of weigh bridges, and this problem will
be further studied under the proposed loan.
3.        Until recently FHD constructed all works, including recon-
struction and rehabilitation, to the standards of their design manual.
This policy has now been modified for rehabilitation projects to lower
standards as follows:
(a)   Cross Sections:
(i)    Carriageway width        -  6.7om
(ii)     Shoulder width          -  1.50m     each
Overall road width     -  9.70m
(b) New pipe culverts: minimum diameter of 900Qm.
(c)   Existing culverts to be extended in their present form.
(d)   Where soil is subject to erosion, a paved side ditch shall
be incorporated.
(e)   Low lying sections of road to be raised as necessary with
selected fill materials.
(f)   Sub-base and base course to be of naturally occurring
material.



- 42 -
nex 11
Page 2 of 2
(g)  Double bitumlious surface treatment to be applied.
(h)  Where a reasonable length of existing pavement is in good
condition only single bituminous surface treatment will be
required.



.AL UREILIC OW NIGEA           /
111ua lIN  1.0*3
SPIII   D11in AD PRoW" ICIGE
For loan Iffectiveane!er                      1 (lt90) >sR                                                           Ith )Rd.,.io far2t
for Loan Uftectivem")             2d year of Project)                                        3rd Yer of Project)
RA"d lerovewmte
a)'BcoSMIc enaysa of *11 YDae rod Improm a)*tCoIc analyse  of all road  _mvement works    a) Al1  M'ls capital expenditures of 190I/91 hve
wor  of the ftirt per of the project have bee             of the second per of tbh  project hae beent           first bee  subjected to econmic anmalses In
performd in acdance wi the criteria and                   praimoly perfoved to accordenc  with criteria         accordace with the criteria ed methedology of
mathodoloy aeed previculy with the Bak (Anne  10).   and methodology already agreed with the lak                Annx 3-S.
(Anne 10).
b)*Taeder docet  for al1 road imrovemt worka              b)ender docme_t. for road toipovemet works            b) For all contractso 2t to the peat 12 montls.
during the first yer of the project hwe been              ilmeted dcring the  ecod year of the project          engieeing design. bav  been pr          befo
prepared accdin  to previly agreed detp                   ba  be  prered according to preomly agree             iptemetig the ..*,.
etandards before Inviting bid, for their coetruction      dsign stsndrd  before lnviting bide for their
(Anne  11).                                               coeroctleo.
c)*eA  indicative program for road improvemt h_s          c)*Econamic analysi and detal   de*Igne of road       c) Agre with lok en list of subprojecta for
bee  prepard for roed iprovent to be implemend            impros t worheo plannd for implementation during   implemntatio  durin  the next 12 _mthe m_d e
durt" the yer  sue_ant to the cmpleti  of the             the  ear  s_ toent to the project. hae base           initive progron for the fellon  to    r
project.                                                  eubtatially c"leted.
d)*Agreement with the Dak bee been reachd on road         d)*iA  in ative progrm bh  bee  prepard for road
impro_emnt otf wor  prepoed for  pleumetatio              improvemt works to be Implemented dring the two
during the eecod veer of tbe projeet. and an indite-      peere  u        to completi  of the proj. S.
tire !,*rm  for tO  _ubeequant year.
*) _ustey agre with ank  nan  i ndicative prrM            *)*Chrommeat reacbed with leok on rod mprovmet                                                        w
of eubprojcte for the following two yva.                  work, prepoed for iplemntation during the tbiLrd
yer  of the proect.
f) tNrally agree  n the pereeote  to be dibureed          f)  evis with lek the peretae  to be diab d
saiaet civil wora  cerecta during the aec_   pear         againt civil works co     ct, durn third yer of
of projet (pare. 3.31).                                   the projct (pre. 3.31).
Rond nointenanc
a) It*_lly agree an tbe _mer of implemntn  the            &)*An indcative progs  hox bea  prpar  fet            a) Review with eak maitenece performnce and
recomaendat_oss of the montteori   ey of routie           rotine maintenc work to be implemented durin          progrming by contract an by fr  aceot during
maintenance by contract and by force account (paer.       the two yer subsequent to the copletion of the        previon  12 months.
3.07).                                                    project.
b) Reviw with bnk mainteanc  perfornmc  and               b)*Agresmmt with Dek on roa  maiteance work,          b)  utually agree on routint  taintenance to be
proering by force accout in pVioa 12 methe.               to be implemented duin  third year of project.        iplnd d g the at 12 maths ad an
iicative program for th  followin  two  er.
C)*lD Indicative progr  of xotine maitena    worts        c Reiew with lank maintenace Performance sad
work to he implnmed  dur   the yar  _bequet               progrintg by contrace ad by force ecount tn
to the comletio  of the project bh  bean prepared.        prerione 12 monthe.
4) Mutually a    o  routie maitena    to be               d) Mutully agree on          mintenae  to be
mplemeted durig the next 12 moths and _                   implemted during oext 12 matbe and an
indicative progr  for the followint two yeers.            indiattve proerm for the folloing two yea.rs
W)*4reemmt witb the Dak haa bee  reaeed on 
roie  aintenanc waort  to be implemented duing the
second yer of the project and a  indicative progra                                                                                                          a
for the aubeequt yer.
A All drtes of thn asuex *8 a da te for loaD *ffectivenee of 01169; If tbh  date of offectiLvene  to later the  01/g9. the dates of thts sane  have to be brought forard
or extanded aecordgly. Actioa not indicated s specitfit condition. of Loan Kffctiveane   or Comtition of Dinbursements are Performne Actione.



1lA L                    -o
s rom g Szr
lor  1os Zifoeteivae_s                                                                                                                        T Seond ubwl_ (It91)  3 Tird Re     (1923
(S * Specific Conditin          *. Cte_ for 3iehereenn.    t for 2.4 yer  of           WT        0i-  G  tu   ..m.n   to  3rd peer ofth y    *I
for loan Lffecsivuses)            Proect)                                                  Proj"et)
god Safety
Satsteactory progres with bnp1eentattio  of road         Satisfactory progres with Iplemntatio  of road       Stisfactory progres with inlantatio  of road
afety progr  (hte 7) componts.                          safety proan tbnnex 7) co_ponets.                      Safety prosra  (Ame 3-2) component.
Instituitonal De _veset
A)*D nittal roport on the operatie  of NIb's PM          &)*Adeqte enginees hav been mployd to                 ) ProvSI  of adequae aepervi,ag engiasae.
ha bes prepared (pare. 3.11). _                           nevia road improvanen  ad rui                        ethbe  M  or co thultat staff. for cpital works
moaitenance works duwing the secoed year of the      and minotesance,wrk carried oft durin4g previous
project.                                             12 stbh.
b) Satisfactoy poge  of work by corneltnts to    bPtAdeqet  coordination of costrctio  works                  b) Adeq   ate  angonc  for s rvtsi   s4
assist with itbroduaci   data procIng  d _engnt    and consultants' services hee hm carred out in             coodia"ti  of clmantat e"dayed du rli
sstom  (para. 3.11).                                     accordance with criteria and _dtodoleg  alredy       previou  12 mocthe.
agred with the lank.
a)x Apointmet of             )0*A initial progre repor os roa  user charges           c)2odgIadrs have bee provided to euparvie road        c) Substatial aomplet  of economie saayse  sad
adequate supervisoy staff   a  Aielod stdy hs bsas prepared (pars. 3.11).             maintenance, wors during the third yer of the         detdald deins of couponats to he _spimated I
to s_prvs  oawi" road                                                                 pojt.                                                 du    the       12 moths.
iprovt  _s                                                                                   .,,
maintonc  ontracta
durt" first paw of                                                                                                                                                                          I
jct (pa. 3.15).              a)* tonomic mlyse  mn  detailed designs of road          d)0*8abetatsl completi  of ecomic anlyse ed  *) provision of ade_ote,suevis   either by D
iprvement wrks to be Aimplmted during the third          dtled designs of compats to bI imlemeted             or      ltt   tff of roe  impovasat ad "ad
yer of the project hwe bean sohetntially copleted.    durtin          12 Mothe.                                maintodeces cotracts duing the net 12 mus.
e)*AdeqUte coordination of consuctton works and          *) Provision of adequate spervio  ettbhr by  0D    a) Maintain a sfflcent balance In the tw
consltats' serice  mass ben crried out in                or consultant etaff of road improvemet and road       Project Accounts (pare. 3.29).
accordane with agreed critris and mebodolog.             meintannc  contracts durwi  the  t  12 moethe.
b)x Itabliaheent of two      f)*Aequate engines have bea  mployed (eiter by            f) Watain a afficiet balane is the two
Project Accounts to be       MUD or comltat staff) for routine imroaenent  d          Project Accouts (pa. 3.29).
need aep1aetely fosr         routie maitenanc work durin  the first yer of
catal. ad recurret           the project.
expenditures of the
"ct.
a) tEploys=n of eonltants netocsa  for the
Cactiin  edatio  protra  (pars. 3.16). no later
thn   am enths after thd  dte of lon *fct.ivess.
h)*A  itia report an the operations of the Pm  has
hee prpare  (par  3.10).
1) _eploymet of cosltants to determine the      er end
nstitution to timpemd mntor works to be dow 
an ate radso   (pet. 3.18).
j)*Prviatt   of areed  sinees to supervis  road                                                       
improvement and rose maitenewk duri  the ^
second pee of the  roet.                                                                                                                               t4
k) Provisi  of agreed enginers by eitber MD  or
consltata to supevie capital works ad rod
maintenance cotratts to be bxcted during the  et
12 moutbl.
1) Naltifnt a gaffient balan  In the tw  Project
Ar_conts t(s&. 3.29".



- 45 -
Annex 13
Page 1 of 7
l -t-;T ---------------- ----
#        !  ~1T     ------- -----
I~    ~     %       -----------
-X_T------ -                                  - ..--
' I   f                                  i ;'-'iii.
S'  ~i             -T    - -  --  -  --   --   -  --  -
-        I~    ~~ - - -   ----   i------
I          ~~~i------ --
a    i~----~g----------
I  -        I        - - - - - -   - -
~~i   I  ~------liL----
! ---- --- C  1



- 46 -
Annex 13
Page 2 of 7
1--   -- -               - -  - - -   - -  - --
---     -  - -   - - -  -   -   - -  -   ---     -
___            ----- - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - --- - -
:            __-
_----zzI-----    -;--                                  ---
--------- a------I- -
I-                              N ~-------------
-Z~~ ~ ---------                  -
__ T -.. -- ___ _
tIT
_E_ T     - ---------- --  --------------
ITI~~~~~~~~I
g e  urn,    _______________U_____l_I
ts a_   __________.i____N_
_    _    _ W__*,___*- _-_
__  _____,_______   w-
I       __     ________                    _ _._l_ _
3   z _           _ _ _ __--"--                        X
__ ~ ~~~~ __ _ _ _ _ _  __   _   _  _   _   _   _
__~ w|     _____#________
I i                   z         1!iI II"
t;    I! _|    ___._j __    ____  _____
_E_~ ~~.   I  -I-------__
7       ~~iI   ht:                                  i II
X |                         X~tii lXBrtXt
l I Et                             -i]t                         l



- 47 -
Annex 13
Page 3 of 7
E    st----                      -- -- ---- - - - - -
t 2  -------------------_______
E  st          ---------------------
.                    N
2   1              -------------E                    __      _ --- --    __-
;;~~~ -t - - - - -    -----                                            
_--                                                       -      -   -      - - - -
-  -    -  -   -  -    -
- i' 12 |-  --------------- -
gX s !          ----------------------___
i;  __         -_-_ -_--_-__-_ --_-__                -_ --_-__-_--_-_
- - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - --_ _
___-- --                 --
.      ii    1       X-- ---- ----- ----
;7       l IT  - - - - -3- - - --
tII~ I                                                                    N
- - - '    -  - - - -      -- - - - - - - -- - - - - - - - - - - - -
is -~~~~~~~
3U  |                a
D -  i;  st;  Xiz ;a t}}i sh XiI



- 48 -
Annex 13.
Page 4 of 7
E~~~~      -  - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - -_
t;  Xi   -----------------------
ot  ---  -------------
t: si---------- -------|-----------
-               -.---n-
; .L,
E; . l ----------  --------  --- ------
t   2T   ---------  -
|             i-------        ----    ---------
X  ls
LS                          --   -  -  --  -  -
1'Ih         -E -- -----as--------
U ia ;] B; ai }l; i;  i i }  ;  } i   a



- 49 -
Annex 13
Page 5 of 7
pXi        ----- ---- --------
2T --- ____--__________
%T   --
:  zT 
2T     -   - - - 
~~-  ----       -------
~-z    ---- --------
2iE        ------ ------
S  :l       ~~N
U    !T -    -  -  -   -  -  -  -   -   -
I! X| IlaIsna!    iaIl
*  *          ____N_____.1____1  
dililila 13Ifi
o  z|   ____:  ________"____
! z  __I_ _ E i _____" ______
^f __ ___________



- 50 -
Annex 13
Page 6 of 7
-~  ---- -- -
I    _IT   ---------
Ce  ;     _______
I  ~XI_
I   ~ T         -- -----
III            n -------
gF  z|   _____
E I       ________
I  ~~iT1    - -----    -
I      -2   --     ---
I  t z-- _---------
AX  _ T      ____
I    _   _    __   _  _  _
s ~    ii l            I ~~~~
Lf --------
=, _ _         _  _  _  _
g~~~ "XII_____
z|   _______



- 51 -
Annex 13
Pape 7 of 7
-~- I- ---------
q  a*lii  --- -------
k -    iT   -----------
,:5 1 i,;
6 - - ~- -1 - - - - - - - - - -
I Ii .-------
* ~L~~-I-   ---- --
I. ------ -
*1    T --   ---
2! -m --
2ITI   -------
i T  --     -- --      -- 
-                  
-1--      -  --   -
2 T      - -      - - - 
I   ~3     -- -- -- --
-----



- 52 -
Annex 14
Page 1 of 1
NIGERIA
EIGMUA. SECTOR LOAN
ALLOCATION AND DISBURSMIDT OF TBRD LOAN
Amount          Z of Expenaditures
Item          Category               (US$ million)         To be Financed
1.     Civil vorks for Road                                     60
Improvemnt
(a) 1st year of Project          107.7
(b) 2nd year of Project           79.3
(c) 3rd year of Project          25.0
2.      Equipment, spare parts,            8.1             100 foreign
Bailey Bridge components and                        65 local
other materials for FMUU
3.     Consulting Services                 9.9                  70
for PHD
4.     Unallocated                        20.0
Total                           250.0



- 53 -
Annex 15
FEDERAL REPUBLIC OF NIGERIA
HIGHWAY SECTOR LOAN
Disbursement Schedule
Bank         Quarter                                 Cumulative Disbursement
FTbg                             Profile Iat End of 9uarter
(US$ million)
FY88       June 30, 1988       Board Presentation
FY89       Sept. 30, 198&b/             0                         0
Dec. 31, 1988 -              0                        0
Mar. 31, 1989                4                        10
June 30, 1989               10                       25
FY90       Sept. 30, 1989              17                        42
Dec. 31, 1989               25                       62
Mar. 31, 1990               33                       82
June 30, 1990               41                      102
FY91       Sept. 30, 1990              49                       122
Dec. 31, 1990               56                      140
War. 31, 1991               63                      157
June 30, 1991               70                      175
FY92       Sept. 30, 1991              76                       190
Dec. 31, 1991               81                      202
Mar. 31, 1992               86                      215
June 30, 1992               90                      225
FY93       Sept. 30, 1992              93                       232
Dec. 31, 1992               96                      240
Mar. 31, 1993               98                      245
June 30, 1993              100                      250
a/     Profile:  Special to Uighway
Sector Loan
bl     Assumed effectiveness



- 54 -
Annex 16
Page 1 of 4
FEDERAL REPUBLIC OF NIGERIA
HIGHWAY SECTOR LOAN
Documents in Project File
Ref. No.                     Title                      Date        Author     WAIC No.
1.     Highway Sector Study (2 vole.)               June 81       WAPH      3425-UNI
2.      Overview of Transport Investment Priorities July 83       WAPT2     5308-UNI
3.      Transport Strategy Paper                    Oct. 84       WAPT2     5317-UNI
4.      Public Expenditure Review                   Oct. 85        WA        5920-UNI
5.     National Transport Survey & Projections      Apr. 84      L.B.I.     D03518
6.     Nigeria, Approved Budget, 1986 Fiscal Year    --         F.F.R.N.   D00826
7.     Assessment of Highway Planning Capability               L.B.I./O.O.  229.512
(Ln. 1883-WNI)
8.      Conditions of Tender, Rehabilitation        Feb. 86        PHD       229.484
of Lagos/Badagry Rd(Contract #2244,Vol.II)
9.      Inventory of Federal Roads in the 19 States July 84        PHD       229.485
1O.A    Guidelines for Fifth National Development
Plan, 1986-90                              Mar. 85        FHD       229.485
10.B    National Development Plan: Transport         Mar. 85       FMNP      229.486(2)
11.     Road Maintenance & Rehabilitation-           Feb. 86        FED      229.487(1)
Proposed Expenditures 1986, Appendix #7
12.     Routine Maintenance Contracts, 1986          Feb. 86        PHD      229.487(2)
13.     Ongoing Projects, Proposed Expenditures,    Feb. 86         FHD      229.487(3)
1986
14.     Ongoing Projects, Status                     Apr. 86        FHD      229.487(4)
15.     Capital Expenditure Proposals, 1986          Feb. 86        FHD      229.487(5)
16.     Existing Staff Postings, FMD                               HFD       229.487(6)
17.     Proposed Organization Federal Highway        Feb. 86        FHD      229.487(7)
Authority
18.     Road Rehabilitation, Consultants TOR         Apr. 86        FED      229.488
19.     Blghway Naintenance by Direct Labor            --D                   229.489
Consultants TOR



- 55 -
Annex 16
Page 2 of 4
Ref.No.                   Title                          Date        Author     WAIC No.
20.      Notes on Establishment of a Maintenance                     ORT      229.490
Direct Labor Organization
21.      Plant and Vehicles for Direct Labor            --           ORT      229.491
Field Units
22.      Draft Contract for Technical Assistance        --           ORT      229.492
for Direct Labor Maintenance
23.      Guideline Design Standards,                    --           FHD      229.493
Rehabilitation Projects
24.A     Consultancy Fees Payable by the Public         --           FED      229.494
Sector
.24.B     Notes of the Use of Approved Consultancy      --            FHD      229.495
Fees Payable by Public Sector
24.C      Fixed Fee for Resident Site Staff             --           FHD      229.496
25.      The Organization and Activities of the         --           FED      229.497
Highways Department of FED - Ministerial
Briefing
26.      Expenditures on Federal Highways 1980-85    Apr. 86        FMWH      229.498
27.     Minutes of Meeting between Officials of    Apr. 86           EHD      229.499
Federal Ministry of Works and Housing
and the World Bank held on Thursday
16th of April 1986 in the Office of
Director, Federal Highways Planning
28.      Proposed Consulting Services for Direct                     ORT      229.500
Labor Organization (Annex and Appendixes)
29.      Proposal for a Bridge Project or Activities Jan. 85       Kampsax    229.501
30.      Notes on the Rapid Development of States       --           ORT      229.502
Direct Labor Maintenance Units
31.      Proposal for Immediate Development of                       ORT      229.503
Pilot Direct Labour Maintenance Programme
32.      Organization Charts                                         FHD      229.504
33.      Economic Evaluation of Ongoing Projects      May 86         FHD      229.505
34.      Status of Roads Proposed for 1986 Program      --           PHD      229.506
35.      Ongoing Construction, Rehabilitation and   Sept. 85         FD       229.507
and Overlay Projects



- 56 -
Annex 16
P-age 3 of 4
Ref. No.                   Title                        Date        Author    WAIC No
36.      Status of Engineering Design (Progress           FHD                 229.519
Report for Planning & Design Sections)
37.      Ongoing Traffic (Status and Traffic)        Apr. 86        FHD       229.508
38.      Summary of Classified Federal Roads         Jun. 83       FM         229.509(1&:
State by State
39.     List of Roads for the 7th Highway                           FHD       229.510
World 8ank Loan
40.      Estimated Construction Costs of Roads       Apr. 86        FHD       Filed Hwy((
Proposed for Bank Finacing                                        06.30.86
41.      Standard Form FMWH Contract and               -           FHW1       229.511
Performance Bond (Agreement)
42.     Road Safety Improvement Programme            Jun.86       A.Ross      229.543
43.      Estimated Cost of First Year Bank-          Jun. 86       WAPT2      229.701
financed Program
44.      Working Paper on Construction Super-        Jun. 86       WAPT2      229.702
vision Staffing
45.      Policy on Routine Maintenance of Federal    Apr. 85        1mW       229.703
Highways in 1985
46.      Project Evaluation Manual                   Jul. 83   L.B.I./O.(. 12787901
(Li. 1883-UN11
47.      Conditions of contract for civil Bag.                     FMWI       125.549A
Construction (2 Vols.)                                            (Ln.1883-UNI4
48.      General Specifications for Roads and          --          FMWH       125.549B
Bridges, 1970                                                     (Ln.1883-UNII
49.      Standard Contract docs. for equipment                     PMH        125.549F
procurement                                                       (Lu.1883-UMI
50.     Technical Assistance to PMla's Civil         Mar. 79                  124.026(P)
Engineering Services Division, T.0.R.                             (Li.1883-UNI'
51.     Tecbnical Assistance to PMWH Highway         Mar. 79                  124.026(1)
Division's NMintenanes Dept.                                      (Ln.1883-NIt
(States of Bauchi and Bendel), T.O.R.
52.     Tecbnical Assistance to FMWRHighway          Mar. 79                  124.026(D)
Division's Maintenanee Dept. (Head-                               (Li. 1883-W'I
quarters), T.O.R.



- 57 -
Annex 16
Page 4 of 4
if. No.                Title                           Date -      Author    WAIC No.
53.      Technical Assistance to  M  Highway         Mar. 79                  124.026(C)
Division's Design Dept., T.O.R.                                   (Ln.1883-UNI)
53.      Tecbnical Asslstance to PFMW's              Mar. 79                  124.026(B)
Construction Dept., T.O.R.                                        (Ln.1883-UNI)
54.     Techdical Assistance to FMND Highway         Mar. 79                  124.026(A)
Division's Planning Dept., T.O.R.                                 (Ln.1883-WI)
55.      T.O.R. for Design and Economic              Apr. 86        PHD       229.704
Evaluation (for Consulting Engineers)
56.      T.O.R. for Construction Supervision             FHD                  229.705
57.      Wr-ks Proposed for 1986                       --           PHD       229.706
59.      Cost Estinates (text)                      Aug. 1986      WAPT2      320.981
60.      Proposed Seventh Highway Project
List of Road Projects (for World Bank
financing)                                 July 1986      WAPT2      321.436
61.     Project Cost and Procurement               Sept. 1986      WAPT2      225.383



IBOD 19742
I .,  -~~~~~~~~~~~NI       
j                                                                                                                                                            G.



