Page  1
                                                    CONFORMED COPY
                                               LOAN NUMBER 2936 HU
              (Agroprocessing Modernization Project)
                              between
                    HUNGARIAN PEOPLE'S REPUBLIC
                                and
               INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION
                          AND DEVELOPMENT
                        Dated June 2, 1988
                                               LOAN NUMBER 2936 HU
                        GUARANTEE AGREEMENT
     AGREEMENT, dated  June  2,  1988,  between HUNGARIAN PEOPLE'S
REPUBLIC (the Guarantor) and INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION
AND DEVELOPMENT (the Bank).
     WHEREAS (A) the Guarantor  and  the  National Bank of Hungary
(the Borrower), having been  satisfied  as  to the feasibility and
priority of the Project described in Schedule 2 to the Loan Agree-
ment, have requested the Bank  to  assist  in the financing of the
Project;
     (B)  by the Loan Agreement of  even date herewith between the
Bank and the Borrower, the Bank  has  agreed to extend to the Bor-
rower a loan in  various  currencies equivalent to seventy million
dollars ($70,000,000), on the  terms  and  conditions set forth in
the Loan Agreement, but only on condition that the Guarantor agree
to guarantee the obligations  of  the  Borrower in respect of such
loan and to undertake such  other  obligations as provided in this
Agreement; and
Page  2
     WHEREAS  the  Guarantor,  in   consideration  of  the  Bank's
entering into the Loan Agreement  with the Borrower, has agreed so
to guarantee such obligations of the Borrower;
     NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:
                             ARTICLE I
                  General Conditions; Definitions
     Section 1.01. The "General  Conditions Applicable to Loan and
Guarantee Agreements" of the Bank, dated January 1, 1985, with the
last sentence of  Section  3.02  deleted  (the General Conditions)
constitute an integral part of this Agreement.
     Section 1.02.  Unless  the  context  otherwise  requires, the
several terms defined in  the  Loan  Agreement  and in the General
Conditions (as so  defined)  have  the respective meanings therein
set forth.
                            ARTICLE II
                   Guarantee; Provision of Funds
     Section 2.01. The  Guarantor  declares  its commitment to the
objectives of the Project as set  forth  in Schedule 2 to the Loan
Agreement, and, to  this  end,  without  limitation or restriction
upon any of its  other  obligations under the Guarantee Agreement,
hereby unconditionally guarantees, as  primary  obligor and not as
surety merely, the due and  punctual  payment of the principal of,
and interest and other charges  on,  the Loan, and the premium, if
any, on the prepayment of  the  Loan, and the punctual performance
of all the other obligations of  the Borrower, all as set forth in
the Loan Agreement.
     Section 2.02.  Without  limitation  or  restriction  upon the
provisions of Section 2.01 of this Agreement, the Guarantor speci-
fically undertakes, whenever there  is reasonable cause to believe
that the funds available  to  the  Borrower  will be inadequate to
meet the estimated expenditures  required  for the carrying out of
the Project,  to  make  arrangements,  satisfactory  to  the Bank,
promptly to provide the Borrower or  cause the Borrower to be pro-
vided with such funds as are needed to meet such expenditures.
                            ARTICLE III
                Execution of Part A of the Project
     Section 3.01. The Guarantor shall  carry  out and cause to be
carried  out  Part  A  of  the  Project  with  due  diligence  and
efficiency and in conformity with appropriate practices, and shall
provide, promptly as needed,  the  funds, facilities, services and
other resources required for the purpose.
     Section 3.02. In order  to  assist  the Guarantor in carrying
out Part A of the  Project, the Guarantor shall employ consultants
with qualifications, experience  and  terms of reference satisfac-
tory to the Bank.
     Section 3.03.  Except  as  the  Bank  shall  otherwise agree,
procurement of the  goods  and  consultants' services required for
Part A of the Project and  to  be  financed out of the proceeds of
the Loan shall be governed by  the provisions of Schedule 4 to the
Loan Agreement.
     Section 3.04. The Guarantor shall:
     (a)  furnish to the Bank a copy  of each of the studies to be
carried out under Parts A  (4)(b),  A  (5)(a)  and A (5)(b) of the
Project upon its completion;
     (b)  afford the  Bank  a  reasonable  opportunity to exchange
Page  3
views with the Guarantor  and  to  comment  on the conclusions and
recommendations thereof; and
     (c)  within  a  period  not  exceeding  six  months  of  such
exchange of views,  develop  and  thereafter  carry  out a plan of
actions, to achieve  the  objectives  of  such  study, taking into
consideration the conclusions and  recommendations thereof and the
Bank's comments thereon.
     Section 3.05. The Guarantor shall, by December 31, 1988:
     (a)  develop, under terms  of  reference  satisfactory to the
Bank, and initiate the carrying out of, the export trade promotion
and marketing program referred to under Part A (1) of the Project;
and
     (b)  cause  to  be  established,  and  thereafter maintained,
under the auspices of  its  Ministry  of  Trade, a separate export
trade promotion and  marketing  office,  under  terms of reference
satisfactory  to  the  Bank  and  with  adequate  staff  and other
resources, to coordinate  and  supervise  the  carrying out of the
said program.
     Section 3.06. The Guarantor shall  duly perform all its obli-
gations under the Subsidiary  Loan  Agreement.  Except as the Bank
shall otherwise agree, the Guarantor  shall  not take or concur in
any action which would  have  the  effect of amending, abrogating,
assigning or waiving the  Subsidiary  Loan Agreement or any provi-
sion thereof.
     Section 3.07. (a) The Guarantor shall exchange views with the
Bank or the Borrower, as  may  be reasonably requested by the Bank
or the Borrower, with regard to progress of Part A of the Project,
the performance of its obligations  under this Agreement and under
the Subsidiary Loan Agreement,  and  other matters relating to the
purposes of Part A of the Project.
     (b)  The Guarantor shall  promptly  inform  the  Bank and the
Borrower  of  any  condition  which  interferes  or  threatens  to
interfere  with  the  progress  of  Part  A  of  the  Project, the
accomplishment of the purposes  thereof  or the performance by the
Guarantor of its obligations  under  this  Agreement and under the
Subsidiary Loan Agreement.
     Section 3.08. The Guarantor  shall  carry out the obligations
set forth in  Sections  9.04,  9.05,  9.06,  9.07  and 9.08 of the
General  Conditions  (relating  to  insurance,  use  of  goods and
services,  plans   and   schedules,   records   and   reports  and
maintenance, respectively) in respect of Part A of the Project.
                            ARTICLE IV
                          Other Covenants
     Section 4.01. (a) The Guarantor shall maintain or cause to be
maintained records and accounts  adequate to reflect in accordance
with sound  accounting  practices  the  operations,  resources and
expenditures in respect of Part  A  of  the Project of the depart-
ments, agencies and  institutes  of  the Guarantor responsible for
the carrying out thereof.
     (b)  The Guarantor shall:
          (i)  have the records and  accounts referred to in para-
               graph (a)  of  this  Section  for  each fiscal year
               audited, in  accordance  with  appropriate auditing
               principles  consistently  applied,  by  independent
               auditors acceptable to the Bank;
         (ii)  furnish to the Bank  as  soon  as available, but in
               any case not later  than  five months after the end
               of each such  year:  (A)  certified  copies of said
Page  4
               accounts for such year  as  so audited, and (B) the
               report of  such  audit  by  said  auditors, of such
               scope and in  such  detail  as  the Bank shall have
               reasonably requested; and
        (iii)  furnish  to   the   Bank   such  other  information
               concerning said records and  accounts and the audit
               thereof as the Bank shall from time to time reason-
               ably request.
     Section 4.02. In order to: (a) facilitate the carrying out of
Part A of the Project; and (b) assist (i) the Borrower in carrying
out the task referred  to  in  Section  3.01  (d) (ii) of the Loan
Agreement, and (ii) the  Participating  Banks  in carrying out the
tasks referred to in paragraph 4  (b)  of  Part B of Schedule 6 to
this Agreement, the Guarantor shall maintain the Project Unit with
composition, resources and terms of reference, satisfactory to the
Bank.
     Section 4.03. In order  to  facilitate the achievement of the
objectives of the Project, the  Guarantor shall take all necessary
action on its part  to  ensure  that  the research and development
work of the  University  of  Horticulture  and  Food Industries in
support of the agroprocessing industry  is at all times responsive
to  the  needs  of  said   industry,  and,  for  this  purpose,  a
consultative group  composed  of  suitable  representatives of the
agroprocessing industry, the  Guarantor's  Ministry of Agriculture
and  Food  and  the   Guarantor's   Ministry  of  Trade  shall  be
established, by December 31, 1988, and thereafter maintained, with
terms of reference  satisfactory  to  the  Bank,  to determine the
priorities in  such  research  and  development  work  of the said
University.
                             ARTICLE V
            Representatives of the Guarantor; Addresses
     Section 5.01. The Deputy Chairman of the Guarantor's National
Planning Office, the Deputy  Minister  of Trade of the Guarantor's
Ministry of Trade  or  the  Managing  Director  of the Borrower is
designated as representative of the  Guarantor for the purposes of
Section 11.03 of the General Conditions.
     Section 5.02. The following  addresses  are specified for the
purposes of Section 11.01 of the General Conditions:
     For the Guarantor:
          National Bank of Hungary
          Department for International
            Development Institutions
          H-1850 Budapest
          Szabadsag ter 8-9
          Hungarian People's Republic
          Cable address:                    Telex:
               BANKO                          227267 SMAFU-H
               Budapest                       225755 BANKO-H or
                                              227028 BANKO-H
     For the Bank
          International Bank for
               Reconstruction and Development
          1818 H Street, N.W.
          Washington, D.C. 20433
          United States of America
          Cable address:                    Telex:
               INTBAFRAD                       440098 (ITT),
Page  5
               Washington, D.C.                248423 (RCA) or
                                                64145 (WUI)
     IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the  parties hereto, acting through their
duly authorized representatives, have  caused this Agreement to be
signed in their  respective  names  in  the  District of Columbia,
United States of  America,  as  of  the  day  and year first above
written.
                     HUNGARIAN PEOPLE'S REPUBLIC
                     By /s/ Andras Patko
                                         Authorized Representative
                     INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR
                        RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
                     By /s/ Eugenio F. Lari
                                    Acting Regional Vice President
                              Europe, Middle East and North Africa
