Page  1
                                                    CONFORMED COPY
                                              LOAN NUMBER 2963 UNI
                       (Highway Sector Loan)
                              between
                    FEDERAL REPUBLIC OF NIGERIA
                                and
               INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION
                          AND DEVELOPMENT
                     Dated September 15, 1989
                                              LOAN NUMBER 2963 UNI
                          LOAN AGREEMENT
     AGREEMENT,  dated   September   15,   1989,  between  FEDERAL
REPUBLIC OF  NIGERIA  (the  Borrower)  and  INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR
RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT (the Bank).
     WHEREAS (A) the Borrower,  having  satisfied itself as to the
feasibility and priority of the Project described in Schedule 2 to
this Agreement, has requested the  Bank to assist in the financing
of the Project; and
     WHEREAS (B) the Bank has  agreed  on  the basis inter alia of
the foregoing, to extend the  Loan  to the Borrower upon the terms
and conditions set forth in this Agreement;
     NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:
                             ARTICLE I
                  General Conditions; Definitions
Page  2
     Section 1.01.  The "General Conditions Applicable to Loan and
Guarantee Agreements" of the Bank, dated January 1, 1985, with the
last sentence of  Section  3.02  deleted, (the General Conditions)
constitute an integral part of this Agreement.
     Section 1.02.  Unless  the  context  otherwise  requires, the
several  terms  defined  in   the   General  Conditions  have  the
respective meanings therein set forth and the following additional
terms have the following meanings:
     (a)  "FMWH" means the  Borrower's  Federal  Ministry of Works
and Housing;
     (b)  "FHD" means the Federal Highway Department of FMWH;
     (c)  "Special  Account"  means  the  account  referred  to in
Section 2.02 (b) of this Agreement;
     (d)  "Project Account" means any  of the accounts referred to
in Section 3.01 (d) of this Agreement;
     (e)  "Naira means the currency of the Borrower;
     (f)  "State" means any of the States of Nigeria;
     (g)  "Road improvements" means  the  improvement of roads and
bridges;
     (h)  "Bailey bridge" means a  bridge  designed for rapid con-
struction  from  interchangeable  latticed  steel  panels  coupled
together with steel pins; and
     (i)  "Fiscal  Year  means  the  Borrower's  fiscal  year from
January 1 to December 31.
                            ARTICLE II
                             The Loan
     Section 2.01. The Bank agrees to lend to the Borrower, on the
terms and conditions set forth  or  referred to in the Loan Agree-
ment, an amount in  various  currencies  equivalent to two hundred
fifty million dollars ($250,000,000).
     Section 2.02. (a) The  amount  of  the  Loan may be withdrawn
from  the  Loan  Account  in  accordance  with  the  provisions of
Schedule 1 to this  Agreement  for  expenditures  made (or, if the
Bank shall so agree, to be made) in respect of the reasonable cost
of goods, works and services required for the Project described in
Schedule 2  to  this  Agreement  and  to  be  financed  out of the
proceeds of the Loan.
     (b)  The Borrower shall,  for  the  purposes  of the Project,
open and maintain in  dollars  a  Special  Account in a commercial
bank on terms and  conditions  satisfactory  to the Bank. Deposits
into, and payments out of,  the  Special  Account shall be made in
accordance with the provisions of Schedule 6 to this Agreement.
     Section 2.03. The Closing  Date  shall  be  June 30, 1993, or
such later  date  as  the  Bank  shall  establish.  The Bank shall
promptly notify the Borrower of such later date.
     Section 2.04. The Borrower shall pay to the Bank a commitment
charge at the rate of three-fourths of one percent (3/4 of 1%) per
annum on the principal amount of  the Loan not withdrawn from time
to time.
     Section 2.05. (a)  The  Borrower  shall  pay  interest on the
principal amount of the  Loan  withdrawn and outstanding from time
to time at a rate per annum for each Interest Period equal to one-
half  of  one  percent  per  annum  above  the  Cost  of Qualified
Borrowings for the last Semester  ending prior to the commencement
Page  3
of such Interest Period.
     (b)  As soon as practicable  after  the end of each Semester,
the Bank  shall  notify  the  Borrower  of  the  Cost of Qualified
Borrowings for such Semester.
     (c)  For purposes of this Section:
          (i)  "Interest  Period"   means   the  six-month  period
               commencing on each  date  specified in Section 2.06
               of this Agreement, including the Interest Period in
               which this Agreement is signed.
         (ii)  "Cost of Qualified  Borrowings"  means  the cost of
               the outstanding borrowings  of  the Bank drawn down
               after June 30, 1982,  expressed as a percentage per
               annum, as reasonably determined by the Bank.
        (iii)  "Semester means the first  six months or the second
               six months of a calendar year.
     Section 2.06. Interest  and  other  charges  shall be payable
semiannually on January 15 and July 15 in each year.
     Section 2.07. The Borrower  shall  repay the principal amount
of the Loan in accordance with the amortization schedule set forth
in Schedule 3 to this Agreement.
     Section 2.08. The currency of the United States of America is
hereby specified for the purposes  of  Section 4.02 of the General
Conditions.
                            ARTICLE III
                     Execution of the Project
     Section 3.01. (a) The Borrower declares its commitment to the
objectives of the  Project  as  set  forth  in  Schedule 2 to this
Agreement and, to this  end,  shall  carry out the Project through
FMWH with due  diligence  and  efficiency  and  in conformity with
appropriate administrative,  financial  and engineering practices,
and shall  provide,  promptly  as  needed,  the funds, facilities,
services and other resources required for the Project.
     (b)  The Borrower shall cause FMWH to exchange views with the
Bank on the progress achieved in carrying out the Project, and the
actions specified in Schedule 5 to this Agreement.  Such exchanges
of views shall take place: (i)  not later than January 31, 1990 or
such other date  as  the  Borrower  and  the  Bank  may agree; and
(ii) not later than January  31,  1991,  or such other date as the
Borrower and the Bank may agree.
     (c)  Prior to any of  the  exchanges  of views referred to in
paragraph (b) of this  Section,  the  Borrower shall cause FMWH to
furnish to the Bank for its  review  and comment: (i) a report, in
such detail as the Bank  shall reasonably request, on the progress
achieved in carrying out the Project, and the actions specified in
Schedule 5 to this Agreement including, inter alia, the use of the
proceeds of the Loan  and  capital and recurrent expenditures made
by the Borrower in  the  highway  sector  during the twelve months
preceding the date of any such exchange of views; (ii) FHD's draft
capital and recurrent budget  and  a  program of works and studies
for the forthcoming year;  and  (iii)  FHD's indicative program of
works for the subsequent two years.
     (d)  Without limitation or restriction upon the provisions of
paragraph (a) of this Section,  the Borrower shall: (i) provide in
its budget funds  sufficient  to  cover the Borrower's counterpart
contribution to the costs of the Project; (ii) open and thereafter
maintain in  Naira  in  a  commercial  bank,  two Project Accounts
(Project Account A and Project  Account  B) to be used exclusively
to  meet  capital  and  recurrent  expenditures  for  the Project,
Page  4
respectively; (iii) not later  than  March  31, 1989, deposit into
Project Accounts A and B  initial amounts equivalent to one fourth
(1/4) of the annual  capital  and recurrent budgets, respectively,
allocated  to  FHD  for  Fiscal  Year  1989;  and  (iv) thereafter
replenish said Project Accounts,  not  later than three weeks from
the beginning of each  subsequent  quarter,  with amounts equal to
one quarter (1/4) of  FHD's  annual  capital and recurrent alloca-
tions, respectively.
     Section 3.02. Except as the  Bank shall otherwise agree, pro-
curement of  the  goods,  works  and  consultants'  services to be
financed out of the proceeds of  the Loan shall be governed by the
provisions of Schedule 4 to this Agreement.
     Section 3.03. Except as  the  Bank shall otherwise agree, the
Borrower shall:
     (a)  maintain for the  period  1989-1991:  (i) annual Federal
capital expenditure  allocations  to  the  transport  sector  at a
minimum of 15  percent  of  total  annual Federal capital expendi-
tures; (ii) annual capital  expenditure allocations to the Federal
highway subsector at a minimum  of  80 percent of said 15 percent;
and (iii)  FHD's  annual  recurrent  expenditure  allocations at a
sufficient level to cover annual routine maintenance of the entire
Federal highway network; and
     (b)  give priority to  routine  maintenance expenditures over
any capital expenditures for roads.
     Section 3.04.  (a)  The  Borrower  shall  take  all necessary
measures to achieve, not  later  than  January 1, 1990, and there-
after maintain during  the  execution  of  the  Project, road user
charges at a reasonable level.
     (b)  For purposes of assisting the Borrower in fulfilling its
obligations under  paragraph  (a)  of  this  Section, the Borrower
shall:
          (i)  not  later  than  September  1,  1989,  prepare and
               furnish to the Bank for comments:
               (A)  a study; and
               (B)  a plan of action to recover at least recurrent
                    costs of Federal  Highways from Nigeria's road
                    users, through a  combination,  inter alia, of
                    the  following:  fuel  taxes,  vehicle  import
                    taxes, vehicle  registration  fees, and tolls;
                    and
         (ii)  not  later  than  January  1,  1990,  implement the
               system of road user  charges in accordance with the
               plan of action referred to in (i) (B) above, taking
               into consideration among  other things the comments
               made by the Bank.
     Section 3.05. The  Borrower  shall,  not  later than April 1,
1989,  cause  FMWH  to  complete  detailed  designs  and  economic
analyses of works to be carried  out during the second year of the
Project.
                            ARTICLE IV
                        Financial Covenants
     Section 4.01. (a) The Borrower shall maintain, or cause to be
maintained, records and accounts adequate to reflect in accordance
with sound  accounting  practices  the  operations,  resources and
expenditures in  respect  of  the  Project  of  the departments or
agencies of the Borrower responsible  for carrying out the Project
or any part thereof.
Page  5
     (b)  For purposes of assisting the Borrower in fulfilling its
obligations under  paragraph  (a)  of  this  Section, the Borrower
shall:
          (i)  promptly after the  Effective Date, employ indepen-
               dent auditors  acceptable  to  the  Bank  to review
               FMWH's accounting  systems  and supporting internal
               accounting procedures and  practices  in respect of
               the Special Account  and  the Project Accounts, and
               recommend any  changes  needed  for these purposes;
               and
         (ii)  after an exchange of  views  with  the Bank and not
               later than April 1, 1989, implement those recommen-
               dations referred to in  (i)  above which are satis-
               factory to the Borrower and the Bank.
     (c)  The Borrower shall:
          (i)  have the records and  accounts referred to in para-
               graph (a) of  this  Section,  including the Special
               Account and the  Project  Accounts  for each fiscal
               year  audited,   in   accordance  with  appropriate
               auditing principles consistently  applied, by inde-
               pendent auditors acceptable to the Bank;
         (ii)  furnish to the Bank  as  soon  as available, but in
               any case not later than six months after the end of
               each such year, a  certified  copy of the report of
               such audit by said  auditors,  of such scope and in
               such  detail  as  the  Bank  shall  have reasonably
               requested; and
        (iii)  furnish  to   the   Bank   such  other  information
               concerning said records and  accounts and the audit
               thereof as the Bank shall from time to time reason-
               ably request.
     (d)  For all expenditures  with  respect to which withdrawals
from the Loan Account  were  made  on  the  basis of statements of
expenditure, the Borrower shall:
          (i)  maintain or cause  to  be maintained, in accordance
               with paragraph  (a)  of  this  Section, records and
               accounts reflecting such expenditures;
         (ii)  retain, until at least one  year after the Bank has
               received the audit  report  for  the fiscal year in
               which the last withdrawal from the Loan Account was
               made,  all  records  (contracts,  orders, invoices,
               bills,  receipts  and  other  documents) evidencing
               such expenditures;
        (iii)  enable the Bank's  representatives  to examine such
               records; and
         (iv)  ensure that such records  and accounts are included
               in the annual audit referred to in paragraph (c) of
               this Section  and  that  the  report  of such audit
               contains a separate opinion  by said auditors as to
               whether  the  statements  of  expenditure submitted
               during such fiscal  year,  together with the proce-
               dures and internal controls  involved in their pre-
               paration, can be relied upon to support the related
               withdrawals.
                             ARTICLE V
                    Effective Date; Termination
     Section  5.01.  The   following   events   are  specified  as
additional conditions to the  effectiveness  of the Loan Agreement
Page  6
within the meaning of Section 12.01 (c) of the General Conditions:
     (a)  FMWH  has  employed  engineers  with  qualifications and
experience satisfactory to  the  Bank  to  assist  in carrying out
Parts D.2 (c) and D.2 (d) (i) of the Project during the first year
of implementation of the Project; and
     (b)  the Borrower has opened the Project Accounts referred to
in Section 3.01 (d) of this Agreement.
     Section 5.02. The date  ninety  (90)  days  after the date of
this  Agreement  is   hereby   specified   for   the  purposes  of
Section 12.04 of the General Conditions.
                            ARTICLE VI
             Representative of the Borrower; Addresses
     Section 6.01. The  Minister  of  Finance  of  the Borrower is
designated as representative of  the  Borrower for the purposes of
Section 11.03 of the General Conditions.
     Section 6.02. The following  addresses  are specified for the
purposes of Section 11.01 of the General Conditions:
     For the Borrower:
          The Permanent Secretary
          Federal Ministry of Finance
          P.M.B. 12591
          Federal Secretariat, Ikoyi
          Lagos, Nigeria
          Cable address:                  Telex:
               PERMFIN                    21248
               Lagos
     For the Bank:
          International Bank for
            Reconstruction and Development
          1818 H Street, N.W.
          Washington, D.C. 20433
          United States of America
          Cable address:                  Telex:
               INTBAFRAD                       440098 (ITT)
               Washington, D.C.                248423 (RCA) or
                                                64145 (WUI)
     IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the  parties hereto, acting through their
duly authorized representatives, have  caused this Agreement to be
signed in their  respective  names  in  the  District of Columbia,
United States of  America,  as  of  the  day  and year first above
written.
                             FEDERAL REPUBLIC OF NIGERIA
                             By /s/ Hamzat Ahmadu
                                         Authorized Representative
                             INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR
                               RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
Page  7
                             By /s/ Edward V. K. Jaycox
                                           Regional Vice President
                                                            Africa
                            SCHEDULE 1
              Withdrawals of the Proceeds of the Loan
1.   The table below  sets  forth  the  Categories  of items to be
financed out of the proceeds  of  the  Loan, the allocation of the
amounts of the Loan to each  Category and the percentage of expen-
ditures for items so to be financed in each Category:
                           Amount of the
                          Loan Allocated            % of
                          (Expressed in         Expenditures
Category                Dollar Equivalent)     to be Financed
(1)  Civil Works                               60%
     for Part A
     of the Project
     for the:
     (a)  lst year of       107,700,000
          the Project
     (b)  2nd year of        79,300,000
          the Project,
          and
     (c)  3rd year of        25,000,000
          the Project
(2)  Equipment, spare         8,100,000        100% of foreign
     parts, Bailey                             expenditures and
     Bridge Components,                        65% of local
     other mate-                               expenditures
     rials for FMWH
(3)  Consultants'             9,900,000        70%
     services
(4)  Unallocated             20,000,000
                            ___________
                           $250,000,000
2.   For the purposes of this Schedule:
     (a)  the term  "foreign  expenditures"  means expenditures in
the currency of any country  other  than  that of the Borrower for
goods and services  supplied  from  the  territory  of any country
other than of the Borrower; and
     (b)  the term "local expenditures"  means expenditures in the
currency of the Borrower  or  for  goods or services supplied from
the territory of the Borrower.
3.   Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1 above, no with-
drawals shall be made in respect of:
     (a)  payments made for expenditures prior to the date of this
Agreement, except that  withdrawals,  in  an  aggregate amount not
exceeding the equivalent of $25,000,000, may be made in respect of
Categories (1), (2) and (3) on account of payments made for expen-
ditures before that date but after April 15, 1986;
     (b)  expenditures under Category  (1)  (b)  to pay amounts to
the Borrower or others in  respect  of expenditures to be financed
out of the proceeds of the  Loan,  unless the Bank shall be satis-
Page  8
fied, after the exchange of views  referred to in Section 3.01 (b)
of this Agreement: (i) with  the progress achieved by the Borrower
in the carrying out  of  the  Project;  and  (ii) that the actions
described in Part A  of  Schedule  5  to  this Agreement have been
taken; and
     (c)  expenditures under Category 1 (c)  to pay amounts to the
Borrower or others in respect  of  expenditures to be financed out
of the  Loan,  unless  the  Bank  shall  be  satisfied,  after the
exchange of views referred to  in  Section 3.01 (b) of this Agree-
ment: (i)  with  the  progress  achieved  by  the  Borrower in the
carrying out of the Project;  and  (ii) that the actions described
in Part B of Schedule 5 to this Agreement have been taken.
                            SCHEDULE 2
                    Description of the Project
     The objectives of the  Project  are  to assist and strengthen
the highway sector institutions  of  the Borrower in the discharge
of their responsibilities.
     The  Project  is  the  Borrower's  three-year  Highway Sector
Program for 1989-1991 and consists of the following Parts, subject
to such modifications as the Borrower  and the Bank may agree upon
from time to time to achieve such objectives.
Part A:   Road Improvement
     (1)  Strengthening of paved roads;
     (2)  rehabilitation of surface-treated roads;
     (3)  rehabilitation and surface treatment of earth roads; and
     (4)  construction of roads and bridges on a new alignment.
Part B:   Road Maintenance
     (1)  Routine maintenance of the Federal road network;
     (2)  acquisition  of  equipment  and  spare  parts  for  road
maintenance; and
     (3)  acquisition of components for Bailey bridges.
Part C:   Road Safety Improvement
     (1)  Strengthening the  system  of  collecting  and analyzing
road accident data;
     (2)  treatment of hazardous locations on the road network;
     (3)  establishment of FHD's Traffic Operations Unit;
     (4)  training of Federal and  State road engineers in traffic
safety; and
     (5)  acquisition of equipment for road safety.
Part D:   Institutional Strengthening
     (1)  Assistance to FMWH:
          (a)  strengthening the  managerial  and technical abili-
               ties  of  the  Pavement   Evaluation  Unit  of  the
               Engineering Services Department; and
          (b)  implementation   of   actions    to   improve   its
               efficiency.
     (2)  Assistance to FHD:
Page  9
          (a)  Planning Division:
            (i)     strengthening  FHD's   Project   Planning  and
                    Evaluation   Unit    in    economic   analysis
                    techniques;
            (ii)    preparation  of  economic   analyses  of  road
                    improvement works;
           (iii)    preparation   and   implementation   of   data
                    processing and management systems;
            (iv)    carrying-out a  road  users' charges/axle-load
                    study; and
             (v)    preparation of an organization and action plan
                    for State road  improvements  arising from the
                    Federal Trunk Road Study  to be recommended to
                    the State Governments.
          (b)  Design Division:
               preparation  of   detailed   designs,   and  tender
               documents for  civil  works  carried  out  for road
               improvements.
          (c)  Construction Division:
               supervision of  civil  works  carried  out for road
               improvements.
          (d)  Maintenance Division:
             (i)    supervision of  civil  works  carried  out for
                    road maintenance;
            (ii)    organization  and  management  of  maintenance
                    works carried out by force account;
           (iii)    implementation  of  a  maintenance  management
                    system, including  a  comparative  analysis of
                    maintenance works carried out by force account
                    and by contract; and
            (iv)    training   of    instructors    in   pedagogic
                    techniques.
     (3)  Coordination  of  construction  works  and  consultants'
services necessary to carry out the Highway Sector Program;
                               * * *
     The Project is expected to be completed by December 31, 1992.
                            SCHEDULE 3
                       Amortization Schedule
                                           Payment of Principal
Date Payment Due                          (expressed in dollars)
On each January 15 and July 15
     beginning January 15, 1994
     through   January 15, 2008                    8,335,000
On July 15, 2008                                   8,285,000
                      Premiums on Prepayment
Page  10
     The following  premiums  are  specified  for  the purposes of
Section 3.04 (b) of the General Conditions:
     Time of Prepayment                       Premium
                                       The   interest   rate  (ex-
                                       pressed as a percentage per
                                       annum)  applicable  to  the
                                       balance outstanding  on the
                                       Loan on the  day of prepay-
                                       ment multiplied by:
Not more than three years                          0.15
     before maturity
More than three years but                          0.30
     not more than six years
     before maturity
More than six years but                            0.55
     not more than eleven years
     before maturity
More than eleven years but not                     0.80
     more than sixteen years
     before maturity
More than sixteen years but not                    0.90
     more than eighteen years
     before maturity
More than eighteen years before                    1.00
     maturity
                            SCHEDULE 4
               Procurement and Consultants' Services
Section I.  Procurement of Goods and Works
Part A:   International Competitive Bidding
1.   Except as provided in Part C hereof, goods and works shall be
procured under  contracts  awarded  in  accordance with procedures
consistent with those  set  forth  in  Sections  I  and  II of the
"Guidelines for  Procurement  under  IBRD  Loans  and IDA Credits"
published by the Bank in May 1985 (the Guidelines).
2.   To the  extent  practicable,  contracts  for  works  shall be
grouped in  bid  packages  estimated  to  cost  the  equivalent of
$10,000,000 or more each. Contractors  shall be allowed to bid for
individual contracts or for  a  group  of  similar contracts, as a
whole, at their option.
Part B:   Preference for Domestic Manufacturers
     In the procurement of goods in accordance with the procedures
described in Part A.1 hereof, goods manufactured in Nigeria may be
granted a margin of preference in accordance with, and subject to,
the provisions of paragraphs 2.55  and  2.56 of the Guidelines and
paragraphs 1 through 4 of Appendix 2 thereto.
Part C:   Other Procurement Procedures
1.   Local competitive bidding:
     Data processing equipment  under  Part  D.2  (a) (iii) of the
Project may be procured  under  contracts  awarded on the basis of
competitive bidding, advertised locally, in accordance with proce-
dures satisfactory to the Bank.
2.   Direct contracting:
Page  11
     Spare parts for equipment  and  components for Bailey bridges
under Part  B  of  the  Project  may  be  procured under contracts
awarded directly to the  manufacturers or their authorized agents,
in accordance with procedures satisfactory to the Bank.
Part D:   Review by the Bank of Procurement Decisions
1.   Review of invitations to bid and of proposed awards and final
contracts:
     (a)  With respect  to  each  contract  estimated  to cost the
equivalent of $1,000,000  or  more,  the  procedures  set forth in
paragraphs 2 and 4 of  Appendix  1  to the Guidelines shall apply.
Where payments for such contract are to be made out of the Special
Account, such procedures shall be  modified to ensure that the two
conformed copies of the contract  required  to be furnished to the
Bank pursuant  to  paragraph  2  (d)  of  said  Appendix  shall be
furnished to the Bank prior to the making of the first payment out
of the Special Account in respect of such contract.
     (b)  With  respect  to  each  contract  not  governed  by the
preceding paragraph, the procedures set  forth in paragraphs 3 and
4 of Appendix 1 to the  Guidelines shall apply. Where payments for
such contracts are to  be  made  out  of the Special Account, said
procedures shall be  modified  to  ensure  that  the two conformed
copies  of  the  contract  together  with  the  other  information
required to be furnished to  the  Bank  pursuant to paragraph 3 of
said Appendix shall  be  furnished  to  the  Bank  as  part of the
evidence to be furnished pursuant to  paragraph 4 of Schedule 6 to
this Agreement.
     (c)  The provisions of  the  preceding  subparagraphs (a) and
(b) shall not apply to contracts  on account of which the Bank has
authorized withdrawals  from  the  Loan  Account  on  the basis of
statements of expenditure.  Such  contracts  shall  be retained in
accordance with Section 4.01 (d) (ii) of this Agreement.
2.    The figure of 10% is  hereby specified for purposes of para-
graph 4 of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines.
Section II.  Employment of Consultants
     In order to assist the Borrower in carrying out Parts C and D
of the Project, the  Borrower  shall  cause FMWH to employ consul-
tants, whose qualifications,  experience  and terms and conditions
of employment shall be satisfactory  to the Bank. Such consultants
shall be selected  in  accordance  with  principles and procedures
satisfactory to the Bank on  the  basis of the "Guidelines for the
Use of Consultants by World  Bank  Borrowers and by the World Bank
as Executing Agency" published by the Bank in August 1981.
                            SCHEDULE 5
              Actions referred to in paragraph 3 (b)
                       and (c) of Schedule 1
     The following actions shall be taken by FMWH:
A.   Not later than January 31,  1990,  or  such other date as the
Borrower and the Bank may agree:
     1.   Satisfactory evidence  has  been  furnished  to the Bank
that:
          (i)  economic analyses of all  road improvement works of
               the first year of  the Project have been performed,
               in accordance with  criteria and methodology agreed
               between  the   Borrower   and   the   Bank,  before
               implementing them;
         (ii)  tender documents  for  all  road  improvement works
Page  12
               during the  first  year  of  the  Project have been
               prepared according to design standards satisfactory
               to  the  Bank,  before   inviting  bids  for  their
               construction;
        (iii)  an  initial  report  on  the  operations  of  FHD's
               Project  Planning  and  Evaluation  Unit  has  been
               prepared;
         (iv)  an  initial  progress  report   on  a  road  users'
               charges/axle load study has been prepared;
          (v)  economic  analyses  and  detailed  designs  of road
               improvement  works  to  be  implemented  during the
               third year of  the  Project have been substantially
               completed;
         (vi)  an adequate number  of  engineers has been employed
               to   supervise   road   improvement   and   routine
               maintenance works  during  the  first  year  of the
               Project;
        (vii)  an initial report on the operations of the Pavement
               Evaluation Unit has been prepared;
       (viii)  an  indicative  program  of  road  improvement  and
               routine maintenance works  to be implemented during
               the  year  subsequent  to  the  completion  of  the
               Project has been prepared; and
         (ix)  adequate  coordination  of  construction  works and
               consultants'  services  has  been  carried  out  in
               accordance with  criteria  and  methodology already
               agreed between the Borrower and the Bank.
     2.   Agreement with the Bank has been reached on:
          (i)  road improvement works  proposed for implementation
               during the  second  year  of  the  Project,  and an
               indicative program for the subsequent year; and
         (ii)  routine maintenance works  to be implemented during
               the second year  of  the  Project and an indicative
               program for the subsequent year.
     3.   Engineers to supervise  road  improvement and road main-
tenance works during  the  second  year  of  the Project have been
provided.
B.   Not later than January 31,  1991,  or  such other date as the
the Borrower and the Bank may agree:
     1.   Satisfactory evidence  has  been  furnished  to the Bank
that:
          (i)  economic analyses of all  road improvement works of
               the second year of the Project have been previously
               performed,   in   accordance   with   criteria  and
               methodology already agreed between the Borrower and
               the Bank, before implementing them;
         (ii)  tender documents for  road improvement works imple-
               mented during the second  year  of the Project have
               been prepared according  to design standards satis-
               factory to the Bank, before inviting bids for their
               construction;
        (iii)  economic  analyses  and  detailed  designs  of road
               improvement works planned for implementation during
               the year subsequent to  the  Project have been sub-
               stantially completed;
Page  13
         (iv)  an adequate number  of  engineers has been employed
               to   supervise   road   improvement   and   routine
               maintenance works  during  the  second  year of the
               Project;
          (v)  an  indicative  program  of  road  improvement  and
               routine maintenance works  to be implemented during
               the two years subsequent  to  the completion of the
               Project has been prepared; and
         (vi)  adequate  coordination  of  construction  works and
               consultants'  services  has  been  carried  out  in
               accordance with  criteria  and  methodology already
               agreed between the Borrower and the Bank.
     2.   Agreement with the Bank has been reached on:
          (i)  road improvement works  proposed for implementation
               during the third year of the Project; and
         (ii)  routine maintenance works  to be implemented during
               the third year of the Project.
     3.    Engineers to supervise  road improvement and road main-
tenance works during  the  third  year  of  the  Project have been
provided.
C.   For the purposes  of  this  Schedule,  the term "criteria and
methodology already  agreed  between  the  Borrower  and the Bank"
shall mean the criteria  and  methodology  set  out in the supple-
mental  letter  agreements  of  even  date  herewith  between  the
Borrower and the Bank.
                            SCHEDULE 6
                          Special Account
1.   For the purposes of this Schedule:
     (a)  the term "eligible Categories" means Categories (1), (2)
and (3) as set forth in the  table in paragraph 1 of Schedule 1 to
this Agreement;
     (b)  the term "eligible  expenditures"  means expenditures in
respect of the reasonable cost  of goods and services required for
the Project and to be  financed  out  of  the proceeds of the Loan
allocated  from  time  to  time  to  the  eligible  Categories  in
accordance with the provisions  of  Schedule  1 to this Agreement;
and
     (c)  the term "Authorized Allocation" means an amount equiva-
lent to $20,000,000  to  be  withdrawn  from  the Loan Account and
deposited into the Special Account  pursuant to paragraph 3 (a) of
this Schedule.
2.   Except as the Bank shall otherwise agree, payments out of the
Special Account shall  be  made  exclusively for eligible expendi-
tures in accordance with the provisions of this Schedule.
3.   After the Bank has received  evidence satisfactory to it that
the Special  Account  has  been  duly  opened,  withdrawals of the
Authorized Allocation and subsequent  withdrawals to replenish the
Special Account may be made as follows:
     (a)  On the basis of  a  request  or requests by the Borrower
for a deposit or deposits which  add up to the aggregate amount of
the Authorized  Allocation,  the  Bank  shall,  on  behalf  of the
Borrower, withdraw from  the  Loan  Account  and  deposit into the
Special Account such amount or  amounts as the Borrower shall have
requested.
     (b)  The Borrower  shall  furnish  to  the  Bank requests for
Page  14
replenishment of the Special Account at such intervals as the Bank
shall specify. On the basis of  such request, the Bank shall with-
draw from the Loan  Account  and  deposit into the Special Account
such amounts as shall be required to replenish the Special Account
with amounts not exceeding the amount  of payments made out of the
Special Account for eligible expenditures. All such deposits shall
be  withdrawn  by  the  Bank  from  the  Loan  Account  under  the
respective eligible Categories,  and  in the respective equivalent
amounts, as shall have  been  justified by the evidence supporting
the request for such deposit  furnished pursuant to paragraph 4 of
this Schedule.
4.   For each payment  made  by  the  Borrower  out of the Special
Account for which the  Borrower requests replenishment pursuant to
paragraph 3 (b) of  this  Schedule,  the Borrower shall furnish to
the Bank, prior to or at  the time of such request, such documents
and other evidence as  the  Bank shall reasonably request, showing
that such payment was made for eligible expenditures.
5.   (a)  Notwithstanding the provisions  of  paragraph  3 of this
Schedule, no further  deposit  into  the  Special Account shall be
made by the Bank  when  either  of  the following situations first
arises:
          (i)  the Bank  shall  have  determined  that all further
               withdrawals should be made by the Borrower directly
               from the Loan Account in accordance with the provi-
               sions of Article  V  of  the General Conditions and
               paragraph (a) of Section 2.02 of this Agreement; or
         (ii)  the total unwithdrawn amount  of the Loan allocated
               to the eligible  Categories  of  the Project, minus
               the amount  of  any  outstanding special commitment
               entered into by the  Bank  pursuant to Section 5.02
               of  the  General  Conditions  with  respect  to the
               Project, shall be equal  to the equivalent of twice
               the amount of the Authorized Allocation.
     (b)  Thereafter, withdrawal  from  the  Loan  Account  of the
remaining unwithdrawn amount of the Loan allocated to the eligible
Categories of the Project shall follow such procedures as the Bank
shall specify by notice to  the Borrower. Such further withdrawals
shall be made only after  and  to  the  extent that the Bank shall
have been satisfied that all  such amounts remaining on deposit in
the Special Account as of the date of such notice will be utilized
in making payments for eligible expenditures.
6.   (a)  If the Bank shall have  determined  at any time that any
payment out of the Special Account:  (i) was made for any expendi-
ture or in any amount not eligible pursuant to paragraph 2 of this
Schedule; or (ii)  was  not  justified  by  the evidence furnished
pursuant to paragraph  4  of  this  Schedule,  the Borrower shall,
promptly upon  notice  from  the  Bank,  deposit  into the Special
Account (or, if the Bank shall  so request, refund to the Bank) an
amount equal to the amount of  such payment or the portion thereof
not so eligible or justified.  No further deposit by the Bank into
the Special Account shall be made until the Borrower has made such
deposit or refund.
     (b)  If the Bank shall have  determined  at any time that any
amount outstanding in the Special  Account will not be required to
cover further  payments  for  eligible  expenditures, the Borrower
shall, promptly upon notice from the Bank, refund to the Bank such
outstanding amount for crediting to the Loan Account.
