Page  1
                                                     CONFORMED COPY
                                               LOAN NUMBER 2936 HU
              (Agroprocessing Modernization Project)
                              between
               INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION
                          AND DEVELOPMENT
                                and
                     NATIONAL BANK OF HUNGARY
                        Dated June 2, 1988
                                               LOAN NUMBER 2936 HU
                          LOAN AGREEMENT
     AGREEMENT, dated June 2,  1988 between INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR
RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT  (the  Bank)  and  NATIONAL BANK OF
HUNGARY (the Borrower).
     WHEREAS (A) the  Hungarian  People's Republic (the Guarantor)
and the Borrower, having been  satisfied as to the feasibility and
priority of the Project described in Schedule 2 to this Agreement,
have requested the Bank to assist in the financing of the Project;
     (B)  by an agreement (the  Guarantee  Agreement) of even date
herewith between the  Guarantor  and  the  Bank, the Guarantor has
agreed to guarantee the obligations  of the Borrower in respect of
the Loan and to undertake  such  other obligations as set forth in
the Guarantee Agreement; and
     WHEREAS the Bank has agreed, on the basis, inter alia, of the
foregoing, to extend the Loan  to  the Borrower upon the terms and
conditions set forth in this Agreement;
Page  2
     NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:
                             ARTICLE I
                  General Conditions; Definitions
     Section 1.01. The "General  Conditions Applicable to Loan and
Guarantee Agreements" of the Bank, dated January 1, 1985, with the
last sentence of  Section  3.02  deleted  (the General Conditions)
constitute an integral part of this Agreement.
     Section 1.02.  Unless  the  context  otherwise  requires, the
several terms defined in  the  General Conditions have the respec-
tive meanings therein set forth and the following additional terms
have the following meanings:
     (a)  "Special Account" means the  account referred to in Sec-
tion 2.02 (b) of this Agreement;
     (b)  "Subsidiary Loan Agreement"  means  the  agreement to be
entered into between the  Borrower  and  the Guarantor pursuant to
Section 3.01 (b) of  this  Agreement,  as  the same may be amended
from time to time;
     (c)  "Subsidiary Financing Agreement"  means any agreement to
be entered into  between  the  Borrower  and  a Participating Bank
pursuant to Section 3.01 (c) of this Agreement, as the same may be
amended from time to time;
     (d)  "Participating Bank" means any banking institution which
satisfies the conditions set forth in Part B of Schedule 6 to this
Agreement and with which  the  Borrower  shall have entered into a
Subsidiary Financing Agreement;
     (e)  "Sub-loan" means a loan made or proposed to be made by a
Participating Bank, out of the  equivalent  of the proceeds of the
Loan, to a Beneficiary for a Sub-project;
     (f)  "Beneficiary" means any enterprise to which a Participa-
ting Bank proposes to make or had made a Sub-loan;
     (g)  "Sub-project" means  a  specific  development project or
export trade promotion and marketing scheme to be carried out by a
Beneficiary utilizing the proceeds of a Sub-loan;
     (h)  "Project Unit"  means  the  unit  established within the
Guarantor's Ministry of Agriculture and Food pursuant to the Deci-
sion of said Ministry's Secretary  of State, dated March 18, 1988,
and to be maintained in  accordance with the provisions of Section
4.02 of the Guarantee Agreement;
     (i)  "Basic Law" means  Law  Decree  No.  36  of 1967, of the
Presidential Council of the Guarantor,  as  amended to the date of
this Agreement;
     (j)  "Credit Policy Guidelines"  means the guidelines regula-
ting the provision  of  credit  by  financial  institutions in the
Hungarian People's Republic as  established by Resolution No. 1074
of 1987, of the Council of Ministers of the Guarantor; and
     (k)  "Category" means any  withdrawal  category  set forth in
the table in paragraph 1 of Schedule 1 to this Agreement.
                            ARTICLE II
                             The Loan
     Section 2.01. The Bank agrees to lend to the Borrower, on the
terms and conditions set forth  or  referred to in the Loan Agree-
ment, an amount in  various  currencies equivalent to seventy mil-
lion dollars ($70,000,000).
Page  3
     Section 2.02. (a) The  amount  of  the  Loan may be withdrawn
from the Loan Account in  accordance with the provisions of Sched-
ule 1 to this  Agreement  for  expenditures  made (or, if the Bank
shall so agree, to be made)  in  respect of the reasonable cost of
goods and services required for  the Project described in Schedule
2 to this Agreement and to be  financed out of the proceeds of the
Loan.
     (b)  The Borrower shall,  for  the  purposes  of the Project,
open and maintain on  its  books  a  special account in dollars on
terms and conditions satisfactory to  the Bank. Deposits into, and
payments out of, the Special  Account  shall be made in accordance
with the provisions of Schedule 5 to this Agreement.
     Section 2.03. The Closing  Date  shall  be  June 30, 1994, or
such later  date  as  the  Bank  shall  establish.  The Bank shall
promptly notify the Borrower and the Guarantor of such later date.
     Section 2.04. The Borrower shall pay to the Bank a commitment
charge at the rate of  three-fourths  of  one per cent (3/4 of 1%)
per annum on the principal  amount  of the Loan not withdrawn from
time to time.
     Section 2.05. (a)  The  Borrower  shall  pay  interest on the
principal amount of the  Loan  withdrawn and outstanding from time
to time at a  rate  per  annum  for  each Interest Period equal to
one-half of one  percent  per  annum  above  the Cost of Qualified
Borrowings for the last Semester  ending prior to the commencement
of such Interest Period.
     (b)  As soon as practicable  after  the end of each Semester,
the Bank shall notify the  Guarantor  and the Borrower of the Cost
of Qualified Borrowings for such Semester.
     (c)  For purposes of this Section:
          (i)  "Interest  Period"   means   the  six-month  period
               commencing on each  date  specified in Section 2.06
               of this Agreement, including the Interest Period in
               which this Agreement is signed.
         (ii)  "Cost of Qualified  Borrowings"  means  the cost of
               the outstanding borrowings  of  the Bank drawn down
               after June 30, 1982,  expressed as a percentage per
               annum, as reasonably determined by the Bank.
        (iii)  "Semester" means the first six months or the second
               six months of a calendar year.
     Section 2.06. Interest  and  other  charges  shall be payable
semiannually on February 1 and August 1 in each year.
     Section 2.07. The Borrower  shall  repay the principal amount
of the Loan in accordance with the amortization schedule set forth
in Schedule 3 to this Agreement.
                            ARTICLE III
                     Execution of the Project
     Section 3.01. (a) The Borrower declares its commitment to the
objectives of the  Project  as  set  forth  in  Schedule 2 to this
Agreement, and, to  this  end,  shall  carry  out  and cause to be
carried out the  Project  and  conduct  its operations and affairs
with due diligence and  efficiency  and  in conformity with appro-
priate technical, administrative, financial and economic standards
and practices with  qualified  management  and staff in accordance
with the Basic Law  and  the  Credit  Policy Guidelines, and shall
provide, promptly as needed,  the  funds, facilities, services and
other resources required for the purpose.
Page  4
     (b)  For the purpose of carrying  out  Part A of the Project,
the Borrower shall make available  to the Guarantor the equivalent
in the currency of  the  Guarantor  (determined  as of the date or
respective dates of withdrawals  from  the Loan Account or payment
out of the Special Account) of  the  value of the currency or cur-
rencies so withdrawn or paid out  on  account of the cost of goods
and services for Part A of  the  Project and to be financed out of
the proceeds of the Loan  allocated  from time to time to Category
(1) under a Subsidiary Loan  Agreement  to be entered into between
the Borrower and the  Guarantor,  under terms and conditions which
shall have been approved  by  the  Bank,  and which shall include,
without limitation, terms  pursuant  to  which the Guarantor shall
undertake to: (i)  repay  the  principal  amount so made available
over a period of 15  years,  inclusive  of  a grace period of five
years; and (ii)  pay  interest  on  the  principal  amount so made
available and withdrawn and  outstanding  from  time  to time at a
rate of not less than:  (A)  the  rate of interest applicable from
time to time to the Loan  pursuant  to Section 2.05 of this Agree-
ment, and (B) an additional charge  equal to 20% of the amounts to
be paid pursuant to subparagraph (ii) (A) hereof.
     (c)  For the purpose of carrying  out  Part B of the Project,
the Borrower shall make  available  to the Participating Banks the
equivalent of the proceeds of the  Loan referred to in Part A.1 of
Schedule 6 to this Agreement under subsidiary financing agreements
to be entered into  between  the  Borrower  and each of the Parti-
cipating Banks, under terms  and  conditions which shall have been
approved by the  Bank,  and  which  shall include, without limita-
tions, those set forth in Schedule 6 of this Agreement.
     (d)  The Borrower shall:  (i)  exercise  its rights under the
Subsidiary Loan Agreement and  the Subsidiary Financing Agreements
in such manner as to protect  the interest of the Borrower and the
Bank and to accomplish the  purposes  of  the Loan, and, except as
the Bank shall  otherwise  agree,  the  Borrower shall not assign,
amend, abrogate or  waive  the  Subsidiary  Loan Agreement, any of
the Subsidiary  Financing  Agreements,  or  any provision thereof;
(ii) coordinate and monitor  the  overall execution of the Project
and supervise the carrying out by the Participating Banks of their
respective  Subsidiary  Financing  Agreements  in  accordance with
policies and procedures satisfactory to the Bank; and (iii) ensure
that, except as  the  Bank  shall  otherwise  agree, the aggregate
amount of all Sub-loans, or any one Sub-loan, made by the Partici-
pating Banks, or any  one  Participating  Bank, to any one Benefi-
ciary shall not exceed the equivalent of $8,000,000.
     Section 3.02. Except as the  Bank shall otherwise agree, pro-
curement of the goods,  technical  licenses and consultants' serv-
ices required for the Project and  to  be financed out of the pro-
ceeds of the Loan shall  be  governed  by the provisions of Sched-
ule 4 to this Agreement.
     Section 3.03. The Bank and the Borrower hereby agree that the
obligations set forth in Sections  9.04, 9.05, 9.06, 9.07 and 9.08
of the General Conditions (relating to insurance, use of goods and
services,  plans   and   schedules,   records   and   reports  and
maintenance, respectively)  shall  be  carried  out  in respect of
Part A of the Project by the Guarantor pursuant to Section 3.08 of
the Guarantee Agreement.
                            ARTICLE IV
                        Financial Covenants
     Section 4.01. (a)  The  Borrower  shall  maintain records and
accounts adequate to reflect  in  accordance with sound accounting
practices its operations, resources and expenditures in respect of
the Project.
     (b)  The Borrower shall:
          (i)  have the records and  accounts referred to in para-
Page  5
               graph (a)  of  this  Section  and  the  records and
               accounts  for  the  Special  Account  and  for  the
               account referred to in  Section 4.02 of this Agree-
               ment for each  fiscal  year  audited, in accordance
               with appropriate  auditing  principles consistently
               applied, by independent  auditors acceptable to the
               Bank;
         (ii)  furnish to the Bank  as  soon  as available, but in
               any case not later  than  five months after the end
               of each such  year:  (A)  certified  copies of said
               accounts for such year  as  so audited, and (B) the
               report of  such  audit  by  said  auditors, of such
               scope and in  such  detail  as  the Bank shall have
               reasonably requested; and
        (iii)  furnish to the Bank such other information concern-
               ing said records and accounts  as well as the audit
               thereof as the Bank shall from time to time reason-
               ably request.
     (c)  For all expenditures  with  respect to which withdrawals
from the Loan Account  were  made  on  the  basis of statements of
expenditure, the Borrower shall:
          (i)  maintain, in accordance with  paragraph (a) of this
               Section,  records  and   accounts  reflecting  such
               expenditures;
         (ii)  retain, until at least one  year after the Bank has
               received the audit  report  for  the fiscal year in
               which the last withdrawal from the Loan Account was
               made,  all  records  (contracts,  orders, invoices,
               bills,  receipts  and  other  documents) evidencing
               such expenditures;
        (iii)  enable the Bank's  representatives  to examine such
               records; and
         (iv)  ensure that such records  and accounts are included
               in the annual audit referred to in paragraph (b) of
               this Section  and  that  the  report  of such audit
               contains a separate opinion  by said auditors as to
               whether  the  statements  of  expenditure submitted
               during such fiscal  year,  together with the proce-
               dures and internal controls  involved in their pre-
               paration, can be relied upon to support the related
               withdrawals.
     Section 4.02. Except as  the  Bank shall otherwise agree, the
Borrower shall:
     (a)  open, by the date  on  which  it shall receive the first
payment of interest or other charges on, or repayment of principal
under, any of the  Subsidiary  Financing Agreements and thereafter
maintain a separate account  on  its  books in accordance with its
normal financial practices and  on  conditions satisfactory to the
Bank; and
     (b)  upon receipt of  each  such  payment or repayments under
each such Agreement, credit the same to the said separate account.
All amounts to be so  credited  to the said separate account shall
be utilized by  the  Borrower,  to  the  extent  they  are not yet
required to meet the  Borrower's  payment  obligations to the Bank
under this Agreement, exclusively to finance, through the Partici-
pating Banks,  agroprocessing  development  projects in accordance
with the Credit Policy Guidelines  and  on the basis of guidelines
satisfactory to the Bank.
                             ARTICLE V
                       Remedies of the Bank
Page  6
     Section 5.01. Pursuant  to  Section  6.02  (k) of the General
Conditions, the following  additional  event is specified, namely,
that the Basic Law or the Credit Policy Guidelines shall have been
amended, suspended, abrogated, repealed or  waived so as to affect
materially and adversely the  ability  of  the Borrower to perform
any of its obligations under this Agreement.
     Section 5.02. Pursuant  to  Section  7.01  (h) of the General
Conditions, the following  additional  event is specified, namely,
that the event specified in  Section  5.01 of this Agreement shall
occur.
                            ARTICLE VI
                    Effective Date; Termination
     Section 6.01. The following events are specified as addition-
al conditions to the  effectiveness  of  the Loan Agreement within
the meaning of Section 12.01 (c) of the General Conditions:
     (a)  that the Subsidiary Loan  Agreement has been executed on
behalf of the Borrower and the Guarantor; and
     (b)  that at least  two  Subsidiary Financing Agreements have
been executed on  behalf  of  the  Borrower  and two Participating
Banks.
     Section 6.02. The following  are specified as additional mat-
ters, within the meaning of Section  12.02 (c) of the General Con-
ditions, to be included in the opinion or opinions to be furnished
to the Bank:
     (a)  that the Subsidiary Loan  Agreement has been duly autho-
rized or ratified by the Borrower and the Guarantor and is legally
binding upon the Borrower and the Guarantor in accordance with its
terms; and
     (b)  that each of the  Subsidiary Financing Agreements refer-
red to in paragraph (b) of Section 6.01 of this Agreement has been
duly authorized or ratified  by  the  Borrower and a Participating
Bank and is  legally  binding  upon  the  Borrower and such Parti-
cipating Bank in accordance with its terms.
     Section 6.03. The date  ninety  (90)  days  after the date of
this Agreement is  hereby  specified  for  the purposes of Section
12.04 of the General Conditions.
                            ARTICLE VII
             Representative of the Borrower; Addresses
     Section 7.01. The President of  the Borrower is designated as
representative of the Borrower  for  the purposes of Section 11.03
of the General Conditions.
     Section 7.02. The following  addresses  are specified for the
purposes of Section 11.01 of the General Conditions:
     For the Bank:
          International Bank for
               Reconstruction and Development
          1818 H Street, N.W.
          Washington, D.C. 20433
          United States of America
          Cable address:                      Telex:
               INTBAFRAD                         440098 (ITT),
               Washington, D.C.                  248423 (RCA) or
                                                  64145 (WUI)
Page  7
     For the Borrower:
          National Bank of Hungary
          Department for International
            Development Institutions
          H-1850 Budapest
          Szabadsag ter 8-9
          Hungarian People's Republic
          Cable address:                      Telex:
               BANKO                             227267 SMAFU-H
               Budapest                          225755 BANKO-H or
                                                 227028 BANKO-H
     IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the  parties hereto, acting through their
duly authorized representatives, have  caused this Agreement to be
signed in their  respective  names  in  the  District of Columbia,
United States of  America,  as  of  the  day  and year first above
written.
                    INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR
                      RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
                    By /s/ Eugenio F. Lari
                                    Acting Regional Vice President
                              Europe, Middle East and North Africa
                    NATIONAL BANK OF HUNGARY
                    By /s/ Ede Bako
                                         Authorized Representative
                            SCHEDULE 1
              Withdrawal of the Proceeds of the Loan
1.   The table below  sets  forth  the  Categories  of items to be
financed out of the proceeds  of  the  Loan, the allocation of the
amounts of the Loan to each  Category and the percentage of expen-
ditures for items so to be financed in each Category:
                            Amount of the
                           Loan Allocated            % of
                            (Expressed in        Expenditures
     Category            Dollar Equivalent)     to be Financed
(1)  Goods, consult-           5,500,000        100% of foreign
     ants' services                             expenditures and
     and training                               100% of local ex-
     for Part A of the                          penditures (ex-
     Project                                    factory cost) for
                                                goods and 100% of
                                                foreign expendi-
                                                tures for consult-
                                                ants' services and
                                                training
(2)  Goods, technical         60,000,000        100% of foreign
     licenses, consult-                         expenditures and
Page  8
     ants' services                             100% of local
     and export market-                         expenditures (ex-
     ing activities                             factory cost) for
     for Part B of the                          goods and 100% of
     Project                                    foreign expendi-
                                                tures for tech-
                                                nical licenses,
                                                consultants' ser-
                                                vices and export
                                                marketing activi-
                                                ties
(3)  Unallocated                 4,500,000
          TOTAL                 70,000,000
2.   For the purposes of this Schedule:
     (a)  the term  "foreign  expenditures"  means expenditures in
the currency of any country  other  than that of the Guarantor for
goods or services supplied from the territory of any country other
than that of the Guarantor; and
     (b)  the term "local expenditures"  means expenditures in the
currency of the Guarantor or  for  goods or services supplied from
the territory of the Guarantor.
3.   Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1 above, no with-
drawals shall be made in respect of:
     (a)  payments made for expenditures prior to the date of this
Agreement; and
     (b)  category (2) except  for  expenditures  by a Beneficiary
under a Sub-loan made by a Participating Bank after the Bank shall
have communicated to the Borrower  its acceptance of evidence that
a Subsidiary Financing Agreement  has  been executed on behalf of,
and is legally binding  upon,  the Borrower and such Participating
Bank.
                            SCHEDULE 2
                    Description of the Project
     The objectives of the  Project  are to increase earnings from
exports of processed  agricultural  and  forestry products through
upgrading of  facilities  and  further  improvement of operations,
management and marketing practices.
     The Project consists of the  following parts, subject to such
modifications thereof as the Bank  and the Borrower may agree upon
from time to time to achieve such objectives:
Part A:
1.   The development  and  carrying  out,  through the Guarantor's
Ministry of Trade,  of  an  export  trade  promotion and marketing
program for agroprocessed products.
2.   The strengthening of the training programs of the Guarantor's
Ministry of Agriculture  and  Food,  and  the carrying out through
said Ministry of training programs in export marketing and manage-
ment.
3.   The carrying out, through  the University of Horticulture and
Food Industries, of a research  and development program to improve
the quality, production and marketing of agroprocessed products.
4.   The carrying out, through  the  Guarantor's Ministry of Agri-
culture and Food, of:  (a)  a  program  to (i) ensure the adequate
provision of office and data  processing equipment for the Project
Unit, (ii)  upgrade  the  equipment  of  the  existing grading and
Page  9
quality control facilities, and  (iii)  establish  and equip (A) a
packaging modernization center and  (B)  an information library on
products standards; and (b) a  study to develop a suitable grading
and quality control system for the agroprocessing industry.
5.   The carrying out, through  the Guarantor's Ministries of Con-
struction and Urban Development and  of Agriculture and Food, res-
pectively, of two studies to  prepare programs for the restructur-
ing and further development  of:  (a) the glass container manufac-
turing industry; and (b) the can manufacturing industry.
Part B:
     The financing, through the provision of loans, including Sub-
loans, by the Participating  Banks,  of Sub-projects by Beneficia-
ries for: (i) the  strengthening of such Beneficiaries' management
and marketing capabilities and the rehabilitation and expansion of
their facilities for  the  processing  of  wood, poultry and other
agricultural products and by-products;  and  (ii) the carrying out
by such  Beneficiaries  of  export  trade  promotion and marketing
schemes for their agroprocessed products.
                           *     *     *
     The Project is expected to be completed by June 30, 1993.
                            SCHEDULE 3
                       Amortization Schedule
                                            Payment of Principal
Date Payment Due                           (expressed in dollars)*
On each February 1 and August 1
     beginning February 1, 1994
     through   August 1, 2003                         3,500,000
*    The  figures  in  this  column  represent  dollar equivalents
     determined as  of  the  respective  dates  of withdrawal. See
     General Conditions, Sections 3.04 and 4.03.
     Premiums on Prepayment
     The following  premiums  are  specified  for  the purposes of
Section 3.04 (b) of the General Conditions:
    Time of Prepayment                            Premium
                                           The interest  rate (ex-
                                           pressed as a percentage
                                           per  annum)  applicable
                                           to  the   balance  out-
                                           standing on the Loan on
                                           the  day  of prepayment
                                           multiplied by:
Not more than three years                           0.20
     before maturity
More than three years but                           0.40
     not more than six years
     before maturity
More than six years but                             0.73
     not more than eleven years
     before maturity
More than eleven years but not                      0.87
     more than thirteen years
     before maturity
Page  10
More than thirteen years                            1.00
     before maturity
                            SCHEDULE 4
               Procurement and Consultants' Services
Section I.   Procurement of Goods and Technical Licenses
Part A:   International Competitive Bidding
     Except as provided in Part  C hereof, goods shall be procured
under contracts awarded  in  accordance with procedures consistent
with those set forth in Sections  I  and II of the "Guidelines for
Procurement under IBRD  Loans  and  IDA  Credits" published by the
Bank in May 1985 (the Guidelines).
Part B:   Preference for Domestic Manufacturers
     In the procurement of goods in accordance with the procedures
described in Part A hereof, goods manufactured in the territory of
the Guarantor may be granted  a margin of preference in accordance
with, and subject to, the  provisions  of paragraphs 2.55 and 2.56
of the  Guidelines  and  paragraphs  1  through  4  of  Appendix 2
thereto.
Part C:   Other Procurement Procedures
1.   Goods and technical  licenses  which  the  Bank agrees are of
proprietary nature, may  be  procured  through direct negotiations
with the proprietors thereof,  on  terms and conditions acceptable
to the Bank.
2.   (a)  Goods and  technical  licenses  which  the  Bank agrees:
(a) are supplied through a  limited  number of sources, or (b) the
timely supply thereof is critical for efficient Project execution,
may be procured under  contracts  awarded through limited interna-
tional bidding procedures on the  basis of evaluation and compari-
son of bids invited from a  list  of at least three qualified sup-
pliers eligible under the  Guidelines  and  in accordance with the
procedures set  forth  in  Sections  I  and  II  of the Guidelines
(excluding paragraphs 2.8, 2.9, 2.55 and 2.56 thereof).
3.   Goods estimated to cost less  than the equivalent of $200,000
per contract, up to an aggregate  amount not to exceed the equiva-
lent of $5,000,000, may be procured under contracts awarded on the
basis of comparison of price  quotations  solicited from a list of
at least three suppliers  from  at least three different countries
eligible under the Guidelines in accordance with procedures accep-
table to the Bank.
Part D:   Review by the Bank of Procurement Decisions
1.   Review of invitations to bid and of proposed awards and final
contracts:
     (a)  With respect  to  each  contract  estimated  to cost the
equivalent of $1,000,000  or  more,  the  procedures  set forth in
paragraphs 2 and 4 of  Appendix  1  to the Guidelines shall apply.
Where payments for such contract are to be made out of the Special
Account, such procedures shall be  modified to ensure that the two
conformed copies of the contract  required  to be furnished to the
Bank pursuant to said paragraph  2  (d)  shall be furnished to the
Bank prior to the making of  the  first payment out of the Special
Account in respect of such contract.
     (b)  With respect to each  contract  not governed by the pre-
ceding paragraph, the procedures set  forth  in paragraphs 3 and 4
of Appendix 1 to  the  Guidelines  shall apply. Where payments for
such contract are to  be  made  out  of  the Special Account, such
procedures shall be  modified  to  ensure  that  the two conformed
Page  11
copies  of  the  contract  together  with  the  other  information
required to be furnished to the  Bank pursuant to said paragraph 3
shall be furnished to the Bank as  part of the evidence to be fur-
nished pursuant to paragraph 4 of Schedule 5 to this Agreement.
     (c)  The provisions of  the  preceding  subparagraphs (a) and
(b) shall not apply to contracts  on account of which the Bank has
authorized withdrawals  from  the  Loan  Account  on  the basis of
statements of expenditure.  Such  contracts  shall  be retained in
accordance with Section 4.01 (c) (ii) of this Agreement.
2.   The figure of 15% is  hereby  specified for purposes of para-
graph 4 of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines.
Section II.   Employment of Consultants
     Consultants'  services  shall  be  procured  under  contracts
awarded to consultants:  (A)  whose qualifications, experience and
terms and conditions of  employment  shall  be satisfactory to the
Bank; and (B) who shall  be selected in accordance with principles
and procedures  satisfactory  to  the  Bank  on  the  basis of the
"Guidelines for the Use of Consultants by World Bank Borrowers and
by The World Bank as  Executing  Agency"  published by the Bank in
August 1981.
                            SCHEDULE 5
                          Special Account
1.   For the purposes of this Schedule:
     (a)  the term "eligible Categories"  means Categories (1) and
(2) set forth in the table  in  paragraph  1 of Schedule 1 to this
Agreement;
     (b)  the term "eligible  expenditures"  means expenditures in
respect of the reasonable cost  of goods and services required for
the Project and to be  financed  out  of  the proceeds of the Loan
allocated from time to time  to  the eligible Categories in accor-
dance with the provisions of Schedule 1 to this Agreement; and
     (c)  the term "Authorized Allocation" means an amount equiva-
lent to $5,000,000 to be withdrawn from the Loan Account and depo-
sited in the Special Account  pursuant  to paragraph 3 (a) of this
Schedule.
2.   Except as the Bank shall otherwise agree, payments out of the
Special Account shall  be  made  exclusively for eligible expendi-
tures in accordance with the provisions of this Schedule.
3.   After the Bank has received  evidence satisfactory to it that
the Special  Account  has  been  duly  opened,  withdrawals of the
Authorized Allocation and subsequent  withdrawals to replenish the
Special Account may be made as follows:
     (a)  On the basis of  a  request  or requests by the Borrower
for a deposit or deposits which  add up to the aggregate amount of
the Authorized Allocation, the Bank  shall,  on behalf of the Bor-
rower, withdraw from the Loan  Account  and deposit in the Special
Account  such  amount  or  amounts  as  the  Borrower  shall  have
requested.
     (b)  The Borrower  shall  furnish  to  the  Bank requests for
replenishment of the Special Account at such intervals as the Bank
shall specify. On the basis of such requests, the Bank shall with-
draw from the Loan  Account  and  deposit into the Special Account
such amounts as shall be required to replenish the Special Account
with amounts not exceeding the amount  of payments made out of the
Special Account for eligible expenditures. All such deposits shall
be withdrawn by the Bank  from  the Loan Account under the respec-
tive  eligible  Categories,  and   in  the  respective  equivalent
amounts, as shall have  been  justified by the evidence supporting
Page  12
the request for such deposit  furnished pursuant to paragraph 4 of
this Schedule.
4.   For each payment  made  by  the  Borrower  out of the Special
Account for which the  Borrower requests replenishment pursuant to
paragraph 3 (b) of  this  Schedule,  the Borrower shall furnish to
the Bank, prior to or at  the time of such request, such documents
and other evidence as  the  Bank shall reasonably request, showing
that such payment was made for eligible expenditures.
5.   (a)  Notwithstanding the provisions  of  paragraph  3 of this
Schedule, no further  deposit  into  the  Special Account shall be
made by the Bank  when  either  of  the following situations first
arises:
          (i)  the Bank  shall  have  determined  that all further
               withdrawals should be made by the Borrower directly
               from the Loan Account in accordance with the provi-
               sions of Article  V  of  the General Conditions and
               paragraph (a) of Section 2.02 of this Agreement; or
         (ii)  the total unwithdrawn amount  of the Loan allocated
               to the eligible Categories, minus the amount of any
               outstanding special commitment  entered into by the
               Bank pursuant to Section 5.02 of the General Condi-
               tions with respect to  the  Project, shall be equal
               to the equivalent of twice the amount of the Autho-
               rized Allocation.
     (b)  Thereafter, withdrawal  from  the  Loan  Account  of the
remaining unwithdrawn amount of the Loan allocated to the eligible
Categories shall follow such procedures  as the Bank shall specify
by notice to the Borrower.  Such further withdrawals shall be made
only after and to the extent  that the Bank shall have been satis-
fied that all such  amounts  remaining  on  deposit in the Special
Account as of the date of  such  notice will be utilized in making
payments for eligible expenditures.
6.   (a)  If the Bank shall have  determined  at any time that any
payment out of the Special  Account  (i) was made for any expendi-
ture or in any amount not eligible pursuant to paragraph 2 of this
Schedule, or (ii) was not  justified  by the evidence furnished to
the Bank, the Borrower shall,  promptly upon notice from the Bank,
deposit into  the  Special  Account  (or,  if  the  Bank  shall so
request, refund to the Bank) an amount equal to the amount of such
payment or the portion  thereof  not  so eligible or justified. No
further deposit by the Bank into the Special Account shall be made
until the Borrower has made such deposit or refund.
     (b)  If the Bank shall have  determined  at any time that any
amount outstanding in the Special  Account will not be required to
cover further  payments  for  eligible  expenditures, the Borrower
shall, promptly upon notice from the Bank, refund to the Bank such
outstanding amount for crediting to the Loan Account.
                            SCHEDULE 6
               Principal Terms and Conditions of the
                  Subsidiary Financing Agreements
     Except as the Bank  and  the  Borrower shall otherwise agree,
the principal terms  and  conditions  set  forth  in this Schedule
shall apply for the purposes  of  Section  3.01 (c) of this Agree-
ment.
A.   Terms
1.   The aggregate amount to be  made available by the Borrower to
a Participating  Bank  under  its  respective Subsidiary Financing
Agreement (the Subsidiary Finance) shall  be the equivalent in the
currency of the Guarantor (determined as of the respective date or
dates of withdrawal from the  Loan  Account  or payment out of the
Page  13
Special Account) of the  value  of  the  currency or currencies so
withdrawn or paid out on account of the cost of goods and services
for the Sub-projects to  be  carried  out  under Sub-loans made by
such Participating Bank and to be  financed out of the proceeds of
the Loan allocated from time to time to Category (2).
2.   The Subsidiary  Finance  shall  be  charged  on the principal
amount thereof withdrawn and outstanding from time to time, inter-
est at a rate of not  less  than: (a) the rate of interest applic-
able from time to time  to  the  Loan  pursuant to Section 2.05 of
this Agreement; and (b) an  additional  charge equal to 20% of the
amounts to be paid pursuant to subparagraph (a) hereof.
3.   The Subsidiary Finance shall be  repaid in accordance with an
amortization schedule pursuant to  which each portion thereof uti-
lized in the making of a Sub-loan shall have a maturity calculated
to conform to the  amortization  schedule  applicable to such Sub-
loan.
4.   The right of a Participating Bank  to the use of the proceeds
of its respective Subsidiary Finance  shall be: (a) suspended upon
failure by such Participating Bank  to  perform any of its obliga-
tions under  its  respective  Subsidiary  Financing Agreement; and
(b) terminated if such right shall have been suspended pursuant to
paragraph (a) hereof for a continuous period of sixty days.
B.   Conditions
     A Subsidiary Financing Agreement  may  be entered into with a
banking institution, duly established and operating under the laws
of the Guarantor, which  the  Borrower  shall have determined, and
the Bank shall have agreed, that such institution:
1.   is operating pursuant to  an  official lending and investment
policy statement which the Bank and the Borrower shall have judged
acceptable, and has undertaken to maintain said policy statement;
2.   has a sound financial structure and the organization, manage-
ment, staff and other resources  required for the efficient carry-
ing out of its operations  and  affairs and has undertaken: (a) to
carry out the same in  accordance  with its lending and investment
policy statement, referred  to  in  paragraph  1  hereof, and with
sound financial  standards  and  practices,  and  (b)  to provide,
promptly as  needed,  the  funds,  facilities,  services and other
resources required for the  carrying  out  of its activities under
Part B of the Project;
3.   has developed and  undertaken  to:  (a)  carry out a training
program, acceptable to the Borrower  and the Bank, for the further
strengthening of  its  staff  capabilities  in  commercial banking
operations, project  appraisal  and  supervision  methodology, and
customer services requirements, and  (b)  employ, as may be deter-
mined necessary by the  Borrower, consultants with qualifications,
experience and terms of reference satisfactory to the Borrower, to
assist it in the carrying out  its  activities under Part B of the
Project;
4.   has adopted and undertaken to maintain suitable procedures to
enable it effectively to:
     (a)  (i) make  Sub-loans  to  Beneficiaries  for Sub-projects
under Part B of the Project  on  the basis of the criteria, proce-
dures and terms and  conditions  set  forth  in  the Annex to this
Schedule, (ii) exercise its rights  in  relation to each such Sub-
project in such  a  manner  as  to  protect  its interests and the
interests of the Bank  and  the  Borrower, comply with its obliga-
tions under  its  respective  Subsidiary  Financing  Agreement and
achieve the purposes  of  Part  B  of  the  Project, and (iii) not
assign, amend, abrogate or  waive  any of its agreements providing
for Sub-loans, or any provisions thereof, without the prior appro-
val of the Borrower,
Page  14
     (b)  carry out its activities  under  Part  B of the Project,
appraise Sub-projects, and  supervise,  monitor  and report on the
carrying out by Beneficiaries  of Sub-projects, including the pro-
curement of the goods  and  services  therefor, in accordance with
policies and procedures satisfactory to the Bank and the Borrower,
     (c)  exchange views with,  and  furnish  all such information
to, the Bank or the  Borrower,  as  may be reasonably requested by
the Bank or the Borrower, with regard to the progress of its acti-
vities under Part B of the Project, the performance of its obliga-
tions under  its  respective  Subsidiary  Financing Agreement, and
other matters relating to the  purposes  of Part B of the Project,
and
     (d)  promptly inform the Bank and  the Borrower of any condi-
tion which interferes or threatens  to interfere with the progress
of its activities under Part  B of the Project, the accomplishment
of the purposes  thereof,  or  the  performance of its obligations
under its respective Subsidiary Financing Agreement; and
5.   has undertaken to: (a) maintain records and accounts adequate
to reflect  in  accordance  with  sound  accounting  practices its
operations and financial conditions, (b) have its financial state-
ments (balance  sheets,  statements  of  income  and  expenses and
related statements) for  each  fiscal  year audited, in accordance
with  appropriate  auditing  principles  consistently  applied, by
independent auditors  acceptable  to  the  Bank  and the Borrower,
(c) furnish to the Bank,  through  the Borrower, as soon as avail-
able, but in any case not later  than five months after the end of
each such year: (i)  certified  copies of its financial statements
for such year as so audited, and  (ii) the report of such audit by
said auditors in such scope and detail as the Bank or the Borrower
shall have reasonably  requested,  and  (d)  furnish  to the Bank,
through  the  Borrower,  such  other  information  concerning said
records, accounts and financial  statements  as  well as the audit
thereof as the Bank or the  Borrower  shall from time to time rea-
sonably request.
                        ANNEX TO SCHEDULE 6
              Sub-loans under Part B of the Project:
                Criteria, Procedures and Principal
                       Terms and Conditions
     Subject to the provisions of  Section  3.01 (d) (iii) of this
Agreement, the criteria, procedures and principal terms and condi-
tions set forth in  this  Annex  shall  apply  for the purposes of
paragraph 4 (a) (i) of Part B of Schedule 6 to this Agreement.
1.   The principal amount of each Sub-loan shall be the equivalent
in the currency of  the  Guarantor  (determined  as of the date or
respective dates of withdrawals  from  the Loan Account or payment
out of the Special Account) of  the  value of the currency or cur-
rencies so withdrawn or paid out  on account of the cost of goods,
technical licenses,  consultants'  services  and  export marketing
activities (the goods  and  services)  for  the  Sub-project to be
carried out under such  Sub-loan  and  to  be  financed out of the
proceeds of the Loan allocated from time to time to Category (2).
2.   Sub-loans shall each be  made  by  a Participating Bank for a
period not exceeding ten  years,  inclusive  of a grace period not
exceeding three years, and on  other terms, including those relat-
ing to interest and  other  charges,  which are in accordance with
the lending and investment  policy statement of such Participating
Bank.
3.   Sub-loans shall be made only  to Beneficiaries who each shall
have:
     (a)  established, to  the  satisfaction  of the Participating
Bank making the Sub-loan, on  the basis of guidelines satisfactory
to the Bank, that: (i) it is creditworthy, (ii) its projected cash
Page  15
generation or equity increases shall be sufficient to enable it to
meet the estimated expenditures  required for the Sub-project, and
(iii) it is in a position to continue to maintain a debt to equity
ratio of not more than 65:35, a debt service coverage ratio of not
less than 1.5:1, and a ratio of current assets to current liabili-
ties of not less than 1.3:1;
     (b)  established and undertaken to maintain within its organ-
izational structure a separate marketing and sales unit with staff
and other resources and terms of reference acceptable to the Part-
icipating Bank on  the  basis  of  guidelines  satisfactory to the
Bank; and
     (c)  developed and undertaken to  carry  out a business plan,
including  an  export  trade  promotion  and  marketing  strategy,
acceptable to the Participating Bank  on the basis of criteria and
methodology satisfactory to the Bank, to increase its export earn-
ings, improve the management of  its current assets and strengthen
its capital structure over  a  period  of five years following its
receipt of the Sub-loan from the Participating Bank.
4.   Sub-loans under Part B (1) of  the Project shall be made only
for Sub-projects which are each:  (a) determined to be technically
feasible  and  designed  in  accordance  with  appropriate safety,
health and environmental standards  satisfactory  to the Bank; and
(b) calculated (i) to  generate  within  a  maximum period of five
years of its carrying  out  net  earnings in currencies other than
the currency of the Guarantor  amounting in the aggregate at least
to the aggregate equivalent  of  its  cost in such currencies, and
(ii) to have a financial  rate  of  return  of at least 18% and an
economic rate of return of  at  least  14%, all as shall be deter-
mined and calculated to the  satisfaction  of the Borrower and the
Participating Bank on the  basis  of  an  appraisal carried out in
accordance with guidelines satisfactory to the Bank.
5.   No expenditures for  goods  or  services  required for a Sub-
project shall be eligible for financing out of the proceeds of the
Loan unless the Bank  shall  have  authorized withdrawals from the
Loan Account in respect of  the  Sub-loan for such Sub-project and
such expenditures shall  have  been  made  not earlier than ninety
days prior to the date on  which  the Bank shall have received the
request and information required  under  paragraph 6 of this Annex
in respect of such Sub-loan.
6.   Each  request  by  the  Borrower  for  authorization  to make
withdrawals from the Loan Account  in  respect of a Sub-loan shall
contain (i) a summary description  of the Beneficiary and the Sub-
project, including a description  of  the expenditures proposed to
be financed out of the  proceeds  of  the Loan, and (ii) the terms
and  conditions  of  the   Sub-loan,  including  the  schedule  of
amortization therefor.
7.   Sub-loans shall be  made  on  terms whereby the Participating
Bank making such  Sub-loan  shall  obtain,  by written contract or
other appropriate legal  means,  rights  adequate  to protect such
Participating Bank's interests and those  of the Bank and the Bor-
rower, including, in the case  of  a  Sub-loan under Part B (1) of
the Project and, to the  extent  that  it shall be appropriate, in
the case of a Sub-loan under Part  B (2) of the Project, the right
to:
     (a)  require that each Beneficiary shall undertake to:
(i) carry out and operate  the  Sub-project with due diligence and
efficiency and in accordance with safety, health and environmental
standards, satisfactory to  the  Bank,  and  with sound technical,
financial and  managerial  standards  and  practices  and provide,
promptly as  needed,  the  funds  facilities  and  other resources
required for the purpose; (ii)  procure  the goods and services to
be financed out of the proceeds of the Loan in accordance with the
provisions of Schedule 4 to this Agreement, and use such goods and
services exclusively  in  the  carrying  out  of  the Sub-project;
Page  16
(iii) enable the Participating Bank,  the Bank and the Borrower to
inspect such goods and the  sites  and  works included in the Sub-
project, the  operation  thereof,  and  any  relevant  records and
documents; (iv) take out and maintain such insurance, against such
risks and in  such  amounts,  as  shall  be  consistent with sound
business practice, including,  without  limitation, such insurance
to cover hazards incident  to  the acquisition, transportation and
delivery of goods financed out of  the proceeds of the Loan to the
place of use of installation,  any indemnity thereunder to be made
payable in a currency freely  usable by the Beneficiary to replace
or repair such goods;  (v)  maintain  the  debt to equity and debt
service coverage ratios and the ratio of current assets to current
liabilities as specified in paragraph  3  (a) (iii) of this Annex;
(vi) carry out the business plan referred to in paragraph 3 (c) of
this Annex in such  manner  as  to achieve the objectives thereof;
(vii)  prepare  and  furnish   to   the  Participating  Bank,  for
forwarding to the Borrower as may  be requested by the Bank or the
Borrower, all such information as  the  Bank or the Borrower shall
reasonably   request   relating   to   the   foregoing,   to   its
administration, operations  and  financial  condition  and  to the
benefits to  be  derived  from  the  Sub-project;  and  (viii) (A)
maintain records and  accounts  adequate  to reflect in accordance
with  consistently  maintained   sound  accounting  practices  its
operations  and  financial  conditions,  (B)  have  its  financial
statements  (balance  sheets,  income  statements  and  cash  flow
statements) for  each  fiscal  year  audited,  in  accordance with
appropriate   auditing   principles   consistently   applied,   by
independent auditors  acceptable  to  the  Bank  and the Borrower,
(C) furnish  to  the  Participating  Bank,  for  forwarding to the
Borrower as may be requested by  the Bank or the Borrower, as soon
as available, but in any case not later than five months after the
end of each such year certified copies of its financial statements
for such year as so audited, and  the report of such audit by said
auditors, of such scope  and  in  such  detail  as the Bank or the
Borrower shall have reasonably  requested,  and (D) furnish to the
Participating Bank,  for  forwarding  to  the  Borrower  as may be
requested by the  Bank  or  the  Borrower,  such other information
concerning said  accounts,  financial  statements  and records, as
well as the audit thereof, as  the Bank or the Borrower shall from
time to time reasonably request; and
     (b)  suspend or terminate the right of the Beneficiary to the
use of the proceeds of the Sub-loan upon failure by such Benefici-
ary to perform its obligations  under its contract with the Parti-
cipating Bank.
