Document of
The World Bank
Report No: 17277-PH
PROJECT APPRAISAL DOCUMENT
ON A
PROPOSED LOAN
IN THE AMOUNT OF US50.0 MILLION EQUIVALENT
TO THE
REPUBLIC OF THE PHILIPPINES
FOR A
COMMUNITY-BASED RESOURCES MANAGEMENT PROJECT
February 26, 1998
Rural Development and Natural Resources Sector Unit
Philippines Country Management Unit
East Asia and Pacific Region



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
(As of November 17, 1997)
Currency Unit = Peso
US$1.00 = 34.05 pesos
I peso = US$0.029
FISCAL YEAR
Government: January I - December 31
IBRD: July I - June 30
ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS
BLGF                 -             Bureau of Local Govemment Finance
CBRMO                -             Community Based Resource Management Office
C-CBRMO              -             Central Community Based Resource Management Office
COs                  -             Community Organizers
DA                   -             Department of Agriculture
DA-BFAR              -             Department of Agriculture - Bureau of Fisheries and
Aquatic Resources
DBM                  -             Department of Budget and Management
DENR                 -             Department of Environment and Natural Resources
DILG                 -             Department of Interior and Local Government
DOF                  -             Department of Finance
ERDB                 -             Environmental Research and Development Bureau
FISFAP               -             Financial Information System for Foreign Assisted
Projects
GOP                  -             Government of the Philippines
LGA                  -             Local Government Academy
LGU                  -             Local Government Unit (provinces and municipalities)
MDF                  -             Municipal Development Fund
MDPs                 -             Municipal Development Projects
NEDA                 -             National Economic and Development Authority
NGAs                 -             National Government Agencies
NGOs                 -             Non-Government Organizations
PSSD                 -             Philippine Strategy for Sustainable Development
SRA                  -             Social Reform Agenda
TRC                  -             Technical Review Committee
Vice President: Jean-Michel Severino
Country Manager/Director: Vinay Bhargava
Sector Manager/Director: Geoffrey Fox
Task Team Leader/Task Manager: Frank Byamugisha



Philippines
Community-Based Resources Management Project
CONTENTS
Page No.
A. Project Development Objective ....................................................................2
1. Project development objective and key performance indicators ...............................                                     2
B. Strategic Context ....................................................................2
1. Sector-related CAS  goal supported by the project .....................................................                          2
2. Main sector issues and Government strategy .............................................................                          3
3. Sector issues to be addressed by the project and strategic choices ............................                                   3
C. Project Description  Summary ....................................................................4
1. Project components ..............................................................4
2. Key policy and institutional reforms supported by the project ..................................                                  5
3. Benefits and target population ..............................................................5
4. Institutional and implementation  arrangements ..........................................................                         5
D. Project Rationale ....................................................................6
1. Project alternatives considered and reasons for rejection ........................6.................                              6
2. Major related projects financed by the Bank and/or other development agencies .....    8
3. Lessons learned and reflected in proposed project design ..........................................                               9
4. Indications of borrower commitment and ownership .................................................                                9
5. Value added of Bank support in this project ..............................................................                        9
E. Summary Project Analyses ....................................................................9
1. Economic ..............................................................9
2. Financial .........                                                                                                              10
3. Technical .........                                                                                                              10
4. Institutional ...................................................................                                                11
5. Social ...................................................................                                                       11
6. Environmental assessment ...................................................................                                    12
7. Participatory approach ...................................................................                                      12
F. Sustainability  and Risks ...................................................................                                               12
1. Sustainability .............................................................                                                    12
2. Critical risks ..........                                                                                                        14
3. Possible controversial aspects .............................................................                                    14



Page No.
G. Main Loan Conditions .........................                                 15
1. Effectiveness conditions ..................                            15
2. Other ..................                                               15
H. Readiness for Implementation .........................                        15
I. Compliance with Bank Policies ........................                        16
Annexes
Annex la     Project Design Summary
Annex lb     Performance Indicators
Annex 2a     Detailed Project Description
Annex 2b     Eligibility Criteria and Financing Arrangements
Annex 2c     Structure and Functions of MDF and its Proposed Reforms
Annex 3.     Estimated Project Costs
Annex 4.     Cost-Benefit Analysis Summary
Annex 5.     Financial Summary
Annex 6.     Procurement and Disbursement Arrangements
Table A. .    Project Costs by Procurement Arrangements
Table B.     Thresholds for Procurement Methods and Prior Review
Table C.     Allocation of Loan Proceeds
Annex 7.     Project Processing Budget and Schedule
Annex 8.     Documents in Project File
Annex 9.     Statement of Loans and Credits
Annex 10.    Country at a Glance
Map IBRD 29354



Philippines
Community-Based Resources Management Project
Project Appraisal Document
East Asia and Pacific Regional Office
Philippines Country Management Unit
Date: February 26, 1998                            Task Team LeaderlTask Manager: Frank Byamugisha
Country Manager/Director Vinay Bhargava      Sector Manager/Director: Geoffrey Fox
Project ID:           Sector: Natural Resources    Program Objective Category: Reduction of Poverty and
PH-PE-34614           Management                   Environmental Degradation
Lending Instrument: Specific Investment Loan       Program of Targeted Intervention:  [1 Yes  [ ] No
Project Financing Data             [XI Loanr       [I Credit      [I Guarantee      [  Other [Specify]
For Loans/Credits/Others:
Amount (US$m/SDRm): US $50.0 million
Proposed Terms:                       [   Multicurrency          [X]  Single currency dollar
Grace period (years): 5          [   Standard Variable     [I   Fixed   [XI LIBOR-based
Years to maturity: 20
Commitment fee: 0.75%
Service charge: 0.0%
Financing plan (US$m):
Source                             Local             Foreign          Total
Central Government                                           4.2               0.0             4.2
Local Government                                             7.3               0.4              7.7
Beneficiaries                                                5.1               0.6              5.7
IBRD                                                        44.6               5.4             50.0
Total          61.1                6.4            67.5
Borrower: Republic of the Philippines
Responsible agency(ies): Department of Finance
Estimated disbursements (Bank FY/US$M):  1998      1999       2000      2001   2002   2003  2004
Annual 1.4        5.5         9.6       9.6    11.0   11.0  1.9
Cumulative 1.4        6.9        16.5       26.1   37.1   48.1  50.0
Project implementation period: April 1, 1998 to December 31, 2003.
Expected effectiveness date: July 31,1998 Closing date: June 30, 2004
OSD PAD Form: July 30, 1997



Page 2
A: Project Development Objective
1. Project development objective and key performance indicators (see Annex 1):
The main objective of the project is to reduce rural poverty and environmental degradation through support for locally
generated and implemented natural resource management projects. This would be done through: (a) enhancing the
capacity of low-income rural local govemment units (LGUs) and communities to plan, implement and sustain priority
natural resource management projects; (b) strengthening central government systems to transfer finance (as financial
intermediaries) and environmental technology, and improve the implementation of environmental policies; and (c)
provision of resources to LGUs to finance natural resource management projects.
Specific development objectives targeted by the project are: (a) improved management of upland and forestry resources
indicated by a reduction in deforestation, increased vegetation cover and reduced soil erosion; (b) improved coastal and
nearshore fisheries resources indicated by an expansion in mangroves and a reversal of the decline in catches of fisheries;
and (c) improved infrastructure in support of management of upland, coastal and nearshore natural resources as indicated
by improvemehts in rural roads, water supply andNanitation facilities, irrigation systems and other small scale
infrastructure. Progress in the achievement of these development objectives will be assessed periodically, including at
the mid-term review of the project and upon its completion.
Implementation performance will also be tracked by the borrower using key indicators that reflect the main project's
inputs and outputs. The main inputs are: (a) number of seconded and new staff; (b) use of TA and training resources; (c)
financial support for research and other assistance (e.g., land stewardship); and (d) the volume of loans made in support
of natural resources management subprojects. The expected project outputs are: (a) upland outputs including area
reforested and stabilized and hectarage of perennial crops; (b) increase in coastal and nearshore outputs including fish
sanctuaries, mangrove rehabilitation/expansion and reef management initiatives; (c) rural roads, potable water supply
systems and other small scale infrastructure rehabilitated or built; (d) an operational rural financing window for LGUs;
and (e) technical assistance and training outputs (measurable improvements in institutional capacities; type and number
of training sessions; and number of people trained). Implementation performance would be tracked regularly and
reported totheTechnical Review Corm-mitee (TRC) and the World Bank in semi-annual progress reports.
At the end of the project and as part of the ICR, the borrower will undertake a final review which will evaluate the
performance of the project and its intended impact of: (a) increasing income of at least 25 percent of beneficiary
households; and (b) improving management of natural resources as measured by increases in areas with reforestation,
vegetation cover, reefs, mangroves and other coastal resources. Details on project objectives, key development and
implementation performance indicators and arrangements for their monitoring and supervision are contained in Annex 1.
B: Strategic Context
1. Sector-related Country Assistance Strategy (CAS) goal supported by the project (see Annex 1):
CAS document number: Document No. 15362-PH   Date of latest CAS discussion: April 4, 1996. A CAS update will
be presented on March 24, 1998.
The ultimate objective of CAS for the Philippines is to promote sustainable development and help achieve a more rapid
reduction in poverty. Consistent with this ultimate objective, specific Bank intervention is guided by five objectives
including support for sustainable management of natural resources and protecting the environment. A fundamental
reversal of the degradation of upland and coastal areas will only occur as rural poverty is significantly diminished and
alternative livelihood and employment opportunities are available for the rural poor. This would need to be coupled with
a wider adoption of more sustainable farming techniques. The proposed project attempts to combine two elements that
have been demonstrated to have great potential for effectively improving natural resource management and reducing
poverty in rural Philippines: community-based resource management and decentralized financing, by the national



Page 3
government, of projects identified, prepared and implemented by local government units (LGUs; provinces and
municipalities) and their beneficiary communities.
Bank's involvement in the project has been guided by two principles: (a) comparative advantage; and (b) partnership with
Government and other donors. The Bank has considerable experience in the Philippines in supporting community-based
resource management projects, building on past projects. Similarly, it has accumulated experience over the last 13 years
in providing resources to LGUs in urban areas, through the Municipal Development Fund (MDF). It will build on the
experience of supporting urban LGUs through the MDF to extend support to rural areas (for details about the MDF, see
Annex 2c). It should be noted that municipalities are government units that make up provinces, cover both rural and
urban areas and are governed by elected officials.
2. Main sector issues and Government strategy:
There are three key issues that pose a challenge to rural development: low growth of the rural economy; high levels of
rural poverty; and degradation of natural resources. Agricultural growth decelerated from 5.8 percent per annum in 1970-
80 to 2.1 percent per annum in 1980-89 and 2.2 percent in 1990-94. The low growth in agriculture, coupled with limited
employment opportunities in non-farm activities, have resulted in a high incidence of poverty--50 percent in rural areas
(compared to 36 percent in 1994 for the country as a whole) where half of the country's population of 67.5 million live.
Many of the rural people live in upland areas, largely dependent on low-input shifting agriculture, with a high incidence
of severely degraded areas and the highest poverty incidence in the country.
The Government of the Philippines (GOP) has targeted sustainable development and poverty alleviation as two key areas
of focus of the administration. To achieve these objectives, the Philippine Strategy for Sustainable Development (PSSD)
and the Social Reform Agenda (SRA) were adopted to address environmental protection and rehabilitation concerns and
to focus on poverty reduction efforts. The proposed project constitutes one of the means to achieve the twin objectives of
reducing poverty and the degradation of natural resources.
3. Sector issues to be addressed by the project and strategic choices:
This project would focus on addressing the two inter-related issues of rural poverty and degradation of natural resources.
The issue of low growth in the rural economy will not be addressed directly by the project; it would be targeted by
subsequent operations. The proposed project would support the reduction of rural poverty and degradation of natural
resources through:
* promoting improved management of natural resources and providing a more secure livelihood for the rural poor;
* providing financial and technical assistance to LGUs and beneficiary communities in the proper management of
natural resources; and
* strengthening the capacity of the Department of Finance to transfer resources to LGUs to finance community-based
investments.
Experiences acquired from the Central Visayas Regional Project (CVRP, Ln. 2360-PH) have clearly demonstrated that it
is possible to simultaneously reduce poverty and degradation of natural resources (see Section D).



Page 4
C: Project Description Summary
1. Project components (see Annex 2 for a detailed description and Annex 3for a detailed cost breakdown):
Component                           Categorv        Cost Incl.     % of      Bank-      % of Bank-
Continaencies    Total    financing    financing
(US$M)                  (US$M)   _
Subprojects in Natural Resources Management              Physical             46.9       69.5        37.2         79.3
Subprojects, involving demand-driven natural resources
management investments, would be financed, in the form of
grants and loans, provided through a new rural window of the
Municipal Development Fund (MDF) to the LGUs. Eligible
subprojects would fall under three categories: (i) upland
agriculture and forestry; (ii) coastal resources and nearshore
fisheries; and (iii) small rural infrastructure and livelihood
projects related to these natural resource investments. Grant
assistance would be given to LGUs to support preparation of
eligible subprojects.
Planning and Implementation Support to LGUs Planning    Institution            6.7        9.9         3.1         46.3
and implementation support for LGUs and their communities  building
(barangays) in the way of training provided by the Local
Government Academy (LGA) of the Department of Interior
and Local Government (DILG) and by Community Organizers
(COs). Specific support would include costs of training
including training materials, equipment and allowances, and
payments to trainers.
Initiating an MDF Rural Window and Project              Institution            7.4        10.9        4.9         66.2
Management Support of a project management office -     building and
CBRMO - which will be incorporated into the MDF's rural  project
window after a transitional period of 3 years. This rural  management
window will channel funds to low income LGUs for financing
rural development investments, including the CBRM project
activities. Support would include: (i) equipment; (ii) salaries
of contracted staff; (iii) incremental costs of staff seconded
from other agencies; (iv) technical assistance; (iv) operating
costs of the MDF rural window and CBRM central and
satellite offices; and (v) MIS system.
Environmental Technology Transfer and Policy            Physical and           6.5         9.6        4.8         73.8
Implementation Department of Environment and Natural    institution
Resources (DENR) and Department of Agriculture (DA)      building
would be assisted to transfer natural resources management
technology to LGUs and improve management of
environmental policies, particularly policies of land tenure
access and security. Specific activities would include: (i)
survey and mapping for resource access and tenure certificates;
(ii) technology training; (iii) technical assistance; (iv) policy
studies to assist DENR and DA in developing improved land
access and tenure instruments to enable communities to
acquire long term leases of upland forest areas and coastal
land; (v) technology packaging and dissemination; and (vi)
protection of communaly owned natural resources.
Total          67.5      100         50.0          74.1



Page 5
2. Key policy and institutional reforms supported by the project:
The project supports implementation of two reform agendas of the Government: (i) the Philippines Strategy for
Sustainable Development which is focused on environmental rehabilitation and protection of vulnerable areas including
the uplands and coastal areas; and (ii) the Social Reform Agenda which aims to refocus the government's poverty
reduction efforts.
3. Benefits and targetpopulation:
Overall expected benefits include the sustainable enhancement of the environmental, social and productive conditions in
selected areas of the Philippines through interventions initially confined to Regions V, VII, VIII and XIII. These regions
contain some of the poorest provinces, such as Masbate (V with a rural poverty incidence of 83.4%), Agusan del Sur
(XIII, 70.8%) and Sorsogon (V, 68.3%). Project investments will focus primarily on the uplands and coastal areas, where
poverty incidence is highest. For instance, fishermen and forestry workers, at 76.7% and 82.6% respectively of the rural
population, are among the poorest in rural Philippines. Besides, poverty incidence in the uplands is, at 61%, considerably
higher than the rural average of 54% (data from: "Philippines Rural Growth and Poverty Alleviation: The Next Steps",
World Bank, 1996). Another important benefit from the project is the establishment of an MDF rural window which
would serve not only the proposed project but also other future projects in low income LGUs country-wide. Similarly,
the institutional capacity built bottom up in development planning and implementation would serve not only the proposed
project but all future development endeavors. It should be noted that, while the project would initially focus on four
regions, its coverage would be extended to other regions, based on experience gained from the regions covered in the first
round.
Beneficiar Targeting: The total rural population in Regions V, VII, VIII and XIII is around 1.8 million families (or over
10 million people) of which around 0.9 million families have incomes below the poverty line. The project targets
initially around 120 municipalities (40% of over 300 municipalities), with a total population of more than 700, 000
people. Virtually all of the LGUs are in the poorest classes of municipalities (Class IV, V, VI). Direct beneficiaries
include (a) upland farmers, (b) fishermen and (c) other rural people that would benefit from the improvement of barangay
roads and other infrastructure investments. The exact number of beneficiaries depends on the specific type of
intervention, but assuming that around 175-280 target farmer and fisherman families benefit per sub-project, a total of
around 27,300 families or 136,500 people are served directly. Barangay roads are eligible under the project, when they
service at least 300 people per km and cost no more than US$ 10,000 per km. If we assume that around 30% of the
project onlending would be allocated for improving barangay roads as part of the upland and/or coastal resources
subprojects, a minimum of 300,000 people will benefit. Beside these benefiting families, environmental improvements
will also serve indirect beneficiaries downstream.
4. Institutional and implementation arrangements (the rationale is explained in Section D below while details are in
Annex 2 and the Operational Manual):
About 70 percent of the project funds would be channeled to LGUs, through the MDF, as a mix of grants and loans to
finance natural resources management subprojects, generated and implemented by the LGUs and their communities. The
rest of the project funds would support: (i) the financial intermediation functions of the MDF; (ii) project management
by the CBRM office (CBRMO); (iii) the transfer to LGUs of natural resources management technology by DENR and
DA; and (iv) planning and implementation support to LGUs by DILG and NGOs.
The project would be implemented largely by LGUs, with the Department of Finance (DOF) being the lead executing
agency and the financial intermediary through the MDF. For the first three years of the project when the MDF will be
undergoing restructuring, with support from the Bank-supported LOGOFIND Project, the project will be managed by a
new central CBRM office (with satellite regional offices) which will be absorbed by a new rural window of the
restructured MDF by the end of the third year of the project. In addition to undertaking project management, the CBRM
office will be responsible also for promoting, appraising and supervising subprojects. The MDF would be responsible for
the disbursement of project funds, channeled through it, and accounting for these funds. An ad hoc Technical Review



Page 6
Committee (TRC), chaired by a representative of DOF and composed of representatives of national agencies that make up
the MDF Policy Governing Board (plus DENR and DA), would coordinate project activities and approve subprojects for
funding through the MDF. Final approval of sub-grant/loan packages would be carried out by the chairman of the MDF
Policy Governing Board, on the basis of delegated authority from the Board (see Annexes 2b and 2c for a detailed
description of the structure of MDF and arrangements for approving subproject loan packages). MDF will make World
Bank funds available to LGUs on the basis of a mix of loans and grants. The loan component will carry existing terms
and conditions of MDF lending (to LGUs), which are satisfactory to the Bank, until a new MDF lending policy has been
adopted, based on recommendations of a Bank-supported study currently underway (see Annex 2b for the details of the
lending terms and conditions).
While the MDF would retain the responsibilities for project disbursement and consolidation of all the accounts and
expenses under the project, the CBRM office would be responsible for all the other project management responsibilities
including project planning and monitoring, accounting and procurement, promotion and supervision. The participating
LGUs and NGAs would carry out their own procurement and accounting for the funds they receive from the project. The
CBRM office, headed by a Project Manager, would report to the Undersecretary of Finance, through a Senior Official of
DOF to be designated as Program Director.
The Local Government Academy (LGA) of DILG would be responsible for implementing the training for LGUs under
the planning and implementation component while the DENR and DA would be responsible for implementing the
component for assisting the transfer of natural resources management technology to LGUs and improving the
management of environmental policies.
The Borrower would ensure that a financial management system would be established and maintained, including records
and accounts and the preparation of financial statements, all in accordance with accounting standards acceptable to the
Bank, consistently applied, adequate to reflect the project's operations and financial condition, and to register separately
the operations, resources and expenditures for and in connection with the carrying out of the project. Accordingly,
separate accounts would be kept by all the agencies and LGUs participating in the project in accordance with sound
accounting practices. The project accounts, together with the Special Account and Statements of Expenditures (SOEs)
would be audited annually by independent auditors; the audit reports would be furnished to the Bank by the MDF within
6 months after the close of the Government's fiscal year. Technical assistance would be provided to build capacity
necessary to achieve the required standards of financial management (see Annex 6).
Monitoring of project execution will be undertaken by the CBRM office (and by the MDF after three years when it has
been absorbed by it) which will provide the Bank with semi-annual progress reports not later than August 15 and
February 15 of each year, with the first one submitted by August 15, 1998; it will be responsible also for contributing to
the project's Implementation Completion Report within six months after the closing date of the loan. A mid-term review
of the project would be jointly undertaken by the Borrower and the Bank by December 31 , 2000. It would focus on
reviewing: (i) progress in building institutional capacity to prepare, appraise and implement subprojects; (ii) evolving
demand from LGUs for project funds and whether any action is required to change lending terms and eligibility criteria;
(iii) implementation performance and development impact of the project based on performance indicators; and (iv) any
need for adjusting project design in light of the findings of the review.
D: Project Rationale
1. Project alternatives considered and reasons for rejection:
First, there was consideration for designing a follow-up project to the Bank-funded CVRP with a view to applying its
approach of demonstrating and introducing appropriate technology for natural resources management. Such a project had
been intended to cover one or perhaps two regions in which project funds would have been transferred to the LGUs as a
grant. The targeted regions would have managed and implemented the project, drawing support, if needed, from national



Page 7
technical agencies, like DENR and DA. This was rejected on the ground that project design lacked in-built mechanisms
of continuing, operating and maintaining project investments, upon completion of the project.
After rejecting the project design alternative of a region-centered, grant-giving project, the current project design was
adopted. The key features of focusing the project on natural resources management and, through that, reducing rural
poverty and degradation of natural resources were retained, as poverty and degradation of natural resources are closely
related. It is necessary to tackle poverty to achieve improved natural resources management. In fact, a recent OED audit
of the CVRP (Philippines: Central Visayas Regional Project, forthcoming) found that the project was able to reduce
degradation of natural resources while it also raised the incomes of project beneficiaries. The proposed project has
adopted also the approach of involving local communities and governments in planning and implementing subprojects in
the area of natural resources management. This is in line with the government's decentralization policy and was
necessary to enhance project sustainability.
Another important design feature of the proposed project is that it would extend financing to LGUs in the form of a mix
of loans and grants, contrary to past practices where project funds for rural development were transferred to LGUs largely
as grants. The MDF, which was established in 1984 as part of DOF to channel funding to LGUs, will be used to lend
project funds to LGUs and to collect loan repayments. LGUs and their communities will be required to contribute equity
to the project (for details about the MDF and the financing arrangements, see Annexes 2b and 2c). The rationale for
providing funds to LGUs and communities at a significant cost is the need to ensure local commitment to project
investments and, consequently, to the operation and maintenance of those investments. Any concerns that the cost of
project funds could reduce the interest of LGUs in the project were addressed through a demand assessment exercise
which was carried out as part of project preparation. Through the demand assessment exercise, it was established that
there was adequate demand among LGUs to borrow project funds on the terms and conditions that have been proposed
for the project. The LGUs have submitted written expressions of interest in participating in the project, and some of them
have already submitted project proposals that are being processed. Nevertheless, the cost of project funds and their
affordability by LGUs cannot be fully comprehended until during implementation. As a safeguard, the project has been
designed in such a way that, should the cost of the project funds become too high for LGUs, the grant content would be
carefully adjusted to reduce the gap between demand and supply of project funds. There is also a safeguard on potential
defaults by LGUs: in the event some LGUs fail to raise funds to voluntarily repay project loans, their revenue transfers
from the central government would be intercepted to meet their loan obligations, a practice that has been used in the past.
Although the proposed project is basically a rural development project, it would be managed by DOF to ensure cohesive
and effective management of the various aspects of the project: DOF would combine financial intermediation with other
aspects of project management. But technical support for project implementation would be provided by the national
technical agencies, under the coordination of a Technical Review Committee headed by DOF (see Section C, para. 4, for
details about institutional arrangements).



Page 8
2. Major relatedprojectsfinanced by the Bank and/or other development agencies (complete4 ongoing andplanned):
Sector issue                        Project            Latest Supervision (Form 590)
Ratings
(Bank-fnance Droects onlv)
Bank-financed                                                        Implementation   Development
Progress (IP)   Objective (DO)
* introduction of appropriate technology for  Central Visayas Regional     S               S
natural resources management             Project (completed, ICR
rating)
* capacity improvement of a key national agency  Environmental Sector      S               S
(DENR) to provide services and technical  Adjustment Loan (ENR-
support to local government units (LGUs) and   SECAL Ln. 3360-PH)
strengthening the capacity of LGUs in natural
resources management
* supporting the establishment of the Municipal   1st, 2nd, and 3rd Municipal  S           S
Development Fund (MDF) as a revolving fund   Development Projects (Ln.
providing urban municipalities with long term   2435-PH; Ln. 3146-PH; and
development fmancing and strengthening of    Ln. 3455-PH) -- MDP I and
local technical and financial capabilities  II completed (ICR rating)
X this proposed project will support the   Local Government Finance   Not Applicable  Not Applicable
restructuring of the MDF into a multi-window    and Development Project
financing entity and the expansion of the  (LOGOFIND, FY99)
operations of its urban window from high to
low income LGUs and to supporting
environmental and social investments.
IP/DO Ratings: HS (Highly Satisfactory), S (Satisfactory), U (Unsatisfactory), HU (Highly Unsatisfactory)



Page 9
3. Lessons learned and reflected in the project design:
The success of the three Municipal Development Projects (MDPs) in developing the MDF to support decentralized
development financing of urban municipalities has been a source of motivation for the proposed project to support the
opening of a rural window for financing the development initiatives of rural municipalities. While the MDPs have
provided the framework for decentralized financing, the CVRP has provided valuable lessons for the transfer of
appropriate technology for managing natural resources and for mobilising communities in planning and implementing
natural resource management projects. A performance audit of CVRP by OED (draft March 24, 1997) concluded that the
main lessons learned from it were that improving natural resources management is as much an institutional as a technical
problem and that this must involve a dynamic process of change and development. The prerequisites identified were: (a)
appropriate technologies; (b) an appropriate policy and legal framework; (c) adequate local decision making powers; and
(d) beneficiaries must acquire the ability to operate within this framework by receiving, from the project, the required
managerial and technical skills. Project design incorporates these lessons through: (i) decentralization of project
planning, financing and implementation; (ii) the provision for explicit mechanisms of transfering technology and skills;
and (iii) support for an appropriate legal and policy framework particularly for enhancing access of the rural people to
land tenure and security. Another lesson from the CVRP which has influenced project design is the need to ensure
funding to sustain project investments. This has been incorporated in the project by: (i) requiring from LGUs and
beneficiary communities significant contributions of equity to project financing; and (ii) passing on funds to LGUs in the
form of a mix of loans and grants as opposed to pure grants.
4. Indications of borrower commitment and ownership:
The proposed project constitutes one of the means to achieve the GOP's twin goals of sustainable development and
poverty alleviation. It fits into the Philippine Strategy for Sustainable Development and the Social Reform Agenda
adopted to address environmental protection and rehabilitation concerns and to focus on poverty reduction efforts. The
GOP has strong ownership of the project as indicated by: (a) a commitment to establish a rural MDF window for
financing LGUs; (b) preparation of an operational manual setting out detailed criteria, procedures and conditions for
LGUs' participation; (c) stated intentions of using the project as a pilot and model for future rural development projects;
(d) submission of written requests from LGUs to participate in the project; and (e) development of a pipeline of
subprojects before the project is appraised.
S. Value added of Bank support in this project:
Bank's involvement in the project has been guided by two principles: (a) comparative advantage; and (b) partnership with
Government and other donors. The Bank has considerable experience in the Philippines in supporting community-based
resource management projects, building on past projects. Similarly, it has accumulated experience in providing resources
to LGUs in urban areas, through the MDF. It will build on the experience of supporting urban LGUs, through the MDF,
to extend support to rural areas.
E: Summary Project Analysis (Detailed assessments are in the project file, see Annex 8)
1. Economic (supported by Annex 4):
Cost-Benefit Analysis: NPV=US$ 45.6 million; ERR= 28%
Economic returns will result from the LGU subprojects. As these are demand driven and evolving over time, it is
difficult to predict the exact rates of return at this stage. Besides, many of the benefits are intangible, stemming from
long term environmental improvements in and outside the project areas, implying that rates of returns are necessarily
conservative. The Econornic Rates of Return (ERR) for possible CBRM packages are based on farm models (see Project
Files). The overall ERR for the project is estimated at 28%. Coastal subpackages have an estimated ERR of 23% and
upland packages an ERR of 33%. The rates of return include expenses for community organizers and training as well as
the overhead from supporting components (around 80% of the other components' total project costs). This was



Page 10
calculated on the basis of representative packages for the uplands (including microwatershed, agroforestry and tree
plantation) and the coastal area (mangrove rehabilitation, marine sanctuaries, artificial reefs, etc.). The packages also
include livelihood support through poultry and cattle production, mussel culture, miracle holes, etc. as well as small scale
infrastructure (barangay roads and potable water supply systems) when undertaken as part of natural resources
management.
Sensitivity analysis: The estimated rate of return is relatively robust. The switching value (14%) is arrived at with a
combined decrease in benefits and increase of investment costs of 25% (see Annex 4 for analysis).
2. Financial (see Annex 5): NPV= Not Applicable; FRR= 11-73 % (where defined for individual farm models)
The overall financial rate of return (FRR) of the project's natural resources and income generation activities has been
estimated at 11 to 73%, where defined. Analysis shows that the Net Incremental Income is high compared to Investment
and Incremental Recurrent Costs (see Annex 4 for detailed analysis). Poor upland farmers and coastal fishermen are the
prime beneficiaries of the project interventions. For instance, a fanner targeted for micro-watershed development could
see his income more than double. Besides net income, the farmers and fishermen would benefit through improved
training, better organization and greater linkages with the outside world. In all cases, except artificial reefs, the financial
indicators are satisfactory. Artificial reefs, if selected have other benefits, such as creation of social group formation, that
would also help the mangrove replantation and fish sanctuaries, and could therefore be acceptable, as long as measures
are taken to combat overfishing.
Fiscal impact:
Under the Project, LGUs apply for sub-project funding through the MDF. The fiscal impact on the LGUs depend
crucially on: (i) the grant/loan/equity mix; and (ii) the financing terms (duration, grace period, interest rate). Debt-service
calculations, shown in Annex 4, suggest that the financial consequences for sub-projects can well be borne by the LGUs
given their development fund allocations and given the other means that LGUs have of raising revenue and servicing the
debt.
Loan repayments by LGUs will be enhanced through at least three measures. First, building on the experiences gained
through three Bank-funded MDP projects (which supported the development of the MDF), the Bureau of Local
Government Finance (BLGF) has acquired adequate competence in assessing and judging the creditworthiness of LGUs.
That competence would be applied by BLGF to weed out LGUs that are not creditworthy for borrowing from the
proposed project. Second, a very tight appraisal criteria has been developed for selection of subprojects; this criteria
would be applied by a cadre of staff to be hired from the ranks of those that have acquired experience from past projects.
And third, in the event that some LGUs do not repay their loans on time, their IRA allocations (development budget
allocations from the central government) would be intercepted, as has happened in the past, to meet those loan
obligations.
3. Technical:
The project is technically sound, given that:
*  the basic constraints to improved natural resources management and the current living conditions of the rural poor
have been adequately diagnosed and widely recognized; and innovative and viable operational mechanisms have been
selected to address the identified constraints;
*  proven packages of appropriate technologies are readily available to project beneficiaries; and
*  support services from appropriate agencies have been identified and will be further strengthened.
The compliance of individual beneficiary subprojects with adequate technical and operational standards would be
ensured by a combination of factors, including technical support in identification, preparation and implementation of



Page 1 1
proposals as well as the establishment of a comprehensive monitoring and evaluation system, based on physical and
technical audit of a representative sample of approved subprojects.
4. Institutional:
a. Executing agencies: Department of Finance (DOF)
b. Project management:
For the first three years, the project will be managed by a central CBRMO, with satellite offices in the regions, and
implemented by LGUs. It will be coordinated by an ad hoc Technical Review Committee (TRC), that would report to the
MDF Policy Governing Board. After three years, the project's management and coordination functions would be taken
over by a restructured MDF whose restructuring is being supported under the Bank's LOGOFIND Project. CBRMO
would then be incorporated into the restructured MDF. Project implementation would remain in the hands of the LGUs.
The institutional arrangements underpinning the project are sound. Project design includes built-in mechanisms to ensure
effective project management, coordination, implementation and sustainability. First, to ensure effective project
management and the delivery of financial services to rural LGUs, the project supports the opening of a rural window of
the MDF (with interim central and satellite CBRM offices), with local branches to bring services closer to the
communities. Second, to ensure effective coordination of the national agencies involved in the project, an ad hoc
Technical Review Committee (TRC) would be established to coordinate the project activities of these agencies and to
operate as a clearing house for inter-agency problems. Third, to ensure that LGUs have the required technical know-how
to implement the project, the project provides for a technical back-up from NGAs, particularly from DENR and DA.
Fourth, to ensure ownership of the project by the LGUs and their communities, the project provides for LGUs to
generate, plan and implement the subprojects as well as contribute significantly to their financing. Fifth, the project
invests heavily in building the capacities of LGUs, through training and TA, in development planning and
implementation to ensure institutional sustainability. TA and training will also be made available to strengthen LGUs in
carrying out project procurement and accounting as they are particularly weak in carrying out these functions. Sixth, to
ensure that communities develop the confidence for long term investment in sustainable management of natural
resources, the project provides support to surveying and mapping plus other activities necessary for the provision of land
tenure access and security, and supports institutional mechanisms of resolving claims of use rights over natural resources.
5. Social:
The project targets the LGUs in the poorest classes of municipalities (Class IV, V, VI). The benefits will be distributed
to all members of the households but the project will have a greater impact on women. It is widely accepted that the
weight of poverty falls heavily on women; in poor households they often shoulder more of the workload than men, are
less educated, and have less access to remunerative activities. The earlier CVRP project had demonstrated the increased
access to resources for women This project will ensure that this access continues and will take additional steps to widen
the scope of resources.
Due to the demand-driven nature of the project and the planning at the barangay and/or sub-barangay level, beneficiaries
are expected to be fully involved in taking charge of the development of their own community. The COs will also help to
ensure that the voice of all groups will be represented in the community plans. Information from the social and economic
profiles as well as gender analysis obtained for each participating community at the beginning of the sub-project will be
used to help communities plan their projects so that all will benefit and no one group will be unfairly burdened. Extra
attention in planning and implementation will be provided to communities with indigenous groups as set forth in the
Guidelines contained in the Manual of Operations. The government department for indigenous affairs and the Office of
the Southern Cultural Communities will be consulted and all efforts will be made to recruit and train COs from the same
cultural groupings.



Page 12
It is not anticipated but should it occur, land acquisition, demolition of structures and displacement of persons would be
kept to a minimum. Sub-project proposals that would require demolishing houses or acquiring productive land would be
carefully reviewed and their adverse impacts minimized through alternative designs and/or alignments. Proposals that
require more than minor expansion along rights of way would be reviewed carefully and the affected persons
appropriately compensated according to the guidelines for compensation and/or asset acquisition incorporated in the
Manual of Operations and a resettlement plan (where necessary) approved by the Bank. The guidelines conform to the
requirement of OD 4.30 on Resettlement.
6. Environmental assessment: Environmental Category    [I A   [X] B   [IC
The project is expected to yield major positive and direct environmental benefits, particularly in: (a) improved
management of upland and forestry resources indicated by a reduction in deforestation, increased vegetation cover and
reduced soil erosion; (b) improved coastal and nearshore fisheries resources indicated by an expansion in mangroves and
a reversal of the decline in catches of fisheries; and (c) improved infrastructure in support of management of upland,
coastal and nearshore natural resources as indicated by improvements in rural roads, water supply and sanitation
facilities, small irrigation systems and other small scale infrastructure. The project is also expected to create awareness
while at the same time educating beneficiaries on the proper management of natural resources which would benefit the
environment as well as provide a sustainable source of income.
The environmental guidelines that would guide the screening of subprojects would be incorporated into the Manual of
Operations which would be reviewed and cleared by the Bank prior to loan effectiveness. Incentives are built into the
eligibility criteria for subprojects: beneficiaries will get a larger share of grant funding if their proposals contain more
social and environmental activities. These principles are all clearly specified in the Manual of Operations. GOP has
national and provincial legislation which apply to the project areas and provides adequate environmental safeguards
which meet Bank requirements.
7. Participatory approach:
Primary beneficiaries and other affected groups:
The project framework is to promote community-based planning, implementation and management of natural resource
subprojects which would have both short and long term gains. The emphasis at the beneficiary level, therefore, is to
develop strong community action which would realize these gains. Community organizing for CBRM deals with the
social preparation and community organizing processes which are necessary as soon as project requests from
municipalities are provided with the green light to develop detailed project proposals. COs, who will be provided by
municipalities, will be trained by the project to work with communities to identify their needs, priorities, strengths,
opportunities and resources to prepare and implement viable subprojects. The communities are linked to municipalities
through barangays which are the lowest administrative units of govemment. Community development plans, prepared
with the assistance of COs, would be reviewed and endorsed by barangay councils; thereafter, they would be built into
municipality plans and projects and then considered for financing under the project. The COs will be fully engaged in
data collection and conduct of social profiles of the community, gender analysis, facilitation of participation and
collective action, leadership identification and training, group formation and/or strengthening, and monitoring of project
activities. The pool of COs would be drawn from existing (and qualified) municipal staff or hired by the municipalities
from local NGOs.
F: Sustainability and Risks
1. Sustainability:
Project sustainability would be enhanced by at least three actions. First, as the LGUs would be borrowing funds to
implement their projects and since they and the communities would be contributing equity to the subprojects, their sense
of ownership is expected to be strong, thereby enhancing the chances of maintaining and sustaining the investments. This



Page 13
sense of ownership and commitment is further strengthened by the fact that the subprojects will be generated, planned
and implemented by the beneficiary LGUs and communities. Second, the project would support the development of
institutional and human resource capacity that would continue project operations after the project is completed. Third,
project implementation will involve line agencies which should support the project operations once the project is
completed.



Page 14
2. Critical Risks (reflecting assumptions in thefourth column of Annex 1):
Risk                        Risk Rating        Risk Minimization Measure
From Outputs to Objective
Major changes in weather that can affect the         M         Project support for improved natural
sustainability of upland and coastal investments              resources management increases the
resilience of natural resource
investments against adverse weather
changes thereby enhancing agricultural
and coastal productivity and reducing
environmental degradation.
Lack of LGU and beneficiary commitment to O&M        M         Financing from the MDF is conditioned
on provision of equity by LGUs (and
their communities) which increases their
commitment to O&M.
From Comnonents to Outputs
Inadequate demand from LGUs for sub-loans for        M         Preliminary demand assessment was
financing non-revenue generating subprojects                   made as part of project preparation, and
sub-loan terms were refined to reflect
this demand. In addition, LGUs
submitted written expressions of interest
to borrow project funds. As a safeguard,
there is a commitment to further adjust
the grant content of the financing
package during project implementation
if demand is found inadequate.
Inadequate and untimely provision of counterpart funds  M      Project funding is already included in
for the project                                                FY98 national budget while funding
from the MDF to LGUs is conditioned
on up-front equity contribution from the
LGUs.
Changes in LGUs, related to changes in elected       M         Project supports capacity building at
officials, every three years could reduce the capacity of      LGU and community level, with TA and
LGUs to implement the project                                 training, to enhance institutional
sustainability
Overall Risk Rating    M
Risk Rating - H (High Risk), S (Substantial Risk), M (Modest Risk), N (Negligible or Low Risk)
3. Possible Controversial Aspects:
Some LGUs might not like the idea of borrowing funds to finance non-revenue generating projects, like natural resources
management subprojects, being proposed for support under the proposed project.



Page 15
G: Main Loan Conditions
1. Effectiveness Conditions:
*  establishment of the ad hoc TRC and CBRM Office, and designation of the Project Manager, Procurement Specialist
and Project Accountant for the latter whose qualifications and experience are satisfactory to the Bank;
* Execution of Memoranda of Agreement between DOF and participating national government agencies (DENR, DA
and DILG) which shall include the work plan for 1998; and
*  adoption by TRC of a Manual of Operations that is acceptable to the Bank.
2. Other Conditions:
*  the MDF would approve only those subprojects that meet the eligibility criteria contained in the Manual of
Operations that is satisfactory to the Bank;
*  no change would be made to the Manual of Operations without the Bank's approval;
*  an annual work plan for a training program, to be canied out by DILG and any other government agencies, would be
provided to the Bank for its review by September 30 of each year beginning 1998; upon receiving and incorporating
the comments from the Bank, the Borrower would implement the plan during January to December of the following
year;
*  an annual work plan for implementing environmental technology activities by DENR and DA would be provided to
the Bank for its review by September 30 of each year beginning 1998; upon receiving and incorporating the
comments from the Bank, the Borrower would implement the plan during January to December of the following year;
- audit reports of project accounts, the Special Account and Statements of Expenditures (SOEs) would be furnished to
the Bank not later than six months after the close of the government's fiscal year;
*  submission of semi-annual progress reports (by February 15 and August 15 of each year, with the first one submitted
by August 15, 1998) and necessary documentation for the mid-term review (December 31, 2000), the implementation
completion report and the monitoring of implementation and development impact in accordance with key indicators
agreed with the Bank;
  execution of a subproject loan agreement, satisfactory to the Bank, between DOF and each LGU seeking funds from
the MDF; and
*  establishment of an MIS system (a computerized project management and monitoring system) not later than
December 31, 1998.
H. Readiness for Implementation
The following measures have been undertaken to enhance readiness for project implementation when the loan becomes
effective:
*  5 subprojects, out of those already submitted, have been prepared and are being processed for approval and financing
under retro-active financing;
*  a draft Manual of Operations has already been prepared, and the operational procedures, contained in it, are being
tested and refined using the 5 subprojects that have been prepared;
* an MDF Policy Governing Board is already in place to approve subproject loan packages;
*  A firm has been hired to assist DOF undertake pre-implementation activities until June 30, 1998. The priority
activities being done are the completion of the appraisal and processing of 5 subprojects, the preparation of
standardized procurement documents and the initiation of procurement processes. DOF would also accelerate work
on project promotion activities and strengthening of the subproject pipeline. Project management personnel will be
hired to take over project management by July 31, 1998; and
*  retro-active financing arrangements are in place to finance the implementation of those suprojects that would be
processed and approved before the Bank loan is effective.



Page 16
I. Compliance with Bank Policies
This project complies with all applicable Bank policies.
Task Team Leader/Task Manager: Frank Byamugisha
Sector Manager/Director: Geoffrey Fox
Country Manager/Director: Vinay Bhargava



Page 17
Annex la
Project Design Summary
Philippines
Community-Based Resources Management Project
Narrative Summary           Key Performance Indicators   Monitoring and Supervision  Critical Assumptions and
_ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _   _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _   _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _   ~~R isks
CAS Objective                                                                               (CAS Objective to Bank
Mission)
Poverty Reduction               Incidence of rural poverty in the   Mid-term and final project  Government maintains its
project area is decreased      evaluations                 commitment to the
reduction of rural poverty.
Project Development Objectives                                                              (Development Objectives
to CAS Objective)
1. Household income is increased.   1. Incomes of 25% of beneficiary  Beneficiary surveys   Project benefits are
households are increased.                                sustained through support
for O&M
2. Measured by achievement of
2. Management of natural           indicators as listed below.  Regular progress reports and   No major natural calamity
resources is improved.                                       completed monitoring forms   or drastic changes in
weathe.
Project Outputs                                                                             (Outputs to Development
Objectives)
1. Upland and forestry practices  * Increase in reforestation   Bi-annual reports and       Improved resource
are improved.                 * Increase in vegetation cover    completed monitoring forms   management increases
* Area with other soil erosion                             agricultural and coastal
control measures increased                               productivity and reduces
* Increase in pere-nnial crops                             environmental
degradation.
2. Coastal and nearshore fisheries    * Artificial reefs are increased    - ditto -
are improved.                 * Fish sanctuaries are increased
* Mangrove areas are reforested
* Beaches are protected
3. Supporting rural infrastructure    * New roads are constructed        - ditto -
are rehabilitated and improved.   * Roads are rehabilitated
* Potable water supply systems
are increased
* Irrigation systems are
improved
4. LGU capacity to improve       * No. of LGUs requesting for    Subproject proposals       Subproject implementation
livelihood and manage natural   sub-projects                                            is adequately supported by
resources is strengthened.   * 75% of sub-project proposals   Appraisal reports         technical assistance.
are approved
* No. of LGUs receive training   Training reports
in:
- project management skills
- financial mgt skills
- technical skills
* 90% of loans are repaid on   Account and audit reports
time                                                    I                        I



Page 18
Narrative Summary          Key Performance Indicators   Monitoring and Supervision  Critical Assumptions and
Risks
5. Barangay capacity to         * No. of barangays requesting          - ditto -         Improved agricultural and
implement livelihood and       sub-projects                                           coastal practices increase
natural resources management   * 75% of approved sub-projects                         rural income.
improvement activities is      at barangay are implemented
strengthened.               * Barangay/community groups
receive training in:
- project management skills
- financial mgt skills
- technical skills
* 90% of loans are repaid on
time
6. MDF rural window for financing  * No. of loans made        PMU monitoring reports
livelihood and natural resource    * Repayment rate of 90%  Appraisal reports
management improvement is    * Delinquency rate of less than   Accounting records
viable.                         10%
Project Components /
Subcomponents
[See Annex 2 for description]
1. Natural resources management   Volume of financing (US$) is  Project MIS              1. There is demand from
subprojects.                 committed and disbursed for                               LGUs for sub-loans to
* upland agriculture          subprojects relating to upland  Disbursement records     finance natural resources
* forestry                    agriculture and forestry; coastal                        subprojects.
* coastal resources and       resources and nearshore fisheries; Audit reports
nearshore fisheries         and small rural infrastructure and                        2. Counterpart funding is
* small rural infrastructure and   livelihood projects related to the                   made available on an
livelihood                  above.                                                    adequate and timely basis.
Institutional support for project  Volume of financing (US$) is        - ditto -
planning, financing and         allocated for institutional support
implementation.                 at national, regional, provincial,
municipal and barangay levels.
1. Strengthen capacity and     Volume of financing (US$) is            - ditto -
programs to transfer         allocated for technical assistance,
environmental technology and    training, applied research,
improve implementation of    dissemination, land stewardship
environmental policies.      and, policy development.



Page 19
Annex lb
Philippines
Community Based Resources Management Project
Performance Indicators
Indicators                          Unit  Base   Mid-   End of    Monitoring &    Critical Assumptions
Year   term     Project   Supervision
MDF Rural Window
1. Operational, financing, administration  %  20%  100%               DOF            Staff for the project is
systems procedures established and                                                   immediately mobilized
sustained
2. MIS system is made operational and    %  20%    100%               CBRMO          Consultants are
implement monitoring and supervision                                                 immediately mobilized
3. Appropriate staff, equipment and  %     20%     100%               DOF
facilities are in place
4. Reduce interval between subproject    %  20%     100%              DOF            Staff are trained &
appraisal and approval by the MDF                                                    acquainted with
procedures
5. Reduce interval between subproject    %  20%     100%              DOF            --ditto--
approval and disbursement to LGUs                          _
6. Establishment of local CBRM offices  no.    2   4        4         DOF
Outputs/Outcomes                                                     I
1. Attain at least 120 LGUs applying for   10%    70%       100%      CBRMO          Promotion work by
subprojects:                                                                         CBRMO is effectively
- upland agric. & forestry                                                           undertaken
- coastal and nearshore fisheries
- small rural infrastructure & livelihood
2. Local environmental conditions are    %  10%    30%      50%       CBRMO-         Communities adopt
improved through:                                                     DENR           technologies for their
local areas
(a) additional forestry and upland areas   %  80%  90%      100%
placed under sustainable management
(b) additional coastal areas are placed  %  80%    90%      100%
under community management
3. Interventions improve livelihood of    %        10%      50%       CBRMO          Training of LGUs &
communities/beneficiaries by 50% by                                                  communities are
end of project:                                                                      completed on time
(a) no. of communities adopting     no.    5       60       100
sustainable alternative practices                _
(b) no. of communities that have    no.    5       60       100
increased their productivity          _
4. Percentage of people reporting   %      0        10      25        CBRMO
increased income                                _



Page 20
Annex 2a
Philippines
Community-Based Resources Management Project
Project Description
Sub-loans for LGU Subprojects - US$46.9 million
1.    This component would provide eligible LGUs with a mix of grants and loans to support community-
based resource management subprojects on a demand-driven basis. The proportion and terms of the loan/grant
mix are presented and explained in Annex 2b. The Manual of Operations will specify measureable indicators of
community involvement in preparation, technical standards and environmental quality. Most subprojects are
expected to be small and within the implementation capabilities of LGUs. Proposals would provide evidence of
review by technical staff at the municipal level and approval by the municipality's development council.
Subprojects would primarily fall into the following categories: upland agriculture and forestry; coastal resources
and nearshore fisheries; and small rural infrastructure and livelihood projects related to the first two categories.
2.    Upland Agriculture. Subproject investments in upland agriculture would aim to improve productivity
and sustainability of the upland resources. Sustainable performance of upland agriculture requires introduction
of resource management approaches which improve sustainable use of soils, biodiversity and water resources to
support production of crops, livestock and agro-forestry. These include key innovations such as: run-off control
and soil stabilization; soil fertility enhancement; cropping systems development based on improved yields of
grain crops to reduce their areas so as to allow inclusion of legumes, fodder and tree crops and the integration of
livestock into farming systems; inter-cropping, double cropping and other mixed cropping methods that allow for
more efficient uses of non-farm resources; a variety of agro-forestry systems that mix crops, trees, livestock and
other components; and improved fallow management techniques. Most of these technologies were piloted under
CVRP and have shown to be feasible and appropriate.
3.    Community Forestry. Subprojects in community forestry in the project area would aim to improve
forests threatened by logging and slash and bum through: (i) reforestation; (ii) agroforestry; (iii) community
timber utilization; and (iv) community protection. The menu of possible subprojects would be directed toward
production forestry. Labor-intensive harvesting, processing and marketing of forests would also be eligible for
support. These investments would be underpinned by incentives provided to forest dwellers through the
provision, by DENR, of secure access to forest resources in the way of a 25-year renewal land tenure security
program over forest land parcels in exchange for sustainable forest resource use.
4.    Coastal Resources and Nearshore Fisheries. Subproject investments would aim to raise the incomes of
the people who depend on coastal resources and nearshore fisheries while conserving these resources.
Permissible investment areas have been developed on the basis of experience gained under CVRP. They include
activities such as: establishment of marine sanctuaries; reef management initiatives; and the reforestation and
management of mangroves. The project would also support LGUs to establish mechanisms for controlling access
and the exploitation, both legal and illegal, of coastal resources and secure tenure for legal users.
5.    Small Scale Rural Infrastructure. This is a support component of both upland/forestry and
coastal/nearshore fisheries designed to provide for or improve the access of rural communities undertaking
CBRM projects. Subprojects under this component would include the construction or improvement of farm to
market and/or barangay roads and trails, minor river crossings, adequate potable water supplies and simple post
harvest facilities.



Page 21
6.    Small Scale Livelihood Investments. This also is a support component for both upland/forestry and
coastal/nearshore fisheries designed to raise the incomes of people who are dependent on upland, forestry, coastal
and/or fisheries resources. Activities supported under this component would include, for instance, cattle
fattening and poultry production which would be undertaken in conjunction with resources management
investments in upland, community forestry, coastal and/or fisheries resources as described in paras. 2-4 above.
MDF Rural Window Initiative and Project Management - US$7.4 million
7.    National Level. The project would support the CBRM office, that would be located in the Department of
Finance (DOF), in overall project management of the project as well as in appraising subprojects during the first
three years of the project while the MDF is being restructured; after three years, the CBRMO would be
incorporated into the restructured MDF. The project would finance contracted staff, technical assistance,
necessary equipment, travel allowances and per diems and the other costs incurred in operating and maintaining
the CBRMO. The project would finance also the allowances of the members of the inter-agency Technical
Review Committee (TRC). Training would be provided to the CBRM office in subproject appraisal . Since
monitoring and evaluation would be one of the key functions of the CBRM office, the project would support the
establishment of a computerized monitoring and evaluation system to monitor project implementation and to
guide policy makers.
8.    Local Level. The project would provide for the establishment and operation of CBRM satellite offices,
in each of the selected regions including staff, office furniture and equipment, training, information dissemination
and costs related to operating the offices (travel allowances and per diems, rent, utilities). While the local MDF
and CBRM offices would be staffed by seconded staff from relevant NGAs (DENR, NEDA, DA-BFAR and
DILG), the project would finance a minimal number of contracted staff to operate these offices. CBRM Teams
would be established and supported by the project in participating provinces, with funding given specifically for
communications, supplies, materials and service support to the project. In addition to carrying out the routine
activities of project management, the local MDF and CBRM offices and teams would promote the CBRM project
and guide LGUs in preparing subprojects; they would also screen subprojects submitted by LGUs, and appraise
and supervise their implementation. They would also be trained in reviewing and appraising resettlement action
plans and development plans for indigenous populations.
Planning and Implementation Support for LGUs - US$6.7 million
9.    The project would support local government units and their communities to become more effective
managers of upland watersheds and coastal and nearshore resources that have been subjected to a lot of pressure
from people looking for a livelihood. The project would support the enhancement of planning and
implementation capabilities of the LGUs involved in the project by providing training in preparing development
plans, formulating project packages according to the Manual of Operations, and managing implementation of
approved subprojects, including procurement and financial management. Training would be managed by the
LGA of DILG and would cover about 180 LGUs, with about 66 people from each LGU receiving training at
LGA centers while 336 people from each LGU would receive training at the project sites closer to the
communities. Equipment and material requirements for training would be financed by the project, in addition to
the cost of resource persons and the costs of sponsoring the trainers.
10.   The training at the Centers would cover: (i) planning for CBRM; (ii) social preparation; (iii) CBRM
technology packages; and (iv) institutional development. Training at the project sites would cover: (i) planning
for CBRM; (ii) participatory process; (iii) local policy development and implementation; (iv) project
development management and planning; (v) municipal finance; (vi) CBRM technology packages; and (viii)
institutional development. In addition, training at provincial level would include preparation of resettlement
action plans and development plans for areas with large indigenous populations. In addition to the training at the
centers and the project sites, the project would provide support to Barangay Development Councils and



Page 22
communities in preparing development plans which will be integrated in the overall project proposals of LGUs;
this is in recognition that much of the planning activities would originate from the grassroots level (barangays
and communities). On the implementation side, training would be provided to the Municipal Planning and
Engineering Offices and the Provincial Engineering Offices in contracting, contract management and supervision.
In addition, the Treasurers' offices at provincial and municipality levels would be provided with trechnical
assistance from the project to enhance their financial and acccounting systems to meet the project's requirements.
Environmental Technology Transfer and Policy Management - US$6.5 million
11.   This component would support two categories of activities. First, funding would be given to DENR to
provide support services including: (i) site verification, surveying and mapping needed to issue resource tenurial
instruments; (ii) training; and (iii) conducting studies on tenurial instruments and supporting the involvement of
NGOs in resource management. Second, funding would be extended to the Environmental Research and
Development Bureau (ERDB) of DENR for: (i) the production and packaging of technology kits, manuals and
slides, all translated into the local dialects; (ii) verification of technology and its validation through field trials
and pilot tests; (iii) preparation of benchmarks and state of the environment reports; and (iv) supervision,
coordination, and evaluation and setting of directions in CBRM project sites. Specific items for financing would
include manuals, slides, supplies, materials and videos related to production and packaging and transmission of
technology; research, field trials and pilot tests, supplies, materials, operation and maintenance all related to
technology fielf verification and testing of technology; site surveys, data collection, data analysis, evaluation and
report writing all related to preparation of benchmarks and state of the environment reports; and travel costs,
supplies, materials, project staff, operational support and impact assessments all related to provision of technical
guidance, supervision and evaluation of CBRM on-site technical activities.
12.   Third, the component would finance about US$1.5 million to support the technical services of DA's
BFAR for coastal and aquatic resources, necessary to support the transfer of technology and monitoring its
implemention.



Page 23
Annex 2b
Philippines
Community-Based Resources Management Project
Eligibility Criteria and Financing Arrangements
Eligibility Criteria for LGU Participation
1.    The sub-project financing facility under the project would be targeted primarily at low income
municipalities initially classes IV, V, and VI, which would receive assistance and support in community
organization and project implementation. To qualify, LGU must: (i) indicate their interest in participating
through a letter of intent approved by the LGU council; (ii) have draft project proposals that are linked to the
municipality/province's development plan; (iii) accept to provide for a full time community organizer, once
declared eligible; and (iv) commit to attending the Municipal Training Program provided by DILG. Higher
income LGUs of classes I to III could also access the facility funds on a case-by-case basis where it is warranted
by environmental circumstances such as when sharing a watershed with a poor municipality that is receiving
funding from the project. In addition to municipalities, provinces in the target regions could access funds from
the facility particularly to fund natural resource management projects that cut across more than one municipality.
Eligibility Criteria of Subprojects
2.    Because of the anticipated large number of sub-projects to be financed under the project, the appraisal
mechanism for most of the subprojects would be based on eligibility criteria. Eligibility criteria includes a few
sets of indicators which, if met, would ensure that the investment is economically viable. Examples of the
eligibility criteria are: a minimum number of beneficiaries; cost per subproject; and cost per beneficiary. The
eligibility criteria for selected subsectors are contained in the Manual of Operations. For those subsectors not
initially included in the Manual, eligibility criteria would be developed during the course of project
implementation and included in the Manual. Like all aspects of the Manual, the eligibility criteria would be
reviewed on the basis of experience gained during project implementation.
Financing Arrangements
3.     Funding for LGU subprojects supported under CBRM would be provided by the MDF as a mix of loans
and grants which would compliment equity contributions from the LGU and from the subproject beneficiaries.
The current lending terms and conditions of MDF would apply for the loan component, namely, a maximum
maturity of 15 years, including three years of grace, at an interest rate of 14 percent, based on the prevailing
weighted average interest rate on deposits of 61-90 days plus a spread of 2 percent. To establish an appropriate
mix of loans and grants, the following principles have been applied: (i) concessional terms are appropriate in
light of national government priorities, and especially for sub-projects that have social and environmental
dimensions that may be under-valued by LGU decision makers; (ii) terms should encourage local resource
mobilization, promote local ownership and encourage adequate maintenance and operations expenditures; and
(iii) project design should establish initial terms that are revisable during project implementation in response to
experience with actual demand for financing. Priority should be given to ensuring reasonable consistency in the
terms available to different LGUs for comparable investments subject to targeting on the basis of poverty and
environmental considerations.
4.     With these principles in mind, the grant/loan/equity-mix for the environmental and the related rural
infrastructure packages have been established for use in the initial years of the project, as shown in the table
below. For subproject packages with a mix of activities, consideration would be given to adopting a financing
mix that is in line with the relative proportion of the environmental and infrastructure items contained in the



Page 24
packages. These on-lending terms (the loan/grant mix) are in line with the Investment Coordination Commnittee
guidelines, that suggest a 50-50 grant-loan mix as a basis for planning, subject to the particular circumstances of
the proposed project. Provisions have been made in the Manual of Operations to revise the grant/loan/equity mix
and the terms and conditions of the loan, if necessary, during project implementation. To guide revision of the
terms and conditions of MDF loans, a study is being carried out by local consultants with funding from a PHRD
grant under the proposed LOGOFIND project. The first draft of the study has been produced and is being
reviewed by the Borrower before it is formally submitted to the Bank for its formal review. Upon agreement by
the Borrower and the Bank on the terms and conditions of MDF lending to LGUs, a revised lending policy for
MDF will be adopted and the Manual of Operations revised accordingly.
Grant/Loan/Equity Mix
LGU Class                 Loan           Grant            Equity
%               %               %I  I
A. Environmental Projects (Upland AgricJForestry & Nearshore Fisheries
1st                        60              20              20
2nd and 3rd                35              50               15
4th -6th                   20              70               10
B. Small Scale Rural Infrastructure Projects (In conjunction with A above)
ist                        70              10              20
2nd and 3rd                65              20               15
4tb -6th                   60              30               10
C. Small Scale Livelihood Projects (In conjunction with A Above)
1st                        70              0               30
2nd and 3rd                50              30               20
4th-6th                    40              50               10



Page 25
Annex 2c
Philippines
Community-Based Resources Management Project
Structure and Functions of MDF and its Proposed Reforms
1.    The MDF was created in 1984 by presidential decree 1914 as a revolving fund for ODA-supported
projects but is presently only a disbursement mechanism for ODA loans and grants. Institutional and financial
arrangements for lending were established with the support of the first Municipal Development Project (MDP I;
Ln. 2435-PH) while MDP II (Ln. 3146-PH) supported the expansion of the MDF to include financing for LGUs
in Metro Manila and its surrounding provinces. MDP III (Ln. 3455-PH) extended the LGU coverage of MDF
while also strengthening the administrative procedures and revising the lending terms toward market rates
prevailing in the Philippines. Another Bank operation, the Regional Cities Development Project (RCDP; Ln.
2257-PH), was channelled through the MDF. The MDF has been expanded to become the main channel for
ODA assistance for LGUs, absorbing both the Metro Cebu Development Project funded by Japan and the
USAID's Local Resources Mobilization Program. The MDF is gradually expanding its operations beyond urban
areas to rural areas with an involvement in the recently initiated Bank-funded Agrarian Reform Communities
Development Project (Ln. 4109-PH). Under a re-organization supported by the proposed Local Government
Finance and Development Project (LOGOFIND, FY98), the MDF will establish two windows, the urban and
rural windows, to provide financial services to LGUs for long term development.
2.    While the MDF was intended to operate as a revolving fund, re-lending the repayments from LGUs to
other eligible LGUs, it has so far operated primarily as a disbursement mechanism for both foreign and local
funds under donor-assisted projects. Loan recovery has been very good, at 93 percent, with the remaining 7
percent being recovered through interceptions of the normal revenue transfers from the central govemment to
LGUs. As of October 31, 1997 the repayments to the MDF stood at 1.2 billion pesos. However, these
repayments have not been re-lent to LGUs.
3.    Organizational Structure of MDF. The MDF is currently located within the Bureau of Local Government
Finance (BLGF) under DOF. Its lending operations are overseen by an MDF Policy Governing Board
(MDFPGB) which is chaired by the Undersecretary of DOF and includes representatives from the Department of
Budget Management (DBM), Department of Interior and Local Government (DILG), Department of Public
Works and Highways (DPWH) and NEDA. The membership and functions of the MDFPGB and the policies of
the MDF were laid down in 1992 in an MDFPGB Resolution (No. 01-92-MDF) (a copy of the Resolution is
available in the Project File). For each of the projects whose funds are channelled through the MDF, there is a
Central Projects Office (CPO) which supports the generation and development of subprojects, appraises the
subprojects and monitors and coordinates project implementation. For example, under the MDPs, the CPO has
been located in the DPWH. In addition, each project has had a Project Steering Committee (PSC) which
provides policy guidance, approves subprojects and coordinates the involved agencies in project planning,
financing and coordination.
4.    Planned Reforms of MDF. The MDF is currently operating as a disbursement mechanism and has no
institutional identity or structure. Its responsibilities are handled by two distinct operational bodies, with its sub-
project appraisal and supervision functions being handled by a small team of DPWH staff and consultants, and its
sub-loan disbursement and collection activities being administered by a few staff in BLGF, on a part-time basis.
This arrangement presents inefficiencies and difficulties in coordination. The DOF intends to transform the
MDF from being a disbursement mechanism to a financiary intermediary and to reorganize it, within the DOF, so
as to create an institutional structure and capacity to enable it to function effectively and efficiently.
Accordingly, it would pull the MDF and CPO out of BLGF and DPWH respectively, and merge them as a
distinct unit within the DOF. The MDF would have not only a central office but also local offices. The design of



Page 26
the reform program and its implementation are being supported by the proposed LOGOFIND (see para. 1 above)
which will also finance urban operations through the urban window of the MDF. For the first three years of the
project while the MDF is being restructured, the proposed CBRM project would be used to support the MDF
rural window which would initially comprise only the CBRM operations.



Page 27
Annex 3
Philippines
Community-Based Resources Management Project
Estimated Project Costs
Project Component                                        Local          Foreign      Total
-------------US $ million--------------------
Sub-grants and loans for LGU subprojects                    39.1             3.9       42.9
MDF Rural Window Initiative and Project Management           5.7             1.2         7.0
Planning and Implementation Support for LGUs                 5.7             0.4        6.1
Environmental Technology Transfer and Policy                 4.7             1.5         6.2
Total                                                       55.2             7.1        62.3
Total Baseline Cost
Physical Contingencies                                     0.0            0.0         0.0
Price Contingencies                                        4.8            0.4         5.2
Total Proiect Cost                                          60.0             7.5        67.5
Taxes and Duties                                                                   1.2 (1.8%
of project
costs)



Page 28
Annex 4
Philippines
Community-Based Resources Management Project
Cost Benefit Analysis Summary
1.    Economic returns from CBRM will especially result from the LGU-subprojects. As these are demand
driven and evolving over time, it is difficult to predict the exact rates of return at this stage. Besides, many of the
benefits are intangible, stemming from long term environmental improvements in and outside the project areas,
implying that rates of returns are necessarily conservative. To investigate the viability of possible sub-projects,
an economic analysis was undertaken for selected interventions in the uplands and the coastal area. Summarized
below are results of detailed economic analysis of a range of technical interventions that will be eligible for
support under the project. These technologies, to be applied under the project, are economically viable under a
range of circumstances as demonstrated by CVRP and by some evidence of adoption and maintenance by
communities and individuals. Where technologies have not spread, or where practices have been abandoned after
their introduction, it appears that supporting policies and institutions, such as especially tenure insecurity, have
been inadequate. The eligibility criteria stated in the Operational Manual will also help to mitigate this risk.
Besides, the LGUs and beneficiaries are liable for repayment of part of the project amount, which also reduces
the risk of non-viable sub-projects.
2.    The Economic Rates of Return (ERR) for possible CBRM packages are based on farm models. The ERR
for the overall investments is estimated at 28% including project overhead (Table 1). Two specific packages are
worked out: (a) Upland package with focus on micro-watershed management, agro-forestry and tree
plantation/reforestation with an overall ERR of 33%; (b) Coastal Package, with mangrove reforestation, fish
sanctuary establishment, artificial reefs, etc. with an overall ERR of 23%. Each of these packages include also
alternative income generation through cattle and poultry fattening and, in the coastal areas, additionally mud crab
fattening, as well as supporting small scale infrastructure. Note that the specific package for each sub-project
will depend on the preferences in the different LGUs, and is therefore not known beforehand. However,
variations in these packages render similar outcomes. The rates of return include expenses for community
organizers as well as the overhead from the LGU capacity building, MDF and Project Management, and
environmental technology components. For the analysis, the overheads for upland packages were taken to be
slightly higher than for coastal packages given the assumed additional training and support involved. The
individual farm models and all calculations are included in the project files.
3.    These ERRs can be compared both with CVRP, as well as with rates of return in the Agrarian Reform
Communities Development Project (ARCDP) and other World Bank projects (see Table 1). Based on this
comparison, it is likely that the overall ERR for the LGU subprojects and its overhead in CBRM will be in the
range 23-33%. Note that direct comparison of CVRP and CBRM is difficult as costs for rural roads are included
in the overall analysis for the packages. Note that the CVRP (PCR) numbers are quite a bit lower than CBRM.
Partly this is due to the pilot character of CVRP, where some of the interventions proved to be non-sustainable.
With the lessons learned from CVRP, this risk will be reduced in CBRM.



Page 29
Table 1: Economic Rate of Return of CBRM in Comparison with Other
Projects
CBRM        CVRP    CVRP    ARCDP   Others
(PAD)       (SAR)    (PCR)    (SAR)   (SAR)*
Upland                33%         17.7%     11.8%
agriculture        (combined)
Social forestry       33%         17.4%     5.2%
(combined)
Coastal fisheries     23%         16.4%      < 0
Rural roads          assumed   include   included    27%         21-34%
21%          d
Water/sanitation     assumed        -                             22%
22%
Others                  -           -                 17-31%
Total                  28%        17.5%      8.2%       25%
(investment)
* The column "Others" refers to recent World Bank Projects in Indonesia and Nepal
4.    Sensitivity Analysis.  The two prime risks for the project are: (i) a delay in actual project interventions,
with no delay in overhead and training; (ii) fewer subproject. Table 2 summarizes the effects of a delay in sub-
project interventions, due to administrative burdens in the beginning of project implementation, such as delay in
sub-project clearance and other bureaucratic hurdles. It appears that the rates of return decrease only marginally
(2 %-points) when sub-projects are delayed for one year, while keeping overhead and training as planned. When
fewer than expected subprojects are submitted, the overhead costs per project will increase. Assuming a 50%
decrease in the number of sub-projects, the rates of return will drop by 6 %-points. This is a quite considerable
change. However, the project allows for easy adaptation of the on-lending terms, so that additional demand by
LGUs can be induced through a lowering of the loan portion in the on-lending terms. Finally, the switching
value (14%) for a decrease in revenues combined with an increase in investment costs is 25%. This implies that
the project is rather robust to changes in investment costs and revenues.
Table 2: Sensitivity Analysis for Sub-project Packages
base  one year  50% fewer          25% decrease in
case   delay in  subprojects  revenues and   25%
projects                increase in investment
costs
ERR (incl.       28%      26%          22%                14%
overhead)



Page 30
Financial Impact On Participants
5.     Beneficiaries: Poor upland farmers and coastal artisanal fishermen are the prime beneficiaries of the
project interventions. For instance, a farmer targeted for micro-watershed development could see his income
more than double. Besides net income, the farmers and fishermen would benefit through improved training,
better organization and greater linkages with the outside world. Table 3 indicates net income increases, as well
as selected financial indicators of selected sub-projects. Note that in all cases, except artificial reefs, the
financial indicators are satisfactory. Artificial reefs, if selected have other benefits, such as creation of social
group formation, that would also help the mangrove replantation and fish sanctuaries, and could therefore be
acceptable, as long as measures are taken to combat overfishing.
Note that the annual net incremental income is substantial compared to the investment costs. The positive impact
on incomes of farmers and fishermen implies that the sub-projects are also profitable if beneficiary contributions
of the investment costs are demanded by the LGU to share the burden of the debt-service to the MDF.



Page 31
Table 3: Financial Indicators for Sub-Projects (in 1000 P)
Investment   Increm.        Net                       Benefit
Sub-project          unit        costs#      recurrent  increm.  NPV    FRR@    Cost
(year 1-3)    costs*   income*                        ratio
nicro-watershed           ha.           6.8          5.6        4.2       29       -        1.5
agroforestry              ha.          16.4         212         13.5      41     37%        1.1
tree plantation           ha.          15.3          6.2       23.2       25     25%        2.4
cattle fattening         head          11.1         17.5        4.0       27       -        1.2
poultry production      lOOhead        8.4          48.5        16.5     111       -        1.3
mangrove                  ha.          12.5          1.3        4.9       9      24%        1.9
rehabilitation
artificial reefs        cluster        21.7          3.2        4.5       -4      11%       1.0
fish sanctuary             ha          25.4          1.6        7.8       19      15%       1.1
floating fish cage     1/10 unit      146.0          75         66       317    73%         1.5
oyster culture            100          6.6           2.8        6.2       52       -        2.5
sq.m
mussel culture            100          6.7           3.6        14.5      97                3.3
sq.m
eucheuma                0.1 ha.        7.0          12.5        11.9      80       -        1.9
miracle hole              unit         3.3           1.1        1.3       4      26%        1.4
# For year 1 through 3 (total costs of project implementation);
* At fuill project development (for tree plantation, agroforestry and mangrove replantation, average per year for year 5 through 25); Net
Incremental Income includes the costs at market value of additional labor as a result of the project; Incremental recurrent costs are cash
expenditures.
@ Some sub-projects have net incremental benefits starting in year one. Therefore, annual FRRs are undefined.
6.     Local Government Units:    The Financial Impact on LGUs depend crucially on (i) the
grant/loan/equity mix and on (ii) the financing terms (duration; grace period; interest rate). To see what the
financial implications are for the LGU of the proposed financing terms, a number of cases are presented below in
Table 4. Specifically, the LGU's debt service ratio as percentage of its Development Fund are calculated, using
standard MDF-terms (15 year term with 3 year grace and 14% interest rate). The calculations are based, as an
example, on a 5th class Municipality with an IRA of P 10 million and a P 5 million sub-project under CBRM.
These sample calculations demonstrate that the financial consequences for environmental sub-projects and
packages are bearable for the LGUs given their development fund and given the other means that LGUs have of
raising revenue for servicing the debt. The debt-service also shows that the on-lending terms will provide
incentives for local governments to pursue and design sub-projects, for instance by passing on a share of the
burden to the direct beneficiaries (Barangays, fishermen, farmers, etc.). Also, it gives incentives for the use of
so-called sweat-equity, i.e., labor provided for free by beneficiaries, as well as for revolving funds, user charges,
etc.



Page 32
Table 4:    Debt-Service as percentage of Development
Fund
Subproject:                 0     1      5     10    15
year:
Environment               25%    6%    5%    3%    2%
(70% grant; 20% loan; 10%
equity)
Infrastructure            25%   19%   15%   9%    5%
(30% grant; 60% loan; 10%
equity)
Package (50% Environ;     25%   13%   10%   6%    3%
50% Infra.)
(50% grant; 40% loan; 10%
equity)
Package w. 50%            13%   6%    5%    3%    2%
Beneficiary Equity
(70% grant; 20% loan; 10%
equity)
Assumptions: 5th class Municipality, IRA P 10 million, growing at 8% p.a.; P 5 million CBRM sub-project
7.    Municipal Development Fund and National Government:  The likely financial impact on the MDF
and GOP is summarized in Table 5. It shows the total on-lending for sub-projects during the project, as well as
the expected amounts of loan, grant and equity funding for sub-projects. These proportions depend on the
specific packages submitted by LGUs, and cannot be determined beforehand. However, based on experience in
CVRP and on draft proposals
received for CBRM, these proportions seem reasonable. Because paybacks from LGUs to the MDF are higher
than loan repayment by MDF to IBRD, the MDF will have the option of secondary lending in the order of P 22-
26 million in the medium long run. If GOP would like to continue CBRM-type on-lending after project
completion of P 220 million per year, as in the last years of the project, it would need to provide grant funding of
around P 110 million.
Table 5: Financial Impact on MDF and GOP
(in million P)                 The MDF would have to contribute its secondary
Yr. 1  5  10  15  lending as well as loanable funds of around P 50-60
Total on-lending sub-projects  120 397           million, possibly obtained from GOP. Note that this
Loan portion (on-lending by MDF) 48 159          analysis does not capture increases in tax revenue
Grant portion (from GOP)        60 198           associated with the project.
Loan repayment of LGUs to MDF  0  65 108 108
Loan repayment of MDF to IBRD   2  36  66  66
Net Reflows to MDF for secondary -2  30  42  42
lending



Page 33
Annex 5
Philippines
Community-Based Resources Management Project
Financial Summary
Years Ending December 31
(US$ million, 1997 Prices)
Implementation Period                  Total
1998     1999   2000    2001       2002
Project Costs
Investment Costs       8.7    11.7      14.2    15.1    12.7      61.8
Recurrent Costs        0.8      1.1      1.3     1.4    1.1        5.7
Total               9.5    12.8      15.5    16.5   13.8       67.5
Financing Sources (%
of total project costs)
IBRD                  74.6    74.6      74.6   74.6     74.6       74.6
Government
Central             6.2      6.2      6.2     6.2    6.2         6.2
Local              11.1    11.1      11.1    11.1   11.1        11.1
Beneficiaries          8.1     8.1       8.1     8.1    8.1         8.1
Total             100.0   100.0    100.0   100.0  100.0        100.0
Main assumption:
1.    As the project is demand-driven, it is difficult to predict the specific subproject activities that local
governments will invest in; consequently, it is difficult to predict investment or financial requirements
during the operational period.



Page 34
Annex 6
Philippines
Community-Based Resources Management Project
Procurement and Disbursement Arrangements
Procurement
Procurement Methods (Table A): All procurement for the implementation of subprojects, financed by the
loan/grant/equity mix, would be undertaken by the LGUs. Procurement of items for the National Government
Agencies involved in project implementation and for the CBRM central and satellite offices would be undertaken
by the central CBRM office. Procurement would be overseen by the MDF which is familiar with Bank
procurement procedures since it has already handled at least three Bank-funded projects. Procurement under the
project would follow the Bank guidelines (Guidelines for Procurement under IBRD Loans and IDA Credits" of
January 1995, revised January and August 1996 and September 1997) and (Guidelines for Use of Consultants by
World Bank Borrowers and World Bank as Executing Agency of January 1997 and revised September 1997).
T'he CBRMO would be responsible for procurement of such items as goods and consultants services to be
provided at the central CBRM office and satellite offices.
a)    Civil Works: Civil works would include reforestation and upgrading of selected Barangay roads and
trails, and level I and II water supply systems. For contracts under US$20,000 equivalent, direct contracting to
communities and NGOs would be allowed up to a maximum of US$7.7 million equivalent of contracts. Direct
contracting is justified because of the prevalence of small scale, labor-intensive works in scattered and remote
areas which would not attract competition among contractors and are best carried out by beneficiary communities
and NGOs. As a safe guard, the total value of contracts that can be awarded through direct contracting to any one
community or NGO would be limited to US$300, 000 equivalent. Simplified procurement procedures, similar to
shopping among registered contractors, would be introduced for contracts under US$50,000, totaling about
US$8.0 million. Quotations would be solicited from at least three registered contractors. Contracts equal to or
larger than US$50,000 equivalent each and totaling about US$22.9 million would be procured in accordance with
the National Competitive Bidding (NCB) procedures acceptable to the Bank. Some of the Philippines' NCB
procedures, such as procedures of advertising and eligibility for participation of foreign contractors, are not
acceptable to the Bank; these would be addressed through a side letter. There will be no ICB for Civil Works
since those works are small, scattered geographically in four regions and not technically complex. The
Operational Manual will include sample bidding documents developed in compliance with the World Bank
procurement guidelines and specifically designed for very small works.
b)    Goods: Goods and equipment to be procured under the project's institutional support component include
vehicles, computers and office equipment. Under the subprojects component, they include very small items such
as tires for artificial reefs, seedlings and small boats. Sizable packages for contracts greater than US$100, 000
each of goods, equipment and materials suitable for procurement under ICB are not anticipated. Therefore,
goods will be suitably packaged into lots of less than US$100, 000 and procured according to NCB procedures
acceptable to the Bank. Goods' contracts procured through NCB are estimated to be about US$2.6 million
equivalent. Contracts of less than US$50, 000 equivalent and totalling about US$8.3 million would be procured
according to national shopping procedures acceptable to the Bank. Shopping should be based on comparing price
quotations from at least three suppliers. Requests for quotations should indicate the description and quantity of
the goods as well as the desired delivery time and place.



Page 35
c)    Consultants Services and Training: About US$1.9 million and US$1.5 million would be allocated to
consultants services and training, respectively. The selection and appointment of consultants would be done in
accordance with Guidelines: Selection and Employment of Consultants by World Bank Borrowers, dated
January 1997 and Revised September 1997, and using the Bank's Standard Request for Proposal - Selection of
Consultants dated July 1997. The selection of firms would be based on quality and cost while the selection of
individual consultants would be based on quality as reflected in the qualifications and experience. Consultancy
services provided by credited NGOs, for very small assignments or assignments in remote areas and costing not
more than US$20,000 each (for a maximum of US$50,000 for one NGO hired under this procedure), would be
procured through single source selection. Contracting of NGOs through single source selection is estimated to
take about US$300,000 of project funds.
d)    Salaries and Fees of Personnel Contributed by the Central and Local Governments. As a
contribution to the project, the central and local governments will contract and pay for personnel services
estimated at US$2.0 million. The procurement of these personnel services, funded by the Borrower, would be
done by the Borrower using its own procurement procedures.
e)    Operating Costs. About US$6.9 million would be allocated to covering the incremental operating costs
related to managing the project, re-lending project funds to local governments, and undertaking activities for the
transfer of environmental technology and provision of land tenure and access rights. More than two thirds would
be funded by the Borrower. They would be procured according to normal commercial procedures.
Review of Procurement
Prior Review Threshold (Table B): All civil works and goods contracts procured according to NCB and with a
value of at least US$50,000 equivalent each, the first five (5) civil works contracts per year and the first five (5)
goods contracts per year under US$50,000 equivalent would be subject to the Bank's prior review. Prior review
of civil works and goods include bidding documents, evaluation reports and draft contracts. As many civil works
and goods contracts are expected to be small and procured through direct contracting and national shopping, prior
review for civil works and goods would cover about 43 percent of the combined value of civil works and goods.
Prior Bank review would also be required for contracts of individual consultants estimated to cost at least
US$50,000 equivalent and estimated to total about US$0.5 million equivalent as well as for contracts of firms
estimated to cost at least US$100,000 equivalent and estimated to total US$1.4 million. Prior review procedures
would apply regardless of the value of consultants' contracts with respect to draft letters of invitation and
contracts, terms of reference, sole source selection, qualification criteria, evaluation reports, award proposals and
final contracts when substantial differences to the original draft are made. For the contracting of project
management staff, prior review would only be required for management positions. For the other contracts of
civil works and goods not subjected to prior review, the Bank will review them on a random sample basis, one
out of five contracts, after they have been awarded.
Disbursement
Allocation of loan proceeds (Table C)
Disbursement of the proceeds of the loan would be made against expenditure categories as shown in Table C.
Use of Statements of Expenses (SOEs):
For Civil works and goods contracts below US$50,000 equivalent, consulting finns contracts below US$100,000
equivalent, individual consultants contracts below US$50,000 equivalent, sub-loans and grants and all
administrative, operational and training expenditures, withdrawal applications will be supported by Statement of



Page 36
Expenditures (SOEs). For civil works and goods contracts over US$50,000 equivalent, consulting firms
contracts over US$100,000 equivalent and individual consultants contracts over US$50,000 equivalent,
withdrawal applications would be supported by full documentation and signed contracts.
Special Account (SA):
To facilitate loan disbursements, the MDF will open and maintain a separate special deposit account, in a
commercial bank specifically authorized for this purpose by the Bangko Sentral ng Pilipinas, on terms and
conditions satisfactory to the Bank, including appropriate protection against set-off, seizure and attachment. The
SA, which would cover the Bank's share of eligible expenditures in all disbursement categories, would have an
authorized allocation amounting to US$3.0 million with an initial withdrawal of US$ 1.5 million to be withdrawn
from the Loan Account and deposited in the SA. The balance shall be withdrawn when the amounts disbursed
and committed total US$15.0 million. Applications to replenish the Special Account, supported by appropriate
documentation, would be submitted regularly (preferably monthly, but not less than quarterly) or when the
amounts withdrawn equal 50 percent of the initial deposit. The SA shall be audited annually by the auditors
acceptable to the Bank. Retroactive financing would be provided up to US$5.0 million equivalent for eligible
expenditures made after February 1, 1998.
Advances from MDF to CBRMO and its Regional Offices. DENR, DA. DILG and LGUs: To facilitate project
implementation in a devolved environment, CBRMO and its regional offices, DA, DENR, DILG and LGUs may
request for a 90-day cash advance facility from MDF. Prior to granting this facility, MDF, together with the
Bank's Financial Management Specialist, will assess the financial management capacity of the unit. If the
assessment result confirms that there is financial management capacity, the unit would be provided with the 90-
day cash advance facility. Each unit will open two separate accounts, a World Bank Project Account in the
authorized government depository bank local branch and the other for GOP Counterpart funding - called
Government Project Account. The concerned unit will submit its 90 days cash requirement to CBRMO together
with their work and financial plan. CBRMO will review the request and will recommend to MDF to release the
90-day cash requirement. Upon receipt of such a recommendation from CBRMO and the financial management
assessment result, MDF will transfer the 90-day cash advance to the unit's World Bank Project Account.
Monthly replenishment of such cash advances shall be required from each unit. CBRMO will monitor and
control the transfer of cash advances to its regional offices, and the submission of satisfactory proof of incurred
eligible expenditures for purposes of monthly replenishment.
Accounting, Financial Reporting And Auditing Arrangements
Project expenditures will be separately recorded and reported by each implementing agency under the new
system developed by the Commission on Audit (COA) and its consultant, Earnst and Young, Philippines, which
was funded by the Bank's Institutional Development Fund (IDF). The system, called Financial Information
System for Foreign Assisted Projects (FISFAP), is currently being piloted in five on-going projects. By next
year, the objective is to use it in all new projects. Its features are: (a) application of commercial methods of
accounting; (b) use of a perpetual inventory method; (c) an improved chart of account and coding system; (d) a
clear recording and reporting of accounting data from the local government units to the lead implementing
agencies; and (e) generation of accurate and timely financial reports that are needed by agency management,
oversight agencies and funding institutions. The system will run on a financial accounting software which has
the capability of customization or programming modification to suit the needs of the project.
Project disbursements to implementing agencies (LAs) are routed through the Municipal Development Fund
(MDF) as sub-loans and/or grants. The accounting policies and procedures of the MDF are governed by the
Department of Budget and Management (DBM) and COA circular No. 2-97 of March 21, 1997. The circular



Page 37
describes the accounting policies and procedures, the Chart of Accounts and accounting entries. MDF produces
separate financial reports for each project and accounting for sub-loan and/or grant disbursements. The
accounting staff of MDF is headed by a Chief Accountant and includes some 20 staff who are accounting
graduates. The accounting, disbursement and record keeping functions are segregated and independent of each
other. MDF relies on statements of expenditure submitted by lAs to release funds. MDF does not have sufficient
staff to review the financial management arrangements of the lAs but relies on COA verification and approval of
SOEs.
In order to ensure sound financial management of sub-project lAs, it was agreed that Financial Management
Units (FMUs) will be established at the Central Project Management Office (CBRMO)and at Regional offices.
The FMUs shall be staffed with qualified and experienced financial analysts and financial management
specialists who shall be responsible for financial appraisal of sub-projects and project implementing agencies.
FMU staff will prepare action plans to implement the FISFAP system and assist lAs in implementation. The staff
will also review periodically the financial management arrangements of sub-projects and the effectiveness of
internal control procedures. FMU staff of CBRMO will take overall responsibility for quality control of the work
of Regional FMUs.
All IAs are required to prepare standard financial management reports quarterly and submit to CBRMO FMU.
These reports will be in a format acceptable to the Bank and will be used for monitoring of project progress by
the CBRMO and MDF. CBRMO FMU will be responsible for consolidation of the IA financial management
reports and the consolidated reports will be submitted to the Bank quarterly. In addition, CBRMO will be
responsible for preparing annual consolidated project financial statements based on the financial statements
prepared by IAs. CBRMO/MDF will require that the IA financial statements are audited by COA and render an
opinion thereon.
MDF and CBRMO will be responsible for submission of the consolidated project financial statements for the
audit by COA. COA will perform an audit of the project financial statements and render an opinion. A separate
audit of the operations of the Special Account and the withdrawal of expenditures through statement of
expenditure will also be carried out by COA who will provide a separate opinion thereon.



Page 38
Annex 6
Philippines
Community-Based Resources Management Project
Table A: Project Costs by Procurement Arrangements
(in US$million equivalent)
Expenditure Category                   Procurement Method at              Total Cost
(including
contingencies)
NCB       Other b/   N.B.F c/
1. Works                                 22.9        15.7                    38.6
(21.4)     (14.1)                   (35.5)
2. Goods                                  2.6         8.3                    10.9
(2.4)     (7.4)                   (9.8)
3. Services
Consultants Services                                 1.9        2.0          3.9
(1.9)      (--)        (1.9)
Training                                              1.5                     1.5
(0.8)                   (0.8)
Beneficiaries' Equity                                           5.7           5.7
(-)          (-)
4. Operating Costs                                   6.9                     6.9
(2.0)                   (2.0)
Total                                 25.5        34.3        7.7         67.5
(23.8)     (26.2)      (---)       (50.0)
Note:  al Figures in parenthesis are the amounts to be financed by the Bank loan.
b/ Includes civil works to be procured through direct contracting, civil works and goods to be
procured through national shopping, consultancy services, services of contracted staff of the project
management office, training, and incremental operating costs related to (i) managing the project, (ii)
re-lending project funds to local governments, (iii) and undertaking activities related to the transfer
of environmental technology.
cl N.B.F. = Not Bank-financed includes contributions to the project by the central and local
government in terms of staff services as well as beneficiaries' sweat equity.



Page 39
Annex 6
Philippines
Community-Based Resources Management Project
Table B: Thresholds for Procurement Methods and Prior Review
Expenditure      Contract Value         Procurement           Contracts Subject to
Category        (Threshold)              Method            Prior Review / Estimated
Total Value Subject to
Prior Review
US$                                            US$
1. Works
Less than 20,000   Direct Contracting for    First 5 Contracts each year
communities and NGOs     including for national
shopping (500,000)
Less than 50,000   Simplified procedure      First 5 contracts each year
similar to national shopping  including for direct
contracting (500,000)
50,000 and above    NCB                      All Contracts (22.9
million)
2. Goods
Less than 50,000   National Shopping         First 5 Contracts each year
(1.3 million)
Less than 100,000    NCB                     All Contracts (2.6 million)
3. Services
Individual       Less than 50,000   Consultants Qualifications        None
More than 50,000    Consultants Qualifications  All (500,000)
Firms            Less than 100,000    Quality and Cost-based          None
Selection
More than 100,000   Quality and Cost-based           All (1.4 million)
Selection
Total value of contracts subject to prior review:   28.8 million



Page 40
Annex 6
Philippines
Community-Based Resources Management Project
Table C: Allocation of Loan Proceeds
Expenditure Category                Amount in      Financing Percentage
US$million
A. Sub-grants and loans in support of subprojects    37.0            90
B. Civil Works                                         1.5           90
C. Goods                                               1.3     100% of foreign
expenditures, 100%
of local expenditures
(ex-factory costs)
and 80% of local
expenditures for
other items procured
locally
D. Consultants' services and Training                  2.7            100
E. Operating Costs                                     2.1             80
F. Unallocated                                         5.4
Total           50.0



Page 41
Annex 7
Philippines
Community-Based Resources Management Project
Project Processing Budget and Schedule
A. Project Budget (US$000)                       Planned              Actual
(At final PCD stage)
559.7                494.1
B. Project Schedule                             Planned               Actual
(At final PCD stage)
Time taken to prepare the project (months)
First Bank mission (identification)            07/15/1992           07/15/1992
Appraisal mission departure                    01/26/1998           01/26 /1998
Negotiations                                   01/29/1998           02/11/1998
Planned Date of Effectiveness                  07/31/1998           07/31/1998
Prepared by: Department of Finance, with Support from Consultants
Preparation assistance: PHRD Grant
Bank staff who worked on the project included:
NAME                                      SPECIALTY
Frank Byamugisha                          Task Manager
Wael Zakout                               Co-Task Manager
William Magrath                           Natural Resources Economist
Mary Judd                                 Anthropologist
Rob Crooks                                Environmental Specialist
Herman Cesar                              Environmental Economist
Thereza Quinones                          Participation Specialist
Joses League                              Local Government Financing Specialist
Carolina Figueroa-Geron                   Rural Development Specialist
Hoi-Chan Nguyen                           Legal Specialist
Margaret Png                              Legal Specialist
Vimala Abraham                            Disbursement Specialist
Cecilia Vales                             Procurement/Disbursement Specialist
Wijaya Wickrema                           Financial and Accounting Specialist
Brenda Phillips                           Task Assistant
Jonathan Kamkwalala                       Peer Reviewer
Jeffrey Lewis                             Peer Reviewer
Graham Kerr                               Peer Reviewer
Kim Cuenco                                Peer Reviewer



Page 42
Annex 8
Philippines
Community-Based Resources Management Project
Documents in the Project File
A. Project Implementation Plan
1. Project Preparation Report
2. Operations Manual
3. Documentation of 5 Subprojects
B. Bank Staff Assessments
1. Procurement Plan
2. Supervision Plan
3. Project Economic and Financial Analysis
4. Project Cost Tables



Page 43
Annex 9
Philippines
Community-Based Resources Management Project
Statement of Loans and Credits
STATUS OF BANK GROUP OPERATIONS IN PHILIPPINES
A. STATEMENT OF BANK LOANS AND IDA CREDITS /a
(As of June 30,1997)
Amount (US$ million)
Loan or                                                                                           (less cancellations) /b
Credit      Fiscal                                                                                                 Uncdis-
Number      Year       Borrower                           Purpose                          IBRD          IDA/b     bursed
One hundred and sixty-five Loans and seven Credits closed.                                6,445.60      171.18        0.60
Of which SALs, SECALs and Program Loans
1903         1981      Republic of the Philippines         SAL I                            199.96
2266         1983      Republic of the Philippines         SAL II                           302.25
2277          1991     Republic of the Philippines         Environment & Natural Res. Mgt.               66.00
2469         1985      Republi of the Philippines         Agriculture Sector Inputs        150.00
2787         1987      Republic of the Philippines         Economic Recovery Program        300.00
2956         1988      Republic of the Philippines         Program for Govt. Reform         200.00
3049         1989      Republic of the Philippines         Financial Sector                 300.00
3149         1990      Republic of the Philippines         Debt Management Loan             200.00
3539         1993      Republic of the Philippines         Economic Integration Loan        200.00
1.852.21      66.00
3099         1989      Republic of the Philippines         Health Development                70.10                   2.50
3204         1990      Republic of the Philippines         Coconut Farms Development        120.95                  58.83
3242         1990      Republic of the Philippines         WS/Sewer/Sanitation I             47.93                   6.63
3261         1991      Republic of the Philippines         Communal Irrigation II            46.20                  23.12
3360 (S)     1991      Republic of the Philippines         Env. & Natural Res. Mgt.         158.00                  23.42
3430         1992      Republic of the Philippines         Highway Management               150.00                  90.41
3435         1992      Republic of the Philippines         Engineering & Science Educ.       61.00                  14.68
3439         1992      National Electrif. Adm.             Rural Electrification             91.30                  46.31
3455         1992      Republic of the Philippines         Municipal Development III         68.00                  44.18
2392         1992      Republic of the Philippines         Second Vocational Training                    36.00      15.75
2506         1993      Republic of the Philippines         Urban Health & Nutrition                      70.00      59.36
3603         1993      Republic of the Philippines         Tax Computerization               63.00                  36.12
3607         1993      Republic of the Philippines         Irrigation Operation Support II   51.30                  31.33
3626         1993      Philippines National Power Corp.    Power Transmission & Rehab.       51.60                   4.98
3700         1994      National Power Corporation          Leyte Cebu Geothermal            147.00                  33.72
3702         1994      Philippines National Oil Co.        Leyte Cebu Geothermal             64.00                  16.15
3745         1994      Subic Bay Metropolitan Authority    Subic Bay Freeport                40.00                   6.78
3746         1994      National Power Corporation          Leyte Luzon Geothermal           113.00                  48.73
3747         1994      Philippine National Oil Co.         Leyte Luzon Geothermal           114.00                  72.72
3852         1995      Republic of the Philippines         Womens Health & Safety            18.00                  17.62
3938         1996      Land Bank of the Philippines        Rural Finance II                  50.00                  29.28
3939         1996      Land Bank of the Philippines        Rural Finance 11                  50.00                  32.52
3940         1996      Land Bank of the Philippines        Rural Finance II                  50.00                  22.81
3996         1996      National Power Corporation          Transmission Grid Reinforcement  100.00                  90.02
3997         1996      Natonal Power Corporation           Transmission Grid Reinforcement  150.00                 147.23
4019*        1996      Metro. Water Works & Sewerage System   Manila 2nd Sewerage            57.00                  57.00
4108         1997      Republic of the Philippines         Third Elementary Education       113.40                 113.40



Page 44
STATUS OF BANK GROUP OPERATIONS IN PHILIPPINES
A. STATEMENT OF BANK LOANS AND IDA CREDITS /a
(As of June 30, 1997)
Amount (US$ million)
Loan or                                                                                          (less cancellations) /b
Credit      Fiscal                                                                                               Undis-
Number      Year      Borrower                           Purpose                         IBRD          IDA/b     bursed
4109         1997      Republic of the Philippines        AgrarTan Reform                  50.00                  50.00
4110         1997      Republic of the Philippines        Water Resources Development      58.00                  58.00
4111         1997      Subic Bay Meftopolitan Authority   Second Subic Bay                 60.00                  60.00
TotaTr                                                                     8,659.38     277.18    1,314.21
of wwhich has been repaid                                                  3,241.00      13.45
Total now held by Bank and IDA                                             5.4t8.38     263.72
Amount sold                 31.35
Of which repaid            31.35
Total Undisbursed                                                          1.238.50      71       1.314.21
h The status of the proJects listed in Part A is described in a separate report on all IBRDlIDA-financed projects in execution, which is updated twice
yearly and drculated to the Executive Directors on April 30 and October 31. Amounts are presented net of cancellations.
Lb Prindpal amounts In US$ equivalent at date of negotiations, and undisbursed amounts In equivalent are valued at exchange rate applicable on the date of
this statement.
(S) Indicates SAL/SECAL Loan and Credits.
Not yet effecive.
Not yet signed.
Total Approved, Repayments, and Outstanding balance represent both active and inactive Loans and Credits.



Philippines
PRICES and GOVERNMENT FINANCE
Domestic pni                                1975     1985      1995    1996       Inflation (%)
(% change)                                                                       20
Consumer pricrs                               6.8    23.1        8.1      8.4    15
Implicit GDP deflator                        9.3      17.6       7.5      8.9    10
Government finance                                                                5
(% of GDP)                                                                        o-    91   92   93   94   95   9S
Current revenue                                       12.1      18.5    19.5
Current budget balance                                 2.4       2.5      3.1             -GDP def. -OC PI
Overall surplus/deficit                                         -1.4    -0.4
TRADE
(millionsUS$)                               t975    1985       1995    1996       Export and import levels (mill. USS)
Total exports (fob)                                  4,629    17,447   20,543     35000
Coconut oil                                          347       826      571     30,000
Sugar                                                185        74      139      25,000
Manufactures                                       2,539    13,868   17,106      20.000
Total imports (cif)                            .. 5,111    26,391   31,885        1500
Fuel and energy                               ..   1,452     2,461   13,008      s coo
Capital goads                                 ..    769      8,029   10,472         oxo                                i
Export price inclex (1987=100)                         81        124      124           90  D1  92  93  94  95  95
Import price index (1987=100)                          63        124     126                 oExports  tmimports
Terms of trade (1987=100)                             127        100       99
BALANCE of PAYMENTS
1975     1985      1995     1996
(millions USS)                                                                    Current account balance to GDP ratfo (%)
Exports of gools and services              3.000    6,864    21,978   28,566        0,
Imports of goods and services               4,116    5,961    33,314   42,254         90  91   92   93  94   95   96
Resource balance                          -1.116      903   -11,336  -13,688    .1 t
Netincome                                   -126   -1,317      7,157    9,185    -2- 
Net current transfers                        318      379       882      589    .-3
Current account balance,                                                          4
before official capital transfers          -923      -35    -3,297   -3,914
Financing Rems (net)                         912      867      3,928    8,021
Changes in net reserves                       11    -832        -631   -4,107     - 6-
M,emo:I
Reserves including gold (mill. USS)         1,458    1,098     7,762   11,745
Conversion rate (localUUS$)                   7.2     18.6      25.7    26.2
EXTERNAL DEBT and RESOURCE FLOWS
1975     1985      1995    1996
(millions US$)                                                                    Composton of total debt, 1996 (mill. US$)
Total debt outstanding and disbursed        4,171   26,639    39,445   41.214
IBRD                                       238    2,421      5,002    4,666                          A
IDA                                         17       84       183      193               7969            193  C
Total debt service                           457    2,534      5,337    5,778                                  405
IBRD                                        26      285       790      766
IDA                                          0        1         3        3                                     D
3079
Composition of net resource flows
Offidial grants                             72      139       276
Official creditors                         185      381       -648                                            E \
Private creditors                          348      776      1,166            |        F                     12086
Foreign direct investment                   98       12      1,478    1,600           12817
Portfolio equity                             0        0      1,961    1,333
World Bank program
Commitments                                114      104        168     528        A- IBRD                   E - Bilateral
Disbursements                               94      276       402      457       B - IDA    D - Other mulciateral  F. Private
Principal repayments                        12      110       415      426      C-IMF                       G - Short-term
Net flows                                   82      166        -13      31    _
Interest payments                           14      176       378      343
Net transfers                               68      -10       -391     -312
Development Economics                                                                                              2/23/98



Philippines at a glance
... .PhIipp|i       AI "   l-   i       Development diamond'
PoputetiOll mid-1996 (millions)        70.0     1~726    1,125
NP -er cap.ta 1396 ( )                                1,190   -890       . - r1,750            LUfe erxetncy
GNP 1996 (affon  8$                                    8.        1,42Z.  1,967
Poputatioli %)      -XX13                                             1.       GP                               Gross
Labor force (%)                         2.7      ~~~~      ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~1.3-    1.8
.. ........                 ..... ~   pe                              primary
Mic.atteat:b8eWstfISt i    aEEd4Ed ERI s         ftwe~ : :1:9 8: EyE y :: E....... .. ..:...:.  capita             enrollment
U n ...     ..     ..  .   ......             .........n ). .. . 3 15
Lieexetac atblt4flh00000000000 &wa-s      -                -         00     Sl00000000000066  800000000000008 000000067000000
l~~fant mmtallty (per l,IWJO live bit is)  39  ~~~~~~~~ 40  :41                Acs osf  ae
5 .  t --i- 0 0t0Q  tt;;;t 4;Q0t;4  Access to safe water (56 of poputafkm)  84o77
Gro stsi: primar enrollm en:00 -t (%oisQhoI-ag pulton  0 11;1      t 0       i   1 17  000;00i0 104 0:40gPtZpis 
ale  -.i              120       . 105              Lower-middleia-cme growp
:rEY ECONOMIC RATIOS and LOWGTER TRENDS
11w75;  1985 6      199S5-    19966 ;   f4
Economic mdtoe'
GOP (billIons USS)                ~~~~~~~15.0 i~::30.7:    742  8.
Gross4dmesi investentI/G3P 30.9.    13                            :22.2     24.7
xorts oft goods and OerveslGP                -21.0      24.0      36.  4                      Openness of economy
iGrossJ dome*slc al                savin    DP:.    24.8  17.4
G5rass national siivlrigWGOP00               -   000 28.96+6J00" ;   -j 15 9-     17 8  20,0
Current account balancesIGO                    -6.2    -0.1        -4.4     -4.7
tntSrestpaymentslGOP~~~~~~~~        0.8      3         2.                Saving                       Investment
Towal debl/GOP                                 7. ~886            53.2     49,2
iTotatdebtserlclepots ii i  iii i  tt0555 ;i  -\ 14Ai;t;t; i31.6Sttiit t16.5-i-  0ii14.7;Ei;;t
Preeflt va lue  of dbte iWbt  /G  OP             .  . if   - -l-  l - igi; 0200 iSi -   ;  -0}   -  0 0 0000; | SitE i f i E 0 ;.. .. .. .. ....i ..... . ..... ..
Presentvaueen     bxoft       .-.00 ..                   .        ., ..                          Indebtedness
1075645  19366       198        1361970
,3   pe   L E   iSiEERERE   iSED iE  E  E    ED:E    E.  .  E -.  5   .    : iE i  iR   iR     if  iPhilippin-e*s
GOP                         3.~~~~~~          ~~~~       ~~~0 3.2 4.6  5.5  5.5
GNPpercaplta  03       1.5       2.5       4.4       3.5               ~~~~~~Lowr-mdde-incoflWI
iEiports of goods and-servhcesi  1       7.6  1218.7 1fi2.!l00   e2 22!3.9E   10.5    _________________
STRUCTURE of the ECONOMY
1975     1985       1995     1996
(% of GDP)                                                                           Growth rtes of output and innstment (%)
Agriculture                                   30.3     24.6       21.6     21.4      20
Industry                                      34.6     35.1       32.1     31.7      10
Manufacturing                               25.7      25.2       23.0     22.6      o
Services                                      35.0     40.4       46.3     46.9              SI   ;2      3    94   05    f
Private consumption                           64.5     75.0       74.2     73.9    .20
General govemment consumption                 10.7       7.6      11.4      11.7               -GDl           0  GDP
Imports of goods and services                 27.1     21.9       44.2     53.9
13758-8   1968696     1995      1996
(average annual groth)                                                               Growth rates of exports and Imports (%)
Agriculture                                    2.2       1.7       0.8       3.0     2s
Industry                                       2.6      3.3        7.0      6.3      20D-
Manufacturing                                 1.8      3.2        6.8      5.6     15 -
Services                                       3.8       3.8       5.0      6.5      10o
Private consumption                            3.3      4.1        8.5      5.3       s
General govemment consumpton                   0.4       4.6       5.4      5.2       o -                       I '
Gross domestic Investment                      -0.4      6.9       3.0      15.6     49                         94   95   go
Imports of goods and services                  3.9      12.3      16.0     21.1                     Expors     imports
Gross national product                         2.7       3.8       5.0      6.9
Note: 1996 data are preliminary estimates.
I he diamonds show tour key indicators in the country (in bold) compared with its income-group average. It data are missing, the diamond will
be Incomplete.



lIT                             120                               122                                                        - 
PHILIPPINES
COMMUNITY BASED RESOURCES  Ranan.
MANAGEMENT PROJECT (CBRM)                                                                                                ,0  >
PROJECT AREA
PAN PH LIPPINE HIGHWAY                                                                                   tLAY5 A
OTHER MAIN ROADS                                                                                           10,APLanI t'                               O
FERRIES                                                  Islands
+     INTERPIATIONAL AIRPORTS
MAJOR PORTS
RIVERS
*     PROVINCE CAPITALS                  L..a l.               "                                           an           '          an ACLSTRAUA
     REGION CAPITALS                                 hay                                                124                               26
PROVINCE BOUNDARIES
REGION BOUNDARIES                  V           yra'a    B                                          ls Thab.ada.. s -aI-ssda,,a,    ,s  d an-, .nI h- rnsans,
Reaions  and  Provinces                                                    af --TaLc                                      asposasf sah handaas
a *,                Ilnnn
Lao,a.C..Tnaasano
L   M asa Luz n
Son Fernsjndo3 ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~-                            V-
3Ba   dC' panobn
Las  ass,,n a                    I,La,,,lf, 
Moo  VANIlLgA$teO 
La 1laE....,,y.,a,E,,
P      2        L'E'st05p C,-bb,                     c-
-12                     T    M--               1',  n            5
slaons                                    aLa0aands  N'os'    MOaya               X     m    ba 
, 9  ]              LenopeeJh                                       P meogg            X            tJo ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~K1-  ?  =+---oyc
0 h         " ISo   _c"                                                                  </                          t             .'yT
B-ooLs~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~~~~~~~~L,aa                         Fpuaa                   ~     TsOr at CL,,aa         n1                    Hmta
*.lOan,b,aa  Ma,a,sJss1as        -~~~~~~~C,
-qM  i n a ao osIaTC-
'                 ~~~~C-lb-ts <%-P KuL-
da,          Ra,ssi "?D  Pi
MALAYSIA
w~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~1 )                                                           2 00           3CU b IOIFTFR'   t
.c r   lb  ]2012C7a,                E                                                              126 s1



