Report No. PID6064
Project Name            Philippines-Community Based Resource Management (+)
Region                           East Asia and Pacific
Sector                           Natural Resources Management
Project ID                       PHPE34614
Borrower                         Republic of the Philippines
Implementing Agencies            Department of Finance (DOF)
Contact: Ms. MA. Cecilia Soriano
Undersecretary DOF
Address: 3/F Executive Tower
Central Bank Complex
Manila, Philippines
Fax: 63-2-5262296
Appraisal Date                   January 28, 1998
Board Date                       March 24, 1998
Date of Initial PID              January 21, 1998
Date this PID prepared           March 3, 1998
Background
There are three key issues that pose a challenge to rural development: low
growth of the rural economy; high levels of rural poverty; and degradation of
natural resources. Agricultural growth decelerated from 5.8 percent per annum
in 1970-80 to 2.1 percent per annum in 1980-89 and 2.2 percent in 1990-94.
The low growth in agriculture, coupled with limited employment opportunities
in non-farm activities, have resulted in a high incidence of poverty--50
percent in rural areas (compared to 36 percent in 1994 for the country as a
whole) where half of the country's population of 67.5 million live. Many of
the rural people live in upland areas, largely dependent on low-input shifting
agriculture, with a high incidence of severely degraded areas and the highest
poverty incidence in the country.
The Government of the Philippines (GOP) has articulated sustainable
development and poverty alleviation as key thrusts of the administration. To
achieve these objectives, the Philippine Strategy for Sustainable Development
(PSSD) and the Social Reform Agenda (SRA) were adopted to address
environmental protection and rehabilitation concerns and to focus on poverty
reduction efforts. The proposed project constitutes one of the means to
achieve the twin objectives of reducing poverty and natural resources
degradation.
The twin problems of rural poverty and natural resource degradation: Checking
and reversing environmental degradation of forest and coastal ecosystems are
major challenges facing the Philippines. Almost 30 percent of the population,
or around 18 million people, live in upland areas because of land shortages
and limited off-farm rural employment opportunities. Up to 10 million
Filipinos are farming on forest land, often with techniques that contribute to
very high rates of erosion. Similar environmental destruction has occurred in



coastal areas. Nearly 70 percent of the country's mangrove forests have been
destroyed since 1918 due to over-harvesting for fuelwood and sometimes
replaced by fish ponds. There is a close relationship between poverty and the
degradation and depletion of natural resources severely affecting rural areas
which consequently limit rural opportunities in agricultural, forestry and
fisheries.
Forests and uplands: The uplands are the locus of most remaining forested
areas in the Philippines. However, these areas are rapidly diminishing. In
1972, the country had about 10.4 million hectares of natural forest covering
about 4 percent of the country's land area. By 1990, this had reduced to 6.16
million hectares. Just under 1 million hectares of virgin forest remains.
The key factors contributing to deforestation were destructive logging
activities, pest and diseases and fires. This is compounded by pressures from
large numbers of immigrants from the lowlands. Lack of knowledge, short-term
planning horizons and lack of financial resources cause many of these
immigrants to use unsustainable subsistence farming techniques. Lack of land
tenure security also hinders access to credit which might finance more
sustainable approaches.
Coastal Areas: Coastal resources are also suffering from rapid degradation.
Approximately 450,000 ha of mangroves are thought to have existed in 1918, but
this has dwindled to less than 242,000 ha. Coral reefs are also being
adversely affected. Philippine reefs are considerably more stressed in
comparison with other reefs surveyed in the Indo-Pacific region. Not all reef
destruction is caused by humans, but soil erosion, destructive fishing
methods, and coral mining are serious sources of degradation.
Past World Bank Support for Decentralization and Natural Resources Management:
Significant progress has been made in the Philippines in designing effective
interventions to address the problems described above. Particularly important
in this has been a number of internationally assisted development projects and
programs, including three Municipal Development Projects and the World Bank-
supported Environment and Natural Resources Sectoral Adjustment Loan (ENR-
SECAL). These projects demonstrate continuing progress in delivering
resources for properly designed and well implemented local government
projects. The Municipal Development Projects aim to help establish the
Municipal Development Fund (MDF) as a revolving fund providing local
governments with long-term development financing and strengthening local
technical and financial capabilities. While these projects mainly focus on
urban areas, the ENR-SECAL, through its Regional Resource Management Projects,
strengthens local government's capacity in rural natural-resource management,
and improves the capacity of a key national agency, DENR, to provide services
and technical support to LGUs. Furthermore, a World Bank-supported Central
Visayas Regional Project (CVRP) has demonstrated and introduced appropriate
technology for natural resources management in the region of Central Visayas.
Lessons Learned: Of the projects discussed above, it is the CVRP that offers
lessons that are most relevant for the proposed project. A performance audit
of CVRP by World Bank's Operation Evaluation Department (OED; draft March 24,
1997) concluded that the main lessons learned from it were that improving
natural resources management is as much an institutional as a technical
problem and that this must involve a dynamic process of change and
development. The prerequisites are: (a) appropriate technologies; (b) an
appropriate policy and legal framework; (c) adequate local decision making
- 2 -



powers; and (d) beneficiaries must acquire the ability to operate within this
framework by receiving, from the project, the required managerial, political
and technical skills
Project Description
Project Development Objectives: The main objective of the project is to
reduce rural poverty and environmental degradation through support for locally
generated and implemented natural resource management projects. This would be
done through: (a) enhancing the capacity of low-income rural local government
units (provinces and municipalities; LGUs) and communities to plan, implement
and sustain priority natural resource management projects; (b) strengthening
the higher levels of government systems to transfer finance (as financial
intermediaries) and environmental technology, and improve implementation of
environmental policies; and (c) provision of resources to LGUs to finance
natural resource management projects. To achieve these objectives, the project
consists of the following three components.
LGU Subproject Investments (US$54.3 million):    This component would provide
eligible LGUs with a mix of grants and loans to finance community-based
resource management subprojects on a demand-driven basis. Subprojects would
primarily fall into the following categories: upland agriculture and forestry;
coastal resources and nearshore fisheries; and small rural infrastructure and
livelihood projects related to the above. Most subprojects are expected to be
small and within the implementation capabilities of LGUs.
Planning and implementation Support (US$6.7 million): This component will
provide planning and implementation support to LGUs and their communities in
the way of training, provided through DILG and community organizers, and
grants for financing project preparation. Specific support would include
costs of training including training materials, equipment and allowances, fees
for trainers and technical assistance.
Initiation of an MDF Rural Window and Project Management (US$5.0 million):
For a transitional period of three years, the project would support a project
management office, the CBRMO, and the establishment of a rural window of the
MDF to channel funds to low income LGUs for financing rural development
investments, including CBRM activities. Specific areas of support would
include: equipment, salaries of contracted staff, incremental costs of staff
seconded from other government agencies, technical assistance and operating
costs of running the MDF rural window and CBRMO and its satellite offices.
Environmental Technology Transfer and Policy Implementation (US$1.5 million):
The component would strengthen mechanisms within DENR and the Department of
Agriculture (DA) to support the implementation of locally driven natural
resources management efforts, monitor resource trends, provide high quality
technical advice and services related to LGU implementation of subprojects,
and develop improved mechanisms for national government support to LGUs in
forest and nearshore resource management. Specific support would be given
for: policy development; training; preparation of extension and educational
materials; public information campaigns; research on the transfer of
environmental technology and community-based resource management; and
implementation of policies and regulations in land and resource tenure access
and security.
-3-



A Summary of Project Costs
Project Costs: The total project costs are estimated to be US$ 67.5 million,
of which US$54.3 million would be taken up by subproject investments, with the
other components taking up the remaining US$13.2 million.
Implementation Arrangements
Institutional and implementation arrangements: The project would be
implemented by local government units (LGUs) while national agencies would
provide assistance in financial intermediation, technical support and project
management. The project will be overseen at the National Level by a Technical
Review Committee (TRC) located in the MDF of the Department of Finance (DOF).
The TRC would coordinate project implementation and approve the project's
annual work plans and budgets. Project proposals would be formulated at the
community/bBarangay level and would consolidate interventions responding to
locally perceived needs identifiedinclude several sub-project proposals in
line with the Barangay and Municipal Development Plans. Formulation,
prioritization and packaging of subprojects would be supported by a community
organizer with certain assistance from provincial government agencies.
Subprojects would be appraised and supervised by the CBRMO. Approval of
subprojects would be done by the TRC while the subloan packages would be
approved by the chairman of the MDF Policy Governing Board, on the basis of
delegated authority from the Board.
Project Benefits and Risks
Benefits and target population: Overall expected benefits include the
sustainable enhancement of the environmental, social and productive conditions
in selected areas of the Philippines through interventions in Regions V, VII,
VIII and XIII. The total rural population in these four regions is around 1.8
million families (or over 10 million people) of which around 0.9 million
families have incomes below the poverty line. The project targets around 125
municipalities (40% of over 300 municipalities), with a total population of
more than 700,000 people. Virtually all of the LGUs are in the poorest
classes of municipalities (Class IV, V, VI), such as Masbate (with a rural
poverty incidence of 83.4%), Agusan del Sur (70.8%) and Sorsogon (68.3%).
Project investments will focus primarily on the uplands and coastal areas,
where poverty incidence is highest. For instance, fishermen and forestry
workers, at 76.7% and 82.69 respectively of the rural population, are among
the poorest in rural Philippines. Besides, poverty incidence in the uplands
is, at 61%, considerably higher than the rural average of 54%.
Economic and Financial Assessment: Economic returns will result from the LGU
subprojects. As these are demand driven and evolving over time, it is
difficult to predict the exact rates of return at this stage. Besides, many
of the benefits are intangible, stemming from long term environmental
improvements in and outside the project areas, implying that rates of returns
are necessarily conservative. The Economic Internal Rates of Return (EIRR)
for possible CBRM packages are estimated at 28%. The rates of return include
expenses for community organizers as well as the overheads from the local
government building capacity and the environmental technology components. The
financial rate of return (FRR) of the project's natural resources and income
generation activities has been estimated at 11 to 73%. Poor upland farmers
and coastal fishermen are the prime beneficiaries of the project
-4 -



interventions. For instance, a farmer targeted for micro-watershed
development could see his income more than double. Besides net income, the
farmers and fishermen would benefit through improved training, better
organization and greater linkages with the outside world. In all cases,
except artificial reefs, the financial indicators are satisfactory.
Artificial reefs, if selected have other benefits, such as creation of social
group formation, that would also help the mangrove replantation and fish
sanctuaries, and could therefore be acceptable, as long as measures are taken
to combat overfishing.
Social Assessment:       The project targets the LGUs in the poorest classes of
municipalities (Class IV, V, VI). The benefits will be distributed to all
members of the households but the project will have a greater impact on women.
It is widely accepted that the weight of poverty falls heavily on women; in
poor households they often shoulder more of the workload than men, are less
educated, and have less access to remunerative activities. The earlier CVRP
project had demonstrated the increased access to resources for women This
project will ensure that this access continues and will take additional steps
to widen the scope of resources. Due to the demand-driven nature of the
project and the planning at the barangay and/or sub-barangay level,
beneficiaries are expected to be fully involved in taking charge of the
development of their own community. The COs will also help to ensure that the
voice of all groups will be represented in the community plans. Information
from the social and economic profiles as well as gender analysis obtained for
each participating community at the beginning of the sub-project will be used
to help communities plan their projects so that all will benefit and no one
group will be unfairly burdened. Extra attention in planning and
implementation will be provided to communities with indigenous groups. The
government department for indigenous affairs and the Office of the Southern
Cultural Communities will be consulted and all efforts will be made to recruit
and train COs from the same cultural groupings. Project staff, particularly
those from regional offices, will be provided training on development for
indigenous populations. It is not anticipated but should it occur, land
acquisition, demolition of structures and displacement of persons would be
kept to a minimum. Sub-project proposals that would require demolishing
houses or acquiring productive land should be carefully reviewed and their
adverse impacts minimized through alternative designs and/or alignments.
Proposals that require more than minor expansion along rights of way would be
reviewed carefully and the affected persons appropriately compensated
Participation:    The project framework is to promote community-based planning,
implementation and management of natural resource subprojects which would have
both short term and long term gains. The emphasis at the beneficiary level,
therefore, is to develop strong community action which would realize these
gains. Community organizing for CBRM deals with the social preparation and
community organizing processes which are necessary as soon as project requests
from municipalities are provided with the green light to develop detailed
project proposals. COs, who will be provided by municipalities, will be
trained by the project to work with communities to identify their needs,
priorities, strengths, opportunities and resources to prepare and implement
viable subprojects. The COs will be fully engaged in data collection and
conduct of social profiles of the community, gender analysis, facilitation of
participation and collective action, leadership identification and training,
group formation and/or strengthening, and monitoring of project activities.
The pool of COs can be from existing (and qualified) municipal staff or be
- 5 -



hired by the municipality from local NGOs if both parties so agree.
Environmental Aspects: The Project has EA-category B. The project is expected
to yield major positive and direct environmental benefits, particularly in:
(a) improved management of upland and forestry resources indicated by a
reduction in deforestation, increased vegetation cover and reduced soil
erosion; (b) improved coastal and nearshore fisheries resources indicated by
an expansion in mangroves and a reversal of the decline in catches of
fisheries; and (c) improved infrastructure in support of management of upland,
coastal and nearshore natural resources as indicated by improvements in rural
roads, water supply and sanitation facilities, small irrigation systems and
other small scale infrastructure. The project is also expected to create
awareness while at the same time educating beneficiaries on the proper
management of natural resources which would benefit the environment as well as
provide a sustainable source of income.
Sustainability: Project sustainability would be enhanced by at least three
actions. First, as the LGUs would be borrowing funds to implement their
projects and since they and the communities would be contributing equity to
the subprojects, their sense of ownership is expected to be strong, thereby
enhancing the chances of maintaining and sustaining the investments. This
sense of ownership and commitment is further strengthened by the fact that the
subprojects will be generated, planned and implemented by the beneficiary LGUs
and communities. Second, the project would support the development of
institutional and human resource capacity that would continue project
operations after the project is completed. Third, project implementation will
involve line agencies which should support the project operations once the
project is completed.
Risks:          There seem to be four critical risks associated with the
project. First, the risk of inadequate demand for project funds reflected in
lack of an adequate flow of well prepared and bankable projects. This risk is
perceived to be low, given the following: (i) the project has been preceded by
demand assessment combined with project promotion, through consultations with
LGUs, which indicate that there is significant demand for the project; (ii)
the project will be supported by technical assistance which will assist in
building capacity for project identification, preparation and implementation;
and (iii) eligibility criteria together with lending terms have been designed
in a flexible manner so as to be used to influence demand, but within prudent
limits, during project implementation. Second , the risk of inability of
beneficiary groups to repay the loan portion of financing. This risk is
minimized through financial appraisal and ability to repay assessment and
provide smaller loans. Third, the risk of possible delays in subproject start-
up. This risk is perceived to be low, because the momentum in demand will be
sustained by proceeding with the processing , financing and implementation of
subprojects, ahead of the main project, through utilization of a PHRD grant
and retroactive financing from the World Bank loan. Fourth, the risk of
disruption of subproject preparation and implementation by the three year term
of office of elected LGU officials. This risk is minimized through project
support for TA and training for institutional strengthening. The stronger the
institutions, the greater the chances for the bureaucracy to resist adverse
political influences on project implementation. This combined means that the
overall project risk rating is "low": the probability of a successful
implementation is good given the GOP's strong commitment, skilled staff, and
the clearly defined criteria/rules/procedures/ conditions for subproject
- 6 -



implementation at local level.
Contact Point:           The InfoShop
The World Bank
1818 H Street NW
Washington DC 20433
Telephone No.: (202) 4585454
Fax No.: (202) 522-1500
Note: This is information on an evolving project. Certain activities and/or
components may not necessarily be included in the final project.
Processed by the InfoShop week ending March 6, 1998.
-7-



ANNEX
Environmental
The project has been designed to support locally based investments in a
range of environmentally desirable activities including water supply,
nearshore fisheries, forestry and upland agriculture as well as small scale
infrastructure related to these activities. These interventions have been
thoroughly tested in earlier projects and their environmental impact has been
overwhelmingly positive. Procedures for sub-project preparation and approval
have been designed to ensure local consultation and compliance with national
and local environmental guidelines and standards. Some investments,
particularly road and trail renovation could have environmental impact, but
because of the small-scale and disbursed nature of sub-projects to be
supported under the project, it is unlikely that significant environmental
problems will arise. Support under the project for the Department of
Environment and Natural Resources will produce and disseminate technical
material on environmentally sensitive planning and implementation.
- 8 -



