Document of
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Report No: 18055
IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
CHILE
SECOND PUBLIC SECT'OR MANAGEMENT PROJECT (PSM II)
(LOAN 3411-CH)
June 30, 1998
Poverty Reduction and Economic Management
Latin America and the Caribbean Region
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the
performance of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without
World Bank authorization.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
Currency Unit = Chilean Peso (Ch$)
Rate at appraisal (Official):  US$1    =   Ch$305         Average 1990
US$1.00       Ch$342         (May 1991)
WEIGHTS AND MEASURES
1 meter (m)                    =       3.28 feet (ft)
1 kilometer (kin)              =       0.62 mile (mi)
1 square kilometer (kmn2)              0.386 square mile (sq mi)
1 metric ton (m ton)           =       1.1 US short ton (sh ton)
1 liter (1)                    -       0.264178 US gallon (gal)
ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS
ICR          -  Implementation Completion Report
IRS          -  Internal Revenue Service
LOC          -  Library of Congress
PSM II       -  Second Public Sector Management Project
SSI         -  Social Security Institute
TA           -  Technical Assistance
VAT          -  Value Added Tax
FISCAL YEAR
January 1 - December 31
Vice President: Shahid Javed Burki
Director, SMU: Guillermo Perry
Director, CMU: Myrna Alexander
Task Manager: Luis-Jose Mejia



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
CHILE
Table of Contents
Page Number
Preface ................i
Evaluation Summary ...............                                    ii
Part I Project Review from Bank's Perspective
A. Introduction                            .1
B. Project Objectives                        .2
C. lmplementation Experience                     .2
D.  Results                                                           3
E. Customs Service                           .3
F. Social Security Institute                    .3
G. Internal Revenue Service                     .4
H. Treasury .......4
I.   Economic Policy Analysis and Coordination          .4
J. Congress                              .5
K    Project Sustainability and Future Operations       .5
L. Bank Performnce                           .6
M. Borrower Performance                        .6
N. Assessment of Outcome                        .7
0. Key Lessons Learned                        .7
Table 1: Summary of Assessment                     .9
Table 2  Related Bank Loans/Credits .10
Table 3: Project Timetable .11
Table 4:   Loan/Credit Disbursementts: Cumulative Estimated and Actual . 11
Table 5: Results .12
Table 6    Project Studies ....................                       31
Table 7: Project Costs and Financing .34
Table 8: VAT Evasion .35
Table 9: Status of Covenant Compliance .37
Table 10:  Bank Resources: Staff Inputs ...........................    39
Table 11:  Bank Resources: Missions ...........................       39
Table 12: Evolution of Tax Revenues .........................         40
Annex I   Mission's Aide Memoire
Annex II Borrower contribution to the ICR
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the
perfornance of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without
World Bank authorization.



i
IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
CHILE
SECOND PUBLIC SECTOR MANAGEMENT PROJECT
(LOAN 3411-CH)
PREFACE
This is the Implementation Completion Report (ICR) for the Second Public Sector
Management Project in Chile, for which Loan 341 1-CH in the amount of US$17.2 million
equivalent was approved on October 3, 1991 and made effective on January 22, 1992.
The ICR was prepared by Mr. Luis Jose Mejia, Poverty Reduction and Economic
Management Group of the Latin America and the Caribbean Region and reviewed by Mr. Donal
Winider.
Preparation of this ICR was begun, during the Bank's final supervision/completion
mission (June 2 - 13, 1997). It is based on material obtained during this mission and
contained in the project file. The Borrower contributed to the preparation of the ICR by
providing views that are reflected in the final mission's Aide-Memoire and by preparing an
evaluation of the project's implementation.



ii
IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
CHILE
SECOND PUBLIC SECTOR MNANAGEMENT PROJECT (PSM II)
EVALUATION SUMMARY
1.    When President Alwyn's team entered office in 1990, it found that the structural
adjustments in the previous decade and the 1970s' economic liberalization had substantially
trimmed the public sector's role. The new admirnistration recognized as well that Chile's situation
required prompt, special attention to that sector. It particularly appreciated the need to continue
improving the country's efficiency for better international competitiveness and greater benefits from
public expenditures. It therefore decided to upgrade the key related Government functions.
2.    The administration also saw the need for a broader institutional framework for
governance. Chile's transition from the prior military regime to civilian rule had not been
accompanied by improvements in all the central arteries of democratic governance, especially the
legislative and judicial branches (which had been inactive for 17 years). Moreover, the national
consensus underlying this transition called for balancing the sustaining of past macroeconomic
policy with mitigating the resulting increased income inequality and other adverse effects.
3.     Similarly, there was a need for substantial rebuilding of the Executive Branch machinery.
The new managers of several economic sector agencies found them to be outmoded and decaying.
Revenue collection agencies accordingly had high default rates, low productivity in inspection and
auditing, etc. In addition, Chile was then looking for ways to expand foreign trade, and confronted
GATT negotiations and common market proposals. But the new autonomy given the Central Bank
deprived the main economic team of its staff, on which Government economic analysis and policy-
making had depended. There thus was considerable urgency in building an adequate replacement
cadre, as well as creating new machinery for coordinating policymaking. Further, the rapid
progress of public enterprise privatization had outpaced the reform of the Government's regulatory
instruments.
4.     Therefore, the Second Public Sectar Management Project (PSM II) aimed at: (a)
increasing the efficiency and effectiveness of the Internal Revenue, Treasury, Customs and Social
Security operations; (b) remediating the Government's inadequate economnic policy analytic and
coordination capabilities; and (c) improving policymaking in the legislature (a novelty in Bank
lending).
5.    The project achieved most of, and even somewhat exceeded, its targets. The information
systems it introduced and saw installed materially upgraded the principal public finance
organizations. Several studies paralleled by independent Government reforms helped produce
constructive--some even basic--changes in these agencies' governing legislation, structures,
priorities and practices. Several of them realized productivity increases and improved service
delivery. The project also furnished timely help in wide ranging macroeconomic policy analyses
and formulation. It contributed moreover tD the stimulation of fuller democratic government in
Chile, albeit to a small extent, by helping to revive the moribund legislative institutions. Some
illustrative project results were the following:



Customs reduced its average response time to requests for various services from 90
minutes to 5 minutes; import declarations' processing was cut from several hours to 75
minutes. Electronic transmission of customs documentation produced sizable savings.
Customs also reoriented its strategy based on a project-financed study, a new law and
managerial changes. New performance indicators now underpin staff salaries;
ii.    Social Security (SSI) cut data processing errors by some 75%. The average time it took
to handle a public employee's pension application fell from 236 days to 62 days over
1990-96. Debt recoveries have risen and firaudulent benefit payments fallen;
iii.   Internal Revenue Service (IRS) decentralized its operations and reformed its
technology. The new systems have significantly reduced the work of updating tax
information and improved their quality, while also facilitating expanded coverage. IRS
has thereby gained much better data, permitting it to upgrade its controls and auditing
while processing tax information faster (from 6 weeks to one). In the wake of these and
related improvements, tax revenues have steadily increased. VAT collection trends are
especially impressive: evasion is calculated to have fallen from 31.7% in 1989 to 23.4%
in 1996. VAT revenues are estimated to have risen 85% in 1989-95 (in January 1996
figures), especially significant since VAT accounts for about half of all national tax
income. A 1995 public opinion survey showed that 80% of taxpayers polled considered
their tax bills to be more accurate and judged IRS' performance to be much improved;
iv.    Treasury sharply cut the former average 15 days required for responses to inquiries;
half of them are now replied to in less than five days. It also reports increased
collections. The public moreover now can use ATM-type machines for easily accessible
tax information services;
v.     Economic Policy Analyses and Coordination. The Finance Ministry's International
and Macroeconomic Analyses units effectively built an analytic capacity to replace the
former Central Bank services. This along with many studies provided the expertise
needed for negotiation of several commercial and trade agreements and formulation of
tax reforms. Studies carried out by the Ministry of Economy enabled it to expand the
Government's regulatory role, e.g., strengthening the new Consumer Protection Agency,
creating the Telecommunications Superintendent, and improving pricing arrangements
for natural gas, water, sewerage and telecommunications services. Also, intenninisterial
committees provided a forum for examination of policy problems in poverty
remediation, Government information systems, improving the efficiency of social
programs and Government mining enterprises, etc. One of these led to legislative
changes which opened new investment options for pension funds. Later though, the
authorities chose to not maintain the committees as an instrument for inter-agency
coordination;
vi.    Congress. The Library of Congress (LOC) and the legislature are now much better
equipped. Substantial investments in collections and communications networks have re-
established the Library's value as a national information resource. Its reference service
has equipped it to begin providing support for the Senate's and House's legislative
analyses and formulation. The Congress gained its first computerized data systems
which provide automated facilities and access to "Internet," furnishing a modem network
for central communications and information flows. These latter however are relatively
recent advances because of the long gestation period of project implementation and the
Congress' slow absorption of these changes. They thus have not yet had any great
impact.



iv
6.     Project implementation generally proceeded well although the pace was uneven.
Difficulties in reaching agreement on criteria for procurement bid evaluations and on the extent of
flexibility permissible in defining data system specifications impeded more rapid execution. In
addition, the component aimed at providing computer hardware and software in the two legislative
houses languished throughout. This was mainly because of poor legislative decision-making,
direction and project coordination, which led to the restructuring of the component.
7.     The Government has already embarked on a follow-up project aimed at further managerial
improvements in the Customs, IRS and Treasury Services and Finance's economic studies units.
The Securities and Exchange Commission and the Government currency provider also figure in the
new operation. But the Executive Branch entities already appear to be sufficiently better managed
to ensure the sustainability of PSM IU's achievements. Their more positive enabling environments
and stronger capacities to meet public service demands and net revenue increases also comprise
favorable conditions for further progress towards PSM I1 project objectives. However, it remains
to be seen to what extent the two legislative bodies fully apply and realize the potential benefits of
the project. They still lack a strategy and program for these purposes. There is some
Congressional sentiment to explore better usage of the project improvements. But these efforts are
still largely nascent and will require significantly greater initiative and momentum.
8.    The Bank's performance was satisfactory. The Government looked to it for wechnical
assistance, especially for facilitation of project design and supervision. These responsibilities were
creditably discharged. In addition, the form and content of this project were better than numerous
comparable activities of this period. They far surpassed the previous operation in Chile (First
Public Sector Management Project, Ln. 2504) in many respects. However, the design work paid
limited attention to many of the executing agsencies' underlying institutional issues, which confined
project objectives to less than what was needed.
9.     Nonetheless, these were less important than the Bank's timely responsiveness and flexible
approach to the problems which confronted the new Government at an important juncture. To be
sure, greater effort could have been devoted to fashioning more extensive and thorough measures
than the essentially "institutional bolstering" approach taken. But this would have deterred the
relatively speedy undertaking and been less responsive to the Government's immediate needs.
Moreover, the project's early beginning provided useful diagnoses and support for the new
executing agency leaders' definitions of bro-ader changes.
10.      Less positive were the design and preparations for the assistance directed to the
Congress. These inadequately gauged the legislatures' needs and their capacities to participate in
and conduct such activities, particularly after their hiatus. A more comprehensive assessment
might also have produced better remedies for the two institutions' resistance to change and
collaborate, and their unpreparedness to absorb modern technology.
11.    The project's success reflected the high degree of commitment to the undertaking and
skills of the Government authorities engaged in it, especially the new managers and other
executives of the public finance agencies and the LOC. Their leadership and active partnership
with the project produced valuable reforms, although most executing agencies failed to develop and
install the agreed performance indicators for their operations.
12.     The project's objectives were relatively modest, as was the scale of its investments in
relation to the modernization and other reform needs of the agencies involved. Its direct



V
institutional development impact was limited. However, it helped Chile build up greater capacity
for--and further advance--the transformation of its public sector. One element was enhancing
changes in the cultures of the several relatively rigid, old line Government institutions towards a
more service-focused orientation. Consequently, they are now more attuned to their environment
and this transforming process is well entrenched. In addition, the Government's project-supported
actions initiated important advances in its regulatory system to help ensure that the new market
mechanisms function efficiently and fairly--in the process, addressing regulatory problems usually
tackled by much more advanced countries.
13.     Further, the Executive Branch is unlikely to have alone undertaken and overseen the
revitalization of the Senate, Chamber of Deputies and the Library of Congress. Therefore,
engaging the Bank's perceived objectivity and its provisions for transparency facilitated this
venture. Also, the project helped the Government consolidate the past structural adjustment
reforms and launch desired social welfare improvements without compromising macroeconomic
stability. And the project contributed to some Government moves to rationalize the tenuous
distinction between IRS and Treasury activities, and to solving some state procurement agency
problems.
14. Kev Lessons Learned
(a)    Legislative institutions typically are largely politically minded and have collegial (rather
than executive) management cultures, short term mandates, frequent tumover, and are
focused on disparate local concerns. Since these factors comprise a poor enabling
environment for the application of institutional development measures, congresses can
well find it difficult to maintain sufficient interest and priority to properly implement
these activities.
(b)    There should be a careful assessment of the extent to which a legislative institution has:
(i) adequate managerial capacity to undertake planned investments; (ii) sufficiently
centralized and potent decision-making capability; (iii) demonstrated success in reaching
consensus on proposed actions within reasonable periods, and then seeing them carried
out; and (iv) is receptive to transparent and modernizing changes.
(c)    The Bank's presence may provide a helpful buffer in executive-legislative branch
dealings in projects. However, close attention should be given to: (i) the sensitivities of
legislators' prerogatives when defining the two parties' relationships in project
arrangements; and (ii) possible problems in inter-chamber relationships in cases
involving bicameral legislatures.
(d)    Chile's approach to public sector management illustrated the concept that the transition
to a market economy may entail limiting the ambitions of the state--but still ensuring that
what government does, it must do well.



IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
CHILE
SECOND PUBLIC SECTOR MANAGEMENT PROJECT (PSM II)
(LOAN 3411-CH)
PART I: PROJECT REVIEW FROM BANK'S PERSPECTIVE
A. Introduction
1.    Chile is widely recognized as having the most stable and liberalized economy in Latin
America. This is partly attributable to its smooth transition at the beginning of this decade from a military
regime to a renewed civilian democratic government. This helped to sustain popular support for the
market-oriented economic system centered on the private sector.
2     As a corollary to that, the public sector hlad long played a mainly supportive role in Chile,
following several administrations' resolves to fundamentally limit govermment activity and functioning.
Thus, President Alwyn's team which took over in 1990 inherited a situation in which the marked structural
adjustmnents in the previous decade (as well as the earlier economic liberalization movement) were
paralleled by substantial reductions in the public sector's role in the economy.
4     The new administration recognized however that prevailing conditions necessitated prompt and
special attention to that sector. Despite Chile's advanced position in economic achievements and social
progress, some efforts were still occasionally needed to keep the macro and the reform programs aright. In
particular, the new team appreciated the need to continue improving the country's efficiency for better
international competitiveness, greater benefits from allocations of public resources, and for sustained high
growth rates. To these ends, the Government decided to make increased investments in priority areas in
order to enhance the delivery of key government services.
4.     Simultaneously, while public finances appeared manageable, the revenue outlook bore watching.
Public enterprise surpluses had been declining and the Central Government's position depended to some
extent on the recovery of copper prices. Meanwhile, a stubborn quasi-fiscal deficit and inflation (27.3% in
1990, the highest level in years) also caused concern.
5.    A second important reason for considerable attention to the public sector concerned Chile's
political dynamics at the time. The administration saw that there needed to be a solid institutional
framework for improved governance under the new state conditions. However, the political transition from
the military regime had not been accompanied by improvements in the full range of entities constituting the
central arteries of a democratic state. This applied especially to the legislative and judicial branches, whose
historic independence was a nationally respectect tradition, but which were inactive during the military
government's 17-year rule.
6.   In addition, the national consensus underlying the transition rested on an implicit social pact. This
called for balancing the sustaining of past macroeconomic policy with mitigating the increased inequality
and other adverse effects of the previous administration's policies. More attention was called for on social
welfare and poverty alleviation problems. And the return to democracy had also sparked rising populist



2
expectations, stimuli for political decentralization and aspirations for more open relations between the
government and the governed.
7.    Similarly, the authorities appreciated the need for substantial rebuilding of the executive branch
machinery. Their predecessors had focused mainly on reducing the size of the state (more than tightening
its effectiveness). Unsurprisingly therefore, the new managers of several economic sector agencies found
them to be decaying and somewhat dispirited and outmoded. There were accordingly high default rates in
agencies charged with collections, evidence of considerable VAT evasion, low productivity in inspection
and auditing functions, etc.
8.    In addition, economic policy formulation and management during the previous regime were
concentrated in the Finance and Economics Ministries with heavy reliance on Central Bank analyses. But
now the Central Bank had gained independent status. In addition, it was clear that policymakng would
now be more dispersed. Thus, the authorities decided to create interministerial commissions for
coordinating the numerous agencies.
9.    Simultaneously, there was considerable urgency in building an adequate macroeconomic cadre to
replace the Central Bank team. Chile was then looking for ways to expand foreign trade and confronted
GATT negotiations and various common market proposals, for which the remaining Executive Branch
agencies had virtually negligible in-house analytic capability. Additionally, the rapid progress of public
enterprise privatization had outpaced the speed of reform of the Government's instruments for regulating
those markets. And problems had surfaced over competition in airline service, protecting consumers in
natural monopoly areas and port tariffs.
B. Proiect Obiectives
10.    On these accounts, the Government requested Bank assistance for overcoming a hard core of
public sector management problems. It focused these on:
(a)  inadequate policy analytic capacity in the ministries responsible for important economic
sectors;
(b)  the weakened legislature;
(c)  inadequate mechanisms for inter-ministerial coordination; and
(d) deficiencies in four Government revenue-raising and benefit-administering operations (Internal
Revenue Service, Treasury, Customs and the Social Security Institute).
11. The Second Public Sector Management loan's objectives were to: (a) increase the efficiency and
effectiveness of these operations; (b) improve economic policymaking of the Ministries of Finance and
Economy, and the legislature; and (c) strengthen interministerial assessment of policy issues.
Its provisions centered on overcoming the key weaknesses in the mechanisms used to provide and
coordinate information and analysis, and bolstering the many relatively inexperienced officials appointed in
the transition to democratic government.
C. Implementation Experience
12.   Project implementation generally began well with good progress in almost all components in
contracting consultants and preparing bidding documents for equipment purchases. Overall, this favorable
pace was maintained. Between the date of effectiveness (January 1992) and April 1996, 88% of the loan
amount was committed, spent or disbursed. And even more rapid project execution could have been



3
achieved were it not for persistent difficulties in reaching agreement on the criteria to be used in assessing
procurement bids.
13.  One project component--the improvement of Customs' chemical laboratory engaged in fraud
detection--was dropped during the project period. The cancellation resulted from the Government's
decision to contract private firms to conduct these examinations.
D. Results
14.   The project achieved most of its objectives, and even somewhat exceeded its initial targets. The
information systems it introduced and saw installed materially upgraded the principal public finance
organizations' operations. Several parallel studies helped produce constructive, and even some basic,
changes in these agencies' governing legislation, structures, priorities and practices. (These developments
partly reflected contemporaneous Government initiatives independent of--but entwined with--the project.)
In the process, several agencies realized productivity increases and improved service delivery. Furthermore,
timely and material assistance was provided for wide ranging economic policy analyses and formulations
under pressing national circumstances. Moreover, the project contributed to the stimulation of fuller
democratic governance in Chile by helping to revive moribund legislative institutions. Some of the main
achievements are summarized below, with fuller details described in Table 5. In addition, Table 6 lists the
project-financed studies and indicates their impact.
E. Customs Service
15.   The immediate and chief contribution of -the project to the Customs Service enabled it to replace an
aged computer system, abetted by the installation of local networks and staff training. These measures
have enabled the Service to reduce its response time to requests for assorted Customs functions (from 90
minutes to 5 minutes on average), and provide "on line" data on past transactions and technical matters.
Import declarations' processing has similarly been cut from several hours to 75 minutes. The improved
systems facilitate the far flung regional offices' communications with the central facility, and allow them
to answer local data inquiries on their own in about half the cases. Later initiatives added provisions for
electronic transmission of customs documentation.
16.    Customs' managerial changes in 1995 led to a reorientation of the organization's strategy. This
was aimed at providing greater export-related and other market services rather than continued stress on
revenue collection. In conjunction with a new Customs law in 1996, the project financed the study which
helped define the new strategy. It also provided advisory services on changing Service personnel
management, kindling the introduction of new munagement control systems. One endproduct has been the
development of the performance indicators that n,ow form the basis for salary remuneration and auditing
planning.
F. Social Security Institute (SSI)
17.    SSI was mainly responsible at the project's outset for managing the unfunded social security
system, servicing many individual accounts. After Chile's momentous policy changes promoting privately
funded pension plans, SSI was commonly seen to be administering a dying function. This was worsened by
its inefficient, outdated operations.
18    The project assisted SSI management to instill a new orientation and to effect substantially altered
working practices, alongside of organizational changes and provisions for improved beneficiaries' care.



4
The introduction of more modem data technology captured and penritted speedier processing of ssrs
voluminous information on social security tax obligations and their fulfillment, as well as pension benefits.
Data processing errors as a result are now calculated to be 75% fewer than in 1990. The average time it
took to handle a public employee's pension application fell from 236 days to 62 days over 1990-96 (and
from 152 days to 34 days for other workers). Meanwhile, debt recoveries have risen and there have been
reductions in fraudulent benefit payments, as well as fewer instances of dubious claims for these payments.
19.   SSI is now considered to be extensively reformed. Its new performance, indicative of a successful
service-oriented institution, has produced much greater public confidence in its accuracy and competence.
These advances have assumed greater importance as SSI redefined its mission to encompass new social
sector functions. The Institute's 1996 figures indicate that its clientele then exceeded 60% of the
population.
G. Internal Revenue Service (IRS)
20 IRS was the lead case for the four project public finance agencies in developing new information
systems and expanding system coverage. The project assisted with the provision of redesigned data bases,
expanded central computer capacity and a multipurpose network. These were effectively deployed while
the IRS fundamentally decentralized its operations.
21    As a result of the profound change in its technology and other actions, local IRS offices for the
first time now collect all the data and can access the central information base for verification. The new
systems have significantly reduced the work of updating tax information and improved their quality, while
also facilitating expanded coverage. IRS thereby has better control and auditing capabilities. In the wake
of the improvements, tax revenues have steadily increased (see Table 12). There have also been persistent
cuts in the time needed for processing tax information (from 6 weeks to one) and in the planning of tax
inspections (from 4 weeks to one). VAT improvements are especially impressive with evasion calculated to
have fallen from 31.7% in 1989 to 23.4% in 1996. VAT revenues are estimated to have risen 85% in
1989-95 (in January 1996 figures), a significant figure since VAT accounts for about half of all tax
income.
H, Treasurv
22    The Government revenue collector and paymaster acquired computer equipment, software and
communications systems to enable its regional offices to function more speedily and accurately. The
Service installed both a national network and second level data base, comprising significantly
modernization of Treasury's capacities from their nearly rudimentary levels at the project's outset. All
regional offices are now connected to the central host and many of the inefficiencies of past operations have
been eliminated. The former average 15 days required for responses to inquiries has been sharply cut; half
of current inquiries are now replied to in less than five days. The public moreover now has access to
ATM-type machines and other multimedia systems for obtaining services.
I. Economic Poliev Analyses and Coordination
23 Project-funded studies together with computerization help served to mobilize the Finance Ministry's
International and Macroeconomic Analyses units, effectively building an analytic capacity to replace the
former Central Bank services. The assistance also led to the execution of an impressive array of diagnoses
of pressing problems for the new Government authorities (see table 5). Among others, the studies provided
useful material for negotiation of several commercial and trade agreements, formulation of tax reform



5
proposals, and preparation of modernization schemes for the state procurement and currency issuer
agencies.
24    The parallel studies carried out by the Ministry of Economy enabled it to expand and enrich the
Government's regulatory role. Some of these focused on strengthening the new institutions created in this
field, notably the Consumer Protection Agency. Other studies led to improvement of pricing, subsidy and
tariff provisions governing natural gas, water, sewerage and telecommunications services.
25    In addition, the Loan provided the resources for the fledgling Presidential Secretariat's
interninisterial committees to examine policy problems in diverse areas. They covered poverty
remediation, rationalizing Government information systems, improving the efficiency of social programs
and Government mining enterprises, etc. One of these led to legislative changes which opened new
investment options for pension funds but most had more limited returns. On completion of the studies, the
authorities chose not to maintain the committees as an instrument for inter-agency coordination.
J. Congress
26    This component's major accomplishments were reversing the deterioration of the Library of
Congress (LOC) and introducing modern data and communications systems in the legislature. All these
institutions are very much better equipped and served than at the project's beginning. The substantial
investments in LOC collections and reference systems together with communications networks have re-
established the Library's value as a national information resource. Its reference service has equipped it to
begin providing support for legislative analyses and formulation. On LOC's own, there also were
organizational changes and the start of "outreach" services to the public.
27    The Congress gained its first compute,rized data systems which provide automated communication
facilities, access to "Internet," etc. alongside of training for legislators and staff personnel in these facilities.
It now has a modem network for central commnunications as well as information flows throughout Chile
and international contacts. All these are relalively recent advances because of the long gestation period of
project implementation and the Congress' uneasy absorption of these changes. On these and other
accounts, these innovations have not yet had any great impact. The initial benefits included much speedier
reproduction and dissemination of accounts of Congressional sessions, as well as substantial electronic mail
volume within and between the two houses. The Congress is moreover now moving to establish a system
which would track and publicize the status of all legislative proposals, for which there is considerable
demand.
K. Proiect SustainabilitY and Future Onerations
28    The Government has moved to undertake a follow-up project aimed at further managerial
improvements in the orbit of the Finance Ministry. The Customs, IRS and Treasury Services are
scheduled for additional work, as are Finance's own economic studies units, in order to more fully realize
the benefits of the investments made up to now. The Securities and Exchange Commission and the
Government currency provider have been added to the list of beneficiaries of the new operation.
29    But even without these measures, there are strong grounds for anticipating better future utilization
of the infrastructural and other improvements achieved under the project. These Executive Branch entities
generally appear to be much better managed. In addition, their now more positive enabling environments
and stronger capacities to meet public servitce demands (as well as sustained revenue increases by several)
comprise favorable conditions for further progress towards project objectives. The same applies to the



6
Library of Congress. However, it remains to be seen to what extent the two legislative bodies fully apply
the potential benefits and net the broader range oftheir advantages. There is some movement withinthe
Congress to explore how it can use the project-stimulated improvements to make itself stronger and more
responsive to its members and popular needs. However, these are still largely nascent and will require
significantly greater collaboration between the two houses and more forceful decision-making momentum.
L. Bank Performance
30.   The Bank's performance was satisfactory. Because of the Government's close relationship with the
Bank--solidified throughout its reform and adjustment processes in the mid-1980s--it looked to the Bank for
technical assistance and other advisory services when the project evolved. The authorities also sought the
Bank's facilitation ("honest broker" role) to assist project design and supervision. These responsibilities
were creditably discharged.
31.   The form and content of this public sector management TA project was better than numerous
comparable activities of this period. It far surpassed the previous operation (Ln. 2504) in Chile in many
respects. However, it paid limited attention to many of the underlying institutional issues of the beneficiary
agencies. This served to constrict the project objectives to substantially less than what was needed. It also
contributed somewhat to impeding the startup of some project investments, which caused some component
redesigning later.
32.   But this was mitigated by the Bank's timely responsiveness to the problems which confronted the
new Government at an important turning point in Chile. The project's link to the Government's public
sector modernization campaign was thereby quite pragmatic and effective. To be sure, while the project
was well focused, an effort could have been devoted to fashioning more extensive and thorough measures
than the essentially "institutional bolstering" approach taken. However, this would have deterred the
relatively speedy undertaking and been less responsive to the Government's priority. Moreover, the
project's early beginning provided useful support (especially in the IRS) to the new financial management
agency leaders' definitions of broader changes, for which several Services and the LOC commended the
Bank's (and consultants') intellectual contributions. Further, the Bank showed considerable flexibility
during project implementation in order to advance new strategic planning initiatives, preparation of
legislative framework improvements, etc.
33.   A less positive aspect of the Bank's work however were the design of and preparations for the
assistance directed to the Congress. Partly perhaps because of the Bank's inexperience in the sector, the
appraisal inadequately gauged the legislatures' needs and their capacities to participate in such activities.
There were failures also to design remedies for the two houses' reluctance to change and collaborate, and
lack of readiness for effective absorption of modern technology and competitive procurement norms.
M. Borrower Performance
34.   The project's success reflected the high degree of commitment to the undertaking and professional
skills of the authorities engaged in it. These especially (but not exclusively) applied to the new managers
and other executives of the public finance agencies and the LOC, whose leadership and active partnership
with the project produced valuable reforms. The project also benefited from the maintenance of an effective
central project unit in the Finance Ministry, coordinating and providing overall management.
35.   The project was weakened though in a few instances (notably the Customs Service and the
Congress) by the fact that relatively little could be achieved until there were changes in overall leadership



7
and project coordinator positions. The executing agencies' activities also were marred by some difficulties
in conforming to 1BRD procurement guidelines, and they generaly fell short of developing and installing
the agreed performance indicators for their operations. There were problems as well in arriving at and
implementing decisions regarding the conduct oi'the Congressional component. These were partly
attributable though to justifiable Executive Braxnch sensitivities about the extent of its involvement in
Legislative Branch matters.
N. Assessment of Outcome
36.   The project's objectives were relatively modest, as was the scale of its investments in relation to the
modernization and other reform needs of the agencies involved. However, its actions helped Chile further
advance the transformation of the public sector, as well as upgrade policy formulation and management
capacity within the economic sector.
37.    One contribution was the enhancement of changes in the cultures of the several relatively rigid, old
line Government institutions to a more service-iocused orientation (while collaterally helping to contain the
fiscal deficit,through greater revenue collections). Consequently, they are now more attuned to their
environment. Furthermore, this process is now well entrenched in the wake of the organizational diagnoses,
institutional redesigns, introduction of more efficient operating procedures and norms that complemented
the project-furnished information systems. Through these, the project also helped to clear the way for
additional future steps.
38.    These measures contributed to expanding Chile's good reputation for public sector effectiveness.
Moreover, the project's communication outputs have made Chile's great geographic distances far less
troublesome now for its citizens' lives and commerce in many important respects.
39.    Second, with the dynamism of the new private sector forces in the economy, the Government in the
early 1990s initiated a process to review the overall regulatory system . It recognized that the strong past
emphasis on the role of markets had created new requirements, including tighter enforcement of natural
monopolies, greater information to consumers, and the development of consensus on competition policies.
Several important regulatory issues related to ihe energy and gas sectors were identified under the
Government-Bank preparatory work for the pioject, and it later emerged that some of these same issues
applied to telecommunications as well. There were some commendable advances made under the project,
which it bears noting dealt with problems usually faced by countries at much higher stages of development
than Chile.
40.    On its own, the Executive Branch is unlikely to have undertaken the revitalization of the Senate,
Chamber of Deputies and the Library of Congress. The Bank's participation facilitated this development.
0. Key Lessons Learned
(a)    Legislative institutions typically are largely politically minded and have collegial (rather than
executive) management cultures, short term mandates, frequent turnover, and are focused on
disparate local concerns. Since these factors comprise a poor enabling environment for the
application of institutional developmnent measures, congresses can well find it difficult to
maintain sufficient interest and priority to properly implement these activities.
(b)    There should be a careful assessment of the extent to which a legislative institution has: (i)
adequate managerial capacity to unrdertake planned investments; (ii) sufficiently centralized and



8
potent decision-making capability; (iii) demonstrated success in reaching consensus on proposed
actions within reasonable periods, and then seeing them carried out, and (iv) is receptive to
transparent and modernizing changes.
(c)    The Bank's presence may provide a helpful buffer in executive-legislative branch dealings in
projects. However, close attention should be given to: (i) the sensitivities of legislators'
prerogatives when defining the two parties' relationships in project arrangements; and (ii)
possible problems in inter-chamber relationships in cases involving bicameral legislatures.
(d) Chile's approach to public sector management illustrated the concept that the transition to a
market economy may entail limiting the ambitions of the state-but still ensuring that what
government does, it must do well.
41.   The experience in Chile also showed that, even in countries with highly disciplined financial
management competence, the Bank's involvement was considered invaluable for helping to ensure stable
funding and continuity for planned development investments.



9
Table 1: Summary of Assessments
A. Achievements of obiectives     Substantial      Partial       Ne2ligible     Not Applicable
Macro policies                        X
Sector policies                       X
Financial objectives                                                                  X
Institutional development                             X
Physical objectives                   X
Poverty reduction                                                                      X
Gender issues                                                                          X
Other social objectives                                                               X
Environmental objectives                                                               X
Public sector management              X
Private sector development                                                             X
B. Proiect sustainability           Likeaj         Unlikely       Uncertain
x
C. Bank performance                 Highly
satisfactory   Satisfactory     Deficient
Identification                        X
Preparation assistance                                X
Appraisal                             X
Supervision                           X
D. Borrower performance             Hialjlv
satisfactory   Satisfactory     Deficient
Preparation                           X
Implementation                        X
Covenants compliance                  X
Operation                             X
E. Assessment outcome               Hially                                        Hiehly
satisfactory    Satisfactory  Unsatisfactor   Unsatisfactory
x
x



10
Table 2: Related Bank Loans/Credits
Loan/credit title                Pur ose             Year of aproval    Status
Preceding operations
1. Structural Adjustment Loan I  To support measures taken by  10/22/1985     Completed
(2625-CH)            the Government during 1985 and                    PPAR
early 1986 in strengthening                      6/26/90
incentives for non-copper
exports, increasing public
savings and efficiency of public
investment programs and
implementing measures to
improve banking and corporate
finances.
2. Structural Adjustment Loan II  To support the Govemment's    11/20/86      Completed
(2767-CH)            1986-87 program of economic                       PPAR
adjustment and recovery by                       6/26/90
accelerating exports and
domestic savings as well as
improving the condition of
banking and corporate financing
3. Structural Adjustment Loan m   To continue support for the   12/15/87      Completed
(2892-CH)            Government's structural                           PPAR
adjustment program through                       6/26/90
strengthening of incentives for
non-copper exports as well as
improvements in public savings,
public expenditures and public
efforts in the social sectors
4. Public Sector Management   To strengthen public sector     03/14/85       Completed
Project (2504-CH)       decision making, improving                         PCR
information and analyses for                     02/11/92
economic decision-making in the
public sector and facilitate export
growth through support to small
and medium-sized exporters



11
Table 3: Project Timetable
Steps in project cycle                Date planned         Date actual/latest estimate
Identification (Executive Project Summary)                           June 1990
Preparation                                                          Eighteen Months
Appraisal                                May 1991                    May 1991
Negotiations                             July 1991                   July 1991
Board presentation                       August 1991                 October 3, 1991
Signing                                                              October 24, 1991
Effectiveness                            October 1991                January 22, 1992
Midterm review                           December 1997               June 1995
Loan closing                             June 1998                   June 1997
Table 4: Loan Disbursements: Cumulative Estimated and Actual
(US$ millions equivalent)
FY91    ]EFY92    FY93    FY94    FY95    FY96    FY97
Appraisal estimate            0.5       3.0       4.2      6.5       2.0       0.5       0.5
Actual                        0.0       1.4       1.2      2.3       5.8       3.8       2.7
Actual as % of estimate       0%       46%       29%       35%      290%      760%      540%
Date of final disbursement   7/97*
* US1.36 million canceled as of January 27, 1997.



Unidad de Coordinacin
PROYECTO TAL 2
A  IN1ERNAL REVENUE SERVICE                                                                      STATUS OF RESULTS                                                                                               4129/98
C_p__ n_e_nt/_ ___ p__ t_a__t   _                             outcome                          Outcome obtaed Iedsm actIpads ctos    dImpct oswonet
2eport ofetla ued by PCU sbt  In Sandwtho Chile, on   4St/a8
L Coordbatlon or c   _MMI-nt's execmtoon         Biddigrs Documentso Terms of i elerence.   Until 1995 an extefral consultant berbed  Comoletion of          =ents II to V.. theexception of twoGsbA.allacivi-
T) Mweement ofcomponent                        po          repa i s,l olution to trobnlems  as Coordlatwrs  with. f0mds fro5 n loan. His                                     wies sicluded in the reanrosat wei
wrisen durubg implementatio               work resuted in a good coordination, botlt                                           #dc Regudu4g budgetay executtion somte
seride IKS and with PCU.                                                            additional foune  wes aalocanth   a cs.
EL D_     _          __op_         _        _tnt of am                                            a  ifot_aioon    oy temn r.e
I)Redesiola'  fbases                           Rededa ad  data baseo . sndv ian e atalal is.d    RDBMS Oaher  was installed in National  Reduction fiom ix weeks to oue week   reduction from dsx weeh to one week
-_A_ tion_ of_DBMS _ _cratm__                         ustdeve toals, aSd thtthrg of    Dd fet. and Re      irdnf Ofsices, and ItS iersrtno
4 -Reoesion ofcappeca tions                    usm a            im Infot atmics was trined All data bases                         Reduction ofin e  fcyle s;m four           Reductionf inMs  cacle firom foer
o nosmung on IBM ewupmenct were redesinedr     wees to onent in o    anal oci      Te   tomontain ofpectrs w'L
2) EAxpusiton of Wcenanalcompucatprscity Srased disc storf 11    capacityh cotwmuca      Redesited activiu , fISarced with counrdPart   S   tmilar to ltie above.            Disc oqupm cn ty has been incralsed
tionsroutv  dcontrollerinstalled, 10     fimds Exstmetn matnfiam  was replad by                                               lottt 26i5 GpD. tO 40 Gat.
additional tetmmals installed            two sacvnrs  RS 6000 mot 5i0 and ftaee                 few set ers have processy with  IR
seof t rs RS 60 h0 mod. 250 w plus one  tner                                       fpeeds an larger RAM suhn rcplaoed
for the admiDistrtion ofthe networh                                                 manfrm  Tqiupment
3) Multiputpose Network                        New workig stations and software installed    Tbfree savit wea purchased (one for data                                        ofvna on unPeCtiO efIiciS istav  inton efwi9n
Exp      hn cpiy for data analysis          training for user on advanced data analysis.  entry, arnoth  to support applications  due to reductioms w titoe needed to            e     on h     time needed to
- Imvoaft in data captur                                                               development and the third for queries). And  get hformatio  Cspscty to perform      get hformation Capscty to perfor
Aotluisition of HW & SW                                                                were replaced 20 workstations for data entry    complex cr.   checks ofdt omplexncrossechecksdofdata
.ntooions.
4) Protection of cenas   computer from vnati   UPS    tdy wthator intalled               Since that mainvitme was replaced         Reduction in sostf failures, teductiorI          c    system failults t
and inT ions i nelectical power                                                        by severat sts RS ti000. sev    UPS units   Iprovement in productivit of systen      Ivement productivity of system      LN
were purdhased for such equipmedt, instead
__    fa larger UPS..
5) Devlopment of on applicstion for the valuation  New application, as an extension of the  Complet-                               Pr-ovide IRS with an efricient infonnation  ntoroement of efficiex and covcrage of
of raw etees data base                      contrac with the redesigner of data bases                                            svstem on real estate valuations.         rea; estate vsluatton system.
IL Espason ofsysttm coverage
I) Bolation of LAN and WAN networks.           bstallation of 30 PCs I110 terminals and  All referred equipment was installed in 1994.   Relieves remote acess to dat& On line access to Trnsmission speed between main ofrice and
- Increws in capscity of nation wide network  printers, communiucations controller     All offices, including new ones, have a LAN.   information from 50 ragional and provircial  cgional ofrices has beet mcresed from 9.2
- WDvemet ofprntnug capacity                                                           Offices are also connasd to the nation wide    ofricex mcluduig the connectiont of 25 of fices_ kbnsl* max to 64 kbps. 100N. o offices; 71)
-Acqutsttion ofHWV&SW                        btstllation of printers and ancillia y    WAN. through ENTIEL. hIn total. dhee are 320   not cownected priorly. Reduce demand on  are connected to network. Workstation are
- other                                      equipm-n                                  workstations and 240 printers.            Treray for pintwg work for about two      mome Oma 700 norw (only 130 in 1993). and
million doctumants.                      Will be more than 1.000 by the end of 199-7.
mL AutotiDttlon of administrative tnsks of
In peetlng funcdon.
I) Stttdv on administrative proc-dur           Complete study with proposals of software  These wtivities were canceled from       Improvement in operstioarl efriciency.    The implametabon ofthe 'Life CyckeW
and tuning                               Bank f Bwwi due to other priorities.                                                 ppyroach, suppote b new syteom amd
24 AcouisitbonofIHW andapplicabons! SW         bulsallabn of 1 15 PCs with software for  With local resources, IRS caffied out the  501/ reductiont offi bmesnt by the 200    nd equipnemen,has resulted in a siiiificantly
.  .      .                       ~~~~~~~~~~~admimstrstive apphca iorl.     implementation of a riew aMDowch for      unsVwtors in peafarming administrabve     I-p.o;ad quality and accutacv of the astetion
3) Use tr0ing                                  Developnment oftrsimng natenal and coursites   inspection. based on the 'Life Cycle of  :a&ks allowing for better iMpection                       dicy aDveswente come to ntS
_                        a~~~~~~~~~~n usle of the software for 200 inspectors.  Tiogwyer', alpoaDch begiiii     Pithalot  _                               c=shwta              Cyclve e.ti  Moreoer
.               D~~~~~~ther agaicies. This conicept rovem the          .                                          aesThe commtutment
sscomplis at IRS: obtainung                                                                     waiTcrr., tsi h t  myth ore d ta 30 mnintita to
saing of invoices, derlarsborn ofhcm,e.                                                r
IV. I^prowesient on allocordon of re ources                                                 g
I) Stud on tax ev sin                            t'omplete study with proposals to rvice   rhse thre acvitAes were canceled from     talocstion of respurces to Lmprove the   IRS has csriad ~out peniodicarlly sturhs ttnd
ILS.                                                                                                    Pw I                                                                                                  alttms



13
|~ l~ ' .
j  iS1-,0 
IS    l m.n~
Cii Fi1
assi            ,  



Umdad de Coordinacion
PROYECTO TAL 2
B: CUSTOMS SERVICE                                                                                   STATUS OP RESULTS                                                                                                    4/30/98
Compoomntubromponntactvty                              E cted out Ourcutcome obtaned                                                            Ex ected Impd                               Impac obained
Report   sued byPcustafflnSantago, Chile,on    450198
L Coordination of component's execution
I )Managm nt of pomp-nt                      BiddinDg Doicuments, Term sof Refertnce,   Initialliv. an exitematl consultant was hired as  Adequate completion of subcomponents II.  Ibritn organzational sutmciure of Custonms
progrtss Tepts solution to probi                                shooritnato ws catut a s d tode h to IV.                                lhe  o        statd alos  with a we
isen daitng fmplementatiork                sesiors wroblems with  Utaff peno and l                  _ e                            commitment ofe  s oerior dus  with the
.s Netwan  for30 uers.(as an 'outsivers  . S tnce mid 1993. two   Lroiect.de        f    c       o                        oad t   ldecsion 5 m0ofg a
Customs ofaicer have. rved as                                                          resoffit cthe executim of activities The
eoordmatran in ue         re. oThese                                                    N     t Drecto aind  ot er c hiefs. assmed in
difficuties and chanes resulted in   edss                                             1995. irae a sase inutmes  to thte ewatirL
effeodive coordination athn exDected.                                                  Nevfthele 0it or n tan pnumble to reuperate
the delays.   ad sons  activities were not
_ _ _. _ .. .. . . .. . c~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ompleted _
IL loprevement of Informaffon and Communl-
caffonsi Syem.
1) Expaiiion of centrdlcomputercapacity           Installation of anew centrd computer with  A new machine UNISYS A6 series was          Reduction of response timne to transctions  All resional office are coDnnected on line
hi-Wier capaciv and commwuncations         installed and the existina model A3 was     from 90 secs. to 5 secs. llistorical. trmac-  tocentml com-puter. Response time hasi
eqvumeoent f MiRai oftexistig     e        enlared. Disc stonroe capwity was d freased   tionar and tec ucal mo  infor mlable      been reduced to 5 sm. in 1995 ae    to 3
s s t sicatons. TTao  of for users         also. RegiorWl o Daices wreo tumsh4d with   on tint.                                     stms. since 19925  Based on recoesundations
ana.y.is. terieas and main ones  onnected on time ofthe consurt newutelommunications
_                                              ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~to cen.trcm puer Usea were trainedL                                   network is  now under unplementation.
Re__ _tly was carried out a study to design                                            fhurced by local futnds.
a coroorate telecommunications policy.
2) Provision of local computa cap3ctq             Acquisition of 3 LAN netwvorks, softw are  Networks wcre instailedL with UNK and       5011. of tbehnical querie s resolved locally,  LUs s  are able to satisfy their infonnmgion
(Detmental Netork)                             packages and tnrmng for 30 users.           Novell smers, 15 workstations onnet.        Local development ofapnlicattons (one     -requiremnats loca'lvatleasin 50'hof case.      
30 PCs stand aione. Purchawiied also software    Da year).   _The ahcdra ision Tof                        mtcal Data Baus
packaze (text processing- worksheet). 45                                               Mamnageent Svtn.nowY in final stow3
employees trained in use of software.                                                  of constructiomw b will na ovfw th.splar_
3) Infonmation System to support insPeiOn         Creation of oerational data bases          ln fmat stage of construction system for     10  increase in numbr of insPectiOnS.      Followin now strategc Planning i Craection
technical data bases and facilitate scoess to  oontrol of delayed pament and fisoal credit  5% increaise in dutties collection     is beingt focused towards selective revew
- D-elopumen of inttrated inframati onytet     data bases of other institutions. Trainin   benefits. and the aoolie3tion DBMS for      1001/. of use of informa3tion by otha       (s   tm  P&ate Oma nu_ber of inset-
.technical data bases.                      inistitutions.                              tions. Aypdications are not comnolete vet
4) Inter exdi  of informdation with otha public   Deveopment of applications to improve       An EDT awplication was developed for        Response time to requests of information   EDT svstenm ies aready available at all
semces and rntanai usea                         quality and ommtutunty of information       proce.ssing Imports' Declarations (DI)     from extena1 usea redured from 45.days      Customs. 125 Customs Agencies are connec-
for opeations. m wanaeamnt mid stantistical  trwnmitted electroricalWv between Customs  to 10 davs.                                ted (amp. 9S#/. of tota sgwctiesl. Total
wandYsis.                                  Aitencies. mid Customs regional offices.                                                processng time for a DI reduced fiom sevad
hoturs to 75 min. 901/, reduction in ovatime
and 35% rdcinin Pasonmel needed
.   .      .                          ..        _                 ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~Tansmnission of exports documents by EDI
.                                                                                                     ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~will be iwncorraseed in a few months
reports decreased to one day for requests
.                                                                                               ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~orgnatwed atNlational Directorate. 2 days
. _                                    ..... _                :                                       .               ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~for the rest.-
5j qumn for Custotns ofrice at the new           New activity, not included in ori6ina proiect    Equipment uinstallcd. includunr two LAN  More efficient and fasts control of       Attendance time for pawena thas been
Interatondl Aittzx of SantiaSo.                Wan. Acquisition of eqWi)mant (PCs, software,  with srvers and PCs. Application develoPed    vasasenmer and itoods.                reducd significantly (to 15 minutes or less)
other) to facilitawe opffafions at the new  to control passnaea lugage and gtoods. 
16irnot international tamninail            icud   Drintim3 of foms._
rud                                                                                                          Pep                                                                                                     [cRtTMSiJai



Unidad de Coordnacion
PROYECTO TAL 2
B: CUSTOMS SERVICE                                                                                   STATUS OF RESULTS                                                                                                    4/30/98
Componentlpubdomponentaeivta ete outcome                                             I             Oeaom  obtaned                               Expeed impa                                    pa  oane
Keport I issued by PCU  taff in Santiago, Chile, on  _                                           _     _     _      _    _     _     _
ilL improvement oAkidlla of In pertora                                                           ._________________
I) Design and prepamrtion of trainin material.   Desin of content of courses and materials   A consultant was hired to desims courses    Seocifications for issues and equipment.    Imrrovement of courses for stoffof the
Selection of truaiers.                                                                     on infommatics.                             Arppointment of 20 instructors.             Informatics Department.
2) Tminin Workshops (including equipment for      'natallation of equipment in rooms.         Were purchased PCs and audiovisual         Reinforcement of trainine effectiveness.    In 1994/93. increase in number of courses
triing rooms and courmes)                       60 his of itruction for 50 new inspectors  ecuipment. Scheduled courses  aere                                                       was of 137%. that of Participants of 107%
and 240 hrs. of instruction for 200 old    unparted (24 courses in 1994)                                                           and, fn3ally. that oftraning hours of 193%.
IV. Redunton of fro udI  o       siiaon.
(smprovement of eh nt_cai Isboy_
I) Study on needs for new equipment              Technical specifict ions of equipment       Needs and technical sReifications of eouip-   eduction of errors and faud in goods      This subcomponent was canceled
2) Acquisition of speeialized equmpment          hsstallation of new eauipment.              ment were determined in 1992. But at        classification for customs vurposes.
3) Study on the rehabilitation of laboratory site  Repwot with specification of works recuired  end 1993. a mission from IM  recommended    Reduction in time spent for revisions.
4) Rehabilitation of laboratory site              bv the site (electricity, as, water. etc.) for  dscontinued operation of laboratory and  Partial adoption of harmonized classification
.________________________________ t he adequate functioning of new and modem                  contracting pvate services for analysis.   svstem.
equipment                                  Final decision of the Mmistry was to
.provement Ia locaon and use of
1) Management Control System                     Desian and implementationofs M.I.S..         Svstem built and installed with indicators.  Defnition and periodic  essument o"        Svstem is proiaun indicarors on activity
ineludina performance indicators.          Fullv operatinz since beginning of 1996.    performance indicators. Improvement of      (i.e. am ount of declarations and duties) and
_______________________  ~ ~ ~ ~~~~~~~~~~5~mgerial capaity and productivity,                                 tm interalberof Phsial nce(e.cots of isetc.)
______ _____ _____ _____ _____ ____                     ______  _____  _____  _____  _____  ___   lon,  niumber of  physical inspections. etcl             U
hIcentive payments scheduled to bqin in 1997.
2) Modeaiation of telephone central               Acquisition and isntallation of a new       New telephone central and 17 additional     Reduction in waiting time for incominu and  Waitinu time for incominr calls reduced fiom
telephone central at Naional Directorate   lines are operating since end of 1993.      Outgoing calls. Old telephone central       601 to 40' in peak hours. and from 40' to
in Valparalso.                                                                         was a real 'bottleneck                        ninomal hous.
3) Support to strategic plannig process.          New activity, not inctluded in orinal proiect    The consultajcy consisted of 2 workshoDs  Plan EstrItegico del Sersieio Nacional de  Mission of Customs as public sevice wss
_lIan Consultancy to assist Customs staff  with managrerial staff. giving gidance to    de Aduans 'for perod 1996- 2000                fined Severai strategic obiectives and
in carryin  out srac plamnin  process      them  on strategi planning metodolov.                                                   orojeets were defined also. Some of them
in_ mid 1995                                                                                                                       rre about to sIss execution
Ciain                                                                                                        Pe 2                                                                                                    tCTABSJXS



Unidad ds Coordinaci6n
PROYECTO TAL 2
C: GENERAL TREASURY                                                                            STATUS OF RESULTS                                                                                                 4/30/9S
Component/subcomponentlactivity                        Expected outcome                          Outcome obtained                           Expected impact                            Impactt obtined
Report  issued by PCU staff In Sntigo, Chile, on  130/98
1. Reduction oftax arrs (Support to Regional    .                                           . .                                                                                      _
Treasuries' Operatioas)
1) Acquisition of computer equipment for tihe naton-   Instaiiation of 29 computes (minis) and sw  ompUteD and anciliary equipment were  eduction of demand for information on    Increased transmission speed in networkl
wide network                                      Regional and Provincial Offices, traing    tailed in af regional offices. Personnmel  Ira computer. Better access froni       All previously existing apPiications were
of 150 uss.                                valved was trained in uws of CASE          'one to information on tax arrears and  converted from propnietary software to
tooi. Existing applications were converted    u  th Inmp et of attendance to         Vent/server mode using CASE tools.These
to client/server mode. New appEications   axpayer in regional officea.              d oprent toos am used actualy to get
hawe been developed.                                                                new appications for local lecL ADl regional
andtwW office have a LAN netwodt,
wrt3 - 6 temdtas each on the averags
EAwae connected duhugb a WAN.
2) Second Leve Data Base (hardware & software)       talatien of server, 20 workstations and  Server and workstations were purchased        lien of data from the large main data   Frt statistical reports and idiators are
DBMS software to handlc data bases for    and installed. DBMS software was installed    'ac to work out reports by sectors of  b    nge.d from these maler dat
statistical purposes.                     both at central and client levels.         ionomic activity and other cntuas for     ses in draft. Strctusre and content of
_ttistical or managerial purpnses,              ma to be perfected.
3) Acquisition of equipment for Traiiing Section   Pirode Traimng Section with PCs and other  Were purchased 3 PCs, 4 videorecorden      crsase in number of employees covered   More trawng coures impared by nstruc-
equipment for training activities on site.  and TV screens.                          v training activities.                    onf   teasury, wtheown equipment
4) Traing Program to support RegonalTreasuries'    Regional offices' personnel trained to     raning program for 70 executive officen    ecutive peonnel was traned on mana-    Along with eqWupment and apphcations,
actiu Pes                                       unprove efficiency and attendance to       f Regional offices on managerii; toois and  ial ssus (groupworking and persona         trdaining program has retswted in an
taxpyers                                  pcnonal development. Courses on four       evclopment) to knprOVe management.       ipvement in quality and opporuity of
o_perationd matters (collection, public        tiona officer trdined on four different  a dance to taxpayers, and in a more
imanc, income and disbursement), in 3      atter to inprove attendance to taxpayers.   efficient management of regiona offices.
eveis of complexity, for regional offices.
I. Increase in quaity and opportunity of Information
on taxes (Optical Character Recognition project)
1) Study ofwtecluuca ahtematives                   Technical evaluation of bids              Six technical offers were received in int.  Two technical offer quaified for second  System aready accomplishes requirements
bidding Exhauwtive technical evaluation   step (two step bidding process was           speed and quaity ofrecognaition, and is
done, including tests with sample forms.  adopted).                                 forbs.to proces the montdly voumne of
____ ____ ____ ____ ___ ____ ___   ____ ____ ___ ____ ____ ____ __ forms. Howevm , following  a  recet Govem-
2) Procurement of hardwars and software (OCR       Italsation of scanners and computers for    Equipment installed and operatin.       Reduction of time needed to enter data of   ent decision, Internal Revenue Service wil
sytem)                                          r      lioguLn and validation pocesse.      insl adjustments were made to software,_   cnome taxes (form 29) and to updateregsponib for proeaing all foma
Tranng for  e  of_ srtm                   achieving target recogtion rates.           ta base fromn curent six weeks with    _ *lated with income taxes, start  ins a few
keyboard entry to one week with OCR.        ontihA. Objective for this equipment will
_ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _   _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _   _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _   _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _m m__ _   disappe r huthus  reasur iss   seekin
ltematvd fomna to process with it One
idsa is to use it as part ofanEDI project for
proce_  tax dedrattiohmroug banks
Pt incipient development stag yeL
Tresy                                                                                                    Pop I                                                                                             ICRTABS.XLS



Unidad de Coordindcn
PROYECTO TAL 2
C: GENERAL TREASURY                                                                        STATUS OF RESULTS                                                                                            4/30/98
Component-subomonentactlqty                          Expected outcome                        Outcome obtained                          Expected imPaCt                          Impac obta.   d
Report  Issued by PCU staflin Santiago, Cbile, on           _
Ill. RedueUon In rrhud on Payments                                                                                                                                                                   _ _
I) Pronent of divwrse  chnent                     Iation of diverse    pent aned to    Were purchased and instalUed I fast printer,   eduction of errot and fraud on checks  Even though ifit is very difficult to make
eq___________________  reduce possibility of occeurrense of fraud    one sin   machine for checks and one                                                    n uuan;es.  ive  remet (thousands of
rm paymenh                              shredder for documenb.                                                            checkas are issued every month), a reduc-
ttnm fir ud ;and armo hs been obscd
2) Taxpayer Information System (Multmedia System)  ls aetiviq wasn't i-eluded oily.      System installed and operaung            Reduction of number of pople tonin       Wh self-attentiton temnnal installed,
tnstallation of audiovisual systems and PCs                                      desks for attention (20% doesn t reay need  infoapn ym has reulted i a
to generate and display informative                                              t come to), and reduction of waiting time    tion in the number of people corting
_essages in General Treasurys halil.                                            (75 minutes on average)                  toattention deks.
IV. Improvement In resource allocation
1) Study on managerial uiformation and petfoniiance   Study with proposals of indicators  T'e consultant proposed some indicators  Perfomuance indicators were drafted.   *mplemesation of Second Levd Data Base
indicatrs                                     aid recommendations to improve overal   and recommended the acquisidon of various      ___                                   ject has peritted a stat in developing
ma_nagern_ n.eq uipment to support administrative tasks.                                                                  nd mesiuing some pesformance inidcators
He also suggested a study on organization.                                       Is work wil continue in the noext futre,
2) Procurement of equipment                      Infornation system instaUed and operating    Were purchased 10 PCs, 2 servers and    ovennt in o            ona               equiPment, even if reduced in quantity
_  Lcemses of Smarterm statistical software.  efficiency at Generl Treasury.        effctivedy to support adsninistative         I_
asks at Gen. Treasury, before the project       <
lac, cked absolute* of cornputen.
3) Self-attntion termials ("Tesomnticos")        New acdvity, not considered in orin     Fwe terminals were installed outside mam  Reduction i number of queies and         axPayeruse termbials in great number,
._m rIt consisted in the installation of        (lke automatic, tell) They opera-    usts of replacement fon  in order to ivniig pressure for attenion at desks.
for sewfattention to obtain     ei alongertmetable than attention desks   ow desk officers to attend other matters.    15 additional terminals will be intaed in
informution on debb and replacement forms  do the building.                            O__            __                   _ ffices during 1997 (ftsunced_by_loca_
yor payments of severad taxes without the                                                                                 fimds).
sassistnee of a desk officer.
T1wy                                                                                                 P4e 2                                                                                          ltCTAB5fl5



Unidad de Coordincion
PROYECTO TAL 2
D: SOCIAL SECURUlY INST  TE                                                                         STATUS OF RESULTS
Componeni/subcomponentiactlvlty             1                 f     outcome                           Outcome obtained                             Expected bnpa                                ImIp ctobtand
_Report  issued by PC   staff In Santao, Chile, on  4/30/9s
1. Improvement of Collecton of social scurity (pension                                                  _
taxes                                                                                                _____
_I) SJdy en the efr"mulation of CoDlection function of  Diagosis of colection functio, proposal  A complte study on the colection aea was   Redesign of colection function aned to        Approved model includes doption of new
the Institute                                        d desig  ofa new model for the function,   carried out by a consulting fnk, and the    increase coDection of ocial ecmuity taxes      limo      sch as EDI for trunission
________________________________   including treatment of evasion and arrears.            titute approved one proposal of model.    and detect and reduce evasion,                 decla ation  nd pay       forms from
________________________            _T_ he report of the consultant included also                                                                                                Uencie to to sng  unit,   f        nc
reconunendations for the implementation ._                                                         nd the enrolment of en_oy_a
phase.sdwxa in the rstern, to kcnow exsctly
2) Implemenbtion of the recommendations of the       Implementation of reconunendations of the    3 studies recommended by the consultant    Increase in collecdon and measures to         wo of the studies are just in final stge.
Study on reformulation of Colection function.      study, including new systems.               to support the implementation of proposal   rdues and prevent evasion. Recovery of       Study on hitoical debts has resulted in a
Procurement of equipment reqired to         have been cartied out: astu   on reco       a significant amount of historic debts.      clasication of debts in u coverabl ad
rplement new systems                        of historic debts; a study on the enrolment                                              reco__abl _ ones, iden__fying for the latter
(The Institute decided to realocate funds   of employers and employees; and a                                                        mechansms for recovery, As a result of_the
for equipment provided for this activity to  study trip to European countries, to lean                                               study on enrollment, a marketing ca npaign
other subcomponent).                        about prejudicial methods to recover                  w_l_ be conducted to motivate voluntary
debs                                         a________on_____plisf-set of social wecurity obbliga-
debts    __________________    _________________                                     _   Com1ns. FiWlyna, as a result of ttip, a proposal 
___________________________________ . __________________________________ ._____________________________     _    o on    mechanisms  for prejudicial recovery      00
wiD be made to Superintendency of S.S.
11. Improvement in concession and administration of
pension benefits.                                                                                                   _
I) Desigu and implementafion of rationalization
of processes.
- Diagnosis                                         Systems installed and oprating, manuals     As a                                        Result of Diagnosis, several  eduction of 40% in time for processing an   A proposed model of agency, concentrating
- Design and implementation of reengineering        for users and administrators of systems,    p rojccts were drafted to rationalize and   application for pension benefits; reduction  almost all steps of process, exceping legal
- Procurement of computer equipment                training                                     improve processes. The consulting fum       in quantity of errors in processing.         verificaion of documents and authorizaon,
specified also technical requirements of the                                             was implemented in one pdot ageny. This
computer network to be instaDled at the                                                        wiD be imnplemente graduaD_y in an.
_Operations Depatment.                                                                     ther 12 agencies Accordmg withthe test
_Servers, ~PCs,rinters, routers and other                                                          by the consultdnt, it improves
hardware and several software for the        ____quaity of attendance to apph-
network were purchased and instaled.                                                      ants nd working attitude of S.S.lofficers.
___________________________________         ___________________________________          ___________________________________         4eanwhile,   processing   tim e   of  an
applicaion has been reduced from up to 236
_______________________________________  ______________________________  _______  hys   on   th e  average  in  1990  to  about 30
_____________ _____________ _____________   b_______________________lays   (average)   by   the  end  of 1996.
2) Improvement of access to historic information     Diagnostc study on central archives,        1.3 million files of active contributors were    Reduction of response time to demands for   System has permitted reducdon in response
(Central Archives)                                reordering and numbering files, and         reordered, numbered with code bars and         es to 3 days (time before project was      ime to only 2 days. There are no longer
__________________________________________  and gathering all of them in one place,     laced un one site specially arranged.      of 10-12 days on the average). Reduction in    not found fdies. With local funds,
2    d impleentation  f a systm              System was desiged, consuctd and             ate of  ot foundt files (siaon before         d outsouring, the Instte is
_____________________________________________  control files (search, loans, existence), inc.    installed, 21 employecs trained in its use  was of 23% of searchs without results)  plemendng a system to handle files
lrocurement of hardware, sw and training                                                                                            of pensioned  pIse (about 900.000 files)
11 Improvement in concession and administration ot
5,5,1.                                                               .Page I                                                                                                                                        ICRTAB5.XLS



Unidad de Coondinacion
PROYECTO TAL 2
D: SOCIAL SECURllY INSTITUTE                                                                        STATUS OF RESULTS
Componentlaubcomponentlactivity                           Expected outcome                            Outcome obtained                             Expected Impact                               Impat obtained   I3t0O
Compo_e_t_su_ coinpone_t_activity                                               Report  issued by PCU staff In Santiago, Chile, on  4t.3019S_                                                   _        _
pension benefits - continuation
Activities flnanced 100%/ by local counterpart
3) Inventosy of laws and rules that gevem previsional   Compilaton of laws, decrees and rules that   Compilation done.                        Reduction of 75% in processing errors.      LcgS  demands against the Imtute have
issues                                            govem prevsional  stem administecrd by                                                   Reduction of 50% in legal demands.                reduced drastically in these
tse Institute.                                _eas, as a consequcnce of eduction
_ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _   _______________________                                                                                                        ttt___________________c errors  in   esleula on  of benefits  and
oc_tter knowledge of laws.
4) Clearing of individual accounts' data bases          line access to reliable data on individual   Clearing done, compr sing app. 3 mlion   Reduction in response time to qucries from  Rducion in rponse im  to queries from
accounts of contributors.                  individual accounts.                         60 days020days, and with leS errors.            days to 20 days, and with Iss crrors.
5) Clcaring of beneficiaries' data bases               agnetic archive with complete and rehable   Clearing completed.                       Reduction of fraud in paymcnts of benefits.   Reducdom of fraud in payments of benefits.
._ _  _  _  _   _  _  _  _ _    _  _ _  _  _   _       t sc d t  on  en f s__                         _  _   _  _  _  _  _  _   _  _  _  _     _  _ _  _  _  _    _ _  _  _  _  _   _  _    _ _  _    _  _  _ _  _    _  _ _  __data  on    benefits.
s.5.s.                                                                                                       Page 2                                                                                                  ICRTAB5.XL5



Unidad de Coordinacib
PROYECTO TAL 2
E: CONGRESS                                                                                  STATUS OF RESULTS                                                                                            4/30/9
Component/subeomponent/actlty                         Expeced outcome                         Outcome obtained                          Expecd Impact                             Impacto 0
Report  issued b PCU staff in S  boX, Chile, on 4130/98
A Support to execution of component
Coordination of execution of                      1.on4knnL  1 Coordiation of execution of project  Ormgi  matrix of actSties was  Execution of subcmponents B to F.            ution of this component was affected
duning its lifedtm.                   reforulated in 1993 cogdetc.yl                                                           by ddv and   p           due to lck
2. Congress Modenization Project        An agreement between Ministry of                                                    defitions and decisio      g
- Bsic Administrative and Procedural  Fine aknd Congessw signed, for the                                                Aocesses Ater threformaltion
Systems                             execution of cmponent by the Congess.                                                 particulry following the appoainient
3. Drafling of technical specifications for    Since 1992 a Project Director (Coordinator)                                of last Coordinaor project mecuion
equipment and other goods, and terms    wass    ted    thgie    -in these                                                nrod               and actinities
of refernce for consultingiobs        yela, three persons have filled the positioL                                      wee caned out ac plannd.
4. Supporing services for trainng
aetivifies.__                            _ _  _ _ _ _ _  _ _ _ _ _  _ _ _ ___                                              _  _ _ _ _ _  _ _ _ _ _   _ _ _ _ _
B Changes In Operations and Magement Culture   1. Study on organization and maagement    This study consisted of  ree separate
of the Library oCongren (LOC)                       with proposals to improve management    but closel reblted consultig jobs:
ofLibrary.                            -   ysis of the law and nres that govern    Reor *nizaton of LOC to hc             tupr out resulted in changes in
_____________________   j~pnnel atnnture of LOC.                    tity and serces offered to user,tr and  gaWo of LOC, in its
- Design of a new organizational structure.                                        o*hg methods and prcedeA   with
-_Strategir Diagnosis                                                            hun__ __tt ens im attendance to
____________________   A training room was equipped with                          _      _       __                             Pefmormne indicatos were
multindia equipmant, to facilitate training                                       dettgtted ndW nlenmented.
activities for LOC pesonnel.
C. Strenghtening of Information and Communications  . Prepar tion of Bidding Documcnts for the  Bidding Documents drafted by consultants.   Procurmaent of equiprnent and related  System  are fully operatin  with the
InIrmstructure of the Library of Congress (LOC).   procurement of infonmation and                                                 services according to speclciations.     folowing results:
communications systems.
2. Development of lnformation Systems:   &ibhographic System & Juridica-Legislative  Reduced response time to demands of users   BibEographic system has functionalities
- Bibliographic Infonmation System    System were awarded in January 1995 to    Biblographic System),                       allow fuRy automatization of normal
- Jurdical-legislative lnformation System    BM 'and SONDA, respectively.      Beter informed legislative analys  faster  ocesses of a hbray (catlg control of
(on line access to infonnation on laws                                        legblative process.                           loam purcl, etc.)
and motions for laws).                                                                                               Sueidica-leslative ystem allows the
- Press extracts Infonnation System                        _                                                               ding of legislative infosmation in orngi-
(on line access to prcss articles)                                                                                     nl_   text mode, with updates and changes.
=Systems include hardware, software,  ________________                        More and better infonnation for legislative    Prcs extract system wasn't executed due
development, installation and training.                                       an .bsis,                                to budgetary cuts needed to cover
high ter costs of the two above mentioned
systems.
3. Common equipment and network.        In 1994 were purchased PCs, printers,     ncrease in number of workstations.      LOC is connected to Congress network both
___________________         _ <  CD-ROM devices and various software for   Connection of LOC sttions to Congress  in Santiago and Valparaiso, facilitating
u_se by LOC oflices.                    network,                                 aclce  to its infonnation services by users
_~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~from Congresrt.
4 Training in use of new technologies  LOC ofic m trained in use of new equipment
_______________ _____________  and  software.
COW_                                                                                                Pae I                                                                                           ICRTAB5.XLS



Unidad de Coordinacion
PROYECTO TAL 2
E: CONGRESS                                                                                     STATUS OF RESULTS                                                                                                4/30/99
ComponenUtsubcomponent/activity                        Expected outcome                           Outcome obtained                           Expected impatct                           Impoct obtained
_________________________________                               ~~~~~Report  issuedt by PCU staff in Santiago, Chile, on 4/30/98                                  _____________
D. Technological Common Platforn of the Congress                                       Report_issued_y________i__ _____g_____re____4__0_98_
and links with other institutions.                                                                                                          _
Facilii-te use of Wsten, improve communications    I. Diagnosis and conceptual design of     Ridding process was nade to contract      lmproved awareness of legislative               oved awareness of leisafive
between LOC and users in the Congress. Inprove       applcations related with legislative    access to Internet network with a carnier.  developments woald-wvide.                    eloptents worid-wide.
communications between the Congress and external     process.                                Contract was awarded for one year, 5tarting
institutions.                                                                                in March 1996, including the supply of 500                                .
__________________________   licenses of Netscape Navigator softwar,
_____________________________________ _____                                                 and  200  licenses of comr. sw  (frame relay).  _an
2. Development of specific applications  Eudora electronic mail system was intaled                                              4Dtbtraffic has  read at xponential
for use by both Chambers in legislative    for use by pardamentanians and oficers with                                        *tes,_demonstradng_expanding us_ge and
process.                               450 mail boxes.                                                                       aefuisofservice. In Mach 1997  t
_              .                                                tegistered ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~15,000 messages (inconuing or
_                                 ootgoinRl, ~~~~~~~~~of which 45% interntal.
_______________________________________   3. Central Communications Nitwork                 In 1994 a consulting fum carried out design    ncrase in speed and volumne of conmnuni-    hc Congress now has available and
including applications and equipment   and technicalpecificatons of the networi.    atosn. Increase in 100% use of LOC           od    a modern network
(instaladon of wires, controers, routers   Bidding processes were made afterwards to  stems by users from Con   ssed on stnictured wirng and
administration software, terminals).  award the constructon of the backbone and        1991 as reference point.               ticai fiber with ATM technolo. This
suPpp  of communications' equipment.                                                          t .               o
The network is fuDly operating since March                                           offices" in Chile's widespead regions.
1996, with 1.238 points ready for use.                                               The network is lnked to Internet network         1-
________________________________         Communications links were also contracted,                                            also.
____________________________ including 2 dedicated links (one to connect
central node and the node of LOC in Santia-
go the other to connect network to Internet
canier), md 171 links in mode frame relay,
for pariamentarians' offices in regions and
.___________________________   Senatc and Chamber of Representatives'
offices in Santiago, to implement the
_Vrta office".
4. Training in usc of special applications  AD thesc activities included training
and standard products.                 of relative users.
cepa.                                                                                                    Psp 2                                                                                              ICRTAB).XLS



Unidad de Coordinacion
PROYECTO TAL 2
E: CONGRESS                                                                               STATUS OF RESULTS                                                                                          4/30/96
Componentlsubcomponent/activity                     Expected outcome                        Outcome obtained                         Expected Impact                          Impact obtained
Report  issued by PCU stalf b Santiago, Chile, on 4/30/98
K  Improvement of Legislative Process                                                                                             Faster and more fluent process of
discussion ofproposd laws by
1. Diagnosis of legislatve process in both    In 1994 was catried out a quantive study  Congresamen.                    Mesurement of  htive activty in penod
Chambers.                             f the legislative process in the period                                         1990 - 1994 and flovv diagrams of_ ki
1990 - 1994, analysing and tabulating 1.163                                    process helped to generate the idea of
_esgisters of law drafts processed. Results  __V__          _di___te LIs_lative Jnformatics
____________________________wer also published as a monography.                                                vtn
Additionally, a flow diagram of legislative                                     Then mography pubE_sed and sub equ_
procesa was drawn, to analyse its structure                                     Sembnr on the i     sue, erved to stimulate
and stages, to visualze the possiblEity of                                      wide debate mowng pobcum_a nd academic
introducing modifications in it.                                                people.
2. Computer equipment to support labor  n 1994 were purchased printes and PCs in  (same as above)                       Significant reducton in time needed to issue
of Commissions' Secretariat and      LAN configuration for those offices.                                             the_Joun__ _  of Sessions at both Chambers
Drafting Secretariats both at Senate and                                                                             (now_ava__a_ble daity). More facilities to
the Chamber of Representatives.       _ _____p____orts for legisative Conmmissons.
3. Technological Laboratories for       ntalled one Laboratory by Chamber,     (same as above)                           hose Technological Laboratories have
traiing of pardamentarians and       v*th a LAN network with 9 workstations                                          resulted to be key elements in taiing
officer of both Chambers.           each one, software and audivisual                                                process.
quipment. 120 officers were trained in  _
use of the software. 
4. Acquisition of corporate liceses of  An agreement with Microsoft Chile was  (same as above)                         The agreement penunited to cover needs
personal productivity software       signed, allowing of access to MOLP plan.                                        of software for Windows platform.
packages (text processing, worksheet,  156 new licenses of MSOffice suite wae                                        A policy for the regitration and adequate
etc.)                                purchased, including mantainance program                                        rontrol of alU software in use is in force
or 26 months. Existing Eicenses were regu--                                    actually.
larized also.
5. Legislative Informatics System      A consulting fim was hired to design    Provide information, both inside and    Contract is in the stage of correction of
(new activity, agreed in 1995)       construct and imnplement the Legislative  outside the Congress, regarding status  obsevations, prior to final acceptance.
______________________________  Infomatics System of the Congress.           of discussion of law drafts.             Aflawards, the system wil be instaled
The objective of the system is to folow  FaciEtate the automatization of documen-    h aU cEient tations, and training actvibes
law drafts in differents steps.         taty flow associated to legislative     will follow. The declared intention of the
Trwo servers were purchased to run on   process (modifications, addenda, motions).   Presidency of Senate is to have the stem
them related applcations.                                                      fi_ _  operating byhthe bajnning of 1998,
_ ______ ______ _______ ______ ______   _______________ __  for the  newlY  elected  Padiament
Censs.                                                                                           NPge 3                                                                                         ICRTABS.XIS



Unidad de CoordnEaci6n
PROYECTO TAL 2
E: CONGRESS                                                                                         STATUS OF RESULTS                                                                                                     4/30/98
Component/subcomponentlactvlty                            Expected outcome                            Outcome obtained    .Expected Impat                                                       Impact obtained
Report  Issued by PCU staff in Santiago, Chile, on  410198
F. Support to Legislative Analysis                    cInrease of bibEographic collections         A complete purchasing pmgram was            Increase in quantity and quahty of             ibiorphic patrinony of LOC haa been
(acquisition of books, subscription to     was carried out, coveing about 7.600         available infomnation.                       udated and eniched with purdesa
joumna, data bases in CD-ROM) and           book, 145 subscriptions (new or renowals)                                                 OuaEty and quantity of bibhogrhic
development of integrated infonnation       to jounals and reviews, 4 CD-ROM readers,  ___erenees proided by LOC to uers have
ystems.                                     10 Data bases in CD.                                                                     benproved. Quantity of loans of
.___ _ __ __ _ _ ___ _ __ __ _ __ __   btEogapbc  material baa alo increaed,
________________________  ________          a measure of in A quaE
of ce. 
Training of LOC officers in provision of    Worshop National Re lty" (with 60           To improve quaEity of sesvices and             raining proganu has rcsulted in better
u       oo ttonformation eMces and Products required    o                                                                                                    cficers) and courses on Economics and  istance Provided to uers im Congress.  ined and richer refence provded
y legislative process.                      National Finance (with 50 officers) were                                                    usea of LOC on cousea' subjects.
I______________ _c _arried out.                                                                                                              tion to Internet network faclitates
_ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _   _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _   _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _    Iso   to    access   inforam ationf  andti n     and kno wledge
.__ _ _ __   _  in rcmote data bases umvg
_                                                                                             cmp4  5apaaty for refee  serwa
C-p-                                              Pop 4                                                                                                   IMADSALS~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~C



Unidad de Coordinacias
PROYECTO TAL 2
F: MISTRY OF FINANCE                                                                            STATUS OF RESULTS                                                                                               4130/9X
ComponenVsul omponen actlvity                          Ept  outcome                               Outcome obtained
Report  issuedbyPCUstaiTinSantiao, Chile on4 /
1. Improvementnofeconomicanalysis on internationaI
issues (Interntional Studies Unit)
|I) Deveiopment oc economic aldysis capacity       Mistry provided with trained staff        Between 1992 and mid 1995, an economist      provred policy analysis on intemational   em            of this       for
on intmtional trade issues.                      upporting computer equipment and          was mantained as Coordinator of the Unit,   trade and finance.                       spciahzed n s has pem           e
data bases.                                 *d with the proceeds of the loan. Besides                                            is_y  to _    z_ly  imposta_t
i__________________________________    ____________Ithat, the Ministry mantains a permanent  i__ue_ in particulw r__                                  rebted with
______________________  raff of ec<nsts, accomplishing proni-                                             nego_ _  of co____al _ _me_
sions of loan agreement The acihety of     _Wi_k _vw__             _                            countries.
__iding support equpment was endard,
.%w orwn to the Undersecretariats net-
i_____________________  work (server, 29 stations software). _
2) Studies to evaluate opportunities and issues    Complete studies with specified reports.  Folowing activies were caned out:          Adequate and timely information for       The resus of these studies have been
related with internadonal trade.                                                          =- Studies suppord.g negotiatons for he    poicy decision mnadng by the Minister.        efecive ro  to n             of
______________________   ~~inclusion of Chle to NAFTA (Nortam-.            p___o_____h___s
_________________________________    __________________________   rican Free Trade Agreement).  i_ed_h__   _id__             _try with th c__ty
- So*  on a commercial a egent with                                                 attd flextbiity to cary out studies when
New Zealand.                                                                       needsr.se.
- Studies on an agreement with Brasi.
- Seminar on Gan activities and norms.
II. Improvement of macroeconomic analysis                                                                                                  ________________
(Macroeconomic Studies Unit)                                                                                                                                                                                                       t
) Developmnt of analytical capacity on            MinistFy provided with traned staff        Between 1992 and 1993, an economist       Ipoved  lianabqs and macroecono-               subeomponent has pruided the
acconic is                                      suppoting computer equipment and          was mantained as Coordinator of the Unit,    mr projcdions.                               vrth own acal capacity
data bases.                               pad with the proceeds of the loan. Besides
that, the Ministry mantains a permanent
staff of economists, accomplshing provi-
sions of loan agreement. The activity of
providing support equipment includ econo-
metric software, PCs and printers.
2) Studies ml"ted with opening of capital market   Complete studies with specified reports.  The folowing studies were carried out:    Adequate and timely inforiation for        Th    ise      bave resulted in law drafts
and other mcroeconomic issues.                                                             - Study of evluation of operatonal cosbts   liy decision making by the Minister.    tvu law reform and Banks' Law nrm casca)
______________________________    of fuancial system.                                                                  hn _e_wed ZtS su_rn lerizd for
- Consuitancy to SUpPOtt drafting of       ___        _disruss     ofi_w drafb in
tax law refonm project.                                                            Congress_As in the cm_ of_   _a_nal
-Consutaney to support drafln of                                                                the_ _b_k_o_ _ the _ p t has
Banks Law reform project.                                                                  the Ministry with the capacity
-Stu*  on subsidies to fore ty.                                                       d fity  to eany out studie when
- Study to issue a govemmental policy                                               necds_                    ____
on  forestry.__ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _                                                                             _ _ _ _ _
- Study of a model to forecast expenditures
in durable consumer goods.
- Consutancy to support legislative
discusson of law draft regarding
natural renewable resources.
- Analysis of impact on labor sector of
handling of pension funds portfolio.
IIL Support to Modernization Program of other 
Mi&yofFu                                                                                                Par  I                                                                                             ICKTABS.XL5



Unidad de Coordinacion
PROYECTO TAL 2
F: MINISTRY OF FINANCE                                                                          STATUS OF RESULTS                                                                                                4/30/9S
Componenttsubcomponentlactivity                        Espected outcome                           Outcome obtained                           ExpeCted Impact                            Impaet obtained
Report  issued by PCU staff in Santigo, Chile, on 4Mlf/9S
ugenies of the Nfln!stry of Finance.. _                                                                                                                                                                                _
1) Diagnosis sts and project preparlion for       Studies to serve as basis to prepare and   The foHiowing activities hawv been canied  To facilitate moderization process of     This new subeoonV_ ent has piiWed ie
_ e_ _        _ ag_encies._  design modernization projects for the                         out:                                      aOcncies of the Ministry.                  Ministay to inchldc in modernization
agencies of the Iviinis"y.                  Trip of 5 chief officers from Customs to                                           efforts some agncies not covuidered in
_ _________________________________   This is a new subcomponent, agrwed                        Australia, to get acquaintance of cwutoms                                           Oa l mnatix for his project
with the Bank dunm,, mid term revew         procedures in ihat country.              _                                         These efforts wil be continued and
mission.                                   - Conswitancy to support Plot Plan for                                              en_ugd t        Ohe now  Codin_ation_
. _______________________________                     _________________________                   Modemization  of public sector manage-   _____________o__of u__r__g                Program o f Project   on    _N agem t
._______________________________________    _____________________________ _                      ment, cardied  out by DIPRES  (Budget            __0% __ca_fn                                      anced  and desigiied
Directorate).                                                                     exchebiw  for dic agencies of dke
__________________________   _____________________   - Dianosis study of Casa do Monoda                                                     Ministry of Finance. The Progam is
(State cuffency issuer agency)                                                    stg    dbs yewr and coves the perid
- Diabosis shdy of Direccion de                                                     1997_-_2__  _ _ _000.
___ __ ___ __ ___ __ ___ _ __   Aprovisionamiento del Estado (State  __ ___   _
.                                                       ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~Procurement Agency)
- Two mntemtional senmnaru on modesai-
tion of public sector mamagement          _
MsniE of Fuw                                                                                             Pag 2                                                                                              ICRTABS.XtS



Unida de Coordinsci6n
PROYECTO TAL 2
G: MINSTRY OF ECONOMY                                                                     STATUS OF RESULTS                                                                                          4f3t)98
CompontettsubcomponenVactivity                      Expected outcome                        Outcome obtained        ___ft                      i~ilee   mpact                linA dobtained~
Rpr isudby PCU stbfISnN*ago, Chile,on 4D11
1. Improvement Of the Implementatlon of regulation                   _
of natural mowopobs
I) Stuidies on nmangnetorguaiggncs
in the ector of nral monopolies._                                                           _ 
MaiUgement of Telecommunications             Diignoss study of cunfent situation of  Study completed by the end of 1994.     SUtregtening of insdtitutonal structue   iu of concret actoms to
Undetnecretariat (SUBT-EL)                   SUBTEL and reAxcnnndations for          As an extension of study, a law drafR   and irkproret of ireguatin capacity     im mDCorazatson anW oi Onf
0                         ~~~~~~~~~~imprDVenment,                  for the estblishment of a Superintenkdency   in die field of telecormauncadons   SBT   including telaw dr ft to mrate
of Telecomimunk-ations was isuudteSuenenec
_  _                                     _                                          The txo~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~pop of the SWeimenency has
- Mangment of Superintendency of Electricity  Diagnosis study with evaluation of SEC  Studly comnpleted by the cnd of 1994 .  Sunbhi of orgnization and modt-  Recomiiinienda. were not irrkmeintkd
and Fuci' (SEC)                              funcions and reconunendatiom.                                                   zation Process of the Superintendency,
-Con iuitancy on regulatory firamework for sanitary    Report wit proposals and reconunenda-    Consuitancy was concluded in 1993, report  inprovoinent and comf*tion of lega' and    Subsidies for urban wate c0WsRW4pi0n
sevcs(water supply nd sewage).           tiDs                                    induded uproyoaof reguiations for       IuWdm fiaxnwork of sanitary             were ndodk4 and subsEs for niral
:        -        _                                       _  ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~the concemson of subsidies on rura water    sarvices' sector.  Mwae suppl senwes were reflXC
supply service and tarifflcation poiicy for'Trfiao processe wre done for die                                                   1
sewage service.1  eXn' aiayetnie                                                                                               S
-S Suyof thelegisl3tion tatgowrns energ        Revision of cun-ent legistison for this  Consuitancy conciude in 1994 with propo-  To fwciiitate the incorporafon and d   eionof legisbton has provn to be
sector.                                       sector.                                 sals foir the modification of dth law that  ment of new rnarkets and sxawtlR    we  rnratince two hiepins are
_                                     governs ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~gas upingservices  in account opening to foreign mrkdets  ude constniction to sply  raw  ga
\                                                     ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~and technological changesfro  Argeta and in dkie next futur wai
_                                _                        be constructe~~~~~~~~~~~~~~and _    one from Bolvi
- Consultancy to support teleconmmunications'   Provde technical support to curiflication  Tarittication Process Was nude aS    To pmmd rcgWau  agency with ecrono-   IFormulas and basis waked out by constul-
tarifficadonprocess                            process heid in1994 (by aw, tariffication _ stakcd._  mic, iechnicaliand adrnwistrattvebasi                                tn wen applicdin rasiffication,process
process must be cardetd out ecycy 4 yean)                 _                    for tariffication                             ocasson ha mor  ducottn  **l
sn-^aid theo iwonoation of new
suphn tnub n teEphon seice.
_                                            Tiis ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~is a vety compedtve and dynamic
11. Implementation of recommendations of TAL I
proJect to strenghten antUmonopoly rgulations
I) C;onsutancy on Managment of Atropo             milonof an3ydcal procedures on       SuEson. pet setor, vertical inugratie   ipovskn in selection process of          Impact in some secton.
Flscal Of Ec                                  pcii markets and sectors, detecdon     adfusion of enkqnfisa pubEic passenger   a*i  to be imotiatead by Agency
ofanicomnpetiton practices.           ta spet tetes in Santiago and eil       thtwiU result in shorter bmcs of sarsi
Keerhprogram                       o fudis were carrned out                adresluin of cans denounced(rvcray
tiewas about one yea).
M-kof E _                                                                                      t' P I                                                                                       ICRTA.=S



Unidad de Coordinaci6n
PROYECTO TAL 2
G: MINISIRY OF ECONOMY                                                                    STATUS OF RESULTS                                                                                          4/30/98
Componentisubcomponentlactivity                     Expected outcome                        Outcome obtained                         Expeeted Impact                          Impact obtained
Report Issued by PCU staff In Santiago, Chile, on                                         _     __
III. Improvement of Management of National                                                                              ,           ,               .
Consumer Protection Service (SERNAC)
1) Study to stneughten management of National   Study of foreign experiences and consumer   Study conmpleted with several recommnen-    SERNAC was reorganized and a consumer   A new organizationat cant was designed,
Consumer Protection Agency (SERNAC)           infonnation systems.                    dations on organizational changes and   information center was created            th redefined functions. A new slyam
information system.                                                             to atend people and a documentation
center aae hd fioning.
fen if it is nota diret rest of die
____tcorponent, ite. worlh msentioning
_________ _________ _________   on    one  S the  new   com nsu er prteetion
iaw enterd ik force.
IV. Studies to support activities of the
Undersecretariat of Economy.
1) Studies on intelectoal propety               Study on treatment of inteliectual property    Study carried out.                aticipation tn the prparation of the law  'eliectual property _ss   generate
supaes articuiarly in reation with                                                  to establish the Intitute of Intefclal nrml debates and c   vo ise in
negoations of internatonal commerid                                                hy. Accomplishment of GAT            notiaions of commercial 
agreement.                                                                            ent.                                e resultb of se study has  ved as
_____.____________________                                                                                                    to   discuss such  naltcrs.
Uwftof_EeM                                                                                         Pap 2                                                                                         IcrABS.XLS



Uridad de Coordinscikh
PROYECTO TAL 2
H: IIERMIMSTERIAL COMMlTERES                                                              STATUS OF RESULTS                                                                                          4/30/9S
Componentlsubcomponentsctlivly                      Exnpeted outcome                        Outcome obtained                                 i Im                            Impwt obtined
Repzort  issuerdbyP1CUstati'in S ntago,Chile,on 4130/9Xr-8                
1. Intenninisterli-  Commission for Intormntics                                                                                      .
(Policy Interninlstei Committee)
1) Smudies on Pubfic Sector lnfornwtizaton      Cornpbte study on goveutmtal policy     Two studis were carried out:            Submission ofremnsndatons to               first satuy produced a cadare of
for hIformatics.                                                                interministerial Comnm' 'o and ir       coputc equlipen  ist     ink publc
- acquisiio  Of ciipute  qint                    u on of computer equipnent to         D-urfting of administrative suppost to  metattoo of recommendations.                        ing a gma di    y of
thandware and soft-are)                           _studies.                            settle a                   _        informaon  _,models, standlards and plor.
.   .                                                     systan                      ,,,_,                               . _           lne sec~~~~~~~Viun  onr d    furdW r _cmcno
- development of appfications                        -_Techni__                                  basi for the w_t__ _ m_nt of an__ _onk__e a_dop_i  of__na_y_
integraequ govenmentwa  inforation   S                             in          e     sas handwimt on industry
systans.          ,                                                           UrXov,fi    won. riot
A wrver two PC woriziafons, a notebookW     __iupexe  becawx Cot_bxn didn t
Ge.eral Secretariat of the Presidency (Sthis    was  rt of       tapinte and sofware wes: purchaserv to                                         h Eaec (tir btut a cmmncat e  SEGr
support work of Commbs _ _
_________________ _____________                                           wosaisroeslnsbacnd                   ptdmptwtocnwtreal                        we     oolwpsemlanwo consuraerue were bired to act as
technicaC countmmmttte of tite cong
_                                                       ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~firtn tha carried out dthe ddies._
2) Stdstive poocis fcolow-up ssu for            mtalation of  ostn fuSEGPRES fo qusomet was purchawdd and Seic mont rennotient u   orinin en                             etokhas had  paft in uiewoving
Generat Sy taoiar of the Presiduncy (SEGPRES)    opt ss activity wi s part of ndtta  at SEGPRES offyia : one serveru           t Execumt  ftough SEn PRESc the        iomtset c       ini ine ide SEGPRES
Congress conmponnt.ne worktiiis, routers irdlms basic and    epcdimatwsto ceoun with refabe                             iIwer to foRow-up esyem has not        
2)liadn uor aofa ware                   md tisncly information offi t  of aw    Decongn  exptod ue naording itspe d
lwas carnsuig fm deiied              drafts at  ave diffdet w ages. More     dciiganarri capabifities.
orttutdand irsauDed fth follow-up  filuent prooes._
11. Socio-economic Interministeri a Co_u_ittee_
I) Studies on oao economic issues               Commletc studies on focuintg of soriial  Throe sttris were done:                DtiCcuTsTon on ic      to  iide         R o        e    of siXs wer
subsidies and prga- Diagnosis of labor force in miicro                                Interministeii r Cormittee regarding4   pral irnpbiietA  partieulaiy
prograras            ~~~~enterprists sctor                  ations.                                  ia repect of pub& nibidies.
-Dlagnosis and proposa  on focusing of
main public subsidies.
.   -Characteistics and dctcmnunt fartors
of poverty in Chile.
I11. lnterministerbal Committee for Produdive__
Developmenti
11 Study an rverfornunce of pubfic Tjrng ~       Complete stud  with recommendations   This study was done by a consultant     Settioment of pcfformance contracts,    Soepecitic reconunendations were
entCprilei                                                                           betweea 1992 and 1994,   lierng coppor  monitorring office and mechan_mfor      adopted in CODELCO and ENAML
mrunig etriesparticuafry CODELCO    settiement of disputes                      Low fimpact.
and ENAMI.
2) Stud on radonadtiadm of public stetor        Complete studv on gevenmnent s role     The stud 'Efficient ahocatim of resources   ielomnofnflcntp8raof                Recommedadons were not impemented.
geographic inftmradon syst6a5.                a geMgaphic informadton systera.        in the sector of goraphic innoation    investmnent in goapic ifonnation
enaawas carried out.               ster.To av=oid waste of effort.
IV. Economic Committee_ 
ftfin  t ca_mt                                                                                    p4w I                                                                                        ICRTASSALS3



29
a2 
U -.



Unidad de Coordinacin
PROYECTO TAL 2
4M98
1: PROJECT COORDINATION UNIT                                                            STATUS OF RESULTS
Component/subcomponent/activity                    Expected outcome                       Outcome obtined                          Exptd Imct                             Impaet obtaned
Report  Issued by Cst  InSantiago, Chile, on 4130/9
1. Coordination and Superison of Executlon__
Effecti%v implen-tation of project folbowing   Actiities and disbursements to be canied  Pr*et Coordination Unit (P.C.U.) was  Thuel and adequate exceution of       Stabdity in composition of PCU st4
Ba_s_G_uid_ __         o_pursuing proion of loan agreement    etablihed by Decree on December, 1991.                                                                 Wm jectjwe.few ebne alon wil awshnmnt
has been provided with a Coordinator   _of funcn fvured good coordination
nd two consutants a penaneat staff                                            nd execution of dibs piroject
_______________of_projrct                                                     Trfes offunds for paymcnts due by
wcch c_n   e-cenuEzed by PCU,
__ __coialent of Bans Guidelines                                                   allow   of ict contrd of disbu
nd pton soth ofpo b3n ag ent h;icas_me a y aager,   and componftrc
eean sd rand donentod by PCU            ___                                    otl of"non  acobeos". nt of
Suppot to tcooriuaon of Cu_RT AB. fSof accep
omoetwas give through PCU.c  frPi conbxarAd piomm
nnladtwen canTied ou  folbowing                                         _onofx r etc)
pr~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~u&roi PCUon                                           ca*alzc ml mPU ComDiiung
rC    afcontoiled also budgetKy                                           ndouftgin caemQondense with
dictinofte project and sbited                                                Mak yc , abpig tbu ofshict
SOsadreLated docunents to B"L                                              on&o of -non objectiolu
P.C u.                                                                                           p4e                                                                                        ICRTAB5.XLS



31
Table 6: Studies Iricluded in Project
Agency                                 Study                      Status*     Impact**
Intemal Revenue         - Redesign of data system                     C           H
- Modification of data base for              C           H
real estate valuations
- Design and implementation                  C           M
of management control system
- Support for 1997-2000 strategic            C           H
plan
- Development of EDI                         C           H
applications
- Development of adlministrative             IP
systems for technical data bases
- Development of control system              IP
for deferred payments
- Definition of telecommunications           IP
policy
- Implementation of integrated               IP
software for administrative and
human resource areas
Treasury                - Introduction of automatic                   C           H
terminals for billpalers'
consultation ("Tesomatics")
- Training of regional Treasury              C           H
offices' staff
Social Security         - Reformulation of Social                     C           H
Security Institute's revenue
collection function
- Design and implementation of               C           H
rationalized procedures
- Improvement of access to                   C           H
historical information
- Executive Branch techniques                C          n.a.
for debt recovery
- Recovery of historic debts                 C          n.a.
- Enrollment of employers and                C          n.a.
beneficiaries
NOTES:
* "C" = completed;
IP = in progress;
"IC" = incomplete
"H" = high impact;
"M" = medium impact;
"L"= low impact;
"n.a."= determination ol impact not yet made.



32
Agency                                Study                      Status*     Impact*
Congress                - Legal framework of the Library             C           H
- Diagnosis of Library
organization                               C           H
- Design of Library's
organizational structure                   C           H
- Examination of legislative
processes                                  C           H
Economy Ministry        - Improvement of regulation of               C           H
sanitation services
- Improvement of management of              C           M
Telecommunications Secretariat
- Telecommunication tariffs                 C           H
- Strengthening the Fuels and               C           L
Electricity Superintendent
- Improvement of energy sector              C           H
legislation
- Strengthening the National                C           H
Economic Attorney General
- Improved management of                    C           H
Consumer Protection Agency
- Intellectual property study               C           H
Finance Ministry        - Analysis of financial sector               C           H
services in context of
proposed commercial pacts
- Implications of a USA-Chile               C           H
trade agreement for financial
sector
- Implications of a USA-Chile               C           H
pact for construction industry
- Chile-Brazil economic                     C           H
relationships
- Chile-Brazil agriculture                  C           H
trade agreement
- Chile's environmental                     C           H
realities
- Intellectual property                     C           H
situation (Chile/NAFTA)
- Perceptions of NAFTA                      C           H
- New Zealand commercial pact               C           H
- Support of technical NAFTA                C           H
negotiator
- Operational costs of Chile's              C           H
financial system
- Forestry subsidy alternatives             C           H
- Tax law reform                            C           H
- Banking law modifications                 C           H



33
Agency                                 Study                      Status*     Impact**
Finance Ministry         - Projected private expenditures             C           H
(continued)               for durable consuumer goods
- Formulation of forestry policy             C           H
- Support of legislative process             C           M
re: renewable natural resources
- Implications for labor sector              C          n.a.
of pension fund administration
- Analysis of state purchasing               C           H
agency direction
- Analysis of state currency                 C           H
agency  .
Inter-Ministerial        - Public sector administrative               C           L
Committees                support
- Public sector information                  C           L
systems' technical bases
- Access to and management of                C           M
principal public subsidies
- Characteristics & distribution             C           M
of Chilean poveirty
- Socioeconomic analysis of                  C           M
microenterprises' workforce
- Public mining companies'                   C           M
performance
- Efficient resource allocation              C           M
in geographic information area
- Investment altematives for                 C           H
AFP pension funds



34
Table 7: Project Costs and Financing
_ _ __          _         _   _  I      ___              __
Appraisal estimate (US$m)     Latest estimate (US$m)
IBRD      Govemment          IBRD     Govemment
COMPONENTS:
1. Congress                              5.3           2.3           4.7           2.3
2. Economy Ministry                      1.1           0.1           0.9           0.1
3. Intemal Revenue                       2.3           1.5           2.5           1.5
4. Customs                               1.7           0.3           1.6           0.3
5. Social Security Inst.                  2            1.3           1.9           1.3
6. Finance, Inter-Ministerial             2            0.9           2.4           0.9
Committee, Project Unit
7. Treasury                              1.6           0.4            1.5          0.4
8. PPF Refinancing                       1.2             0            0.4            0
and Unallocatedo
Total                              17.2           6.8           15.9          6.8
Total Project Cost                                    24                         22.6



35
TABLE 8: ESTIMACION DE LA EVASION EN EL IVA 1989-1996.
(Abril 1997)
1.     Resultados
A continuaci6n se muestra en el cuadro NO 1, los re'sultados de la estimaci6n de evasi6n para el IVA.
Cuadro N 1: ESTIMACION DE LA EVASION EN EL IVA'
(Cifras en m_neda de enero de 1997)
Concepto              1989 | 19902         1991      1992       1993      1994      1995       196
Rec.Teorica          2.678.492 2.796.782 2.957.681 3.225.299  3.505.556  3.724.997 4.041.323  4.321.445
Bruta [rmmS]
Rec. Efectiva        2.037446 2.127.329 2.375.894 2.611.265  2.868.930  3.020.911 3.304.088  3.536.458
Bruta [mmS]
Monto  (mrnSl        641.046   669.453   581.787   614.033   636.626   704.086   737.234   784.987
Evasion [mmUSS]        1.513    1.580      1.373     1.449      1.502     1.661     1.740      1.852
Tasa de Evasi6n
IVA Bruto3 [%I        23,9     23,9       19,7      19,0       18,2      18,9      18,2       18,2
IVA Neto' [%I         31,9      32,4      26,0      24,0       23,0      23,8      23,5       23,1
Menor Evasi6n
clr a 19895
[mmS                -        (1      126.0)77   157.880   202.362   187.420   229.978   249.268
fmniTUSSI           .        0        297        373        478       442       543       588
Fuente: Elaborado por la Subdirecci6n de Estudios del SI. en base a informacion del Banco Central.
Notas:
I Las cifras tienen un caracter provisional. dado que la informaci6n base para la estimaci6n contenida en Cuentas
Nacionales pam el periodo 1989-1996 aun esta siendo sometida a revisi6n.
2 En 1989. Ia alicuota del IVA ascendia a 16%. A lpartir de julio de 1990, esta cambi6 a 18%. En ambos aftos se ha
utilizado una recaudaci6n normalizada a tasa de 18%.
3 Monto de la Evasion como porcentaje de la recaudaci6n teorica bruta (incluye devoluciones de IVA).
4 Monto de la Evasi6n como porcentaje de la recaudaci6n te6rica neta (excluye devoluciones de IVA).
5 Se caltila como el diferencial de recaudaci6n producido al aplicar la tasa de evasi6n IVA bnito observada en 1989
pam cada uno de los aflos siguientes (La tasa de evasi6n de 1989 es algo superior al promedio 1980-89, periodo en 01
cual este alcanza a un 23%/6).



36
2.     Metodologia de Estimaci6n
LA metodologia para calcular la evasi6n en el IVA se basa en la estimaci6n de la recaudaci6n potencial o te6rica
del tnismo a partir de ciffras de consumo privado de cuentas nacionates (Vease Toro y Trujillo [1992]'). sta
recatidaci6n te6tica se compara con el impuesto efectivamente pagado por los contribuyentes, considerindose la
diferencia entre ambos valores coino el monto de evasi6n estintado.La base imponible te6rica se estima a pattir
del consumo final de bienes y servicios afectos a IVA que realizan los hogares y de la adquisici6n de bienes y
servicios afectos que realizan las empresas que producen bienes y servicios exentos de IVA. El consumo final
hogares afecto se estitna a partir del consumo privado de cuentas nacicnales rebajando el consumo exento. El
consumo afecto de las empresas exentas se estima a partir de la infiortnaci6n de compras intettnedias. En ambos
casos se emnplea infonmaci6n sectorial proveniente de la MIP de 1986. La tasa de evasi6n IVA bruto considerm el
agregado IVA Tasa General, IvA Tasa General linportaciones y Devoluciones de IVA, snientras que la tasa de
evasi6n IVA heto excluye la componente de Devoluciones.
3.     Cuentas Nacionales
P-n esta oportunidad se ha trabajado con la serie anual revisada de cuentas nacionales dada a conocer en MaIrzo
del presente arno por el Banco Central. Lo antetior ha introducido ajustes en la serie de evasi6n estimada en
relaci6n con estudios precedentes. Para e caso de evasi6n en el IVA, se hian incorporado revisiones imnportantes
a ia estimaci6n de consumo final gravado y de consumo intertnedio gravado de sectores exentos.
La estimaci6n de evasi6n para el affo 1996 se futidamenta en las cifras de crecitniento econ6mico actualmente
disponibles, las que consideran variaciones de 7.2% pam el PIB, 8.8% para el constimo privado y 11,6%/o pam la
inversi6n. Tanto estas cifras como las empleadas en la estinmaci6n de los aflos anteriores tienen el caricter de
provisionales y estan aun sujetas a revisi6n por parte del instituto emisor, por lo que las estimaciones de evasi6n
consetvan tambi6n ese mismo caricter.
4.     Comentarios
El tnonto de evasi6n preliminar en el IVA para 1996 alcanz6 a unos US$ 1.800 millones, correspondiendo una
tasa de evasi6n de 18,2%. Esta ultima cifRa representa un mantenintlieiito del nivel de incumplimiento tegistrado
en 1995, aunque por cierto esti por debyo de los niveles pbservados antes de 1993. En este sentido, las
estimaciones parecen indicar una desaceleraci6n en ei ritmo de caida que venia exhibiendo la tasa de evasi6n
desde comienzos de los 90's. Cabe seiialar en todo caso, 4ue debido a Id metodologia utilizada, los resultados
son bastante sensibles a la estimaci6n de consumo del sistemia de cuentat nacionales, y por ende los ajustes
rituros que sufran estas cifras pueden alterar la serie estimada en este trabajo.
Las cifras presentadas en este informe constituyen una actualizaci6n de las series estintadas en el documento de Toro,
J. v Tntrillo. J. "Eslimaci6n de la REvnsin en el tVA/Periodo l980-1901". Vetsi6n Juilio 1992. Subdirecci6n de
Estudios del Servicio de Impuestos Inlcrnos. Chile.



Table 9: Status of Covenant Compliance
Agreement Loan/   Text Reference       Covenant    Status  Original    Revised       Description Of Covenant                  Comments
Credit                      Class(es)            Fulfillment  Fulfillment
Number                                           Date        Date
LOAN       3411-CH  Section 2.02(b)    2             C       10/24/91                Establishment of a Special Account       In compliance
Section 3.01 (a)    5           C       10124/91                Government commitment to Project         In Compliance
Section 3.01 (ai)   5           C       10/24/91                Execution of Parts of the Project through   In Compliance
the Finance Ministry.
Carrying out of Part E through the      In Compliance
Section 3.01 (b)  5             C       10/24/91                Congress.
Arrangements with the Congress regarding  Agreement between the
Section 3.01 (d)  5             C       10/24/91                Part E.                                  Ministry of Finance and
the Senate and the
Chamber of
Representatives signed on
December 5, 1991.
In compliance
Procurement of goods and services.
Section 3.02      5             C       10124/91                                                         In compliance
Maintenance of Project records and
separate accounts to reflect operations and
Section 4.01 (a)   1            C       10124/91                expenditures.
Furnished to Bank with
Auditing of and accounts.               some delay in the first
years of execution.
Section 4.01 (b)    1           C       10/24/91
In compliance
Records on all SOE expenditures.
Section 4.01 (c)   1            C       10/24/91



Table 9: Status of Covenant Compliance (Continued)
Agreement  Loan/    Text Reference       Covenant    Status  Original    Revised       Description Of Covenant                   Comments
Credit                       Class(es)             Fulfillment  Fulfillment
Number                                             Date        Date
LOAN       3411-CH  Schedule5 l(a)       5            C        10/24/91                Establishment of Project Coordination Unit. Established by Decree, as
requested by the Bank
ScheduleS l(b)     5             C       10/24/91                 Employment of Project Coordinator under  In Compliance
terms satisfactory to the Bank
Schedule 5 2.(a)(i)  9           C       10/24/91                 Progress reports to the Bank              In Compliance
Project review with the Bank             Mid Term review carried
Schedule 5 2.(a)(Hi) 9           C       10J24/91                                                           out in May 1995.
Operation Plan.                          In compliance.
Schedule. 5 3.     S             C       10/24/91
Project studies.                         In compliance
Schedule 5  4. &  5              C       10/24/91                 Provision to the Bank of study            In compliance
further                                                           recommendations.
00
Schedule 5  4. &  S              C       10/24/91                 Plans of action for each component        In compliance
further
Schedule 5  4. &  10             C       10/24/91
further
Covenant Class
Status:  C       Complied with
CD       Compliance after Delay                                    1      Account/audit
NC       Not complied with                                        2       Financial performancelgenerate revenue from beneficiaries
SOON   : Compliance Expected in Reasonably Short Time             3       Flow and utilization of Project funds
CP       Complied with Partially                                  4       Counterpart funding
NYD      Not Yet Due                                              5       Management aspects of the Project or its executing agency
6      Environmental covenants
7      Involuntary resettlement
8      Indigenous people
9      Monitoring, review and reporting
10     Implementation
11      Sectoral or cross-sectoral budgetary or other resource allocation
12      Sectoral or cross-sectoral regulatory/institutional action
1 3     Other



39
Table 10: Bank Resources: Staff Inputs
Stage of project ccle           [Planned        _            J Revised      _               Actual                     l
Weeks         US$           Weeks          US$           Weeks          US$
Preparation to appraisal                                                                    38.4          73.9
Appraisal through Board                                                                     1.8           3.7
Board- effectiveness                                                                        12.9          29.1
Supervision                                                                                 86.8          248.6
Completion
TOTAL                                           _.                                          139.9         355.3
Table 11: Bank Resources: Missions
Performance  rating
Stage of project  Month/year    Number of  Days in   Speciali-              Implementation    Develop-  Types    of
cycle                              persons        field      zed staff      Status              ment        problems
skills                             objec-
represen-                          tives
_____________                  ~~~~ted   (1)                      _  _ _ _  _  _ _ _ _  _ _
Through            July 1990       4              15         a,k
appraisal          October         3              10         a,d,m
1990
March 1991    4               12          a,d,k,l
Appraisal
through Board    May 1991          2              7          a,1
approval                                                                                                                   l
Supervision        August 1992   4                7          a,b,c,d        2                    1          Implementa
tion delays
in the
Congress
_________                                             ~~~~~~~~~~component
March 1993      3             5          a,c,f           2                   2           Sane as above
July 1993       1             7          a              2                    1           Same as above
January 1994    2             3          a,g             2                   1           Same as above
June 1994       5             10         a,ghij          1                   1           None
October 1994    2             10         a,i             S                   S           None
June1995        1             2          a               HS                  HS          None
June 1996       2             10         ak              HS                  HS          None
Completion
(1) Key to specialization:
A. Task Manager
B. Public Admin. Specialist
C. Portfolio Supervisor
D. Sr. Infonnation Technology Specialist
E. Principal Education Specialist
F. Sr. Country Officer
G. Library of Congress
H. Legislative Process
L Organization & Mgmt
J. Human Resources
K Consultant
L. Tax Admin. Specialist
M. Chief PSM Unit



40
Table 12: Evaluation Tax Revenues
(millions of pesos)
1988  2683121
1089  2780435
1990  2665050                       Elonx_    _
1991  3276920                       Evolution in tax revenues
1992  3702186           5, 000a
1993  4068975           40,0
1994  40783,000000
1995  4563142           20000i                           i 
2i0000               Re



4L1
IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT OF
SECOND PUBLIC SECTOR MANAGEMENT PROJECT
(LOAN 341 1-CH)
AIDE-1MEMOIRE
Mission June 13 1997
1. A World Bank mission consisting of Mr. Hermran Nissenbaum (cons.) visited Chile June 2-13, 1997
to assist in the preparation of the Implementation Completion Report (ICR) on the Second Public Sector
Management Project ("PSM 2"), the subject of Loan 341 1-CH. This aide-memoire records the activities
and conclusion of the mission and of the Project Coordination Unit (PCU), led by Mr. Francisco Javier
Leiva related to this objective.
2.  During this period, the mission met with the PCU and all the the implementing agencies involved
in PSM2 as well as private sector representative. Tlhe list of persons met is attached.
3 .   The mission wishes to express its gratitudie for the Government's assistance in compiling the
necessary information on the conditions under wbich PSM2 was implemented, and on its results. The
mission concluded that the material it received will contribute constructively to the achievement of the
ICR, especially in the provision of a comprehensive and balanced picture of the results and
development impact of PSM2.
4.    In this connection, the mission found that the PSM2 executing agencies and concerned
Government officials felt uniformly satisfied that the Project had largely achieved its objectives. They
also considered that the Project's results would be significant and long lasting. PSM2, it was noted,
had helped to complement and launch initiatives in public sector management that the Government
plans to extend through its own efforts. This would involve the same Services in the orbit of the
Ministry of Finance that participated in FPSM2, and would further advance the lather's
accomplishments. Moreover, the plan calls for thie use of the same project coordination and direction
framework employed successfully in PS/2. Furihermore, there was agreement that the Project had
facilitated useful measures in the revitalization of the country's legislative branches and the Library of
Congress since the early 1990's, thereby contributing to the renewal of fuller democratic processes in
Chile.
5.   Further, the missions discussions with the Government successfully provided useful advice and
support for the "Borrower's" own evaluation report (which is to be attached to the ICE). It was agreed
that this report should include:
(a) an assessment of the project objectives, design, implementation and operational experience;
(b) an evaluation of the borrower's own performance during the evolution and implementation
of the project, with special emphasis on the lessons learned that may be relevant in the future;
and
(c) an evaluation of the performance of the Bank during the evolution and implementation of the
project, including the effectiveness of the relationship between the borrower and the Bank.



42
6.   It was moreover agreed that the Government would seek to transmit its evaluation report to the
Bank by June 30, 1997. In addition, the mission and the CPU agreed on the arrangements under which
the Bank staff's draft ICE would be sent independently to, and reviewed by, the Government thereafter
for the purpose of providing comments to the Bank on the report.
7.    The mission also wishes to express its gratitude for the excellent cooperation and constructive
discussions held with the aforementioned officials, as well as appreciation for the overall assistance and
hospitality extended during the mission's stay in Chile.
Herman Nissenbaum                             Francisco Leiva V.
World Bank                                 Project Coordinator
Ministry of Finance



43
List of Persons Met
Ministry of Finance
- Manual Marfan Lewis
- Francisco Leiva
- Guillermo Canessa
- M6nica Albornoz
Ministry of Economy
-Silvia Riesco
Treasury Service
-Roberto Cerri
-Hetor Vergara
Social Security Institute
-Carmen Gloria Ravanal
Internal Revenue Service
-Benjamin Schutz
Customs Service
- Silvia Salinas
-Andres Santoro
Legislative Branch
- Jaime de Mayo
- Fernando Soffila
- H. Senador Beltr&n Urenda
- H. Diputado Jose Antonio Viera-Gallo
Library of Congress
- Ximena Felid
- Marialyse Delano
- Jose Miguel Gacitua



44
Others
- Jorge Rodriguez
- Maria Olivia Recart
- Ver6nica Valdemama
- Carlos Smok
- Carmen Gloria Bravo



45
Annex II
CHILE
SECOND PUBLIC SECTOR MANAGEMENT PROJECT (PSM II)
(LOANi 3411-CH)
IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
PART II BORROWER CO3NTRIBUTION TO THE ICR
Project Obiectives
1.    Background. Over the past 25 years, Chile has undergone profound economic, social and
political change. a broad series of reforms instituted over the 1980s touched virtually every aspect
of economic and social development-from the general policy framework to institutions and
financing mechanisms. Not only did these reforms fundamentally redefine the role of the State to a
more subsidiary one, consistent with the adoption of an economic policy oriented towards growth
led by the private sector, but as an integral part of this process the relative size, and distinct
administrative and financial responsibilities assigned to each level of government were altered
significantly. Many of the reforms undertaken such as revising the nation's social security system,
placed new administrative and fiscal demands on the central government.
2.    President Aylwin's administration, assumed in march 1990, had committed itself to
maintaining the overall macroeconomics policy direction in its pursuit of growth with equity. After
almost 17 years of military rule, the new government had to demonstrate that desired social welfare
improvements could be achieved within a democratic setting without compromising
macroeconomics stability and growth.
3.    Government Strategy. Central govennment experienced a number of important structural
changes during the 80's. Central government employment and expenditures have been reduced,
while important functions (e.g., social security, education) have been partly privatized or
decentralized to municipal govemment's. Government's role in guiding economic activity has been
reduced and rationalized, and most public enterprises had been divested. Moreover, the Central
Bank was given autonomous status, changing in this way the macroeconomics policy making with
the government, until now under the control of the Ministry of Finance.
4.    Pursuing the development agenda within an interactive, multiparty, consultative decision
making process, inherent to a democracy, place special demands on the executive and legislative
branches both individually and collectively. This process must be totally transparent, and one in
which the public has confidence. It thus necessiLtates enhanced information systems, and staff
skilled in policy analysis, budgetary design and performance monitoring, to face a number of
potential serious problem in public has sector mranagement such as: (a) risk of fraud and tax
evasion and inefficient resource allocation in institutions responsible for tax collection and benefits
administration; (b) insufficient objective and artnlytic information to infonm legislative actions in
economic policy; (c) inadequate analyses of fiscal, trade and market policies to reform ministerial
decision making; and (d) potential paralysis in decision making on interministerial issues.



46
5.    PSM  II Objectives. The project aims to improve overall central government management
efficiency and to enhance Chile's policy formulation and implementation capacity. Specifically, it would: (
a) improve information systems and management of the principal public financial management agencies;
(b) increase the quality and facilitate the use of information and subsequent analysis in legislative economic
decision making; (c) contribute to strengthening the analytical policy and implementation capacity of the
government; and (d) enhance the capacity to assess critically issues that cross specific development sectors.
6.    To achieve these objectives, the US$ 17.2 million Bank financed PSM  II project had five
components: (a) Financial management, to develop and/or improve existing taxpayer and beneficiary
management information systems, to include development of performance indicators in four financial
management agencies (Internal Revenue Service, Customs, Treasury, and Social Security Institute) (US$
7.6 million); (b) Legislative Informnation and analysis for economic policy, to improve the capacity of the
Library of Congress to provide economic information and analysis, including strengthening of its reference
holdings (US$ 5.3 million); (c) Economic policy formulation and analysis, to provide improved economic
data and information systems and analytic capacity to guide decision making in the key ministries of
Finance and Economy (US$ 2.0 million); (d) policy Coordination and government organization, to
strengthen the analytical information base available to the Interministerial Committees (US$ 0.8 million);
and (d) Project Coordination Unit, to strengthen the Ministry of Finance's capacity to manage the
proposed project (US$ 0.4 million).
7.    The project also included refinancing for a Project Preparation Facility (US$ 0.4 million) used to
finance consultant services and equipment to assist in the preparation of terms of reference (TOR) and to
facilitate project implementation. This allowed a well-defined project scope and detailed preparation of all
components including terms of reference and associated cost, with a clear Matrix of Key activities. It was
also included a non allocated amount (US$ 0.8 million) for contingencies. Adding counterpart expenditures,
estimated total cost of the project reached the amount of US$ 24 million.
8.    In June 1995, the loan agreement was amended, reallocating funds between components and
categories. As a result of the amendment, the figures for the various components remained as follows: (a)
US$ 8.1 million; (b) US$ 5.1 million; (c) US$ 1.7 million; (d) US$ 0.9 million; (d) US$ 0,9 million; US$
0.1 million non allocated funds; US$ 0.4 million PPF.
Achievement of Proiect Obiectives
9.    In accordance with the matrix of project key activities, the general objectives of the project were
fully met through specific objectives of each component.
Financial Management
10.   Internal Revenue Service. The IRS maintains a register of all active taxpayer of the value added
tax (VAT), the income and property taxes and audits taxpayer accounts and returns. The main issue for
IRS is to reduce tax evasion, because affects both government revenues and the equity of the tax system.
On the other hand, enforcement consists of detecting evasion through inspection of data bases and through
audits. In this way, (a) delays and inaccuracies in entering data in the master file caused by manual
processing at the local IRS offices; (b) multiple and incompatible data files at the central office due to
limited computer capacity and antiquated file management design; and (c) inefficient allocation of IRS
audit and enforcement resources, contribute to tax evasion. The strategy to improve IRS performance in
the reduction of tax evasion and increase in income and VAT tax compliance, was to improve and/or



47
develop the information systems used in data collection, processing, and analysis to detect fraud and
evasion.
11.   In April 1992 the IRS proposed to change from a centralized collection and processing information
system to a decentralized system. The main issue was to collect and verify the information in the source,
to reduce errors and increase speed in data collection, providing equipment, software and communication
systems to the regional offices, passing from a 50% of the units that had computer equipment to the 100%
of the units, including wide area network (WAN) for the most remote one, increasing the number of
workstations from 150 to over 600. Today all the data collection is decentralized, this reduces the
actualization cycles of the infornation, that now are on-line, increases the quality and capacity of data
processing of the system, and allows a better inspection support.
12.    The multiple and incompatible data files at the central office were changed with the acquisition of a
very powerful relational data base management system and the redesign of the applications; nowadays
local offices can access to the central data base to verify or actualize the information in real time and tax
authorities have gained the capability to undertake audits with such computer systems, and check the entire
taxpayer database. This has pernitted an increase in collections of a 3,52% (approximately US$ 8 million
dollars) from 1994 to 1995 due to the inspection work, with the support of the new systems. In terms of
enforcement, VAT evasion has been reduced from 32% in 1989 to a 24% in 1995, this explains part of the
increase in VAT revenues of the 85% in the same period. At present, the next step is to permit more
information crossing with other data bases to verify information and reduce fraud, for example with the
Civil Register Office data base to verify relationships between taxpayers. Clearly, these measures permit to
improve the inspection and enforcement work of the Service.
13.    Customs. The principal objective of this component was to improve the inspection work. This
component adopted a different strategy than that of IRS, as they just designed it aiming to strengthen the
capacity of the central mainframe computer, expanding the capacity and speed of data processing. This
difference was principally because their equipment was collapsing by the time in which the project started,
and they decided that it was quicker and less costly to expand the central capacity, than go for a long run
emigration strategy. At present, the collapsing problem doesn't exist, but clearly the potential powerful of
this solution in the long run, facing new demands, is very limited.
14.    The expansion in the capacity and speed of data processing of the central computer reduced data
response time from an average of 90 seconds to 5 seconds in the most important custom's offices
(Valparaiso, Los Andes, Talcahuano y Santiago), specifically regarding export and import declarations
processing. This also required the implementation and connection of workstations on-line with the central
computer in 12 customs offices, still now just four offices are not on-line due to the low volume of
information they process. This really helps controlling the evasion in paying import duties and fraud in
programs to subsidize nontraditional exports as well as reimburse payments of import duties and VAT on
export goods (number of declarations processed, periFormance reports, on line inspection)
15.    On the other hand, this affects directly the response time to information demands by different
users, specifically the response time for statistical and trade reports was reduced from 22 to 5 days. In case
of the reports required for the central administration, they come out in 1 day (reduction on response time of
90%/.)
16.   In September 1995, a new Custom's director assumed and decided to review custom's strategy to
define the role and future activities of the Service. hi this context, the Bank financed a study for the new
strategy designing of customs, based on the analysis of the mission, objectives, functions and services that



48
custom is expected to providie to the community. As a result of this study, Customs defined that its main
tasks are: inspection and clit,nt orientation of the services, improving and optimizing the complete process
for their clients. Following the definitions attained, four operational business processes were defined, with
different stages and requirements: imports, exports, goods and belongings transported by passengers and
nation wide in transit goods transportation. Finally, with this new strategy they started the development of
the support systems to facilitate inspection and improve client services.
17.    At present, they are developing 8 technical data bases to support the inspection work and facilitate
enforcement, these data bases should be finished by June 1997 and fully operating by December this year,
filled with all real data, including a training program for the agents. According to original design of the
project, this subcomponent should produce an increase of 10% in audits and an increase of 5% on import
duties collection.
18.   The most important issue in this component is the approval, in 1996, of the new custom law (Law
NR. 19479) that includes: changes in human resources management, a new organizational structure,
functions and duties, significant changes in the inspection area, and a system of incentives on performance.
Also, includes new rules to permit the electronic transaction system with the custom agents (import and
export declarations) and with other services in the future (IRS, treasury, Central Bank). To support directly
these changes the Bank also financed the acquisition of human resources management system and the
evaluation study for the electronic transaction system. (introduce results in June)
19.    Treasury. The Treasury is responsible for government revenue collection and payments. The
planned technical assistance included improvements in data, check, and bill processing timing and quality;
improvements in data transmission to and use by regional Treasury offices; and introduction of an
information system to permit the monitoring of the agency's performance. The principal activity of this
component was precisely the acquisition of equipment, software, communication systems and training for
the regional treasury offices, improving the timing, quality and data transmission (measure). At present,
they are working in redesigning the applications to be used in the system, and already 100% of the regional
offices are connected to the central host, having in average 1 to 3 terminal in each office, that represents an
increase of 200% over that they had before.
20.    Response time to taxpayer inquiries that was in average of 15 days, has been significantly reduced.
In fact, nowadays for 50% of the inquiries response time is between 1-5 days, for 32% is between 6-15
days, and only for the remaining 18% of inquiries the response time is 16 days or more. (Add comparison
of performance indicators as of October 96 with those as of June 97: rescuing expenses, collections and
collection expenses).
21.    Additionally, a couple of subprojects were developed to improve service to clients: (a) Multimedia
information system for the central office, where the waiting time was approximately 75 minutes and 10%
of the people didn't need to attend to the desks. Now all the information is showed on the multimedia
screen, to guide the people to the right procedure or steps to follow, in this way reduced the number and
time in the waiting line to approximately 30 minutes. On the other hand, for certain kind of certificates or
personal fiscal debt balance statements, Treasury implemented the "TESOMATICOS", terminals that
work like ATM machines, where people can get this kind of information or documents without staying in
the line. Furthermore, the attention schedule of these machines goes from 8:30 AM to 6:00 PM, much
longer than normal attention at desks (only until 2:00 PM), so this system permits to attend more people,
reducing demand over desk officers. Treasury is considering the expansion of this service in 1997, setting
this kind of Tesomaticos in municipalities and Banks, connected to regional offices in a WAN net, so
people can get the service even in places where Treasury doesn't has an office.



49
22.   Social Security Institute (SSI). It is responsible for managing the unfounded social security
system; approximately four million individual accounts remain in that system after the change to funded
pension plans. SSI had serious problems of high tax evasion, tax arrears, fraudulent pensions claims, and
long delays in determining pension benefits. The technical assistance was planned to reorganize collection
and enforcement activities and implement a system of evasion control to improve tax collection and reduce
evasion, also the pension benefits administration should be improved through the design   and
implementation of an information system that allows employees rapid and accurate access to account
information, to increase capacity to identify problems in collection and payments.
23.   The pension benefits component has two subcomponent, the improvement of the pension benefits
concession and administration system, and the organization and centralization of the central archives of the
SSI. In the pension benefit administration subcomponent, following a diagnosis and re-engineering study of
the whole processes, it was included the implementation of a new administration model, where the focus is
the client and the SSI agent has the tools (informalion system) and the training to process and analyze the
demands and inquiries of clients at the attention point. Under this model, the should be able to respond
whether the demandant is eligible or not for a certain pension benefit. If not, should tell the client the
reasons and the steps to follow to become eligible. If yes, all steps of the application process should be
carried out through the agency, with the exception of the review of legal requirements (to be performed by
the Central Administration Unit), and the approval of the benefit authorization, that legal rules reserves
only to the Director. This new process, centering almost all steps at the agencies, should reduce the
response time and the approval time. Up to date, this model has been implemented in several pilot
agencies. (Introduce results in June, comparing response times with the new model and without it)
24.   The other subcomponent  was the reorganization and centralization of the central archives
(distributed, however, in five physically distant places), that contains 1,300 million files of the active
people. The main objective was to standardize and control the access to the archive, to reduce the response
time to infonration demands and to improve the quality of this information. The project included the
physical reorganization of the files, the use of a code bar recognition for each file and the acquisition of the
equipment and software for file access control amd administration. At present, with this solution the
response tine for a demand of a file is on-line if the file does not exist, and 24 hours if you request
physically the file, this is an important improvement because before it took 10 to 12 days to respond to
either both demands, with the corresponding delays in the whole process. On the other hand , before the
reorganization and code bar for recognition for the files, the "not found" rate was 23% of the demands,
today this rate is 0%. Now they are working in the expansion of the data base to include 0.9 million files of
the retired people and evaluating to give the administration of the system to an extemal firm, to reduce
operation and administration costs.
Legislative information and analysis for economic policy
25.    Congress. Legislative libraries and research services play a very important role in informing policy
makers and legislatures in most advanced democracies. Both the capacity of the Library of Congress
(LOC) to serve its users and the ability of Congressional staff to use the services of the LOC to inform
Congress had deteriorated significantly over the past seventeen years of inactivity of the Congress (in that
period, the LOC continued working but only as a public Library). The antiquated library technology,
insufficient and outdated holdings, inadequately trained reference librarians, and lack of a communications
network are some examples of the problems faced at the reopening of the Congress.



50
26.   After initial delays due to internal operational problems, and changes in the Congress project
coordinator, in 1993 this component was finally defined with 6 subcomponents that included: component
coordination unit, administrative changes in the LOC, new library technology, communications network
with the Congress, improvements in the legislative process and support systems, support of the LOC to the
legislative process.
27.   The first activity was to expand and update the LOC collections and information systems,
including equipment, the addition of international databases and the development of a legislative and
bibliography management information systems. The update of LOC collections has been successful with
the acquisition of 2.454 titles, 145 periodicals subscriptions and 9 CD ROM data bases. This
subcomponent included a training program in areas of economics, finance and politics that was very useful
for the LOC staff. Nowadays, the legislative and bibliographic information systems are both working over
the communication network of the Congress, the first one includes all the laws (full text), modifications and
final version to be consulted by any of the users, this application has been an important support for the
different commission secretaries. The bibliographic reference system, has represented an important tool for
the LOC, as it is connected with other libraries around the world, fulfilling all the international standards
and reducing the response time for the regular LOC users. It is important to say that in both cases training
activities for the LOC staff have been very strong to permit the institutionalization of the systems.
28.   These two systems are connected to the Congress in Valparaiso through a WAN, and the Bank also
financed the implementation of the LAN within the Congress. The problem here is the institutionalization of
the management and maintenance of the network, because both chambers haven't decided yet who will
finance and management this investment.
29.   To improve the legislative process inside the Congress was developed a full study of the process,
including the issuing of a publication and a realization of a seminar on this matter. Additionally was
included the acquisition of equipment for the redaction offices of the Senate and the Representatives
Chamber, reducing the process time for the sessions reports for both chambers, reports that should be input
for the legislative information system, now under development ( update status in June).
Economic Policy Formulation and Analysis
30.   Ministry of Finance. The 1990 law granting the Central Bank autonomy left the Ministry of
Finance without the capacity to provide independent analysis and economic projections to the Minister, who
play the leading role in setting fiscal and trade policies. The Ministry of Finance lacked several elements of
policy information consistent with its dominant role in macroeconomics policy making and implementation.
The results of this technical assistance should be improved analysis of specific policy issues,
institutionalized capacity for trade and macroeconomics analysis, including macroeconomics projections,
and policy simulations. Organizationally, the result of this technical assistance should be two study units
with the capacity to provide economic reports and analysis to the Minister and to respond quickly to urgent
decision making demands of the Ministry.
31.   These two units were implemented at the time the credit was effective and the objectives were fully
met during the time the project was developed, currently these two units are fully institutionalized and
represent the two main study areas inside the Ministry. Additionally, a Local Area Network was
implemented for the Undersecretary of Finance to support the work of the advisor team of the Minister.
32.   A new subcomponent was included in this component with the amendment of June 1995, to
provide technical assistance for the modernization of the public entities that are dependencies of the



51
Ministry of Finance, specifically the diagnosis studies to implement a modernization program with
government funds. This experience has been very useful to achieve the sustainability of the project in other
Services not included.
33.   Ministry of Economy. The Ministry of E]conomy has significant responsibilities regarding natural
monopoly regulation, market competition, investment, exports, technological development, consumer
protection and public enterprise policies. These responsibilities gained important as natural monopolies
have been privatized, larger firms have merged, export have grown to play a significant role in economic
growth, and private foreign investment plans ha.ve increased. The technical assistance was designed to
develop studies to diagnose management problems and design solutions for the Telecommunication
Subsecretary, the Electricity and Gas Superintendency, and the Consumer Protection Agency, investment
financing and water pricing for SENDOS, regulation of telecommunications pricing for
Telecommunications Secretariat, and to improve investigative capacity in National Economic Fiscal Office
(anti-monopoly agency).
34.   The diagnosis study in the Consumer Protection Agency (SERNAC) was completed, today
SERNAC is working with a new structure and information systems, in accordance with the
recommendations of the study. Besides that, the (Consumer Protection Law was approved by the Congress
in November 1996, after five years of debate within the Congress. In the regulation area, the most
important contribution was in the water and sewage service sector, with the development of a regulation
law that include price setting, concession process ;md privatization issues, this law is still under discussion
at the Congress. Besides that, in December 1993 concluded a study to upgrade the price and subsidizing
process for urban and rural water service that is still in operation. In the telecommunication area was
determined a new price setting procedures that have been used for the last negotiations and for the
Superintendency of Gas and Electricity the development of the new Natural Gas Law has been the most
inportant contribution.
Policy Coordination and Government Organization
35    Inter-Ministerial Committees (IMCs). As with all governments , activities and policies of one
agency often affect another, thereby leading to interagency conflicts that can only be resolved through
appeal to a higher authority. That higher authority is frequently the President and in Chile has opted for
Inter-Ministerial Committees (IMCs), established by Presidential Decree on May 15, 1990, and
coordinated overall by the Division of Interministerial Coordination of the Secretariat of the Presidency.
The IMCs have neither budget nor independeni: capacity to contract studies to support the informed
coordination and decision making process. The tachnical assistance was designed to finance several high
priority studies required to inform Committee debates.
36.    All proposed studies were completed, (i) Government information policy to ensure compatible
computer systems within the government and to avoid costly duplication (ii) Poverty and income
distribution, (iii) Support policy for small and medium enterprise (iv) Efficiency on social programs (v)
Modernization of management of public sector rnining enterprises (vi) Geographic information and (vi)
Pension Funds investments.
37.   The results of this studies are not clear due to operations procedures of the IMCs, firstly because
there is no regular staff in the committees, so the counterpart for the studies changed many times, affecting
the developing of such studies. Secondly, the proposed studies were too long, considering that the
discussion within the IMCs are for today's probleims. It seems that this kind of assistance has to be placed
in the specific ministries (studies units), and to present the final proposal to the respective committee.



52
Proiect Sustainability
38.   Most of the components implemented under PSM II have shown a high degree of sustainability.
Modernization plans initiated under the project have been expanded with more activities financed by the
government. The technological upgrade financed with the project (equipment & information systems) was
the first step to start with the modernization in other areas like: processes, organizational structure, human
resources and management. The financial management component, due to the modernization in computer
equipment and information systems, has improved the processing time and accuracy of the information,
allowing a better inspection work. Now the government is developing better inspection technics to reduce
evasion, and to improve enforcement. The only component in which sustainability has not been reached is
in the Congress. Still it is not clear who will be responsible for the management and maintenance of the new
equipment and information systems inside the Congress.
39.   In the economic policy formulation and analysis component, specifically in the Ministry of
Finance, the two studies' units that were implemented (macroeconomics and intemational) to support the
economic analysis and policy making work, are still working and became part of the ministry's permanent
structure. Important reforms like: tax reform, capital market law, banking regulation law and the different
studies for NAFTA and MERCOSUR agreements have been assisted or supported by the work of this two
important units. In the Ministry of Economy, after the diagnosis study, the Consumer Protection Agency,
today is working with a new structure and information systems, in accordance with the recommendation of
the mentioned study. Besides that, the Consumer Protection Law was approved by the Congress in
November 1996, after five years of debate. In the regulation area, he most important contribution was
achieved in the water and sewage service sector, with the drafting of a regulation law that includes price
setting, concession process and privatization issues, this law is in discussion at the Congress. In the
telecommunications area, was determined a new price setting procedures that have been used for the last
negotiations, and for the Superintendency of Gas and Electricity the drafting of the new Natural Gas Law
has been the most important contribution.
Lessons Learned
40.   The most important issue in the project was its preparation stage. Besides that the Bank prepared
a clear cost/activities matrix that allowed a better supervision and periodic evaluation of the project, this
project had a PPF that was essential to prepare and discuss the different activities and specifically the
terms of reference in each case.
41.   In second place, the PCU was designed to respond to the Government and the Bank, and would be
responsible for the review of all procurement, disbursement and management issues of the project. The
technical issues were handle by each component, allowing a better implementation results with the people
from each component. In the cases in which the component didn't have the technical staff, the Bank
financed external consultants, but did not finance permanent or regular staff of any component.
42.   The key ingredient for the success of any modernization program such as the PSM II is the high
degree of engagement and priority assigned to it by the authorities and their willingness to invest their
political capital and technical capability in pursuing the program's initiatives. There is not substitute for
this.
43.   The quality of the results of any diagnosis, study or implementation plan performed by any
consultant firm depends on the background and quality of the counterpart team. It is very important to



53
strengthen counterpart teams with specialists when the organization face technical gaps. Access to demand-
based technical assistance funds facilitated Government success in terms of scope and results of the
proposed changes.
44.   In any kind of project it is also very important the PCU personmel. Considering that the Bank has
specific procurement and disbursement guidelines, it is very useful to have people with training in these
areas. Many projects have important delays because people in charge doesn't know right procedures.
45.   In the timetable of this kind of project that includes a package of refonrs that need a law approval,
it is important to consider the delays that laws have within the Congress, in this case, for example, the
Consumer Protection Law took five years to be approved by the Congress.
Bank Performance
46.   The Bank played a very active role in the process of defining the components and activities of the
project with the government. During implementation, the Bank provided periodical inputs through
discussions on the various technical assistance initiatives. The flexibility of the technical assistance and the
efforts done by the Bank to provide timely response to Government's demands, contributed significantly to
develop a fluid and constructive dialogue with the Government in the implementation of the project.
Borrower Performance
47.   The Government showed a high level of commitment with the implementation of the PSM II at all
times. On occasion, there was a lack of coordination among the Congress component and the rest of the
project, but the Government was successful in obtaining the necessary agreements to met the objectives of
the project. This cause important delays at the beginning of the project but, in despite of this, the project is
closing 6 months earlier.



NM SECTION



77  PERU    y~~~~~~~~~~~~~i~~~~                                                                                         B '                                                                               BRD 25555
P E R U    v                   AA                                                                                   72C 24g B 45 tD5
1r '                            1                  -1^py  <  REGION     0 L                      Z          DE
*~~  I              DR         0         Don FM,p,      - 0COGUMBO
|2 rAmo                                                     DoCA cO o o *. s@1>t t u a  SI E                       32u Ai|                                                          A  m    eS  r    C
0 W-43g -t  1 LtX J Xl  A hg 0                                                                                                                                             I
0000055 ~~~~~~~~~   BEE  V    SO  '5 ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~~00
R PEGION                                    Sm. A          T. ;EGIO AAOND E'                                                                                                    46-L
DANTOAEb4tA                                                                                            g0          2      b        VALAIBORF5
2 TA   Ca^FASASn                                            T ,,  !                                                                GENERAL CARLOS 5
DAA aCA                                                                or,u.,                                                   ANEZ DEL CAMPO 
;34r                                                                                 REGIONEPLAN
(20                 ERGION DEL [IBREDAGDOE              F              /                                                                 MA N ROADS
00155                              GEN~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ERAL BERNARDO 0OHIGGIN                                                                                 R  WAOR  1 0.   ,k
M~~~~~~~~6 ~~~~~~REGION COoSSOiIdE                                                                                                                      SALNE  KE
IEGION                                                                     DEILVE
AOAv Id                                                                                                                                                 <-                         r 36'  |--INTERNATIONAL EONAIPRIES
~~~.  ~~~~~~jj  CR0045055                                                            o~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~4  POTSTHOUH-U
I tCk2/                                                REGIONE                                                                                                                    EX  EDN Z005200 TO52
A N T U F A S M       a n s i o "                                                      50 . ~ ~ ~ ~ ~   ~ ~  ~  ~ ~ ~  ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~~~~~~ . P EC R Y A
24 9                                                                      V ill                                                             ,                                                      NATIONALARAUCAPITAD DS i ONS
ANiSEASART     X             /               (N>                     DE BIORIO                                      L                  REoIONCfMAGA-LCll ,RI
A{2 LostLAGOS                                                                   <                                                                                    RO      BO AN-ARTI -
30   LA-tBREN*2  a   ond cmy olh r lohzmm>tion shown on   ChfSoIV   REGION  OUNUMBERS6
<  3r                                               38'            W~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~UlSo, EAp.I*m.  13          REGION NUBOUERIS
INTERNATIONAL BOUNDAFJES
REGION         TEMCO      00
.26'           ipsa             ,                                    25    LA ARAUANIA                                                                                                                                             U
REGION            Co,,or                                                                   /   Po0
ATACAMA                 1            (                                                                                                                                                            5, 7oFRo
.2r                       <               REGION                                             Q~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~  '54-~~~~U                                                                   54*
I I I                                        00   R~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~EGO                                             REGION DR MAGALLANESY
LOS LAGOB  I,          P                                              DE LA ANTARTICA CHIIENA-
-42           An.o                                            42?                                                      A.EaktE. Chle-m
Th. b.-o,-,oo-co-od---o,o                           ' 
-nd -y ,h., W.-wi-o,m A.-                                                                                                                                                                   se- 6
3:.,.=                      Th.~~~~~~S;  d- oflEipy 00 ISO p011 ol            CISO o0
DEGIN~ooopooo                                                                                                                                                                                               KILOMETERS
COQGIMSRO                             oSod,i
L  T                                     6B`~~~~~~~~~I                                           75                    ?                                  7.4'           772            7.0
FEBRUARY 199A



