Page  1
CONFORMED COPY
LOAN NUMBER 3411 CH
(Second Public Sector Management Project)
between
REPUBLIC OF CHILE
and
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION
AND DEVELOPMENT
Dated October 24, 1991
LOAN NUMBER 3411 CH
LOAN AGREEMENT
AGREEMENT, dated October 24, 1991, between REPUBLIC OF CHILE (the Borrower) and 
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT (the Bank).
WHEREAS the Borrower, having satisfied itself as to the feasibility and priority 
of the Project described in Schedule 2 to this Agreement, has requested the Bank to 
assist in the financing of the Project;
WHEREAS the Bank has agreed, on the basis, inter alia, of the foregoing, to 
extend the Loan to the Borrower upon the terms and conditions set forth in this 
Agreement;
NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:
ARTICLE I
General Conditions; Definitions
Section 1.01. The "General Conditions Applicable to Loan and Guarantee 
Agreements" of the Bank, dated January 1, 1985, with the modifications set forth below 
(the General Conditions) constitute an
integral part of this Agreement.
Page  2
(a)
The last sentence of Section 3.02 is deleted.
 
(b)
In Section 6.02, subparagraph (k) is relettered as subparagraph (l) and a 
new subparagraph (k) is added to read:
"(k)   An extraordinary situation shall have arisen under which any 
further withdrawals 
under the Loan would be inconsistent with the 
provisions of Article III, Section 3 of the Bank's 
Articles of Agreement."
 
Section 1.02. Unless the context otherwise requires, the several terms defined 
in the General Conditions have the respective meanings therein set forth and the 
following additional terms have the following meanings:
(a)
"Central Bank" means the Borrower's Central Bank;
 
(b)
"Customs" means the Borrower's Customs Office;
 
(c)
"Congress" means the Borrower's Congress;
 
(d)
"Decree" means Decreto No. 779, of September 3, 1991, issued by the 
Borrower's President, which authorizes the Borrower's Sub- secretary of Finance to 
approve consultants' contracts (financed by loans from the Bank for projects in Chile) 
with a duration of three months or less and providing for monthly payments in amounts 
not exceeding the equivalent of $4,500;
(e)
"IMCs" means collectively the following Interministerial Committees: the 
Policy Interministerial Committee, the Socio-economic Interministerial Committee, the 
Productive Sectors
Interministerial Committee and the Economic Interministerial Committee, all 
established by Presidential Derective on May 15, 1990;
(f)
"IRS" means the Borrower's Internal Revenue Service;
 
(g)
"LOC" means the library of Congress;
 
(h)
"PCU" means the Project coordination unit to be established pursuant to 
the provisions of Schedule 5, paragraph 1 (a) to this Agreement;
(i)
"Project Preparation Advance" means the project preparation advance 
granted by the Bank to the Borrower pursuant to an exchange of letters dated August 
10, 1990 and August 22, 1990 between the Borrower and the Bank as amended on May 23, 
1991;
(j)
"Social Security Taxes" means cotizaciones previsionales, the 
contributions made by workers affiliated with SSI, as defined below, for their health 
care and retirement;
(k)
"Special Account" means the account referred to in Section 2.02 (b) of 
this Agreement;
(l)
"SSI" means the Borrower's Social Security Institute created by Decree 
Law No. 3502 of 1980; and
(m)
"Treasury" means the Borrower's General Treasurer.
 
ARTICLE II
The Loan
Section 2.01. The Bank agrees to lend to the Borrower, on the terms and 
conditions set forth or referred to in the Loan Agreement, various currencies that 
shall have an aggregate value equivalent to
the amount of seventeen million two hundred thousand dollars ($17,200,000), being the 
sum of withdrawals of the proceeds of the Loan, with each withdrawal valued by the 
Bank as of the date of such withdrawal.
Section 2.02. (a) The amount of the Loan may be withdrawn from the Loan Account 
Page  3
in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 1 to this Agreement for expenditures 
made (or, if the Bank shall so agree, to be made) in respect of the reasonable cost of 
goods and services required for the Project described in Schedule 2 to this Agreement 
and to be financed out of the proceeds of the Loan.
(b)
The Borrower shall, for the purposes of the Project, open and maintain in 
dollars a special deposit account in the Central Bank on terms and conditions 
satisfactory to the Bank. Deposits into, and payments out of, the Special Account 
shall be made in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 6 to this Agreement.
(c)
Promptly after the Effective Date, the Bank shall, on behalf of the 
Borrower, withdraw from the Loan Account and pay to itself the amount required to 
repay the principal amount of the Project Preparation Advance withdrawn and 
outstanding as of such date and to pay all unpaid charges thereon. The unwithdrawn 
balance of the authorized amount of the Project Preparation Advance shall thereupon be 
cancelled.
Section 2.03. The Closing Date shall be June 30, 1998 or such later date as the 
Bank shall establish. The Bank shall promptly notify the Borrower of such later date.
Section 2.04. The Borrower shall pay to the Bank a commitment charge at the rate 
of three-fourths of one percent (3/4 of 1%) per annum on the principal amount of the 
Loan not withdrawn from time to time.
Section 2.05. (a)  The Borrower shall pay interest on the principal amount of 
the Loan withdrawn and outstanding from time to time, at a rate for each Interest 
Period equal to the Cost of Qualified Borrowings determined in respect of the 
preceding Semester, plus one-half of one percent (1/2 of 1%). On each of the dates 
specified in Section 2.06 of this Agreement, the Borrower shall pay interest accrued 
on the principal amount outstanding during the preceding Interest Period, calculated 
at the rate applicable during such Interest Period.
(b)
As soon as practicable after the end of each Semester, the Bank shall 
notify the Borrower of the Cost of Qualified Borrowings determined in respect of such 
Semester.
(c)
For the purposes of this Section:
 
(i)
"Interest Period" means a six-month period ending on the date 
immediately preceding 
each date specified in Section 2.06 of this 
Agreement, beginning with the Interest 
Period in which this Agreement is 
signed.
(ii)
"Cost of Qualified Borrowings" means the cost, as reasonably 
determined by the Bank 
and expressed as a percentage per annum, of 
the outstanding borrowings of the Bank 
drawn down after June 30, 1982, 
excluding such borrowings or portions thereof as 
the Bank has 
allocated to fund: (A) the Bank's investments; and (B) loans which may 
be made by the Bank after July 1, 1989 bearing interest rates determined otherwise 
than as provided in paragraph (a) of this Section.
(iii)
"Semester" means the first six months or the second six months of 
a calendar year.
(d)
On such date as the Bank may specify by no less than six months' notice 
to the Borrower, paragraphs (a), (b) and (c) (iii) of this Section shall be amended to 
read as follows:
"(a)  The Borrower shall pay interest on the principal amount of the Loan 
withdrawn and 
outstanding from time to time, at a rate for each Quarter 
equal to the Cost of Qualified 
Borrowings determined in respect of the 
preceding Quarter, plus one-half of one percent (1/2 of 
1%). On each of the dates 
specified in Section 2.06 of this Agreement, the Borrower shall pay 
interest accrued on the principal amount outstanding during the preceding Interest 
Period, 
calculated at the rates applicable during such Interest Period."
 
"(b)  As soon as practicable after the end of each Quarter, the Bank 
Page  4
shall notify the 
Borrower of the Cost of Qualified Borrowings determined in 
respect of such Quarter."
"(c) (iii) `Quarter' means a three-month period commencing on January 1, 
April 1, July 1 
or October 1 in a calendar year."
 
Section 2.06. Interest and other charges shall be payable semiannually on June 
15 and December 15 in each year.
Section 2.07. The Borrower shall repay the principal amount of the Loan in 
accordance with the amortization schedule set forth in Schedule 3 to this Agreement.
ARTICLE III
Execution of the Project
Section 3.01. (a) The Borrower declares its commitment to the objectives of the 
Project as set forth in Schedule 2 to this Agreement, and, to this end, shall carry 
out the Project as follows: (i) Parts A, B, C, D, F, G and H of the Project through 
the Ministry of Finance; and (ii) Part E of the Project through Congress; all with due 
diligence and efficiency and in conformity with appropriate
financial, administrative and information design practices, and shall provide, 
promptly as needed, the funds, facilities, services and other resources required for 
the Project.
(b)
For the carrying out of Part E of the Project, the Borrower, through the 
PCU, shall make arrangements with Congress, under terms and conditions which shall 
have been approved by the Bank, which shall include a definition of the participation 
of the Congress in the implementation of Part E of the Project.
(c)
Except as the Bank shall otherwise agree, the Borrower shall not amend, 
abrogate or waive such arrangements or any provision thereof.
(d)
Without limitation upon the provisions of paragraph (a) of this Section 
and except as the Borrower and the Bank shall otherwise agree, the Borrower shall 
carry out the Project in accordance with the Implementation Program set forth in 
Schedule 5 to this Agreement.
Section 3.02. Except as the Bank shall otherwise agree, procurement of the goods 
and consultants' services required for the Project and to be financed out of the 
proceeds of the Loan shall be governed by the provisions of Schedule 4 to this 
Agreement.
ARTICLE IV
Financial Covenants
Section 4.01. (a) The Borrower shall maintain or cause to be maintained records 
and separate accounts adequate to reflect in accordance with sound accounting 
practices the operations, resources and expenditures in respect of the Project, of the 
Congress and the departments or agencies of the Borrower responsible for carrying out 
the Project or any part thereof.
(b)
The Borrower shall:
 
(i)
have the records and accounts referred to in paragraph (a) of this 
Section 
including those for the Special Account for 
each fiscal year audited, in accordance 
with appropriate auditing 
principles consistently applied, by independent auditors 
acceptable to 
the Bank;
(ii)
furnish to the Bank as soon as available, but in any case not 
later than six months 
after the end of each such year, the report of 
such audit by said auditors, of such 
scope and in such detail as the 
Bank shall have reasonably requested; and
(iii)
furnish to the Bank such other information concerning said records 
Page  5
and accounts and 
the audit thereof as the Bank shall from time to time 
reasonably request.
(c)
For all expenditures with respect to which withdrawals from the Loan 
Account were made on the basis of statements of expenditure, the Borrower shall:
(i)
maintain or cause to be maintained, in accordance with paragraph 
(a) of this 
Section, records and accounts reflecting such 
expenditures;
(ii)
retain, until at least one year after the Bank has received the 
audit report for 
the fiscal year in which the last withdrawal 
from the Loan Account or payment out 
of the Special Account was 
made, all records (contracts, orders, invoices, bills, 
receipts and other documents) evidencing such expenditures;
(iii)
enable the Bank's representatives to examine such records; and
 
(iv)
ensure that such records and accounts are included in the annual 
audit referred to 
in paragraph (b) of this Section and that the report 
of such audit contains a 
separate opinion by said auditors as to 
whether the statements of expenditure 
submitted during such 
fiscal year, together with the procedures and internal 
controls involved in their preparation, can be relied upon to support the related 
withdrawals.
ARTICLE V
Remedies of the Bank
Section 5.01. Pursuant to Section 6.02 (l) of the General Conditions, the 
following additional event is specified, namely, that the Decree shall have been 
modified or abrogated and such modification or abrogation shall, in the opinion of the 
Bank, adversely affect the execution of any project financed by the Bank in Chile.
Section 5.02. Pursuant to Section 7.01 (h) of the General Conditions, the 
following additional event is specified, namely, that the event specified in Section 
5.01 of this Agreement shall occur.
ARTICLE VI
Effective Date; Termination
Section 6.01. The following event is specified as an additional condition to the 
effectiveness of the Loan Agreement within the meaning of Section 12.01 (c) of the 
General Conditions, namely that the Borrower shall have established the PCU in 
accordance with the provisions of Schedule 5, paragraph 1 (a) to this Agreement.
Section 6.02. The date January 22, 1992 is hereby specified for the purposes of 
Section 12.04 of the General Conditions.
ARTICLE VII
Representative of the Borrower; Addresses
Section 7.01. The Minister of Finance of the Borrower is designated as 
representative of the Borrower for the purposes of Section 11.03 of the General 
Conditions.
Section 7.02. The following addresses are specified for the purposes of Section 
11.01 of the General Conditions:
For the Borrower:
Ministry of Finance
Teatinos 120
Santiago, Chile
Page  6
Telex:
241334 MHDA-CH
For the Bank:
International Bank for
   Reconstruction and Development
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America
Cable address:
Telex:
 
INTBAFRAD
248423 (RCA)
Washington, D.C.
 82987 (FTCC)
 64145 (WUI) or
197688 (TRT)
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their duly authorized 
representatives, have caused this Agreement to be signed in their respective names in 
the District of Columbia, United
States of America, as of the day and year first above written.
REPUBLIC OF CHILE
By /s/ Patricio Silva
Authorized Representative
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR
   RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
By /s/ S. Shahid Husain
Regional Vice President
Latin America and the Caribbean
SCHEDULE 1
Withdrawal of the Proceeds of the Loan
1.
The table below sets forth the Categories of items to be financed out of the 
proceeds of the Loan, the allocation of the amounts of the Loan to each Category and 
the percentage of expenditures for items so to be financed in each Category:
                            Amount of the
                            Loan Allocated           % of
                            (Expressed in        Expenditures
     Category             Dollar Equivalent)    to be Financed
(1)   Goods                              )      100% of foreign
                                         )      expenditures,
      (a) for Parts A, B        3,911,000)      100% of local
          and C of the                   )      expenditures
          Project                        )      (ex-factory
                                         )      cost) and 78%
      (b) for Part D              556,000)      of local expen-
          of the Project                 )      ditures for
                                         )      other items
      (c) for Part E            3,610,000)      procured locally
Page  7
          of the Project                 )
                                         )
      (d) for Part F               75,000)
          of the Project                 )
                                         )
      (e) for Part G               95,000)
          of the Project                 )
                                         )
      (f) for Part H               40,000)
          of the Project                 )
                                         )
      (g) for the PCU              40,000)
(2) Consultants                          )      100%
    Services and                         )
    Training                             )
                                         )
    (a) fors Part A, B          1,610,000)
        and C of the                     )
        Project                          )
                                         )
    (b) for Part D              1,480,000)
        of the Project                   )
                                         )
    (c) for Part E              1,582,000)
        of the Project                   )
                                         )
    (d) for Part F                827,000)
        of the Project                   )
                                         )
    (e) for Part G              1,016,000)
        of the Project                   )
                                         )
    (f) for Part H                724,000)
        of the Project                   )
                                         )
    (g) for the PCU               310,000)
(3) Incremental                    108,000        100% up to the
    Salaries                                      time the aggre-
                                                  gate amount of
                                                  disbursements
                                                  under this Cate-
                                                  gory reaches the
                                                  equivalent of
                                                  $60,000; 50% up to
                                                  the time the
                                                  aggregate amount
                                                  of disbursements
                                                  under this Cate-
                                                  gory reaches the
                                                  equivalent of
                                                  $90,000; and 25%
                                                  thereafter
(4) Refunding of                   376,000        Amounts due
    Project                                       pursuant to
    Preparation                                   Section 2.02 (c)
    Advance                                       of this Agreement
(5) Unallocated                    840,000
                                __________
         TOTAL                  17,200,000
                                ==========
Page  8
2.
For the purposes of this Schedule:
 
(a)
the term "foreign expenditures" means expenditures in the currency of any 
country other than that of the Borrower for goods or services supplied from the 
territory of any country other than that of the Borrower;
(b)
the term "local expenditures" means expenditures in the currency of the 
Borrower or for goods or services supplied from the territory of the Borrower; and
(c)
"Incremental Salaries" means the salary of the sub-project coordinator 
referred to in Schedule 5, paragraph (8) (b) to this Agreement.
3.
Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1 above, no withdrawals shall be 
made in respect of:
(a)
payments made for expenditures prior to the date of this Agreement;
 
(b)
in respect of expenditures under Part A of the Project until IRS shall 
have appointed the subproject coordinator referred to in Schedule 5, paragraph 4 (a) 
to this Agreement;
(c)
in respect of expenditures under Part B of the Project until the Borrower 
shall have appointed the subproject coordinator referred to in Schedule 5, paragraph 5 
(a) to this Agreement;
(d)
in respect of expenditures under Part E of the Project until: (i) 
Congress shall have established the subproject coordination unit in accordance with 
the provisions of Schedule 5,
paragraph 8 (b) to this Agreement; (ii) Congress shall have appointed the subproject 
coordinator referred to in Schedule 5, paragraph 8 (a) to this Agreement; and (iii) 
Congress and the Borrower, through the PCU, shall have made the arrangements referred 
to in Section 3.01 (b) of this Agreement; and
(e)
in respect of expenditures under Part F of the Project until the Borrower 
shall have appointed at least three economists of those referred to, and in accordance 
with, the provisions of
Schedule 5, paragraph 9 (c) to this Agreement.
SCHEDULE 2
Description of the Project
The objectives of the Project are: (a) to improve the information systems and 
management of Treasury, Customs, IRS and SSI; (b) to increase the quality, and 
facilitate the use, of information and analysis in economic decision-making; (c) to 
strengthen the Borrower's capacity for policy analysis and
implementation; and (d) to enhance the Borrower's capacity to assess issues at the 
interministerial level.
The Project consists of the following parts, subject to such modifications 
thereof as the Borrower and the Bank may agree upon from time to time to achieve such 
objectives:
Part A:
IRS
 
1.
Expanding and improving IRS' information system into a regional system to link 
its 30 local offices not yet connected to the IRS' computer network.
2.
Redesign of IRS' master file data-bases to facilitate data use and analysis.
 
3.
Expansion of IRS' central computer capacity to support the regional network 
referred to in Part A.1 above and the master file data-bases to be redesigned under 
Part A.2 above.
4.
Improvements in IRS' hardware and software to facilitate the use of the 
data-bases by auditors of IRS.
Page  9
5.
Development of an information system and analytic methods to yield current data 
on the performance and productivity of tax administration activities.
6.
Studies on the performance of IRS and on tax evasion.
 
Part B:
Customs
 
1.
Development of a modern computer and communications system to improve the 
auditing function of Customs.
2.
Development of the capacity of Customs to provide specialized training to its 
agents.
3.
Rehabilitation of the Customs' laboratory.
 
4.
Design and establishment of a computerized information system for Customs to 
assess and monitor the efficiency in the allocation of budgetary resources including 
the carrying out of a study for
determining the most appropriate information system and thereafter, the acquisition 
and installation of such system.
Part C:
Treasury
 
1.
Modifications to the existing computer hardware and software of Treasury to 
handle peak workloads of such agency.
2.
Training of selected staff in the processing and use of data in the regional and 
provincial offices.
3.
Design and implementation of a computerized performance information system for 
Treasury including the carrying out of a study for determining the most appropriate 
information system and thereafter, the acquisition and utilization of such system.
Part D:
SSI
 
1.
Diagnosis of SSI's management system for the collection of Social Security 
Taxes, and for its auditing and control mechanisms.
2.
Establishment of a reliable computer data base on payers and beneficiaries of 
Social Security Taxes.
3.
Design and establishment of a system to control tax evasion and improve such tax 
collections, which would additionally allow employees a rapid and accurate access to 
account information.
4.
Design and establishment of a computerized information system to measure and 
monitor SSI's performance.
Part E:
Congress
 
1.
Expansion and automation of the reference and bibliographic collections of LOC.
 
2.
Training of librarians in LOC in legislative reference techniques, the use of 
new computer technology, and economic and fiscal analysis.
3.
Installation of computer hardware and software in Congress to permit direct 
access by users to LOC and its data-bases.
Part F:
Ministry of Finance
 
1.
Assembly of data-bases, improvement of the existing, and development of new, 
econometric models to be used by the Ministry of Finance in the analysis of trade and 
macroeconomic issues.
2.
Training of mid-level analysts of the Ministry of Finance to develop and 
institutionalize capacity within such Ministry to analyze trade and macroeconomic 
issues and to apply and update the
Page  10
econometric models referred to in Part F.1 above.
3.
Studies to: (a) evaluate trade proposals; and (b) open capital markets.
 
Part G:
Ministry of Economy
 
1.
Analysis and improvement of the institutional and legal framework of the 
Borrower's water and sanitation sector and of the pricing system thereof.
2.
Analysis of the regulatory scheme of the Borrower's Telecommunications 
Secretariat for telecommunication pricing.
3.
Improvement of the investigative capacity of the Borrower's Antitrust 
Investigation Commission.
4.
Management studies for the following three agencies of the Borrower: (i) 
Telecommunications Subsecretariat; (ii) Electricity and Gas Superintendency; and (iii) 
Consumer Protection Agency.
Part H:
1.
A study of the Borrower's information policy, leading to recommendations for 
processes and policies to ensure compatible computer systems and to avoid costly 
duplication.
2.
Studies on selected causes of poverty in the Borrower's territory, and of 
efficiency in targeting social sector services for the poor, using for both subjects 
data from the two most recent household surveys made by the Borrower.
3.
Studies to modernize public sector management practices in the mining sector, 
and to evaluate the Borrower's role in, and alternatives for, providing 
satellite-based geographic information to public and private users.
4.
A study to evaluate alternative policy proposals to lift restrictions on private 
pension funds investments.
* * *
The Project is expected to be completed by December 31, 1997.
SCHEDULE 3
Amortization Schedule
Payment of Principal
Date Payment Due 
(expressed in dollars)*
 
      June 15, 1996                       395,000.00
      December 15, 1996                   410,000.00
      June 15, 1997                       425,000.00
      December 15, 1997                   445,000.00
      June 15, 1998                       460,000.00
      December 15, 1998                   480,000.00
      June 15, 1999                       495,000.00
      December 15, 1999                   515,000.00
      June 15, 2000                       535,000.00
      December 15, 2000                   555,000.00
      June 15, 2001                       580,000.00
      December 15, 2001                   600,000.00
      June 15, 2002                       625,000.00
      December 15, 2002                   650,000.00
      June 15, 2003                       675,000.00
      December 15, 2003                   700,000.00
      June 15, 2004                       725,000.00
      December 15, 2004                   755,000.00
      June 15, 2005                       785,000.00
      December 15, 2005                   815,000.00
Page  11
      June 15, 2006                       845,000.00
      December 15, 2006                   875,000.00
      June 15, 2007                       910,000.00
      December 15, 2007                   945,000.00
      June 15, 2008                       985,000.00
      December 15, 2008                 1,015,000.00
_____________________________
*
The figures in this column represent dollar equivalents determined as of the 
respective dates of 
withdrawal. See General Conditions, Sections 3.04 and 4.03.
 
Premiums on Prepayment
Pursuant to Section 3.04 (b) of the General Conditions, the premium payable on 
the principal amount of any maturity of the Loan to be prepaid shall be the percentage 
specified for the applicable
time of prepayment below:
      Time of Prepayment                         Premium
                                     The interest rate (expressed
                                     as a percentage per annum)
                                     applicable to the Loan on
                                     the day of prepayment
                                     multiplied by:
Not more than three years                        0.18
      before maturity
More than three years but                        0.35
      not more than six years
      before maturity
More than six years but                          0.65
      not more than 11 years
      before maturity
More than 11 years but not                       0.88
      more than 15 years
      before maturity
More than 15 years before                        1.00
      maturity
SCHEDULE 4
Procurement and Consultants' Services
Section I.
Procurement of Goods and Works
 
Part A:
International Competitive Bidding
 
1.
Except as provided in Part C hereof, goods shall be procured under contracts 
awarded in accordance with procedures consistent with those set forth in  Sections I 
and II of the "Guidelines for
Procurement under IBRD Loans and IDA Credits" published by the Bank in May 1985 (the 
Guidelines).
2.
To the extent practicable, contracts for goods shall be grouped into bid 
packages estimated to cost the equivalent of $300,000 or more.
Part B:
Preference for Domestic Manufacturers
 
In the procurement of goods in accordance with the procedures described in Part 
A.1 hereof, goods manufactured in Chile may be granted a margin of preference in 
Page  12
accordance with, and subject to, the provisions of paragraphs 2.55 and 2.56 of the 
Guidelines and paragraphs 1 through 4 of Appendix 2 thereto.
Part C:
Other Procurement Procedures
 
1.
Goods estimated to cost the equivalent of $250,000 or less per contract, up to 
an aggregate amount equivalent to $6,100,000, may be procured under contracts awarded 
on the basis of competitive
bidding, advertised locally, in accordance with procedures satisfactory to the Bank.
2.
Goods estimated to cost the equivalent of $25,000 or less per contract, up to an 
aggregate amount equivalent to $500,000, and bibliographic collections for Part E.1 of 
the Project may be procured under contracts awarded on the basis of comparison of 
price quotations obtained from at least three suppliers eligible under the Guidelines, 
in accordance with procedures acceptable to the Bank. 
Part D:
Review by the Bank of Procurement Decisions
 
1.
Review of invitations to bid and of proposed awards and final contracts:
 
(a)
With respect to each contract for goods procured pursuant to the 
provisions of Part A.1 hereof and with respect to the first two contracts procured 
pursuant to the provisions of Part C.1 hereof, the procedures set forth in paragraphs 
2 and 4 of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines shall apply. Where payments for such contract 
are to be made out of the Special Account, such procedures shall be modified to ensure 
that the two conformed copies of the contract required to be furnished to the Bank 
pursuant to said paragraph 2 (d) shall be furnished to the Bank prior to the making of 
the first payment out of the Special Account in respect of such contract.
(b)
With respect to each contract not governed by the preceding paragraph, 
the procedures set forth in paragraphs 3 and 4 of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines shall 
apply.  Where payments for such contract are to be made out of the Special Account, 
said procedures shall be modified to ensure that the two conformed copies of the 
contract together with the other information required to be furnished to the Bank 
pursuant to said paragraph 3 shall be furnished to the Bank as part of the evidence to 
be furnished
pursuant to paragraph 4 of Schedule 6 to this Agreement.
(c)
The provisions of the preceding subparagraph (b) shall not apply to 
contracts on account of which the Bank has authorized withdrawals on the basis of 
statements of expenditure.
2.
The figure of 15% is hereby specified for purposes of paragraph 4 of Appendix 1 
to the Guidelines.
Section II.
Employment of Consultants
 
In order to assist the Borrower in carrying out the Project, the Borrower shall 
employ or cause to be employed consultants whose qualifications, experience and terms 
and conditions of employment shall be satisfactory to the Bank. Such consultants shall 
be selected in accordance with principles and procedures satisfactory to the Bank on 
the basis of the "Guidelines for the Use of Consultants by World Bank Borrowers and by 
the World Bank as Executing Agency" published by the Bank in August 1981.
SCHEDULE 5
Implementation Program
      Actions to be taken by the Borrower        Date (by)
General
1.    (a)   Establish, and                 )
            thereafter maintain, a         )
            Project coordination unit      )
            with powers, responsibili-     )
            ties and staffing satis-       )
Page  13
            factory to the Bank; and       )     At all times
                                           )     during Project
      (b)   employ a Project coordinator   )     implementation
            with qualifications and under  )
            terms of employment satisfac-  )
            tory to the Bank.              )
2.    (a)   Without limitation to the
            provisions of Section 9.07
            of the General Conditions:
            (i)    furnish to the Bank, in
                   respect of all parts of the
                   Project, progress reports
                   on the implementation and
                   impact of the Project in      January 1 and
                   such detail as the Bank       July 1 each
                   shall require; and            year
            (ii)   review with the Bank the
                   progress made in the          December 31, 1993
                   implementation of the         and December 31,
                   Project.                      1995
3.    Furnish to the Bank for its approval
      the operating plans for all parts of
      the Project proposed to be carried
      out during the following year,
      specifying the extent of compliance
      with the operating plan submitted
      the prior year and implemented during      December 31 each
      that year.                                 year
      Actions to be taken by the Borrower        Date (by)
Part A of the Project
4.    (a)   Employ a subproject coor-            At all times
            dinator with qualifications,         during imple-
            powers and responsibilities          mentation of
            satisfactory to the Bank;            Part A of the
                                                 Project
      (b)   install remote data entry capacity
            satisfactory to the Bank;            December 31, 1993
      (c)   furnish to the Bank the results
            of the studies on IRS performance
            indicators and on tax evasion
            referred to in Part A.6 of the
            Project;                             December 31, 1993
      (d)   reduce the time used by IRS        )
            in updating its data base from     )
            6 weeks to one day;                )
                                               )
      (e)   reduce by 50% the time             ) December 31, 1995
            spent by auditors in IRS admini-   )
            stration as compared with the time )
            utilized for such administration   )
            during 1990; and                   )
      (f)  (i) collect data and measure the      Commencing
          tax evasion detected and there-        July 1, 1992, by
           after collected, as a percentage      January 1 and
           of the total tax collections; and     July 1 of each
Page  14
           (ii) furnish to the Bank such         year
           measurements.
      Actions to be taken by the Borrower        Date (by)
Part B of the Project
5.    (a)   Employ a subproject coor-            At all times
            dinator with qualifications,         during imple-
            powers and responsibilities          mentation of
            satisfactory to the Bank;            Part B of the
                                                 Project
      (b)   complete the study referred
            to in Part B.4 of the Project
            and install the computing equip-
            ment and software;                   December 31, 1993
      (c)   decentralize its procedures for
            dissemination of information so
            that at least 50% of all technical
            inquiries are resolved in
            Customs' local offices; and          June 30, 1994
      (d)   (i) collect data, and measure:
            (A) import duties charged as
            a percentage of the value of
            total imports; and (B) export
            subsidies granted as a percent-      Commencing
            age of the value of total            July 1, 1992, by
            export subsidies; and (ii) fur-      July 1 and
            nish to the Bank such measure-       December 1 each
            ments.                               year
Part C of the Project
6.    (a)   Carry out: (i) a modernization
            plan, satisfactory to the Bank
            of the regional offices of
            Treasury; and (ii) the study
            referred to in Part C.3 of
            the Project.                         December 31, 1993
      Actions to be taken by the Borrower        Date (by)
      (b)   reduce the time used by
            Treasury in entering tax data
            in its computer system from
            6 weeks to one week; and             December 31, 1994
      (c)   (i) collect data and measure         Commencing
            the recovery of tax arrears          July 1, 1992, by
            as a percentage of total arrears;    January 1 and
            and (ii) furnish to the Bank         July 1 each year
            such measurements.
Part D of the Project
7.    (a)   Complete the diagnosis
            referred to in Part D.1
            of the Project;                      December 31, 1993
      (b)   improve SSI's performance so
            that the number of errors in
            pension processing is reduced
            by 75% as compared with the
            number of errors recorded for
Page  15
            1990; and                            December 31, 1994
       (c)  (i) collect data and measure:
            (A) tax evasion detected and
            thereafter collected, as a
            percentage of total tax collec-
            tions; and (B) the number of
            errors, unit costs, and elapsed      Commencing
            time in processing pension appli-    July 1, 1992, by
            cations; and (ii) furnish to the     January 1 and
            Bank such measurements.              July 1 each year
      Actions to be taken by the Borrower        Date (by)
Part E of the Project
8.    Through Congress:
      (a)   establish, and thereafter      )
            maintain, a subproject         )
            coordination unit with         )
            powers, responsibilities       )
            and staffing satisfactory      )     At all times
            to the Bank;                   )     during imple-
                                           )     mentation of
      (b)   employ a subproject            )     Part E of the
            coordinator with quali-        )     Project
            fications, power and           )
            responsibilities satis-        )
            factory to the Bank;           )
      (c)   furnish to the Bank a program,
            satisfactory to the Bank, for
            training LOC staff in the
            analysis of economic legis-
            lative issues;                       July 1, 1992
      (d)   fully implement the training
            program referred to in 8 (c)         December 31,
            above; and                           1993
      (e)   (i) collect data, and measure:
            (A) the number of requests for
            information and analysis from
            LOC; and (B) the amount of           Commencing
            staff time required to retrieve      July 1, 1992, by
            information for legislative          July 1 and
            analysis; and (ii) furnish to        January 1 each
            the Bank such measurements.          year
Part F of the Project
9.    (a)   Complete the studies referred
            to in Part F.3 of the Project;       December 31, 1993
      Actions to be taken by the Borrower        Date (by)
      (b)   establish all data-bases for
            purposes of Part F.1 of the
            Project;                             December 31, 1994
      (c)   employ at least three
            economists having each a
            masters degree or the equivalent
            of a masters degree, in
            each of the International
            Studies and Macroeconomic Units
            of the Ministry of Finance.          July 1, 1992
Page  16
Part G of the Project
10.   (a)   Furnish to the Bank for its
            comments, its recommendations
            based on the results of the
            studies included in Part G.4
            of the Project;                      December 31, 1993
      (b)   complete implementation of
            such recommendations of the
            studies referred to in 10 (a)
            above, taking into account
            the comments, if any, made
            by the Bank thereon; and             December 31, 1995
      (c)   (i) collect data of substan-
            tive reorganizations carried         Commencing
            out in the regulatory agencies       July 1, 1993, by
            under its jurisdiction; and          July 1 and
            (ii) furnish to the Bank such        January 1 each
            data.                                year
       Actions to be taken by the Borrower       Date (by)
Part H of the Project
11.   (a)   Furnish to the Bank for its
            comments its recommendations         December 31, 1993
            based on the results of the          and December 31,
            studies included in Parts H.2        1992, respec-
            and H.4 of the Project; and          tively
      (b)   complete implementation
            of such recommendations of           June 30, 1994 and
            the studies referred to              June 30, 1993,
            in 11 (a) above, taking              respectively
            into account the comments,
            if any, made by the Bank
            thereon.
SCHEDULE 6
Special Account
1.
For the purposes of this Schedule:
 
(a)
the term "eligible Categories" means Categories (1), (2) and (3) set 
forth in the table in paragraph 1 of Schedule 1 to this Agreement;
(b)
the term "eligible expenditures" means expenditures in respect of the 
reasonable cost of goods and services required for the Project and to be financed out 
of the proceeds of the Loan allocated from time to time to the eligible Categories in 
accordance with the provisions of Schedule 1 to this Agreement; and
(c)
the term "Authorized Allocation" means an amount equivalent to $750,000 
to be withdrawn from the Loan Account and deposited in the Special Account pursuant to 
paragraph 3 (a) of this Schedule.
2.
Payments out of the Special Account shall be made exclusively for eligible 
expenditures in accordance with the provisions of this Schedule.
3.
After the Bank has received evidence satisfactory to it that the Special Account 
has been duly opened, withdrawals of the Authorized Allocation and subsequent 
withdrawals to replenish the Special Account shall be made as follows:
(a)
For withdrawals of the Authorized Allocation, the Borrower shall furnish 
Page  17
to the Bank a request or requests for a deposit or deposits which do not exceed the 
aggregate amount of the Authorized Allocation. On the basis of such request or 
requests, the Bank shall, on behalf of the Borrower, withdraw from the Loan Account 
and deposit in the Special Account such amount or amounts as the Borrower shall have 
requested.
(b)
(i)
For replenishment of the Special Account, the Borrower shall 
furnish to the Bank 
requests for deposits into the Special 
Account at such intervals as the Bank shall 
specify.
 
(ii)
Prior to or at the time of each such request, the Borrower shall 
furnish to the 
Bank the documents and other evidence required 
pursuant to paragraph 4 of this 
Schedule for the payment or 
payments in respect of which replenishment is 
requested. On 
the basis of each such request, the Bank shall, on behalf of the 
Borrower, withdraw from the Loan Account and deposit into the Special Account such 
amount as the Borrower shall have requested and as shall have been shown 
by said 
documents and other evidence to have been paid out of 
the Special Account for 
eligible expenditures.
 
All such deposits shall be withdrawn by the Bank from the Loan Account under the 
respective eligible Categories, and in the respective equivalent amounts, as shall 
have been justified by said documents and other evidence.
4.
For each payment made by the Borrower out of the Special Account, the Borrower 
shall, at such time as the Bank shall reasonably request, furnish to the Bank such 
documents and other evidence showing that such payment was made exclusively for 
eligible expenditures.
5.
Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 3 of this Schedule, the Bank shall 
not be required to make further deposits into the Special Account:
(a)
if, at any time, the Bank shall have determined that all further 
withdrawals should be made by the Borrower directly from the Loan Account in 
accordance with the provisions of Article V of the General Conditions and paragraph 
(a) of Section 2.02 of this Agreement; or
(b)
once the total unwithdrawn amount of the Loan allocated to the eligible 
Categories, less the amount of any outstanding special commitment entered into by the 
Bank pursuant to Section 5.02 of the General Conditions with respect to the Project, 
shall equal the equivalent of twice the amount of the Authorized Allocation.
Thereafter, withdrawal from the Loan Account of the remaining unwithdrawn amount of 
the Loan allocated to the eligible Categories shall follow such procedures as the Bank 
shall specify by notice to the Borrower. Such further withdrawals shall be made only 
after and to the extent that the Bank shall have been satisfied that all such amounts 
remaining on deposit in the Special Account as of the date of such notice will be 
utilized in making payments for eligible expenditures.
6.
(a)
If the Bank shall have determined at any time that any payment out of the 
Special Account: (i) was made for an expenditure or in an amount not eligible pursuant 
to paragraph 2 of this Schedule; (ii) was not justified by the evidence furnished to 
the Bank, the Borrower shall, promptly upon notice from the Bank: (A) provide such 
additional evidence as the Bank may request; or (B) deposit into the Special Account 
(or, if the Bank shall so request, refund to the Bank) an amount equal to the amount 
of such payment or the portion thereof not so eligible or justified. Unless the Bank 
shall otherwise agree, no further deposit by the Bank into the Special Account shall 
be made until the Borrower has provided such evidence or made such deposit or refund, 
as the case may be.
(b)
If the Bank shall have determined at any time that any amount outstanding 
in the Special Account will not be required to cover further payments for eligible 
expenditures, the Borrower shall, promptly upon notice from the Bank, refund to the 
Bank such outstanding amount.
(c)
The Borrower may, upon notice to the Bank, refund to the Bank all or any 
portion of the funds on deposit in the Special Account.
Page  18
(d)
Refunds to the Bank made pursuant to paragraphs 6 (a), (b) and (c) of 
this Schedule shall be credited to the Loan Account for subsequent withdrawal or for 
cancellation in accordance with the
relevant provisions of this Agreement, including the General Conditions.
