Document of
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Report No: 20987
IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
(IDA-25200; IDA-25201; COFN-03470)
ON A
CREDIT
IN THE AMOUNT OF SDRs 35.0 MILLION (US$ 50.7 MILLION EQUIVALENT)
TO THE
REPUBLIC OF CHAD
FOR THE SECOND TRANSPORT SECTOR PROJECT
December 19, 2000
Transport Group (AFTTR)
Africa Region
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of their
official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
(Exchange Rate Effective August 17, 2000)
Currency Unit = CFA Francs BEAC (FCFA)
FCFA 720 = US$ 1.00
US$ 0.138 = 100 FCFA
FISCAL YEAR
Janauary 1  December 31
ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS
BNF                  Bureau National de Fret
CAER                 Compte Autonome d'Entretien Routier
CISCP                Comite Interminist6riel de Suivi et de Coordination des Projets
FCFA                 CFA Franc
MTPTHU               Ministere des Travaux Publics, des Transports, de I'Habitat et de l'Urbanisme
SAR                  Staff Appraisal Report
SNER                 Societe Nationale d'Entretien Routier
TSAIP                Transport Sector Adjustment/investment Project
TSP2                 Second Transport Sector Project
Vice President:    Callisto Madavo
Country Director:   Robert Calderisi
Sector Manager:   Maryvonne Plessis-Fraissard
I                   ~~~~~~~~Task Teamn Leader:   Andreas Schliessler



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Republic of Chad
Second Transport Sector Project
Implementation Completion Report
CONTENTS
Page No.
1. Project Data                                                                       I
2. Principal Performance Ratings                                                      1
3. Assessment of Development Objective and Design, and of Quality at Entry            I
4. Achievement of Objective and Outputs                                               5
5. Major Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcome                                19
6. Sustainability                                                                    21
7. Bank and Borrower Performance                                                     22
8. Lessons Learned                                                                   26
9. Partner Comments                                                                  27
10. Additional Information                                                           27
Annex 1. Key Performance Indicators/Log Frame Matrix                                 29
Annex 2. Project Costs and Financing                                                 30
Annex 3. Economic Costs and Benefits                                                 33
Annex 4. Bank Inputs                                                                 36
Annex 5. Ratings for Achievement of Objectives/Outputs of Components                 39
Annex 6. Ratings of Bank and Borrower Performance                                    40
Annex 7. List of Supporting Documents                                                41
Annex 8. Borrower's Project Completion Report                                        42
Annex 9. Table showing details of training programs                                  52
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the
performance of their official duties. Its contents may not be otherwise disclosed without
World Bank authorization.






Project ID: P000530                                        Project Name: SECOND TRANSPORT SECTOR
PROJECT
Team Leader: Andreas Schliessler                           TL Unit: AFTTR
ICR Type: Core ICR                                         Report Date: December 19, 2000
1. Project Data
Name: SECOND TRANSPORT SECTOR PROJECT                 L/C/TFNumber: IDA-25200;
IDA-25201;
COFN-03470
Country/Department. CHAD                                                  Region: Africa Regional Office
Sector/subsector: TH - Highways
KEY DATES
Original            Revised/Actual
PCD:  02/06/92                                 Effective:  10/19/93           01/19/94
Appraisal.  01/03/93                                   MTR:                       05/06/96
Approval:  06/22/93                                 Closing: 12/31/98             06/30/2000
Borrower/lmplementing Agency: GOVERNMENT OF CHAD/Ministry of Public Works and Transport
Other Partners:
STAFF                Current                                     At Appraisal
Vice President.      Callisto E. Madavo                         Edward V. K. Jaycox
Country Manager:     Robert Calderisi                            Jean-Louis Sarbib
Sector Manager:       Maryvonne Plessis-Fraissard                Peter Watson
Team Leader at ICR:   Andreas Schliessler                       Amadou Cisse
ICR Primary Author:   Robert Fishbein
2. Principal Performance Ratings
(HS=Highly Satisfactory, S=Satisfactory, U=Unsatisfactory, HL=Highly Likely, L=Likely, UN=Unlikely, HUN=Highly
Unlikely, HU=Highly Unsatisfactory, H=High, SU=Substantial, M=Modest, N=Negligible)
Outcome: S
Sustainability. L
Institutional Development Impact: SU
Bank Performance: S
Borrower Performance: S
QAG (if available)        ICR
Quality at Entry:
Project at Risk at Any Time: Yes
3. Assessment of Development Objective and Design, and of Quality at Entry
3.1 Original Objective:
The development objectives of the Second Transport Sector Project (TSP2), as defined in the Staff Appraisal
Report, were five-fold: (a) to help stimulate industrial and agricultural development and regional trade through
consolidated improvements in transport sector efficiency, with a focus on continued reductions in vehicle operating



costs and improvement in the efficiency of the transport market; (b) to continue to improve public investment
efficiency, transparency and budgetary management; (c) to improve internal resource mobilization to meet the
long-term need for routine road maintenance; (d) to promote private sector involvement in road maintenance and
strengthen the road transport industry; and (e) to streamline and continue to improve public administration of the
sector.
The project was conceived as part of IDA's support to the Governments economic stabilization process, which
focused on maintaining sound national investment policies and improving Chad's competitiveness in regional
markets. Because of the country's landlocked position, transportation had been at the core of IDA's strategy for the
previous six years, combined with health and education. The project sought to build on the lessons learned and
expand on fundamental reforms achieved in three previous projects in the sector; these were (i) The Highway
Maintenance Project (approved 1986); (ii) the Road Rehabilitation Project (approved 1988); and (iii) the Transport
Sector Adjustment/Investment Project - TSAIP (approved 1989).
The projects development objectives were clearly stated in the SAR and were fully supportive of the Bank's
Country Assistance Strategy. By building on previous achievements, the project description introduced a useful
element of continuity and knowledge-building. In this regard, it regrouped its activities into three agendas: (a) the
consolidation agenda, to ensure that the positive achievements of TSAIP were maintained; (b) the continuing
agenda of sectoral objectives that were only partially met in TSAIP; and (c) the evolving agenda to address newly
introduced long term issues for the transport sector.
3.2 Revised Objective:
The overall development objectives remained the same throughout the project. However, at the mid-term review,
the project was restructured and reoriented to address concerns about the project's ability to achieve those
objectives. It was observed that the Transport Policy adopted in 1993 was too focused on the reduction of transport
costs through physical improvements to roads, and did not include a broader strategy for the achievement of policy
objectives. Given the particular physical conditions in Chad and technical difficulties encountered during the first
phase of the PST2, there was also a growing awareness that the traditional approach to road maintenance and road
network management needed revision. Finally, fundamental institutional and policy constraints outside the sector
were preventing the attainment of long-term development objectives. The emphasis in the second half of the
project was to concentrate more on core sector management issues, such as (i) developing an appropriate overall
sector strategy, (ii) improving the approach to road network management and maintenance, and (iii) improving the
capacity of key sector institutions.
3.3 Original Components:
The TSP2 had two substantive components:
Physical Component. This component consisted of (i) rehabilitation of roads and bridges, and (ii) routine and
periodic maintenance on the priority network of main and secondary roads. At the beginning of the PST2, the
priority road network was increased from 3,800 km to 4,760 km, with the additional 960 km comprised of
secondary roads with agricultural potential, including cotton feeder roads. The rehabilitation works to be financed
under the PST2 were to be carried out on 300 km of unpaved roads, drawn from the additional 960 km of
secondary priority roads. The maintenance program aimed to keep the entire priority network of 4,760 km in
adequate condition to handle traffic. The concept was that IDA would fund periodic maintenance on targeted road
sections, while routine maintenance would be funded through the CAER (Compte Autonome d'Entretien Routier)
which collected a combination of revenues drawn from (i) fuel taxation, (ii) surcharges on formal transport
activities, (iii) bridge tolls and others.
Institutional Strengthening Component. This component consisted of a broad range of technical assistance,
studies and training. These activities were designed to (i) support the physical works component and (ii) ensure
the implementation of the three agendas (consolidation, continuing and evolving), related to improved sector
- 2 -



management through more efficient and transparent procedures, resource mobilization, privatization and budgetary
management. In all these activities, IDA played a key role, in particular by providing substantial guidance for the
preparation of the new National Transport Strategy and Investment Plan (2000-2009), and by coordinating the
efforts of the numerous donors involved in the transport sector to support the new National Transport Strategy and
Investment Plan. These institutional strengthening activities of the PST2, grouped by agenda, are summarized
below:
(I) Consolidation Agenda
(a) Sector Investment Program. Under PST2, the Government was to pursue a transport sector strategy adopted
earlier under TSAIP which would: (i) allocate sufficient funds to cover the full cost of routine maintenance of the
defined priority road network; (ii) limit road maintenance to the pre-defined priority network and only on
economically-justifiable roads; and (iii) execute all periodic and routine maintenance works through private
contractors.
(b) Resource Mobilization and Allocation Program. The Government would mobilize certain pre-defined annual
levels of resources to ensure adequate routine maintenance on the priority road network. These resources would be
raised through a levy on formal transport activities, a share of petroleum taxes, and tolls on ferries and bridges.
Also, to ensure that these funds are available in a timely manner for their intended purpose, the Government would
create an autonomous Road Maintenance Account (Compte Autonome d'entretien routier - CAER) with funds to
be held in a commercial Bank.
(c) Liberalization and Deregulation Program. This program would seek to consolidate the mission of the Bureau
National de Fret BNF) and improve its operations. The mission of the BNF was defined as: (i) information center
on supply and demand of transport capacity; (ii) monitor the share of freight carried by national and foreign
truckers; (iii) ensure timely, efficient and transparent collection of the levy on formal transport operations covered
by the Lettre de Voiture Obligatoire (L VO)and to transfer those resources to the CAER, and (iv) gather statistics on
freight transport.
(2) Continuing Agenda
(a) Institution-building Program. This program would continue the institution-building activities begun under
previous transport projects through technical assistance, studies and training, with the following aims: (i) increase
the efficiency of Ministry of Public Works and Transport (MTPT) and its Directorates in the areas of planning,
programming and road maintenance works supervision; (ii) restructure the Road Authority (OFNAR) into a
national road maintenance company (SNER - Societe Nationale d'Entretien Routier) operating according to private
management principles; and (iii) complete the restructuring of Air Tchad, through a management contract with an
external airline company.
(b) Road Research Program. A road research program would be developed in collaboration with the National
Soils Laboratory (LNBTP), which received assistance through the French Development Agency (CFD). The
program aimed to optimize road construction standards and define appropriate roadbuilding materials to be used
for the road rehabilitation program, taking into account the lessons learned from previous construction programs.
(c) Increased Role of the Private Sector in Road Maintenance. The Govermment would endeavor to increase
private sector participation in road maintenance by reinstating the contract award prerogatives to the Directorate of
Roads, and by limiting the share of SNER to no more than 50% of road maintenance contracts, thus guaranteeing
that at least half of all road maintenance contracts would go to emerging local private contractors. The program
would provide industry-specific technical assistance and training in areas such as management, accounting and
procurement.
(3) Evolving Agenda
(a) Environment. This activity would build a capacity in MTPT to systematically carry out environmental
- 3 -



assessments and introduce environmental considerations into road designs and environmental clauses into bidding
documents for road works.
(b) Transit Facility and Regional Integration. The project proposed to support the development of a Regional
Integration Program, which aimed to set up customs and insurance-coverage measures and procedures that would:
(i) simplify procedures and transit documents related to transport, customs clearance and trade in conformity with
regional (UDEAC) or internationally (ICC and UNEDIFACT) harmonized rules; (ii) redefine and strengthen civil
and commercial responsibilities of road transit operators and transit companies; (iii) simplify insurance procedures;
(iv) encourage private freight bureaus in Cameroon and Chad; (iv) promote the grouping of individual truckers
(owner-operators) to achieve financial viability; and (v) redefine the role of the Chamber of Commerce to limit
negative interference in transport operations. This program would be supported by the construction of a freight
interchange center in N'Djamena (physical component), to be financed by CFD.
The technical assistance and training activities to be provided under PST2 were focused mainly on short-term
interventions of specialized consultants. They were defined as follows: (i) Project Coordination Unit (PCU): 30
person-months for coordination and sector policy monitoring; (ii) General Directorate for Public Works and
Transport: 23 person-months for procurement, policy formulation and accounting, and 50 person-months for the
support to emerging local private contractors and works supervision consultants; (iii) Directorate of Roads: 85
person-months for long-term and short-term assistance in investment planning, maintenance and works
supervision, technical studies, road research and environmental issues; (iv) BNF: 2 person-months for management
and accounting. Training programs would emphasize the dissemination of private sector management practices,
human resources management and improvement of sector planning skills.
3.4 Revised Components:
The same two major components were maintained throughout the project. However, as noted above, the specific
contents of project components were restructured and reoriented to allow the project to reach, in due time, its
development objectives. These revisions are summarized below:
Physical Component. Following the devaluation of the FCFA currency, additional funds were provided by IDA
through Amendment A to the Development Credit Agreement (March 1995) for the rehabilitation of selected
roads. In addition, it was determined during the mid-term review that due to the higher-than-expected financial
bids received for works contracts and the resulting high commitments under PST2, the Bridge and Culvert
Rehabilitation component would not be financed under this project and that alternative financing would be sought
from the European Union.
Institutional Strengthening Component. The mid-term review mission in November 1995 determined that,
while the physical components were mostly being achieved satisfactorily, persistent and fundamental constraints in
the institutional and policy environment posed serious threats to the attainment of the development objectives and
jeopardized the overall viability of the project. These constraints involved institutions from both within and
outside the transport sector, and consisted essentially of: (i) the insufficient actual and timely availability of
funding for road maintenance; (ii) the lack of clarity concerning the taxation of donor-financed public sector
contracts; (iii) the difficulty in achieving efficient road network management through the current approach to
periodic and routine maintenance; and (iv) shortcomings in the financial and technical management of various
institutions within the sector.
Particularly within the road sector, these problems were highly interrelated, and, if not addressed in a more
integrated fashion, were leading to a downward spiral of sector performance. Moreover, the first two issues were
further complicated by certain practices and policies of the Ministry of Finance, which brought into question the
basic principle underlying the establishment of the CAER.
The institutional strengthening component was therefore reoriented to: (i) address head-on the transport sector
- 4-



policy problems, both within and outside the sector, in particular those problems related to the Ministry of Finance
which were preventing a secure road maintenance funding; (ii) establish the requirements and action plans to
improve financial and technical management of key sector institutions; (iii) develop more appropriate approaches
to road network management; and (iv) carry out a major study to define a coherent national transport strategy and
future vision for the sector for the period 2000-2009. This orientation resulted in the restructuring of project
activities which may be grouped under two major headings:
Institutional Reform and Performance Improvement. This would involve the pursuit of technical and financial
audits, technical assistance and training. It also included the follow-up on studies begun earlier, which focused on
improving the management and the viability of key sector institutions, namely: MTPHT (Directorates of Roads,
Surface Transport, Civil Aviation, and Studies and Planning), BNF, CAER, SNER, Air Tchad and CISCP.
Sector Dialogue, Strategy Development and Coordination. This would involve: (i) continued technical assistance
and follow-up with the Government in meeting its obligations for mobilizing timely and sufficient funds for road
maintenance, and solving the increasing problems with the tax code for donor-financed public investment
contracts; (ii) a comprehensive study to establish a National Transport Strategy; and (iii) lay the groundwork for
future assistance to the sector by the Bank and numerous other donors. These activities coincided with the Bank's
role as a leader in the transport sector dialogue with the Government and coordinator for the donors' support to the
transport sector in Chad.
3.5 Quality at Entry.
The project was a logical outgrowth of previous activities in the sector. It was consistent with the CAS at
the time, and was a key element in the Government's strategy to improve sector management through the
redefinition of public and private sector roles. It recognized the various risks involved with the approach,
some of which materialized, particularly those related to macro-economic policies.
Despite these positive aspects, the quality at entry was rather poor. Although the project was based on a
sectoral policy statement, there was no overall strategic plan that would provide the basis for rational
planning and management. This was corrected following the mid-term review. In addition, the technical
designs for the physical road investment components were inadequate and underestimated the costs. These
designs were based on the traditional technical approach, which, although characterized by lower initial
costs, was ill-adapted to the particularly difficult soil conditions in Chad. During the project, this approach
was rectified, leading however, to higher real costs.
4. Achievement of Objective and Outputs
4.1 Outcome/achievement ofJobjective:
An assessment of progress towards each original development objective is summarized below. Further
details by component are presented in the following section.
(i) Help stimulate economic development and regional trade through improvements in transport
sector efficiency and reduction of vehicle operating costs During the first two years of the project,
significant reductions in vehicle operating costs were achieved on the roads where rehabilitation and
periodic maintenance took place. As an example, the transport time between N'Djamena and Am Timan
was reduced by three hours, while transport time between N'Djamena and Moundou was reduced by one
hour. These improvements were a necessary, but not sufficient condition for more economic development
and regional trade. However, it has to be considered that at the start of the project, the road network was
rapidly deteriorating; and had these activities not been carried out, the roads would have been blocked
during most of the year, preventing even the most minimal development to take place. Many of these
- 5 -



benefits, however, were eroded during the next several years, as the funding levels for road maintenance
declined and the execution of routine maintenance works was often interrupted for long periods (see below).
In addition, the full benefit of road rehabilitation and periodic maintenance works were not felt, because the
improvements focused mostly on isolated road sections instead of ensuring the overall usability of main
transport corridors. While some road sections were much improved, other adjacent sections deteriorated
badly, with the result that overall access to some provincial capitals was still severely hampered.
(ii) Continue to improve public investment efficiency, transparency and budget management The
project contributed to public sector efficiency through the introduction of management and accounting
systems in key institutions such as CAER, BNF and CISCP. Financial and administrative audits during
the course of the entire project highlighted shortcomings of these institutions, and many of the shortcomings
were addressed successfully. Remaining areas where further improvements are needed include the revenue
collection by the BNF and the complete and speedy transfer of the funds collected to the CAER, as well as
adequate financial planning for the CAER, in coordination with the Directorate of Roads. These issues will
be addressed in the context of the new Fonds d'Entretien Routier (FER) which will become functional in
January 2001.
(iii) Improve internal resource mobilization to meet long-term needs for routine road maintenance
The project was instrumental in introducing the concept and structure for independent financing of road
maintenance, through the establishment of the CAER. For the first two years of its existence, the CAER
functioned reasonably well and was able to finance most road maintenance activities. However, beginning
in 1995, the system was increasingly undermined by a series of Government actions outside the immediate
control of the transport sector. These were linked to macroeconomic efforts encouraged by the IMF to
increase revenues to the public Treasury, in the face of mounting public deficits and deteriorating capacity
of the Government to meet its commitments. They involved four actions:
*     Borrowing offunds belonging to the CAER by the Ministry of Finance. The first ominous sign of
external problems occurred when the Ministry of Finance "borrowed" BNF-collected road maintenance
resources. The "borrowed" amount added up to FCFA 600 million. Since this was a clear violation of the
Development Credit Agreement, the Bank exerted significant pressure on the Government in order to
achieve the reimbursement of the funds to the CAER, which was eventually done under threat of
suspension of disbursements for the project.
*     Reintegration of the CAER of Finance into the national budget. The next external problem was
the Ministry of Finance's decision in 1998 (encouraged by the IMF) to reintegrate the CAER into the
national budgetary system. The justification was that road maintenance expenditures were in the public
domain and therefore the collection of funds and certification of expenses should be under the direct control
of the Ministry of Finance. This contradicted a basic principle which had been agreed upon in the
Development Credit Agreement, in the sense that road maintenance would be financed through specific user
fees, levies and other sources, and that the funds would be managed by an autonomous accounting body
independent from the Ministry of Finance. There were three concrete and severe problems which resulted
from this decision: (i) significant time delays in the transfer of funds to the CAER; (ii) withholding of funds
for the CAER by the Ministry of Finance and the detour of those withheld funds for other purposes not
related to road maintenance; (iii) long delays by the CAER to pay invoices of maintenance contractors, and
the consequent loss of credibility of the CAER as a reliable funding source.
*     Application of the Value-added tax (VAT) on transport services and subsequent reduction of the
freight levy for CAER. The government decision to impose VAT on transport services led to a general
-6 -



strike of transporters. As a palliative measure, the Government reduced the freight levy (an important
source of funding for the CAER) by half, further reducing the revenue base for road maintenance.
*      Derogation of tax exemptions on public sector contracts. Added to the above actions was the
decision by the Government to eliminate the tax exemption on all donor-financed projects. Since this
measure was incompatible with the general framework for cooperation of most donors, the effective result
was a complete halt to all new donor-financed contracts, totaling some US$18 million in the transport
sector alone, for a period of about one year. This brought into complete disarray all road maintenance
plans, since roads which were about to be rehabilitated with donor funding now needed unscheduled
maintenance works in order to keep them from deteriorating altogether.
The accumulated result of these events led to a complete paralysis of road maintenance activities in 1998.
At that time, arrears to maintenance contractors reached FCFA 1.0 billion (roughly US$ 1.6 million). This
provoked a refusal to work by contractors and a fast deterioration of the road network. The situation was
finally salvaged in 1999 with specific funding by both the European Union (through STABEX funds) and
IDA (through SAC III). The table and graphic below summarize the annual financial revenues and
expenditures of the CAER. The table does however not show the fact that revenues did not arrive in a
timely fashion, and that the CAER was often unable to pay contractors which then refused to work.
Revenues shown for one year often materialized only during the following year. It is however clear that the
CAER was in deficit virtually from the beginning, and that the accumulating arrears could only be made up
with external subsidies, which reached extraordinary levels in 1999. Moreover, these accumulating arrears
also meant that the Roads Directorate could often not "catch up" with the deferred maintenance needs
which have accumulated since 1997.
TABLE: SUMMARY OF CAER REVENUES AND EXPENDITURES
(in million $)  Item/Year        1994        1995       1996        1997        1998       1999
Revenues      Chadian resources        1,773      2,613       3,039      3,086       2,441      2,694
External subsidies      1,300        500          0         750          0       3,450
Sub-total               3,073      3,113       3,039      3,836       2,441      6,144
Expenditures   physical works          2,377      2,654       2,756      2,809       1,945      2,077
other expenditures       696         459        720        1,143      1,218       1,426
Sub-total               3,073      3,113       3,475      3,951       3,163      3,502
Total                                     0          0        -437        -115       -722       2,642
Cumulative Total                          0          0        -437        -552      -1,273      1,369
Despite the various types of difficulties, the creation of the CAER was overall a positive accomplishment.
It introduced the underlying concept of user charges to finance maintenance. During the first years of
operation, it showed the concept to be sound, as long as there is an institutional and political environment
that permits adequate and timely collection and transfer of funds. The experience has paved the way for
the conception of a second generation road maintenance fund (FER), which has been created by Law in
September 2000 and will be operational in January 2001. The new FER was formulated jointly between
the Government, the Bank and the IMF, within the context of the ongoing sector dialogue and preparation
of the follow-on project (PAProNaT - National Transport Program Support Project).
(iv) Promote private sector involvement in road maintenance and strengthen the transport industry.
This objective has been achieved. Road rehabilitation and maintenance is no longer carried out by force
account and the previous public road agency (OFNAR) was successfully converted to a publicly-owned
- 7 -



contractor (SNER - Societe Nationale d'Entretien Routier), managed under private sector management
principles. More than 50 percent of all road maintenance contracts have been awarded to fully private
contractors established in Chad. The ICR mission was informed that the full privatization of SNER is also
underway and should be completed by the end of 2000. Two local private engineering firms specialized in
supervision of works were also created during the project, and received mentoring assistance from an
international firm. Only one of the two firms is however considered to have an adequate technical capacity.
The project has made some inroads in strengthening the transport profession. Skills improvement has
occurred through the extensive training program carried out during the first half of the project (339 trainees
in the private sector), although there is little follow-up data which would allow to evaluate the impact of
this training.  Bank supervision missions held regular consultations with the representatives of the
transporters' unions, which helped to gain their support for the new Road Maintenance Fund. There is also
a continuing dialog between those unions and the Surface Transport Directorate of MTPTHU. There have
been limited efforts to sensitize transporters on issues such as respecting rain barriers, and the safety
hazards of overloading and mixed (goods and passengers) transport.
(v) Streamline and continue to improve public administration of the sector. The coordination function
of the CISCP in the transport sector has continued to work well. The initial technical assistance project
succeeded in establishing a revised structure and operational procedures for the MTPTHU and in particular
the Roads Directorate. This Directorate, which had little previous experience in road network management
(this was the responsibility of OFNAR, which kept all its personnel and equipment when it was
transformed into a contractor), has struggled to continue the methods and approaches put in place during
the first two years with the aid of technical assistance. Over the last several years, most, if not all
contracts, have been characterized by cost overruns, time extensions and/or serious technical problems. A
diagnostic study commissioned under PST2 has proposed basic reorganization and fundamental
improvements in management of the Roads Directorate, now under consideration by the MTPTHU. Salary
and per diem levels are extremely low and a strict hierarchical system does not reward individual initiative.
On balance, the project has made some headway in improving public sector management, particularly
through the introduction of road network management concepts. Nevertheless, the follow-on project will
need to renew efforts to assimilate these concepts and revitalize basic operational structures.
The following table summarizes the main accomplishments of the project, with respect to each major
development objectives.
Summary of Development Objectives and Main Achievements
Development Objective                                 Main Achievements
(i) Stimulate economic development and regional trade   Significant reduction in VOC and transport time due to road
through improvements in transport sector efficiency  improvements
and reduction of vehicle operating costs.
(ii) Continue to improve public investment efficiency,    Improved management & accounting systems for institutions
transparency and budget management.             involved with road maintenance management (CAER, BNF and
MTPTHU) and overall sector coordination (CICSP).
Adoption of road network management approach.
Adoption of improved technical standards adapted to Chadian
conditions.
(iii) Improve internal resource mobilization to meet  Creation of first generation independent road maintenance fund
long-term needs for routine maintenance.         (CAER); experience paved the way to create second generation
road fund (FER).
- 8 -



(iv) Promote private sector involvement in road   Complete transition from force account to private contracting of
maintenance and strengthen the transport industry.  works and supervision.
Extensive training for private sector in transport industry .
Participation of private sector transport industry on the FER
board of directors.
(v) Streamline and continue to improve public     Comprehensive Transport Sector Strategy and Investment Plan
administration of the sector.                     Improved organization and procedures at MTTP
Environmental Unit and EA procedures created in MTPTHU
Second Generation Road Maintenance Fund
Reform of taxation policies for contracts in the pubic sector
Performance-based road management and maintenance contracts.
In conclusion, the project accomplished major rehabilitation and periodic maintenance works during the
first two years, which is faster than foreseen in the original project schedule. It successfully pursued a
privatization program and led the sector into a new era of revised roles of the public and private sector. In
addition, during the last two years of the project, it was instrumental to conceive a set of institutional
structures, and set in motion a number of operational procedures that would improve public and private
sector performance. These gains were diminished due to a series of macroeconomic government decisions
that undermined the basic concepts of the autonomous road maintenance financing mechanism.
Management systems in the public sector have been improved from their initial low level, but there still
remains much room for improvement. Finally, a fruifful sector dialogue has continued throughout the
project period, leading to a follow-on project which, based on these experiences, includes a renewed
commitment to sector reform  and improved tools for performance improvement. For these reasons, the
ICR concludes that, on balance, the project's outcome is satisfactory.
4.2 Outputs by components:
Physical Component. The physical component involved two major types of works: (i) periodic
maintenance; and (ii) rehabilitation of certain secondary roads which are part of the priority road network
defined for PST2.
Periodic maintenance. Periodic Maintenance works were carried out on a total of 1,140 km, which
corresponds to about 24 percent of the overall priority road network. There were three contracts.
Original
Contract      Final Cost     IDA Share       Cost/km
Name             Km   Complet. Date    Amount   (million FCFA) (million FCFA) (million FCFA)
(million
FCFA)
Contract 1:                586      mid-1996        1,809          2,250          2,138           3.84
Bokoro-Mongo-Ati
Contract 2:                296      end 1996        1,640          2,445          2,323           8.26
Massaguet-Massakory                                          I _I
Contract 3: Mongo -        258      early 1997       821            892            847            3.46
Am-Timan                              I_I_I
All rehabilitation works were completed successfully, although with some start-up difficulties. This was
largely because the two local contractors used (SNER for the first two roads and ETTP for the third road)
had just been created as a result of the privatization of the former OFNAR - Office National des Routes;
they had some difficulties adapting to their new role of a private contractor working under contract. The
-9-



supervision of the works, carried out by an international consultant, was considered satisfactory and there
was a transfer of technical competence for supervision to the local counterparts.
Cost increases for all three projects involved (i) normal price escalations plus (ii) quantity increases of 6.7
percent on Bokoro-Mongo-Ati, 7.5 percent on Massaguet-Massakori and to 8.5 percent on
Mongo-Am-Timan. For Bokoro-Mongo-Ati, additional works were approved for about 300 million FCFA,
or about 17 percent of the original contract amount. For the Massaguet-Massakory road, the relatively
high cost per km was due to the fact that a very substantial reconstruction of certain sections had become
necessary. Also, this contract was used to carry out some corrective works on the N'Djamena-Dourbali
Road, where severe geotechnical problems had occurred just after its rehabilitation, which required an
immediate solution (see below).
Rehabilitation of secondary roads included in the Priority Road Network. These works were carried out
on a total of 353 km, which corresponds to about 37 percent of the 960 km of secondary roads which had
been added to the priority network at the beginning of PST2:
Original
Contract     Final Cost    IDA Share     Costlkm
Road          Km    Complet. Date    Amount   (million FCFA) (million FCFA) (million FCFA)
(million FCFA)
N'Djamena - Dourbali   103     12/95         3,892        4,149         4,052         40.3
Bokoro - Ngama       75        12/95        2,460         2,727         2,361         36.4
Bitkine - Melfi      118       5/97         3,896         4,172         3,972         35.4
Eref- Mangalme       57        12/96         1,621        1,653         1,559         29.0
Cost increases resulted from the contractual price revisions, as well as a bonus for early completion to the
contractor on the Bokoro-Ngama road.
Serious geotechnical and construction quality problems occurred on the N'Djamena-Dourbali road, and the
contractor was obliged to carry out major reconstruction works during the one-year guarantee period, in
conformity with contract requirements. However, geotechnical problems persisted beyond the guarantee
period, and additional corrective works were financed through unused funds in the periodic maintenance
contract for Massaguet-Massakory.
On the Bitikine-Melfi road, the design standards were lowered by the Roads Directorate on the first 40 km
in order to reduce costs, without IDA approval, resulting in an unsafe and maintenance-intensive road
profile. With IDA insistence and technical support, these technical deficits were eventually corrected and
the road completed satisfactorily.
Institutional Strengthening Component. Project achievements and outputs for this component are
described below with respect to the objectives stated at the beginning of the project, and grouped into two
major types of activities: (i) institutional reforn and sector performance improvement; and (ii) sector
dialogue, strategy and coordination.
(i) Institutional reform and sector performance improvements.
Assure road maintenance funding through the creation of the Autonomous Road Maintenance Account
(CAER). The CAER was created in 1994, in fulfillment of one of the conditions for Credit effectiveness.
Its creation was a major break with past practice and represented a promising institutional framework for
sustainable road maintenance funding. Its revenue sources were defined as: (i) a portion of the tax levied
- 10-



on fuel; (ii) road user charges, such as bridge and ferry tolls, and a surcharge on formal transport
operations; and (iii) contributions from the national budget. The Development Credit Agreement specified
the total amount to be mobilized for each year of the PST2, combined from all sources. The management
of the CAER was set up to be independent from the normal budgetary procedures used by the Ministry of
Finance. As noted in section 3 of this ICR (Assessment of Development Objectives), this objective was
only partially achieved due to the steady demise of the CAER after 1996, brought on by several
government decisions that compromised the independence and credibility of the CAER. When it became
clear that the CAER in its original form was doomed, the project, with substantial technical support by
Bank staff, helped to conceive the new second-generation Road Maintenance Fund (FER - Fonds
d'Entretien Routier) which has been adopted by law in September 2000 and will be fully functional in
January 2001. The features of the new FER show several improvements over the old CAER, especially: (i)
the management of the FER is done by a Board of Directors, the majority of which are representatives of
private-sector road users; (ii) the president of the Board of Directors will be one of the private-sector
representatives; (iii) to ensure liquidity of the FER, a minimum threshold of cash was defined, and if cash
reserves fall under that amount, the FER may not enter any new financial obligations; (iv) the revenue
collection mechanism was set up in such a way that the Ministry of Finance cannot access FER funds; and
(v) FER funds are held in an account at a private Bank. Because of the direct relationship between the
FER and the heavy involvement of some external donors in Chad's road sector, the representatives of the
main donors will participate as observers in the meetings of the FER Board of Directors.
Consolidate the mission and improve operations of the Bureau National de Fret (BNF). As envisioned in
the original project concept, institutional strengthening measures for the BNF were carried out, especially
the installation of an improved accounting system and an improved information system. Similar to the
CAER, the BNF's first two years as collection agency for road user fees worked rather well, and at times
the amounts collected by BNF exceeded the initial goals. However, once the CAER was increasingly
brought under control of the Ministry of Finance, audits revealed that parts of the funds collected by the
BNF and normally destined for the CAER were diverted to the national treasury, contributing to the deficits
of the CAER described earlier in this document. Financial audits, and a diagnostic study of the BNF
carried out during the preparation of the Transport Sector Strategy recommend management improvements
that would enhance efficiency and transparency.
Restructure the Road Authority (OFNAR) into the private National Road Maintenance Company (SNER).
This activity was fully accomplished. The OFNAR was converted into a construction contractor (SNER)
with minimal social disruptions. Although SNER is still fully Government-owned, its management style is
fully compatible with private-sector management principles. The company has been able to show a profit
and be competitive in international bids for road maintenance works in Chad. The final step in this
process, the full privatization of ownership, is now underway and should be completed by the end of 2000.
Promote the private sector. In conformance with the Development Credit Agreement, the volume of road
maintenance contracts allocated to the SNER was limited to 50 percent, with the remainder going to fully
private contractors established in Chad. Two new local companies specialized in the supervision of road
maintenance works were formed. Both companies received substantial support through a mentoring
program with an international design and construction supervision firm, with financing through the project.
These firms obtained contracts for supervision of routine maintenance work, for the period 1998 - 2000.
Complete the Restructuring ofAir Tchad. Technical assistance was provided to establish and implement a
privatization plan for Air Tchad, which is the National Flag Carrier of Chad and the owner of the
corresponding traffic rights. The company stopped operating airplanes around 1994, but continued to
operate flights on an irregular basis through various types of charter arrangements. Early in the project,
- 11 -



hopes for a successful privatization of Air Tchad were spurred by initial agreements with operators for the
highly profitable route between N'Djamena and Jeddah (for the pilgrimage to Mecca and airfreight). These
hopes, however, were dashed with (i) the rupture of these contracts and (ii) the failure of company's
management to pursue recommended measures to reform its overall and financial management practices.
By June 1995, the deteriorating financial situation became alarming, and the non-transparent way of
operations continued. One year later, at the mid-term review, the company had not yet taken any of the
recommended actions to correct mismanagement and was on the verge of bankruptcy. It became clear that
there was no true political will to privatize Air Tchad. By October 1997 there were still only very few
changes in management, other than a change in the Administrator. At that time, it was felt that little could
be done through the PST2 project. The Air Tchad privatization issue was then transferred to the overall
Privatization Component of the Structural Adjustment Program. In 1999, Air Tchad was formally
liquidated. During 1999 and until the closing date of the PST2, the project financed technical support to
the Government with the aim of identifying suitable private Air Transport Operators to take over Chad's
traffic rights through a concession agreement, both for regular domestic air services and regional routes in
Central and West Africa. This process is ongoing as of December 2000.
Develop a Road Research program through the National Public Works Soils Laboratory (LBNTP).
Initial efforts to establish a research program centered uniquely around the identification of appropriate
materials in proximity to the roads proposed for rehabilitation. The program yielded very little information,
as the research limited itself to areas within a very short distance to the roads. It did not at all address the
subject of improved technical designs that would respond to the particular geotechnical issues facing the
country. The Bank supervision missions encouraged the LBNTP management to develop a broader
technical capability that would respond to these needs, with a view toward eventually privatizing its
operations. This never materialized. Following the mid-term evaluation, this activity was dropped
completely from the list of PST2 activities. Today, the Laboratory continues to operate through a
management concession with a private company, and carries out geotechnical work for private road
contractors, design engineers and supervision consultants.
Introduce environmental assessment procedures. During the initial project period an Environmental Unit
was established within the Roads Directorate. Through the technical assistance contract (see below),
training was carried out on basic procedures of environmental assessments for road projects. The
environmental unit has two staff members and currently maintains the files of all environmental
assessments carried out during the past years in the transport sector. Based on donor requirements, all road
projects undergo environmental assessments of varying degrees of detail. During the preparation of the
follow-on project PAProNaT, a programmatic environmental assessment was carried out, which contains
standard formats and checklists for environmental impact assessments (EIAs) and Environmental
Management Plans (EMPs) to be carried out for all future projects in the sector. The Environmental Unit
of the Roads Directorate will play an important role in this area, and the follow-on project PAProNaT
provides for further institutional strengthening and on-the-job training for the application of these tools in
the future.
Transit facility and regional integration. With Bank support and assistance, agreements were reached with
neighboring countries in Libreville in 1994 to harmonize fiscal and customs regulations in Central African
countries. This included, among other issues, the introduction of the value-added tax (TVA) on transport
services. Bilateral transport issues, related to transit through neighboring Cameroon, were dealt primarily
through European Union assistance, and have shown little practical results. The Freight Transfer Center
envisioned in the PST2 was completed in March 2000 with AFD financing, with the MTPTHU as
delegated construction manager on behalf of the City of N'Djamena. The building will serve as a center for
arranging and arbitrating local and international transport services, and will be managed by the association
- 12 -



of transporters. By July 2000, the Freight Transfer Center was however not yet functional, due to delays in
electricity and water connections.
Technical assistance and sector support. These activities can be divided into three categories: (i) initial
sector support contract; (ii) short and long term engineering assistance to support the physical component;
and (iii) short term support to sector coordination and other as-needed requirements.
*      Initial sector support contract. The centerpiece of the program to transform and improve sector
management was a technical assistance contract with an international consulting firm. It was carried out
during the first half of the program, and was intended to assist the Government to manage and plan the
overall sector program and lay the institutional foundation for efficient sector management in the future.
The program involved one long term project manager/advisor to the Coordinator, accompanied by other
advisors who provided short- and medium-term support. These included: (i) Advisor to the Director
General of Transport; (ii) Head of the Legal and Contracts Unit; (iii) Deputy to the Director of
Roads/Planning Expert; (iv) Road Maintenance Advisor; (v) Two Heads of Regional Services; and (vi)
additional short-term advisors. The major outputs of the contract were:
*   The introduction and publication of various laws and texts that provided the legal and
institutional framework for the management and liberalization of the sector. The texts aimed
to clarify the functions and organizational structures of the various public services, vis-a-vis
the private sector.
* The introduction of organizational methods and management tools for the various technical
services. These included:
1. a data collection framework for producing an annual statistical bulletin by the DEP;
2. a transport sector data base for the DTS/BNF, including a basis for determining
annual performance indicators for the sector, issuing the vehicle registrations and
producing monthly statistical bulletins;
3. technical guides and procedures manuals for the regional delegations of the DTS;
4. a proposed institutional framework for collaboration and regular consultation with the
transport sector stakeholders;
5. a study and proposal on the organization and management of the BNF;
6. draft bilateral agreements with Cameroon for improved transit conditions;
7. a proposed program for the promotion of small and medium enterprises (PME);
8. a proposed program for reorganization and legal texts of the civil aviation sector;
9. procedural guides for competitive bidding and contract supervision; and
10. an organizational framework and procedures for the environmental management of
transport sector projects by the MTPTHU.
At the mid-term review, these contract services had been completed. Later during the project, additional
services were recruited under the contract to provide technical assistance to the Roads Directorate in
N'Djamena and short-term mobile training at the regional Delegations of the MTPTHU.
*      Short and long-term engineering support to the physical component. This consisted of contracts
with international firms for the design and supervision of the periodic maintenance and rehabilitation works
financed under the project, as well as supervision for routine maintenance contracts. In general, these
services were carried out successfully and ensured that the physical component was implemented correctly
- 13-



and on time. One of the contracts also contained a significant mentoring component, through which it
provided on-the-job training to two newly formed local engineering firms.
*     Short term assistance to sector coordination and as-needed requirements. This involved regular
financial and administrative audits during the course of the entire project, and a specific financial and
technical audit which was part of the mid-term evaluation. It also included a contract to provide regular
short-term support to the CISCP, following the completion of the initial sector support contract. Various
other short term services were recruited to address specific problems and issues, and within the context of
preparing the follow-on project PAProNaT. These included:
I . formulation of a National Transport Strategy and Investment Plan (see sector dialogue below);
2. technical strategies for the least-cost design of paved roads in Chad;
3. validation of the road condition data base, in preparation for the National Transport Strategy
definition;
4. technical assistance for the liquidation of Air Tchad;
5. specific technical designs and preparation of bidding documents for the strengthening of
existing paved roads in Chad;
6. drafting of the law creating the Road Maintenance Fund, incl. by-laws;
7. technical design and preparation of bidding documents for upgrading and paving of the
Ngoura-Bokoro road;
8. diagnostic study of the Roads Directorate, including proposals for reorganization;
9. drafting of a Guide for Bidders on the taxation of public contracts, including donor-financed
contracts.
Training. This component was carried out through two major sub-activities:
*     Overall support to human resource management, and training of sector personnel (period
1994-1997). Parallel to the initial technical assistance contract for sector support (during the first two
years of the project), the PST2 training program was implemented through the framework of a global
contract with an international firm. The goal was to assist the Government to: (i) assess the human
resource requirements in the transport sector vis-a-vis existing capacities in the public and private sectors;
(ii) design and execution of training programs to meet the perceived needs; and (iii) improve the human
resource management capacity of the Ministry of Public Works. The terms of reference for the consultant
called for the local training of 360 persons, and 27 persons through training programs outside Chad.
However, based on the initial diagnostic carried out by the consultant, the program for overseas training
was reduced from 27 to 17 persons, so as to permit to train more people in-country. At the end of 1997,
the program had provided training for 680 participants, of which 663 were in in-country and 17 benefited
from training courses held in other countries. Among those trained in-country, 324 were from the public
sector and 339 were from the private sector. In terms of the human resource management in the Ministry
of Public Works, the results were:
- establishment of a procedures manual for human resource management, currently being used by the
Human Resources Management Unit;
- installation of a data base for human resources management at the Human Resources Management
Unit, which however, is not being used to its full potential, due to insufficient training in its use; and
-development of forms for regular updating of human resources capacity and requirements, which
- 14 -



however, was later deemed too sophisticated, and a simplified version is now under consideration.
Following the completion of these services, the firm was asked to prepare a complementary Training
Program for the period 1999-2000, based on a series of training modules.
*     Complementary Training Program 1999-2000. Based on the draft modules developed in the
previous contract, a complementary training program for the period 1999-2000 was developed, considering
that there were still funds available in the training component of the PST2.  This involved the
implementation of 16 training modules through a framework contract with the Center for Professional
Training / National Training Center for Public Works (ENTP) in N'Djamena. The ENTP acted as a
coordinating agency, mobilizing specialized external trainers mainly from overseas. A total of 123 persons
participated in these training courses: 108 from the ministry; 6 from the private sector; and 9 from the
police and municipal security services.
A table showing details of the training programs is given in the Annex.
(ii) Sector Dialog, Strategy and Coordination. Under this heading, three interrelated activities were
accomplished: (a) completion of a comprehensive Transport Sector Strategy and Investment Plan for the
period 2000-2009; (b) continued sector dialog within the context of the country's broader economic policy
environment; and (c) laying the foundation for future assistance to the sector by the Bank and other donors.
Comprehensive Transport Sector Strategy and Investment Plan. A comprehensive study to develop a
coherent sector strategy was commissioned following the mid-term evaluation. This included detailed
technical, economic and institutional analyses of all sub-sectors; and the evaluation of road network
composition, road conditions, road network management and maintenance, etc. It also included a series of
regional workshops and village-level consultations, with the objective of soliciting the views of the
population and engage public participation in the process. As a result of the analyses and regional
workshops, the Government has prepared a National Transport Policy Letter, a Ten-Year National
Strategy for the Transport Sector and Investment Plans for the periods 2000-2005 and 2005-2009.  For
the road transport system, the strategy includes a revised road network management approach, which
re-classified the road network into functional classes, using a multi-criteria approach. This re-classification
established a framework for assigning management responsibilities for different parts of the network.
Based on the regional workshops, and an assessment of the Chad's capacity for local financing of road
maintenance, the management responsibilities of the national Government were limited to a well defined
core backbone network of all-weather roads (2,600 km) and seasonal roads (3,200 km). Maintenance of
roads outside the core National Road Network will become the responsibility of local Governments and
communities, or of Government Ministries outside the Transport sector which may receive support through
rural development projects or others.
Following the completion of the National Transport Strategy and Investment Plan (jointly called the
National Transport Program), a donors roundtable meeting was convened in N'Djamena in November
1999, during which the Government presented its overall sector policy, strategy and investment program.
The roundtable meeting was hailed as a success, and resulted in numerous donor commitments which,
together with local financing for Road Maintenance, allow to almost fully finance the investments of the
National Transport Program for the period 2000-2005 (close to US$ 450 million equivalent).
Continued sector dialogue. As noted earlier, the deteriorating situation of the CAER and the resultant
catastrophic effects on the condition of the road network were the result of a series of Government actions
starting in 1995. It thus became clear that the macroeconomic policy environment was preventing the
- 15 -



transport sector from functioning efficiently and that a multi-sector dialogue was necessary. To this end,
the Bank engaged both the Government, the IMF and other donors in an intense dialogue to harmonize the
approach to donor-financed projects in general, and to road maintenance financing and management in
particular. This (sometimes contentious) dialogue continued throughout the remainder of the project period
and finally resulted in a positive outcome. The main issues and results obtained are briefly discussed
below:
*      User fee-based financing of road maintenance, and a second-generation road maintenance fund
(FER). The thrust of this effort has been to re-establish a consensus on the principle of user-fee financing
for road maintenance, and to put in place the institutional framework for an independent Road Maintenance
Fund. Consensus has been reached with the Government and the IMF on: (i) the principle of financing road
maintenance through road user fees; (ii) the creation of an independent body (FER) to manage the funds
collected from road users, under the supervision of a management committee in which road user
representatives from the private-sector constitute the majority; and (iii) regular technical and financial
audits on the FER and the activities it finances. Bank staff provided much input into this during project
supervision visits and the preparation of the new PAProNaT project; this included the coordination of the
dialogue with other donors and the IMF. Additionally, the project's technical assistance funds were tapped
to provide expertise to assist the Government to draft the legislation establishing of the FER and
determining its operation.
*     Taxation of donor-financed contracts. At the beginning of the project, the chadian legislation
provided for a full tax exemption for donor-financed contracts. The legislation was changed in late 1997,
making all contracts fully taxable at rates between 21 and 30 percent. Since this was incompatible with the
general conditions of the Bank and most other donors, very serious implementation problems resulted and
basically blocked the signature of new donor-financed contracts for almost two years, until adequate
procedures for the reimbursement of taxes under donor-financed projects were established. The project
provided support through consulting services in order to solve this problem, including a national seminar on
the subject. Further assistance has been provided to draft a revised set of Instructions to Bidders, which
has been accepted by donors and formally adopted by the Government in May 2000.
v     Performance-based Road Maintenance Contracts. Although considerable efficiency gains were
achieved by fully contracting out road maintenance, experience in other countries have shown that further
improvements are possible. and necessary to obtain acceptable results with the scarce resources available.
To this end, the Bank has helped to introduce the concept of performance-based road management and
maintenance contracts, and has assisted the Government to design a pilot program to test that type of
contracts during the upcoming PAProNaT project.
Lay the foundation for future assistance. As the coordinator for donor assistance to the transport sector,
the Bank, jointly with the European Union, mobilized resources to assist the Government in the finalization
of the National Transport Sector Policy Letter, the Ten-Year National Strategy for the Transport Sector
and an Investment Plan for the period 2000-2009. This, plus the various short-term technical assistance
services mentioned earlier, provided key inputs for the elaboration of the follow-on project, PAProNaT.
The European Union was instrumental in organizing and supporting the successful transport sector
roundtable meeting of November 1999.
- 16-



4.3 Net Present Value/Economic rate of return:
An economic assessment was carried out during project preparation for the rehabilitation of secondary
roads. The SAR reported an Economic Rate of Return (ERR) of 13 percent for the component of
secondary road rehabilitation which included three separate individual roads. The rates of return for the
individual roads were 10 percent, 14 percent and 15 percent. There is no documentation in the project files
which allows to determine which rate corresponds to which road. According to the SAR, the justification
of including the particular road with the low 10 percent rate of return was based on: "(a) the economic
judgment that production will increase more if the region is truly opened up to a range of markets; (b)
the fact that the market concerned is the capital city (i.e. the largest market); and (c) experience under
previous projects that induced traffic has been typically substantially higher (up to 50% higher) than
appraisal estimates. "
As part of the ICR preparation, an economic evaluation was carried out for the two subcomponents
(rehabilitation of secondary roads, and periodic maintenance) within the physical works component. For
the periodic maintenance subcomponent, the methodology for this analysis was constrained by the fact that
the initial condition of the roads (before periodic maintenance was carried out) is not known. This would
normally be essential information for the comparison of the "with and without project" scenarios.
Furthermore, the analysis is normally carried out for an evaluation period of fifteen to twenty years, but
most works under the project were carried out between 1994 and 1996. Finally, because most of the
periodic maintenance works are not "lumpy", but are spread out over several years, the typical IRR
calculation based on negative cost streams during an initial short period, and a longer period during which
project benefits occur, could not be made. Nevertheless, an analysis of NPV was made using the Roads
Economic Decision Model (RED) which was developed by the Bank specifically for very-low-volume
roads; this model makes specific assumptions on the operating life span for the periodic maintenance and
the rehabilitation cases. The following table summarizes the results of the economic analysis. More details
on economic costs and benefits of the physical works component are presented in Annex 3.
Table 3: Summary of Results of Ex-Post Economic Analysis
Road           Length (km)      ADT (veh/day)      NPV at 12%            IRR
(in US$ million)       (%)
Maintenance
Program
Bokoro-Ati               355                22               2.44              N/A
Mongo-Abou Deia         122.5               54               4.44              N/A
Abou Deia-Am             135                81               7.69              N/A
Timan
Massaguet-Massakor       68                120               1.05              N/A
y
Total Maintenance                                            15.62
Program
Rehabilitation
Program
Njamena-Dourbali         103               153               4.22             22.1%
Bokoro-N'Gama            75                 30              -1.41              4.8%
Bitikine-Melfi           118                9                -4.02             -5.6%
Eref-Mangalm6            52.2               37               0.24              13.5%
-17 -



Total Rehab.                                                     -0.97              11.0%
Program
Total Physical                                                   14.65              39.8%
Invest.
For the road rehabilitation subcomponent, not all the roads yielded an IRR greater than the typical
threshold 12 percent. Two roads (Bitkine/Melfi and Bokoro/N'Gama), showed lower returns, largely
because of their lower traffic levels. The sensitivity analysis showed that the traffic on these roads would
have to be around 45-49 vehicles per day in order to achieve an IRR equal to 12 percent, while actual
traffic is below these values.
It should be added that these roads are part of the essential backbone road network of the country, and play
a crucial role in providing the country's rural and urban populations with minimal basic access to services
and markets. Because of the particularly difficult soil conditions in Chad, it has been concluded that higher
cost technical solutions are sometimes necessary to ensure this basic access, even where traffic volumes are
not high (see section on "Sustainability"). Therefore, the relatively low economic rates of return on certain
roads are balanced by their social importance.
4.4 Financial rate of return:
N/A
4.5 Institutional development impact:
The Institutional Development (ID) impact is defined as the extent to which a project has improved an
agency's or a country's ability to make effective use of its human and financial resources. During the first
half of the project, the institution-strengthening activities yielded moderate results. However, through
continued sector dialogue, several mechanisms have been put in place, in particular, a Comprehensive Road
Sector Strategy and Investment Plan, the adoption of a network management approach to the road sector,
the Second Generation Road Fund and the Performance-based road management contracts, all of which
promise to have significant long term impacts for sustainable finance and management of the road network.
For these reasons, the ID impact is considered to be significant.
Human resources. The skill and knowledge levels in the sector have been raised through the large number
of training sessions in which hundreds of trainees participated, both from the public and private sector. It
is, however, difficult to gauge the impact of this training on the actual performance in the workplace. For
example, there are still serious concerns about low productivity within the Directorate of Roads, as
expressed even by the Director of Roads himself. The impact of training programs is also limited when
trainees return to an essentially dysfunctional or inefficient work environment, in part caused by very low
salaries, which is generally true throughout the public sector in Chad, except in the case of certain staff
working under temporary contracts related to donor-financed projects. The recent organizational study of
the Directorate of Roads highlights these and other difficulties, which are being seriously considered by the
Minister himself, who has taken an active interest in this problem.
A repeated comment with respect to training has been that there needs to be more intensive on-the-job
training to achieve functional tasks, and that this training should be designed in cooperation with service
directors. In some cases however, this is further constrained by service directors and sub-directors, who
themselves need assistance in basic planning, programming and management. It should be taken as a
positive sign that the Director of Surface Transport has expressed a desire for on-the-job assistance in the
- 18-



management of the DTS. The management of human resources at the MTPTHU has been improved during
the project, due to the creation of the Human Resource Management Unit and training of its personnel, and
the introduction of a procedures manual still in use.
It should be noted that at the beginning of the project, the Ministry of Public Works and the Roads
Directorate had very limited experience in managing a road network. This was previously carried out by
the OFNAR - Office National des Routes, who, when transformed into SNER, kept most of its experienced
personnel and field resources. Thus, the Roads Directorate essentially started from scratch with very little
human resource capacity. Because of this state of affairs, the technical assistance team which was put in
place under the project included not only advisory positions, but also direct line positions. During the first
two years of the project the technical assistance team was instrumental in getting the MTPTHU's
Directorate General and the Roads Directorate up and running within a revised set of attributions. At the
mid-term review, this TA team was abruptly terminated, and it is the general feeling in the Ministry that the
absence of a transition period left the Ministry and Directorate at a serious handicap.  Over time, the
organization has managed to function, but as the above-mentioned study shows, many of the basic
operational functions within the MTPTHU need to be refocused and revitalized.
Financial resource management. The project has introduced functional financial management systems to
the CISCP, the CAER and the BNF. These continue to provide adequate accounting for funds provided by
donors and through the CAER. However, it is clear that there is still room for improvement. For example,
the lack of regular communication between the CAER and the DR aggravated the unchecked accumulation
of arrears at the CAER; if such communication occurred, the CAER could have warned the DR to reduce
or stop work orders when it was clear that funds were not forthcoming. Financial audits of the BNF have
recommended management improvements, not all of which have been instituted.
Sector and macroeconomic policy. At the policy level, the project has undertaken a constant and intense
sector dialogue on how to most effectively utilize scarce resources provided by donors and the Government
for transport infrastructure, and how to sustainably finance the maintenance of the road network. The
Transport Policy Letter, Sector Strategy and Investment Program, which were presented at the beginning of
the PST2, all reflected sound principles for the management of public funds and the financing of road
maintenance. During the course of the project, the Govemment deviated from these principles and
profound disagreements surfaced, including between the IDA and the IMF (see section below on Major
Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcome). However, the fact that this dialogue has continued and a
consensus between all parties was finally re-established, indicates that, over the long term, this investment
in time and effort will result in more efficient use of the nation's scarce financial resources.
5. Major Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcome
5. 1 Factors outside the control of government or implementing agency:
CFAF devaluation. The impact of the devaluation of the CFAF in January 1994 led to a general price
increase of between 30 and 60 percent for expenses in local.currency. At the same time however, the valne
of foreign currency doubled, such that, on balance, the devaluation had little adverse, and even a slightly
positive, effect on the implementation of the project. Nevertheless, the Development Credit Agreement was
augmented in March 1995 by DTS 8.8 million, as part of a Bank program to assist CFAF zone countries
cope with the general effects of the devaluation.
Conflicting signals from the Bank and IMF. In 1995, mounting public deficits led to a deteriorating
capacity of the Government to meet its commitments. The intervention of the macroeconomic staff of the
- 19 -



Bank as well as the IMF with the objective to redress this situation resulted in a number of decisions on
macroeconomic issues (described earlier), which undermined some of the basic principles of the
Development Credit Agreement and therefore caused confusion in the country as to the coherence of the
policy of the World Bank Group.
5.2 Factors generally subject to government control:
Between 1995 and 1997, the Government took various actions, which, in their cumulative effect,
undermined the project's original concept and prevented the full attainment of its objectives. These actions
were:
*   the "borrowing" of CAER resources by the Ministry of Finance (1995), causing the first problems of
cash-flow and payment delays to contractors, and a certain loss of credibility of the CAER;
*  the obligation for CAER resources to pass through the treasury (1997), combined with an increasing
retention of those resources which were used to pay for budget expenditures not related to road
maintenance;
*  the application of the sales tax on transport services and the parallel reduction in half of the freight levy
due to CAER
*  the elimination of the tax exemption for donor-financed contracts.
Beginning with the mid-term evaluation, IDA supervision missions repeatedly raised these issues, but there
was little progress, in large part because the Government was receiving contradictory signals (i) from the
Banks transport sector staff on one hand, and (ii) the macroeconomic staff of the Bank and the IMF on the
other.
5.3 Factors generally subject to implementing agency control:
Throughout the difficult period when the sector suffered under external policy shocks, the Coordinating
Unit (CISCP) played a key role in maintaining the dialogue between the Bank, the IMF, other donors and
various Government ministries. CISCP insured through its accounting department appropriate accounting
mechanisms and financial reporting. A very positive factor for project management was the continuity of
the CISCP staff; this is in contrast to the MTPTHU in general, which underwent several upheavals in
personnel, which hampered continuity in the management of certain project components.
5.4 Costs andfinancing:
The Development Credit Agreement No. 2520 was signed on July 21, 1993 and totaled SDR 26.000,000.
It was supplemented through an amendment (Amendment A to the Development Credit Agreement, Credit
No. 2520-1 CD of SDR 8,800,000 on March 7, 1995). Amendment A was approved as part of a general
measure to assist CFAF countries cope with the January 1995 devaluation. It provided additional
financing for the rehabilitation of three principal roads, as well as about 300 kilometers of additional
priority secondary roads.
Following the mid-term evaluation, funds originally earmarked for the bridges sub-component was
reallocated to cover: (i) additional rehabilitation; and (ii) additional consulting services related to the
preparation of the Transport Strategy and the follow-on project. It was agreed at that time that financing
for the bridges would be provided by the European Union. However the EU later withdrew from this
agreement. During the Roundtable meeting on Transport in November 1999, the French aid agency (AFD)
has pledged funding for some essential bridges on the road axis between N'Djamena and Abeche.
- 20 -



The actual unit cost (per km) for the rehabilitation of unpaved roads was twice the appraisal estimates.
This was because the estimated standards in the appraisal report were significantly below the actual
requirements of the selected roads.
6. Sustainability
6.1 Rationalefor sustainability rating:
The sustainability of the project is rated as "likely", for the following reasons:
Government commitment and policy framework.
Road Maintenance Financing: During the preparation of the follow-on project PAProNaT, the Government
renewed its commitment to establishing an autonomous funding mechanism for road maintenance, through
a Second-generation Road Maintenance Fund, whose management will be overseen by a committee in
which private sector stakeholders are the majority. The concrete proof for this commitment was the formal
and unanimous adoption by Parliament of the law establishing the FER in September 2000. This law
however has since been complemented through appropriate decrees detailing the levels and sources of the
funding, and the institutional relationship with the BNF and the Roads Directorate of MTPTHU.
Consensus has also been reached with the IMF on the basic principles of the FER. The actual results of
these endeavors will be seen over the next several years.
Taxation of donor-financed contracts:  Concerning the separate issue of taxation of donor-financed
contracts, the Government, with help from the Bank financed under the PST2, has finally issued
appropriate "Instructions to Bidders" which clearly describe the mechanisms by which the Government will
finance taxes to be paid by consultants, suppliers and contractors.
Procurement procedures: The Government has also adopted a decision that procurement decisions in the
transport sector will continue to be made under the same procedures which have successfully been used
under PST2. These procedures assure relatively speedy decision-making based on recommendations of a
technical committee in which qualified professionals dominate.
Increased role of private sector. As a result of the project, all physical works and supervision have been
transferred from force account to private contractors. With regard to construction, the force account
capability has been transformed by creating a fully privatized construction firm, and converting a
government-owned construction company, managed under private sector principles and able to successfully
compete for contracts. For supervision, a fully private engineering firm has been created. These
fundamental changes have increased the sustainability of the project interventions.
Institutional/management effectiveness. The introduction of performance-based management contracts and
the Second Generation Road Maintenance Fund are important institutional gains that provide a foundation
for sustainability (see below). The institutional weaknesses that persist at the MTPTHU, in particular the
Roads Directorate, will be addressed through further technical assistance and training under the PAProNaT
project. This time, however, TA activities will be targeted more towards achieving better operational
efficiency, and will be accompanied by periodic technical, management and financial audits to closely
monitor performance and increase accountability. These audits will provide a basis upon which to refine
and revise, if necessary, the institutional responsibilities in the road sector.
Technical sustainability. A number of serious technical issues were confronted during the implementation
of the physical works component, especially the difficult geotechnical conditions in Chad and the inefficient
- 21 -



nature of traditional road maintenance planning and management. Regarding the geotechnical issue, a
major step was taken by adopting the principle that certain essential national roads need to be paved from
the start, so as to ensure sustainability, despite the fact that their traffic levels may not generate high rates
of return. The follow-on project PAProNaT includes a rather large pilot component to test the new concept
of performance-based road management and maintenance on 440 km of unpaved roads over a 4-year
period, through one contract. This contract will be the first of its kind in Africa, and if successful, would
result in major gains in efficiencies. It would also simplify road network management systems. It is hoped
that participation in this innovative program will stimulate a more "network management" mentality in the
minds of the Roads Directorate staff and private sector.
In sum, the project has successfully put in place a set of institutional structures that will help the sector to
evolve and improve its performance in the future. There is still much room for improvement in the
functioning of these structures. During its last two years, the project has heavily invested in taking stock of
the situation and addressing these shortcomings. A key element of this process has been continued sector
dialogue with the Government to confront difficult policy issues and achieve an agreement and commitment
on resolving them. Important results include the introduction of performance-based road contracts for road
management and maintenance in Chad. Thus, while difficult times still lie ahead, the follow-on project will
provide a framework for the Government to: (i) show that it is serious about sustainably improving sector
management; and (ii) show its capacity to effectively utilize its technical assistance and refine and adjust its
management systems to achieve continuous improvement in sector performance.
6.2 Transition arrangement to regular operations:
As noted, a great deal of effort during the last two years of the project to lay the groundwork for the
follow-on project, PAProNaT. Within that context, the second generation road maintenance fund, FER,
will replace the CAER at the beginning the year 2001. Credit effectiveness for the PAProNaT is projected
for the end of 2001. The transitional period for continuing road maintenance will begin in October 2000,
which will be financed through an advance of STABEX funds from the European Union. The installation
of the FER will be accompanied by a technical assistance, which will also oversee technical and financial
audits of the FER, as well as the utilization of its funds by the DR.
7. Bank and Borrower Performance
Bank
7.1 Lending:
The identification of the project was a logical follow-up operation on three previous projects in the sector.
It built on the experience of those earlier projects and was conceived in parallel to an ongoing sector
dialogue between the Bank, the Government and others; it therefore reflected participation of the various
stakeholders in the public and private sectors. The project fell squarely within the government's strategy
and priorities for Bank assistance, and still does today.
A pre-evaluation mission was carried out in October 1992. At that time, Government commitment was
confirmed through a Letter of Transport Sector Policy, as well as a number of action plans for each
susector. The appraisal mission was carried out in January 1993, and the Staff Appraisal Report was
published on June 3, 1993. Project preparation leading up to appraisal was carried out over a relatively
short period with a large team of experienced consultants, led by the Bank Task Manager. The SAR
provides a comprehensive treatment of the historical context of the project and overall sector goals. The
technical analyses were based on a good and complete information. As mentioned earlier, the estimated
cost per km for earth road rehabilitation were about half the actual costs, due to an underestimation of the
- 22 -



required technical standards. Due attention was paid to environmental considerations, including the
creation of an institutional capacity to incorporate environmental considerations in sector analyses through
a dedicated unit in the Directorate of Roads.
The principal risk identified in the SAR was: "chronic instability which affects political commitment to
fulfill or sustain policy reforms and agreed financial conditions. "  In response to this, broad
consensus-building was carried out as a mitigation measure during preparation. However, during
implementation, this risk materialized, as evidenced mainly by the various government actions which
contradicted the agreed principles for independent road maintenance financing. Thus, the achiqvement of
early consensus did not ensure consistent political commitment throughout the entire project period.
7.2 Supervision:
Since the beginning of the Bank's involvement in Chad, and also throughout the PST2, the Bank played a
major role as sector advisor and coordinator of donor activities in Chad. During supervision missions,
Bank staff consistently pursued a broad sector dialogue with the Government, the private sector and other
donors. A particular innovation during the last several years was to conduct regular consultations with the
transport profession.
Prior to the mid-term review of the project, the Bank carried out an extensive technical and financial audit,
which provided a sound basis for re-orientating the project for the remaining implementation period. The
audit concluded that (i) the physical objectives were being successfully achieved, (ii) the broad-based
technical assistance activities to the MTPTHU had reached their term and (iii) the training program was
only partially implemented. It also noted the lack of a coherent overall transport sector strategy and
investment program, as well as continued need for further specific assistance to the Roads Directorate,
particularly for managing the road maintenance program. After the re-orientation, the project therefore
focused on developing a coherent national transport strategy and investment plan, completing the training
program and providing targeted technical assistance to the CISCP and the Roads Directorate. Some
additional periodic maintenance works were also carried out in 1998 and 1999, mainly as an emergency
response to the failing CAER.
When it became clear in 1995 that several basic principles and conditions of the Development Credit
Agreement were being eroded, the Bank staff brought this to the attention of the Government and took a
firm position on the need to resolve these issues. These efforts were however complicated by the parallel
intervention of the IMF, which tended to reinforce these contradictions. Given the macroeconomic nature
of the policy reforms, it became difficult for the Bank staff to effectively bring the borrower back into line
regarding the independent funding mechanisms for road maintenance. However, the Bank was not overly
legalistic or rigid in its interpretation of the Development Credit Agreement, which could have resulted in
closure of the project. The persistence of the Bank staff in the dialogue with both the Government, the IMF
and the Bank's macroeconomic staff paid off with a consensus finally reestablished within the context of the
follow-on project PAProNaT.
The Bank was flexible in adjusting the project's original allocation of funds to project components, and in
mobilizing supplementary funds. In 1998, the Bank approved, as an extraordinary measure, the utilization
of SAC funds to temporarily salvage the CAER which had become underfunded due to the macroeconomic
measures taken by the Government. The European Union took similar steps. This was instrumental in
preventing a complete collapse of the road maintenance program and at least a temporary salvation for the
road network, much of which was becoming unusable. During the second half of the project, remaining
project funds for technical assistance were efficiently used to support numerous short interventions to
- 23 -



advance the sector dialogue and prepare the follow-on project.
The Bank staff played a key role in engaging the Government in a sector level dialogue and coordinating
the various donors assisting the sector. This is a role that none of the other donors were willing or able to
play, but was essential in establishing a consensus on the basic policy reforms.
From credit effectiveness to closure of credit (six years), there were five task managers, two of which only
had a rather short and marginal involvement with the project. Supervision was particularly weak during
the period 12/96 - 10/97, during which time three task managers were assigned to the project. The result
was a complete gap in supervision missions. The change of task managers inevitably introduced an element
of instability vis-a-vis the borrower, but, aside from the gap noted above, does not seem to have unduly
prevented the overall continuity in the operation of the project.
7.3 Overall Bank performance:
Overall, the Bank's performance can be considered satisfactory. The main shortcoming was the conflicting
signals given to the borrower by the Bank's transport sector staff in charge of the project, on one side, and
the Banks macroeconomic staff and the IMF on the other. In this sense, the Bank must share the
responsibility for the unsatisfactory performance of the Government (see section below). On the other
hand, high marks are due for untiring and patient sector dialogue and intellectual leadership to improve
sector performance, with Government authorities at the macro and sector levels.
Borrower
7.4 Preparation:
Because the PST 2 was based on the experience of three previous sector projects, the Government was very
much involved in project preparation and pronounced its commitment to the project's approach through a
Transport Sector Policy Letter.
7.5 Government implementation performance:
When judging the Government's implementation performance, a clear distinction must be made between the
practical day-to-day management and implementation of the project, and the creation of an overall enabling
environment for the sector.
The day-to-day management of the project and its implementation was very well taken care of by the
experienced staff of the CISCP, mainly the project coordinator, and the chief accountant who throughout
the project was responsible for the financial management and disbursement. An important and positive role
was also played by the key technical staff of the Roads Directorate, the Directors for Planning and Surface
Transport, and by some professionals who at different times held the post of Director General of
MTPTHU. Over the course of the project, the MTPTHU had eight Ministers, four Directors General and
two Directors of Roads. However, this latter problem was mitigated by the stability of staff in the
Coordination Unit during the entire project period, which enabled a continuity in management and sector
dialogue.
Concerning the maintenance of an enabling environment of the transport sector, the overall Government
performance has been less than optimal. Despite a strong commitment of the sector Ministry MTPTHU to
improved performance, a series of Government decisions and actions on the macroeconomic level fatally
damaged the functioning of the road maintenance financing system, which is a centerpiece of overall
- 24 -



performance in the transport sector. The two most significant actions in this sense were (i) the integration
of the CAER revenues into the general budget managed by the Ministry of Finance, and (ii) the introduction
of full taxation for donor-financed projects without adequate implementation procedures. The latter action
severely hampered the signature of new donor-financed contracts during at least 18 months. Both of these
actions were part of a macroeconomic agenda of the Government which was actively encouraged by the
Bank's macroeconomic staff and the IMF. Here the Bank Group must share some responsibility because of
the conflicting messages from different Bank staff and IMF. However, the responsibility for withholding
funds belonging to the CAER rests squarely with the Government.
7.6 Implementing Agency:
Throughout the PST2, the Coordination Unit (CISCP) provided an important element of continuity and
steady leadership to the sector program. As such, it maintained a high level of credibility with other
government agencies and the donor community, despite the negative macroeconomic environment. The unit
has well-established project management and accounting procedures which have stood the test of time and
its staff is efficient and well-motivated. Its one shortcoming is that it has failed to provide regular formal
progress reports to the Bank. This shortcoming was however compensated for by a close day-to-day
cooperation between the staff of the CISCP and the Bank, which allowed for a steady two-way flow of
up-to-date information of the project and its environment.
The other major de-facto implementing agency has been the MTPTHU, in particular the Roads Directorate
(DR - Direction des Routes). The DR was, and continued to be, is in charge of preparing and managing all
contracts in the road sector, both for physical works (routine and periodic maintenance, rehabilitation and
upgrading) and consultant contracts (works design and supervision); under financing from numerous
donors as well as local sources. As noted earlier in this document, this directorate was built from the
bottom up at the beginning of the project. The staff of the DR has worked hard to come of age, and they
have gained a significant amount of experience over the past six years. However, a very recent diagnostic
study has pointed out a number of problems in technical and financial management, which, if addressed,
would enhance its effectiveness and accountability. A main problem cited has been the lack of in-house
capacity to oversee and verify the quality of work carried out by consultants and contractors in the field.
Another shortcoming has been the lack of separate accounting systems for maintenance activities on one
hand and for rehabilitation/construction on the other. Separate accounting for these areas are a necessary
element for accurately estimating, managing and monitoring the annual budget for the Road Maintenance
Fund. Finally, the DR's internal structure for managing contracts for road maintenance was not been
sufficiently linked to the CAER revenue management and accounting system; this led to very significant
payment arrears to maintenance contractors. In faimess, it should be noted that the DR operates under the
same severe constraints as all public services in Chad: rigid operating rules, extremely low salaries and per
diem rates, poor working conditions and low operating budgets, not to mention the unreliable funding from
the CAER for its maintenance activities during much of the project period.
7. 7 Overall Borrower performance:
On balance, borrower performance can be considered satisfactory. Government decisions and actions
external to the sector had a negative effect on the achievement of project objectives, but these actions were
in part carried out within the context of confusing signals from the Bank and the IMF. The implementing
agency MTPTHU and more specifically the CISCP and the DR, laboring under a severe handicap of funds
shortages and an unstable macroeconomic environment, have managed to keep the sector program alive,
but there clearly remains room for improvements in operational, technical and financial management,
especially in the DR. The follow-on project gives the implementing agency an opportunity to address such
- 25 -



improvements.
8. Lessons Learned
The role of technical assistance and responsibility-taking is changing. Prior to the PST2, many
functional tasks in Chad's Ministry of Public Works and Transport were assumed directly by expatriate
technical assistance (TA) personnel, within the context of force account implementation of works. In order
to reduce the dependence on expatriate TA personnel, the project supported the strengthening of capacities
of local staff, and the technical assistance provided under the project was focused accordingly. After six
years of project implementation, a number of chadian professionals have now acquired important
professional capacities, but it is generally acknowledged that technical assistance will still be required in
the future for specific technical tasks in the sector, and to support specific and large road upgrading
projects. However, the perceived role and responsibility of this Technical Assistance is changing.
It has been recognized quite some time ago that the mere presence of a highly qualified expatriate can
de-motivate local staff to take on true responsibilities, especially if the TA personnel is placed in line
positions. Technical assistance and specialized consulting services should mainly provide methods and
tools to achieve performance results. However, these methods and tools cannot sustainably improve
performance if they are not assimilated and continuously applied by the local staff and managers. Thus,
despite the presence of continuing technical assistance during the first two years of the PST2, there was a
recurring litany of reasons (notably, not enough vehicles, low pay and poor motivation, low per diems for
field trips) why the essential work could not be carried out on time, within budget and at an acceptable
quality. Yet, many of these "reasons" could have been dealt with by the implementing agencies, through
more efficient operational procedures and better use of existing resources, many of which are supplied
through the project or government budgets. After this situation was recognized during the mid-term review,
(i) long-term technical assistance was generally abolished; (ii) technical assistance was limited to very
specific tasks for which local capacity was not available, and (iii) no line position was occupied by an
expatriate.
There is a need for continued close coordination within the Bank and between the Bank and the IMF.
This has become clear to all concemed. In this case, the lack of such coordination led to an undermining of
the Bank's sectoral approach, and dire consequences for the sector. It would seem that country team
meetings and Bank/IMF coordination meetings are the best venue for ensuring this continuing coordination.
This experience also suggests that the macro-economists should not limit their purview to purely
macro-economic considerations, but should also seek to facilitate the implementation of sector-specific
policies.
Maintain independence of road funds. The experience of the Road Fund has emphasized the need for
these funds to be independent and at arms length from the Government. There must be majority
representation of private sector and users, a solid legislation for the establishment and functioning of the
Road Fund and technical audits to supplement financial audits.
Sector dialogue and continuity is an important Bank role. Throughout the project, both the Bank and
the Coordination Unit CISCP played a vital role of maintaining continuity for sector management, within
an unstable macroeconomic policy environment. When the macroeconomic policy environment became
difficult, the Bank could have withdrawn altogether, citing non-compliance with certain credit covenants.
However, the Bank' sector staff (Task Managers) instead pursued an intense and patient dialog with a wide
range of individuals in the Government and NGO's, and this course of action certainly produced better and
more lasting results than a withdrawal would have produced. Other donors clearly look to the Bank for
- 26 -



overall leadership in the transport sector, including for support to policy definition and sector planning.
Although the European Union was formally designated as the coordinator of the transport sector strategy
which was developed during the last phase of the PST2, it did not have the actual technical capacity to fully
play this role, and this responsibility has defacto fallen back to the Bank.
9. Partner Comments
(a) Borrower/implementing agency:
There is a broad consensus of Government officials that the PST2 was, on balance, a success in pointing
the way to more efficient sector management, through its support to privatization, sustainable funding for
road maintenance, developing the overall sector strategy, coordinating donor efforts and pursuing a
continuous sector dialogue. However, it is also admitted that the policy environment outside the sector,
including the mixed signals received from the Bank and the IMF, hindered the full achievement of project
goals. Complements were paid by the current Minister of Plan (former Minister of Public Works) and the
current Minister of Public Works to the Bank's Task Manager during the second half of the project, for his
persistent and patient pursuance of difficult policy issues, and the flexibility shown in the management of
the credit.
The original comments made by the borrower (in French language) are included in the annexes to this ICR.
(b) Cofinanciers:
Agence Franqaise de Developpement and European Union. Both the AFD and EU representatives
expressed satisfaction and appreciation for the Bank's role in dealing with broad sector management issues,
within the context of PST2. They continue to rely on the sector framework which was built under the
PST2 to guide and manage the operations financed with their resources.
(c) Other partners (NGOs/private sector):
The two commercial Transporters' Unions expressed their satisfaction for the fact that mainly due to the
Bank's support they were consistently included in the transport sector policy dialog, and in particular the
discussions leading to the creation of the new second-generation Road Maintenance Fund, in the
management of which they will participate actively.
10. Additional Information
Persons met in Chad during ICR Mission
Ministry of Public Works, Transport, Housing and Urban Planning
Mr. Bichara Ch6rif Daoussa, Minister
Mr. Hassane Saline, Director Roads
Dr. Palkoubou Issakha, Director of Studies and Planning
Mr. Ahmat Nene Tassy, Coordinator CISCP
Mr. Elvam Bamboh, Deputy Coordinator CISCP
Mr. Michel Guimbert, Consultant CISCP, Support to Management of PST2
Mr. Idriss Goukouny, Director of Surface Transport
Mr. Djimbaye Mbaipa, Accountant CISCP
Mr. Jean-Loup Blanchet, Consultant to the Directorate of Roads
Mr. Ngariaguila Gauthier, Head of Human Resources Management Unit
- 27 -



Ministry of Economic Planning and Cooperation
Mr. M. Ahmed Lamine Ali, Minister
European Union
Mr. Guido Libotte, Conseiller A la Delegation de l'Union Europeenne
Mr. Jens-Uwe Schuetz, Technical Advisor
French Development Agency (AFD)
M. Victor Paulin, Technical Advisor
T'ransporters' Unions
Djibangar Madjirebaye, General Secretary UNATRANST
-28 -



Annex 1. Key Performance Indicators/Log Frame Matrix
Outcome I Impact Indicators:
_ ndictor/MAtWx                    Projected in last PSR                 ActualLatest Estimate
Original project did not include quantifiable
outcome/impact indicators. Project has not
been retrofitted (based on agreement with
OCS).
Indicators have therefore not been defined.
Output Indicators:
Indicator/Matrix                   Projected In last PSRI                ActuaULatest Estimate
Physical Works Component:             100% complete.                        100% complete.
- Planned works for road rehabilitation and
periodic maintenance completed.
Institubonal Strengthening Component:
- Force Account execution of physical works 100% complete.                  100% complete.
abandoned in favor of prvate contractors.
- Independent road maintenance financing   Achieved through CAER, however   New second-generation Road Maintenance
mechanism established.                restructuring is required.            Fund (FER) has been created in September
2000 and is expected to be fully operational
in January 2001.
- Private sector capability for road  (i) SNER and 2 other local firms specialized  Full privatization of SNER is well advanced
maintenance works and works supervision  in road maintenance are established and    and to be fully achieved by end 2000.
established.                          working;
(ii) 2 local consulting firms for supervision of
maintenance works are established and
working.
- Public and private sector staff trained.  917 persons received training in-country; 17 PST2 training program completed. More
persons received training overseas.  training to be provided under follow-on
project.
- Management capability of MTPTHU for    Reasonable management capability   Follow-on project will provide continued
revised roles improved.               achieved, especially in preparation and  support to further improve management
supervision of investment projects    capability.
- Sector planning and management      (i) A national 10-year strategy and investment (i) Sector strategy and investment plan
improved.                             plan for the transport sector has been  provide sound basis for future sector
achieved, using a wide participatory  development.
approach.
(ii) Impact monitoring indicators for National (ii) Baseline study for impact monitoring has
Transport Strategy established.       been completed in July 2000.
End of project
- 29 -



Annex 2. Project Costs and Financing
Proiect Cost by Component (in US$ million equivalent)
Appraisal  Revised  I Actual/Latest             % of
Project Cost By Component             Estimate it Estimate 2'1  Estimate    % of    Revised
US$ million            Appraisal]| Estimate
A. Physical Component
I. Investment Costs - Civil Works                    34.4       33.4          33.1     96.2%     99.1%
(a) Rehabilitation                                 23.2       23.7         23.4    100.9%     98.7%
(b) Periodic Maintenance                            8.7        9.7          9.7   111.5%    100.0%
(c) Bridges                                         2.5        0.0          0.0      0.0% l
(d) N'Djamena Interchange Bldg.                     0.0        0.0          0.0
2. Recurrent Costs
(a) Routine Maintenance                             0.0        0.0          0.0
B. Institutional Strenatheninn Comionent
I. Consultants Services for Public Works              6.9        6.3           6.0     86.4%     94.6%/
(a) Studies and Works Supervision                   3.4
(b) Technical Assistance                            1.9
(c) Audits and Project Co-ordination Unit           1.6
2. Consultants Servicesfor Transport & Civil Avia.    0.6        6.9           6.9   1150.0%    100.0%
(a) Studies and Supervision
(b) Technical Assistance                            0.6
3. Training and Scholarship                           2.3         2.0          2.0    87.8%    101.6%
4. Operating Costs (PCU)                              0.7         0.7          0.8    117.1%     118.2%
Base Cost                                            44.9        49.3         48.8    108.7%     99.0%
C. Contin2encies                                                    0.1
1. Physical Contingency                               2.2
2. Price Contingency                                   1.1
D. Refinancing PPF                                       1.5         1.3          1.3    83.9%    100.0%
Total Project Cost                      49.71      50.71        50.1ol 100.7%      q 98.8%|
1/ This includes the Original Appraisal Estimate, Plus Supplemental Credit
2/ Although the total SDR amount of the IDA Credit remained the same, the distribution between categories
was revised.
Note: The change in the Revised total amount of the IDA Credit is due to conversion from SDR to US Dollars.
- 30 -



Project Costs by Procurement Arrangements (Appraisal Estimate)
(US$ million equivalent)
ExpenditureCategory   lICB   | NCB  jOther I N.B.F. I Total
1. Civil Works                  29.9       9.8       0.0     77.1    116.8
(29.0)    (8.7)      0.0      0.0    (37.7)
2. Consulting Services for TA     0.0      0.0      11.5       0.0     11.5
works supervision & studies    0.0      0.0      (7.5)      0.0     (7.5)
3. Training                       0.0      0.0       3.9       0.0      3.9
0.0      0.0      (2.6)     0.0      (2.6)
4. Operating Cost (PCU)           0.0      0.0       1.2       0.0      1.2
0.0      0.0      (0.7)      0.0     (0.7)
5. Reimbursement PPF             0.0       0.0       1.3      0.0       1.3
0.0      0.0      (1.3)     0.0      (1.3)
Total                         29.9      9.8      17.9      77.1    134.7
l   (29.0)     (8.7)    (12.0)j    0.0  Jl (49.7)
Figures in parenthesis are IDA allocation.
Project Costs by Procurement Arrangements (Actual/Latest Estimate)
(US$ million eouivalent)
[   Expenditure Category    |  ICB   | NCB  | Other   N.B.F. | Total
1. Civil Works                  33.2                                   33.2
2. Consulting Services for TA                       12.9               12.9
works supervision & studies
3. Training                                          2.0                2.0
4. Operating Cost (PCU)                              0.8                0.8
5. Reimbursement PPF                                 1.3                1.3
Total                         33.2 l        1    17.0 |        l   50.1]
Note: Figures above represent IDA allocation only
Discrepancies in figure are due to rounding
- 31 -



Proiect Financing by ComDonent (in US$ million equivalent)
Appraisal/Supplem                       Actual/ Latest   % of   % of
Component                    ental Estimate   Revised Estimate        Estimate       Appr. J[Revised
IDA  Govt. CoF.  IDA IGovt.1 CoF. IDA IGovt.1 CoF.  IDA           IDA
A. Physical Component
I. Investment Costs - Civil Works        34.4   7.5   33.6  33.4   7.5  33.6  33.1                 96.20/   99.10,
(a) Rehabilitation                     23.2   2.4   15.9  23.7   2.4  15.9  23.4               100.90/   98.7/i,
(b) Periodic Maintenance                8.7   5.1   12.9   9.7   5.1  12.9   9.7               111.5%   100.0%fs,
(c) Bridges                             2.5   0.0    1.4  0.0   0.0   1.4   0.0                  0.0%     0.0f'[
(d) N'Djamena Interchange Bldg.         0.0   0.0    3.4   0.0   0.0   3.4   0.0
2. Recurrent Costs
(a) Routine Maintenance                 0.0  25.4    3.9   0.0  25.4   3.9   0.0
B. Institutional Strenethenin2 ComDonent                                                 D     D
1. Consultants Servicesfor Public Works   6.9   0.0    2.3   6.3   0.0   2.3   6.0  TA   AT    86.4%    94 6
(a) Studies and Works Supervision       3.4          1.3                1.3        A     A
(b) Technical Assistance                1.9          1.0                I.C
(c) Audits and Project Co-ordination Unit    1.6     0.0                           N     N
2. Consultant Serv. for Trans. & Civil Avia.  0.6   0.0    0.3   6.9   0.0   0.3   6.9  0   0   1150.0%   100.00/,
(a) Studies and Supervision                          0.3                0.3        T      T
(b) Technical Assistance                0.6
3. Training and Scholarship               2.3   0.0    1.0  2.0   0.0   1.0   2.0  A        A      87.80/  101.6/o/
4. Operating Costs (PCU)                  0.7   0.5    0.0   0.7   0.5   0.0   0.8  V       V    117.1j   118.2A
Base Cost                  44.9  33.4   41.1  49.3  33.4  41.1  48.8                108.70/   99.00/
C. Contineencies                             3.3   4.4    6.1   0.1   4.4   6.1          L     L
1. Physical Contingency                   2.2   2.2    3.8          2.2   3.8         A     A
2. Price Contingency                      1.1   2.2    2.3          2.2   2.3         B     B
D. Refinancinz PPF                           1.5   0.0    0.0   1.3   0.0   0.0   1.3   L      L    83.9%1 100.0%
Total Project Cost           | 49.71 37.81  47.21 50.71 37.8  47.2T 50.1   E      E   100.7%]  98.8% j
Revised   |
[             Financiers             j Appraisal Supplemental  Total                   I _Appraisal_+ |Actual %Of_Ap_r.
I  I       I                          u  I SunnlemAp tal  a            R e
Govemment                                   37.2           0.6      37.8           37.2            NA
IDA                                         37.0          12.7      49.7           50.7    50.1|  100.7%||  98.8%/
European Dev. Fund (EDF)                    22.0           0.0      22.0           22.0            NA
French Cooperation Agency (CFD)              4.2           0.0       4.2            4.2            NA
BDEAC                                        15.0          0.0      15.0           15.0            NA
OPEC Fund (Closing Date Feb. 15, 2001)       6.0           0.0      6.01           6.01    3.91   65.0/2    65.0%1
Total Project Cost                  T      121.4          13.3|    134.71         135.11   54.01
Note: The change in amounts is due to exchange rate.
No data was available for the other financiers.
- 32 -



Annex 3: Economic Costs and Benefits
Summary of benefits and costs:
The Roads Economic Decision Model (RED) developed by the World Bank was used to carry out an
ex-post evaluation of economic benefits of the physical works component of the project. The RED model is
designed to compensate for the scarcity of reliable data, of the type which is normally needed for a
full-fledged economic evaluation using the HDM model, as is often the case with roads in the Sub-Saharan
region. However, recent data does exist in Chad on vehicle operating costs, road conditions and vehicle
fleet characteristics; these were established for the project roads as part of the economic evaluation carried
out for the follow-on project (National Transport Plan Support Project - PAPRoNaT). Based on these
values, the RED model was used to compute a series of speed- roughness-VOC relationships by
interpolating polynomial functions of the above characteristics. These functions allowed the estimation of
VOC and roughness in the "without/before project" situation, by entering the known average speed of
vehicles on these roads. A test was carried out to check the reliability of those functions; the results were
found to be similar to those produced by HDM III. For the "with project/current situation", the road
characteristics and travel speeds were taken from the recent network inventory carried out in the context of
the Chad National Transport Plan in 1999. The costs used in the analysis were based on the actual costs of
rehabilitation or periodic maintenance, depending on the specific road analyzed.
Main assumptions:
Periodic Maintenance Program. Periodic maintenance works financed under the project were carried out
on unpaved roads only. Based on the specific characteristics of those road, which are highly vulnerable due
to bad soil conditions and the absence of good surfacing materials such as gravel, the overall evaluation
period was limited to 8 years. This period is composed of an initial four years during which the actual
maintenance works were carried out, and another four-year period after which the condition of the road
would be the same as if no further maintenance is carried out. The traffic growth rate was assumed to be 5
percent per year, in line with average traffic growth in Chad. The RED model requires input for each road
on location, length, road class, traffic level, traffic composition, and road condition, in the with/without
project scenarios. The road condition is defined in terms of passability, duration of interruptions in traffic,
and estimates of average travel speeds of different vehicle types during the dry and rainy season. The speed
estimates are then used, along with the judgment of local and Bank's engineers, to estimate the road
roughness of each road section, again with and without project. It was further estimated that the periodic
maintenance works carried out through the project have improved the IRI from 23.1 to 10.8 on average,
and reduced the number of days during which the roads are blocked from 90 days per year to 60 days per
year.
The outcome of the RED analysis show very positive results for the investment in periodic maintenance.
Outputs show that all costs spent on periodic maintenance on any given in any of the four years was more
than recovered that same year in terms of VOC benefits, except for the road Massaguet/Massakory, which
actually involved significant rehabilitation works.
The table below summarizes the results of the analysis in terms of NPV, both for the base case and a
scenario in which overall benefits are reduced by 25 percent. As an additional cross-check, the theoretical
threshold roughness was calculated which would result in a NPV of zero. It can be safely assumed that on
all project roads the actual roughness before the project was higher than the theoretical threshold, roughness
shown.
- 33 -



Base Case           Sensitivity Analysis   Threshold   Roughness
Road                                       (Benefits x 0.75)    before project (to make
NPV = 0)
Net   Present   Value   Net  Present  Value
(million US$) at 12%   (million US$) at 12%
Discount Rate            Discount  Rate  and
User Benefits *0.75
Bokoro/Ati                      2.44                     1.17                    18.7
Mongo/AbouDeia                  4.44                    3.20                     14.3
AbouDeia/AmTiman                7.69                    5.63                     14.0
Massaguet/Massakor              1.05                    0.07                    20.5
Road Rehabilitation Program. The analysis shows that as a result of the road rehabilitation works, vehicle
operating costs (VOC) were reduced in average by 20 percent, and travel times by 25 percent. In the
analysis of the road rehabilitation program, it has been assumed that after the initial road rehabilitation
works, the roads will continue to receive routine maintenance, and that routine maintenance will continue to
be assured as a consequence of the creation of the new Road Maintenance Fund (FER). However, VOC
benefits during the evaluation period were decreased over time, to account for the risk that VOC may go up
due to insufficient maintenance. It has also been assumed that seven years after the end of the initial
rehabilitation works, some additional periodic maintenance will be carried out in order to eliminate the
structural deterioration which will occur during that time (the analysis showed that if no periodic
maintenance is carried out in the seventh year, VOC benefits will decline rapidly). The estimated cost of
routine maintenance is based on the estimates which were established within the framework of the technical
studies carried out as part of the National Transport Strategy and Investment Plan. Those studies also
provide the basis for further assumptions used in the analysis, regarding the average vehicle speeds and
fleet composition in the with- and without-project scenarios. In addition, it has been assumed that the road
rehabilitation works have reduced the period of road closure (during the rainy season) by 30 days per year.
The table blow summarizes savings to road users generated by the project, both for the Road Rehabilitation
Component and for the Periodic Maintenance Component.
IMPACTS OF ROAD EXPENDITURES ON ROAD USERS
Savings generated by
Periodic                Savings generated by the Rehabilitation Program (in %)
Maintenance
Vehicle     Program
Type        (in %)
N'Djamena/Dourbali   Bokor/NGama     BitkinelMelfi    Eref/Mangalmd
VOC     Time    VOC       Time    VOC      Time    VOC       Time    VOC      Time
Car       -36      -39      -27      -28     -29      -29      -28     -28      -27      -28
Utility   -40      -38      -30      -27     -32      -29      -31      -28     -30      -28
Light Bus   -27    -41      -19      -30     -20      -31      -19     -30      -19      -30
Medium     -26     -39      -18      -29     -19      -30      -18     -29       1 8     -29
B us     _ _ _ _ _ _ _   _ _ _ _ _ _ _   _ _ _ _ _ _ _   _ _ _ _ _ _ _   _ _ _ _ _ _ _   _ _ __3 4_
-34 -



Heavy      -31      0       -23       0       -25      0       -24      0       -23       0
Truck
Artic.     -33      0       -24       0       -26      0       -25       0      -25       0
Truck
The results of the economic evaluation indicate that the net present value (NPV) of the rehabilitation
program, at a 12 percent discount rate, is US$ -0.86 million, with an internal rate of return (IRR) of 11
percent. Not all the roads rehabilitated yielded an IRR greater than the typical threshold of 12 percent. In
the case of two roads (Bitkine-Melfi and Bokoro-N'Gama), even if the VOC have been significantly
reduced, traffic levels are so low (9 and 30 vehicles per day, respectively) that the resulting IRR is below
12 percent. Sensitivity analysis show that, in order to reach an IRR of 12 percent, traffic volumes would
need to be in the order of 49 vehicles per day on the Bokoro-N'Gama road, and 44 in the case of the
Bitkine-Melfi road. Alternatively, there would need to be an annual traffic growth rate of 10.5 percent and
21.7 percent respectively. The following table summarizes the results.
Net Present Value            IRR            IRR if user benefits
Road            (US$ million) at 12%                        are reduced by 25%
Discount Rate
N'Djamena- Dourbali              4.22                 22.1%                 16.7%
Bokoro - N'Gama                  -1.41                 4.8%                  1.0%
Bitkine - Melfi                 -4.02                 -5.5%                 N.A.
Eref- Mangalme                   0.24                 13.5%                 9.2%
Total                           -0.97                 11.0%                 7.0%
- 35 -



Annex 4. Bank Inputs
(a) Missions:
Stage of Project Cycle               No. of Persons and Specialty              Performance Rating
(e.g. 2 Economists, I FMS. etc.)    Implementation      Development
Month/Year    Count        Specialty                        Progress          Objective
Identification/Preparation
03/92                          1   Principal Transport Engineer
09/92                          1   Principal Transport Engineer
10/92                         1   Principal Transport Engineer
I   Highway Engineer
I   Transport Specialist
I   Institution Dev. Spec. (Cons)
I   Road Mtce. Spec. (Cons)
I   Transit Facilitation Spec. (Cons)
I   Transport Economist (Cons)
I   Civil Works Equip. Spec.(Cons)
I   Road Materials Spec. (Cons)
I   Rural Road Economist (Cons)
Appraisal/Negotiation
01/93                          1   Principal Transport
I   Engineer
I   Highway Engineer
I   Department Director
Division Chief
I   Consultants (12):
2   Transport Facilitation Spec.
I   Transport Institution Spec.
2   Road Maintenance Spec.
I   Mechanical Engineer
2   Transport Economist
I   Transport Industry Spec.
I   Environment Specialist
Soils & Road Materials
I   Specialist
Financial Specialist
Engineer, Bridge Specialist
Supervision
07/93 Initial Summary                                                   S                  S
01/94 Update                                                            HS                HS
06/94 Update                                                            HS                HS
11/94                                                                  HS                 HS
06/95 Update                                                            S                 HS
- 36 -



11/95                          1  Sr. Financial Analyst                  U                  U
05/96                          1  Sr. Financial Analyst                  U                  U
I  Sr. Highway Engineer
1  Sr. Procurement Specialist
I  Consultant
12/96                          1  Sr. Financial Analyst                  U                  U
I  Highway Engineer (Cons.)
07/97 Update                                                             U                  U
10/97                          1  Sector Director                        U                  U
I  Highway Engineer (Cons.)
I  Sr. Transport Economist
I  Project Officer
05/98                          1  Sr. Transport Economist                S                  S
I Intern ENPC
I  Project Officer
06/98 Update                                                             S                  S
10/98                          1  Sr. Transport Economist                S                  S
I Intern ENPC
I  Financial Specialist
1  Project Officer
02/99                          1  Sr. Transport Economist                S                  S
I Intern ENPC
I  Financial Specialist
I  Project Officer
06/99 Update                                                             S                  S
08/99                          1  Sr. Transport Economist                S                  S
I  Environment Specialist (Cons.)
I  Civil Engineer
I. Task Team Assistant
01/00                          1  Sr. Transport Economist                S                  S
I Intern ENPC
I  Environment Specialist (Cons.)
2   Rural Transport Specialist
I  Civil Engineer (Cons.)
I  Financial Management Spec.
I  Procurement Specialist
I  Project Officer
- 37 -



04/00                           1  Sr. Transport Economist                  S                  S
I Intern ENPC
I  Environment Specialist (Cons.)
I  Civil Engineer (Cons.)
I  Procurement Specialist
I   Project Officer
ICR
07/00                           1   Transp. Specialist (Cons.)
(b) Staff:
I     Stage of Project Cycie                      Actual/Latest Estimate
No. Staff weeks                US$ (,000)
Identification/Preparation                  19.4                         62.1
Appraisal/Negotiation                       17.1                         54.5
Supervision                                99.6                         460.4
ICR                                           5                          20.0
Total                                                                   597.0
- 38 -



Annex 5. Ratings for Achievement of Objectives/Outputs of Components
(H=High, SU=Substantial, M=Modest, N=Negligible, NA=Not Applicable)
Rating
OMacro policies                           O H  * SU O M  O N  O NA
* Sector Policies                         * H  OSUOM  O N  O NA
I Physical                                * H  OSUOM  O N  O NA
C Financial                               OH OSUOM ON *NA
Z Institutional Development               0 H  0 SU O M  0 N  0 NA
O Environmental                           O H  OSUOM  O N  O NA
Social
L Poverty Reduction                O H  OSUOM  O N  * NA
El Gender                          O H  OSUOM  O N  * NA
L Other (Please specify)           O H  OSUOM  O N  O NA
N Private sector development              0 H  * SU 0 M  0 N  0 NA
X Public sector management                0 H  0 SU 0 M  0 N  0 NA
O Other (Please specify)                  0 H  O SU O M  O N  0 NA
- 39 -



Annex 6. Ratings of Bank and Borrower Performance
(HS=Highly Satisfactory, S=Satisfactory, U=Unsatisfactory, HU=Highly Unsatisfactory)
6.1 Bank performance                                Rating
 Lending                                            OHS *S OU OHU
 Supervision                                        OHS *OS   OU   OHU
E Overall                                            OHS OS OU O HU
6.2 Borrowerperformance                             Rating
 Preparation                                        OHS OS  O  U  O HU
 Government implementation performance              O HS O S  0 U  0 HU
 Implementation agency performance                  O HS 0 S  0 U  0 HU
N Overall                                            OHS OS OU O HU
- 40 -



Annex 7. List of Supporting Documents
Development Credit Agreement 2520 CD, Second Transport Sector Project, July 21, 1993
Development Credit Agreement 2520-01 CD (Amendment), Second Transport Sector Project, March 7,
1995
Republique du Tchad, Table Ronde de Geneve IV, Reunion Sectorielle sur les Transports L'Habitat et
L'Urbanisme, N'Djamena, Novembre, 1999:
-Lettre de Politique Generale dans le Secteur des Transports
-Synthese de la Strategie de Developpement du Secteur des Transports au Tchad
-Diagnostic et Strategie de Developpement du Secteur des Transports au Tchad
-Programme Indicatif des Depenses du Secteur des Transports au Tchad
Republique du Tchad, Ministere des Travaux Publics, des Transports, de l'Habitat et de l'Urbanisme,
Fiches d'Executions et Commmunications pour Rapport d'achevement:
-Cellule de Gestion des Ressources Humaines et Formation
-Direction des Etudes et de la Planification
-Direction des Routes
Republique du Tchad, Ministere des Travaux Publics, des Transports, de l'Habitat et de l'Urbanisme, Audit
Technique et Financier du Second Project Sectoriel des Transports, Volume 2: Sous-secteur Routier,
Sous-secteur des Transports Terrestres et Aeriens, Gestions des Ressources Humaines and Comptabilite et
Finances, Mars 1996.
Republique du Tchad, Rapport d'achevement PST 2(draft), Juillet 2000.
Rapports de mission 1-8 - Appui a la Coordination, PST 2, M. Guimbert, Juilletl998 - Avril 2000.
The World Bank, Staff Appraisal Report No. 11670-CD, Second Transport Sector Project, June 3, 1993
-41 -



ANNEX 8
REPUBLIQUE DU TCHAD
MINISTERE DES TRAVAUX PUBLICS DES TRANSPORTS
DE L'HABITAT ET DE L'URBANISME
DIRECTION GENERALE
PST2
Credits 2520 CD et 2520-1 CD
RAPPORT D'ACHEVEMENT DE L'EMPRUNTEUR
Aout 2000
42



PST2 :Credits 2520 CD et 2520-1 CD
RAPPORT D'ACHEVEMENT DE L'EMPRUNTEUR
SOMMAIRE
I  bilan general ................................................                                                                                          44
2      objectifs et composantes du projet ................................................                                                                 44
2.1   le contexte initial ...............................................                                                                              44
2.2   les objectifs et les moyens ...............................................                                                                      44
2.3       les composantes et les conditions du financement de l'IDA ...............................................                                    44
3    le deroulement chronologique et les evenements majeurs                                          .................................... 45
3.1  la mise en vigueur .............................                                                                                                  45
3.2  la devaluation du franc CFA .............................                                                                                         45
3.3  la revue A mi-parcours .............................                                                                                              45
3.4   la fiscalisation des marches publics .............................                                                                               45
3.5   le report de la date d'achevement du projet .............................                                                                        46
3.6  la crise des transports de 1998 .............................                                                                                     46
4 1'execution physique des composantes                                          ..46
4.1 les travaux routiers .46
4.1.1  1'entretien periodique des routes en terre                                     ..46
4.1.2  la construction des routes A vocation agricole                                       ..47
4.1.3  la construction des ouvrages d'art                                      ..46
4.1.4  la participation A l'entretien courant                                    ..46
4.2 les reformes institutionnelles .46
4.2.1         la mise en place du financement de l1entretien routier                                ................................ 46
4.2.2    la privatisation des travaux routiers                                   ..................................... 47
4.2.3         la restructuration de la Direction des Routes                               .................................... 47
4.2.4    la reforme du secteur des transports                                    ..................................... 47
4.2.5    la privatisation d'Air Tchad                                   ..                               ................................... 47
4.3 les services de consultants .47
4.3.1    les contr6les de travaux                                                                                                                  47
4.3.2         I'assistance technique                                                                                                               47
4.3.3 les etudes ................                                                                                                                    48
4.3.4  les appuis institutionnels ................                                                                                                  48
4.3.5 les audits ................                                                                                                                   48
4.4       la gestion des ressources humaines et la formation   ..........................................                                              48
4.4.1    la premiere phase d'intervention ..........................................                                                                48
4.4.2    la seconde phase d'intervention ..........................................                                                                  48
4.4.3   le bilan global ..........................................                                                                                  48
4.5   les indicateurs de performance ..........................................                                                                        49
5   l'execution financiere du credit ..........................................                                                                            49
6   la gestion du projet par le Gouvernement ..........................................                                                                    49
6.1   le Haut Comite Interministeriel ..........................................                                                                       49
6.2   la Cellule de Coordination ..........................................                                                                            50
6.3       les responsables ministeriels et les cadres dirigeants                                               .......................................... 50
7   la gestion du projet par l'ida                                    ..                                     ........................................ 50
7.1    le suivi par les charges de projet ..........................................                                                                   50
7.2   les non objections ..........................................                                                                                     50
7.3   les decaissements directs ..........................................                                                                             50
7.4  le compte special ..........................................                                                                                       50
8      la coordination avec les autres partenaires financiers                                  ....................................... 50
9   Recommandations ..........................................                            .                                                                 51
9.1    Assistance technique ..........................................                                                                                 51
9.2   Indicateurs de performance ..........................................                                                                            51
9.3   Ressources humaines ..........................................                                                                                    51
9.4   Le compte special ..........................................                                                                                     51
Credit 2520/CD  et 2520-1/CD  PST2 - Rapport d'achevement de l'emprunteur                                                                                  43



I   BILAN GENERAL
Le Second projet sectoriel des transports (PST2), dont une partie a ete financee par le credit de l'IDA, avait dte
concu en 1993 comme un ensemble coherent de reformes institutionnelles et de remise A niveau des
infrastructures.
Les realisations physiques ont bien ete faites et les reformes ont ete mises en place. Cependant pour des raisons
exterieures au secteur des transports, tides A la conjoncture economique, la mise en place d'un systeme stable et
securise de 1'entretien routier n'a ete effective que jusqu'en 1996 et le niveau de service du reseau routier s'est peu
ameliore.
Dans le meme temps la performance des institutions chargees d'administrer le secteur ne s'est pas amdliore de
maniere significative par manque d'une politique soutenue de recrutement, de motivation et de formation du
personnel de l'Etat.
Enfm, la fragilite des financements n'a pas favorise l'mergence de PME locales.
Ce bilan montre qu'un projet sectoriel reste sensible A des contraintes exogenes.
Ce constat a ete fait avant l'achevement du projet et a permis au Gouvemement de proposer A la communaute des
bailleurs de fonds une nouvelle strat6gie de developpement du secteur.
2   OBJECTIFS ET COMPOSANTES DU PROJET
2.1   le contexte initial
Le Second Projet Sectoriel des Transports (PST2), fait suite A une politique suivie d'interventions de la Banque
mondiale consistant A redonner au secteur des transports un r6le de developpement economique. Jusqu'en 1993
I'entretien du reseau routier par la r6gie administrative, la difficulte de trouver un fmancement stable de
1'entretien routier et I'absence de PME locales dans le sous-secteur routier etaient des facteurs qui freinaient le
developpement du secteur.
2.2  les objectifs et les moyens
Les objectifs affiches par le Gouvernement en mai 1993 et acceptes par la communaute des bailleurs de fonds
dtaient de baisser les coAts de transport et de desenclaver l'interieur du pays. Les moyens pour atteindre ces
objectifs etaient de developper un reseau routier prioritaire durable, de mettre en place un financement stable de
l'entretien, de privatiser les taches d'entretien et d'exploitation du reseau. Ils s'appuyaient sur une politique
consistant A liberaliser le secteur des transports et A valoriser la profession de transporteur routier.
2.3   les composantes et les conditions du financement de l'IDA
La Banque a convenu de contribuer A cette politique en apportant son fmancement sur des travaux de remise A
niveau d'une partie du reseau de routes en terre, I'appui institutionnel A la reforme du secteur et la formation.
L'accord de credit correspondant comprenait donc: des travaux de genie civil, des services de consultants, des
actions de formation et la participation aux couts de fonctionnement de la cellule de coordination du projet.
Les conditions acceptees pour la mise en vigueur du credit etaient les suivantes:
*   la creation d'un Compte Autonome de I'Entretien Routier (CAER), hors du budget et de la
gestion du Ministere des Finances,
*   I'alimentation reguliere et programm6e de ce compte,
*   des interventions strictement limitees A un reseau prioritaire de 3 800 km, complete par 900 km
de routes A vocation agricole,
*   Ia liquidation de l'Office National des Routes (OFNAR) et creation d'une Societe Nationale
d'Entretien Routier (SNER) avec gestion de type privee,
*   Ia restructuration de la compagnie nationale Air Tchad.
Credit 25201CD et 2520-1ICD PST2 - Rapport d'ach6vement de 1'emprunteur                              44



3   LE DEROULEMENT CHRONOLOGIQUE ET LES EVENEMENTS MAJEURS
3.1   la mise en vigueur
L'accord de credit correspondant (2520/CD pour un montant de 26 200 000 DTS) a ete signe le 21 juillet 1993 et
son entree en vigueur est intervenue le 9 juin 1994. Ce decalage s'explique par la necessite de prendre avant la
mise en vigueur, tous les textes 1lgislatifs et reglementaires concemant la creation de la SNER et la mise en
place du CAER.
3.2   la devaluation du franc CFA
En janvier 1994, la devaluation du francs CFA a conduit A reevaluer le coat des differents contrats deja engages
dans le projet. Ce travail a ete mene rapidement par le Gouvemement avec l'appui de la Banque mondiale et n'a
pas entraine de retards significatifs dans l'avancement des actions. Cette devaluation a ete appuyee par la mise en
place d'un credit complementaire (2520-1/CD signe le 7 mars 1995) d'un montant de 8 800 000 DTS.
3.3   la revue A mi-parcours
La revue A mi-parcours du projet a eu lieu en avril 1996. Cette revue, A laquelle ont participe les principaux
bailleurs de fonds du secteur, a degage les constats suivants:
* toutes les composantes physiques de travaux routiers sont achevees,
* le programme de construction des ouvrages d'art n'a pas commence,
* les interventions de l'assistance technique en appui institutionnel et en formation sont arrivees A
leur terme,
1 'engagement des credits est realise a 92%,
* il y a un risque de deficit du Compte Autonome de l'Entretien Routier
* il y a une mauvaise connaissance du secteur des transports,
* il n'y a pas de politique A long terme du secteur,
* il y a des incertitudes sur le financement du secteur A moyen terme,
- la Direction des Routes n'a pas d'outils de gestion et son personnel manque d'experience
Devant ces constats il a ete convenu de redistribuer les fonds disponibles sur le credit de la facon suivante
- suppression de la composante construction des ouvrages d'art,
recentrage de l'assistance technique vers l'appui A la maitrise d'ceuvre et A la maitrise d'ouvrage,
- appui A la promotion de l'ingenierie locale,
* relance des actions de formation,
* appui a la preparation d'une strategie des transports par le Gouvemement.
Ces d6cisions se sont traduites par une re allocation des categories de l'accord de credit.
3.4   la fiscalisation des marches publics
En 1996 le Gouvemement en accord avec le FMI a engage une reforme profonde du systeme des recettes
fiscales dont les deux axes principaux etaient l'introduction d'une TCA (devenue ensuite TVA) et l'abandon de
l'exoneration des marches publics finances sur crddits exterieurs. Si les principes de cette politique sont clairs, sa
mise en nuvre a cre des difficultes d'application qui ont eu pour consequence de bloquer toutes les nouvelles
actions du projet jusqu'en juillet 1998. Ceci a en particulier retarde la mise en place des nouveaux appuis
institutionnels, la pr6paration de la strategie des transports et 1'execution de travaux complementaires d'entretien
periodiques sur les routes en terre.
Ce probleme est devenu crucial les deux dernieres annees du projet car il n'6tait pas clairement etabli les
conditions de taxation des marches publics, si bien que,
* les conditions d'appel d'offres etaient faussees,
*   les bailleurs de fonds ne pouvaient pas evaluer precisement la part hors taxes des contrats.
Credit 2520/CD et 2520-1/CD PST2 - Rapport d'achevement de l'emprunteur                             45



Finalement, avec le financement du credit IDA, un consultant a ete recrute pour rediger un "Guide aux
soumissionnaires" qui vient d'etre approuve par les bailleurs de fonds et par le Gouvernement.
3.5  le report de la date d'achevement du projet
Les consequences de la fiscalisation des marches publics decrites plus haut ont pratiquement bloque
I'avancement du projet pendant deux annees. Dans ces conditions il a 6te demande A l'IDA de reporter la date
d'achevement du projet. Un amendement a ete signe en novembre 1998, repoussant de decembre 1998 A juin
2000 la date d'achevement du projet.
3.6  la crise des transports de 1998
L'introduction de la TCA sur les transports routiers a conduit A une greve des transporteurs qui estimaient subir
une double imposition A la fois de la redevance CAER et des finances. Devant ce conflit, le Gouvernement a
maintenu l'application de la TVA mais en contrepartie a reduit de moitie la redevance d'affretement. Ceci a eu
pour consequence immediate de reduire les recettes du CAER et de precipiter sa faillite.
4   L'EXECUTION PHYSIQUE DES COMPOSANTES
4.1   les travaux routiers
4.1.1 1'entretien periodique des routes en terre
Les travaux se sont deroules conformrment au previsions.
4.1.2 la construction des routes a vocation agricole
Les travaux ont permis de reconstruire 350 km de routes. Le cofit moyen kilometrique des travaux a ete plus
eleve que celui estime dans le rapport d'evaluation. Cette difference s'explique par une sous estimation initiale
des standards d'amenagement.
4.1.3 la construction des ouvrages d'art
La construction des ouvrages d'arts a ete retiree du projet A la suite de la revue a mi-parcours puisque que l'Union
europeenne avait pris l'engagement de financer ces travaux. Apres trois ann&es de negociations, l'Union
europeenne a annonce qu'elle renoncait a ce financement. Le Gouvernement vient de signer, avec l'Agence
francaise de developpement, la convention de financement de ces travaux.
4.1.4 la participation A l'entretien courant
Devant les difficultes du CAER, la Banque mondiale a accepte de financer en 1999, sur les reliquats disponibles
du credit, certains travaux d'entretien A travers des avenants aux marches d'entretien periodique. D'autre part la
Banque mondiale, par l'intermediaire de credits d'ajustement structurel, a apure une partie de la dette du CAER
pour 1'exercice 1998. Cet apport de 2,2 milliards de francs CFA a ete strictement utilise pour regler des arrieres
sur les marches de travaux d'entretien courant.
4.2   les reformes institutionnelles
4.2.1 la mise en place du financement de l'entretien routier
La mise en place du CAER a ete faite des la mise en vigueur du projet. Ce nouveau systeme a fonctionne
correctement jusqu'en 1996, malgre un deficit chronique de recettes stables compense par des subventions
exceptionnelles de l'Union europeenne. A partir de 1996, le deficit du CAER s'est progressivement accru en
raison de rentrees insuffisantes et de l'augmentation de la masse de travaux d'entretien A realiser. L'application en
1998 de la TCA aux transports routiers conjuguee avec le fait que le CAER a e  reintegre dans le budget de
l'Etat on conduit A une situation de faillite de ce systeme puisque la dette aux entreprises et foumisseurs avait
atteint I milliard de francs CFA A la fin de l'exercice budgetaire 1998. Parallelement des reflexions ayant et
engagees sur le financement de l'entretien routier (dans le cadre de la definition d'une nouvelle strategie des
transports), il etait devenu evident que le CAER dans sa conception actuelle devait disparaitre au profit d'un
nouveau systeme de type Fonds routier. De fait la decision A ete prise en novembre 1999 et confirmee par un
projet de loi en juin 2000, de supprimer le CAER A la fin de l'annee 2000 et de mettre en place un fonds routier.
Credit 25201CD et 2520-1 /CD PST2 - Rapport d'achevement de l'emprunteur                          46



L'echec constate du CAER n'est pas du A sa conception ou sa structure, mais A un ensemble de facteurs exogenes
(reformes fiscales, difficultes economiques).
4.2.2 la privatisation des travaux routiers
L'accord de credit prevoyait qu'au moins 50% des travaux d'entretien seraient confies au secteur prive. Cette
disposition a ete totalement respectee depuis le debut du projet puisque tous les travaux ont ete realises par des
entreprises privees ou par la SNER.
La transformation de l'OFNAR en SNER (Societe d'Etat chargee uniquement de travaux routiers) a et rapide et
reussie. Cela n'a pose aucun probemne social et la SNER a fait preuve d'efficacite dans l'execution des travaux et
s'est montree competitive dans les appels d'offres internationaux. La SNER a subit au meme titre que les autres
entreprises les difficultes de financement du CAER, mais a reussi A assurer un minimum de travaux d'urgences,
jouant ainsi son role de service public.
La derniere etape du processus de privatisation aurait du etre le retrait de l'Etat dans le capital de la SNER. La
maltrise de ce processus A echappe au Ministere des Travaux Publics car les operations de privatisation des
societes d'Etat ont ete confides A une commission speciale relevant de l'ajustement structurel. Si tous les
elements sont maintenant reunis pour privatiser la SNER, la decision finale non prise A I'achevement du PST2
releve de l'autorite politique.
A une moindre echelle la gestion des bacs, des barrieres de pluie, des comptages routiers a ete confide au secteur
privee. Le service rendu est efficace mais il s'avere d'un cofit plus eleve que lorsqu'il etait traite par
l'administration et reste sensible aux difficultes de financement du CAER.
La gestion du Laboratoire National a egalement ete donnee au secteur prive sans probleme majeur. 11 faut noter
que l'objectif fixe au Laboratoire National etait de realiser un programme de recherche routiere permettant de
mettre au point des techniques de construction et d'entretien prenant en compte les materiaux locaux. Cet
objectif n'a pas ete realise ce qui a entratne la decision de privatisation.
4.2.3 la restructuration de la Direction des Routes
Apres la transformation de l'OFNAR en SNER, toutes les taches de gestion du reseau et de son entretien ont ete
reaffectees a la Direction des Routes. Cette direction a souffert d'un manque de personnel d'experience et A
l'issue du PST2, ses capacites de gestion doivent encore etre renforcees..
4.2.4 la reforme du secteur des transports.
La reforme du secteur des transports terrestres a fait l'objet de plusieurs actions en debut de projet (projet de loi
sur les transports interieurs, code de l'aviation civile, creation d'une Agence pour la gestion des principales plate
formes aeroportuaires). Cependant l'action au niveau du transport routier n'a pas et poursuivie et en particulier
la profession reste mal organisee.
4.2.5 la privatisation d'Air Tchad
La restructuration de la compagnie nationale n'a pu etre realisee dans le cadre du projet et finalement le
Gouvernement A adopte le principe de sa liquidation.
4.3   les services de consultants
4.3.1 les controles de travaux
Les controles de travaux de rehabilitation des routes ont ete effectues correctement par des bureaux de consultant
internationaux. Les controles de travaux d'entretien periodique et d'entretien courant ont ete realises dans un
premier temps par un bureau international, puis par deux bureaux tchadiens crees A cet effet. La performance des
bureaux tchadiens est jugee insuffisante par manque d'experience du personnel.
4.3.2 I'assistance technique
Pendant les trois premiires annees du projet une assistance technique lourde a ete mise en place pour appuyer la
Direction des Routes, la CISCP et la Direction generale. Globalement le Gouvernement a ete satisfait de la
perfornance de l'assistance technique, cependant il n'existe pas de criteres objectifs d'appreciation de la
Credit 2520/CD et 2520-1 /CD PST2 - Rapport d'achevement de 1lemprunteur                               47



performnance individuelle de chaque expert. Concretement son r6le a ete beaucoup oriente vers de la substitution
et les outils de gestion et de suivi elabores n'ont pas ete maintenus et valorises apres le depart des experts.
4.3.3 les etudes
Une premiere s6rie d'etudes a ete faite prealablement aux travaux d'investissement.
Une seconde serie d'etudes a ete realisee a partir de 1998, dont l'objectif etait de definir une nouvelle strategie de
transports.
4.3.4 les appuis institutionnels
Un appui A la gestion financiere de la cellule, du CAER, du BNF a permis de mettre en place de facon
satisfaisante des outils comptables et des interventions A la demande.
Un appui au suivi et au pilotage du projet a ete mis en place apres la revue A mi-parcours en remplacement de
l'assistance technique permanente. Cette solution, qui fait intervenir un expert de haut niveau pendant trois
semaines tous les trois mois, a e  jugee efficace car elle permet de recentrer regulierement les actions du projet
tout en laissant une entiere autonomie de gestion A I'administration.
4.3.5 les audits
L'audit financier du credit a et fait regulierement et n'a pas pose de problemes majeurs. Cet audit a demontre
que le cr6dit avait 6te correctement gere par la Cellule de coordination bien que celle ci n'ait pas dispose de
manuel de procedures. Des audits financiers ont ete faits sur le CAER, le BNF, Air Tchad et la SNER. Ils ont
permis de deceler des faiblesses de gestion. Ces audits ont bien atteint leur objectif et le Gouvernement
recommande d'en maintenir le principe qui permet de donner un eclairage exterieur sur le fonctionnement
financier des institutions. Un audit technique et financier a ete fait pour la revue A mi-parcours qui a permis
d'evaluer de facon objective la situation du projet.
4.4   la gestion des ressources humaines et la formation
4.4.1 la premiere phase d'intervention
Le volet formation a ete confie initialement A un bureau de conseil qui avait pour mission, de faire l1evaluation
du personnel et des besoins de formation, de realiser le programme de formation ainsi arrete et de mettre en
place une structure administrative permanente de gestion des ressources humaines au sein de la Direction
generale du ministere. Ces actions ont e  realisees pendant les deux premieres annees du projet, le contrat du
consultant etant arrive A terme en mai 1996. Le resultat est juge insuffisant car la methodologie d'evaluation du
personnel n'a pas appropriee, et la cellule de gestion des ressources humaines qui a ete creee manque d'autorite
reconnue. La post evaluation des actions de formation n'a pas ete faite et il est difficile d'en mesurer l'impact sur
la performance des personnels.
4.4.2 la seconde phase d'intervention
Aucune action de formation n'a ete faite entre juin 1996 et juin 1999. La relance d'un nouveau programme a ete
faite dans l'urgence dans la mesure ou l'echeance de l'achevement du projet ne permettait pas une reflexion
approfondie. Un programme restreint a e  elabore par le Gouvemement et son execution a ete confide A l'Ecole
Nationale des Travaux publics. Une post evaluation a montre que les formations ont ete reques avec satisfaction.
4.4.3 le bilan global
Le Gouvernement estime que le volet formation n'a pas totalement atteint ses objectifs pour les raisons
suivantes:
*   Ia formation s'adressant au secteur prive a ete insuffisante,
*   les formations dispensees sont un ensemble de petits modules qui ont touche un public trop
disperse,
*   il n'est pas demontre qu'il y a eu adequation entre les besoins et les formations donnees,
*   Ia duree du projet aurait peut-etre permis de selectionner quelques jeunes ingenieurs et de leur
donner une formation plus longue et mieux adaptee.
Credit 2520/CD et 2520-1/CD PST2 - Rapport d'achevement de 1emprunteur                              48



4.5   les indicateurs de performance
Les indicateurs de performance retenus A l'valuation du projet ont e  remis en question pendant la revue A mi-
parcours. Le Gouvemement et l'IDA n'ont pas reussi A mettre au point de nouveaux indicateurs. Ainsi depuis
1997, il n'est pas possible de mesurer de fason objective et fiable l'impact du projet. Une tentative a e  faite de
mettre au point un indicateur permettant d'evaluer I'evolution des couits de transports. Elle sest av6ree impossible
A mettre en place car les facteurs exogenes influencant le coat des transports sont trop nombreux et dependant de
la conjoncture economique.
5    L'EXECUTION FINANCIERE DU CREDIT
Au 30 juin 2000, date de cl6ture du credit, les fonds etaient engages et liquides A 99,8%. Les engagements ont
e  faits majoritairement dans les deux premieres annees du projet puisque A la revue A mi-parcours (30 mois
apres le demarrage) 90% des credits etaient engages et 50% decaisses. Les quatre dernieres annees du projet ont
essentiellement ete consacrees A des depenses d'appui institutionnel et de formation. Le tableau ci dessous, qui
compare les depenses par categorie, montre que par rapport A l'allocation initiale il y a eu des variations
importantes et qu'en particulier,
*   les depenses de consultant ont doublees, et sont passees de 17% du montant du credit A 26% du
montant depense,
les depenses de rehabilitation de routes rurales ont doublees, et sont passees de 32% du montant
du credit A 46% du montant depense
les ressources pour financer ces deux depassements ont et trouvees dans la suppression des
travaux d'ouvrage d'art et dans le non affecte,
les depenses de formation ont ete reduites de 5%
CATEGORIES ET          ALLOCATION INITIALE   ALLOCATION TOTALE    UTILISATION FINALE    Variation
COMPOSANTES                  2520/CD            2520/CD et 2520-1 /CD                          final/initial
montant    repartition    montant   repartition  montant   repartition
ITRAVAUX GENIE CIVIL          17 000 000   64,9%      23 880 001   68,2%       22 725 928   65,1%      33,7%
L.a Entretien p6riodique    6 200 000   23,7%  6 200 00    17,7%       6 794 635   19,5%       9,6%
L.b Rehabilitation routes rurale    8 300 000   31,7%  15 180 00    43,4%   15 931 293   45,7%      91,9%
I.c Rehabilitation ouvrages  2 500 000    9,5%      2 500 000    7,1%                             -100,0%
2. SERVICES CONSULTANTS        4 400 000   16,8%        5 300 000   15,1%       9 151 016   26,2%      108,0%
2.a partie A  1 500 000    5,7%      2 400 000    6,9%       4 228 412   12,1%      181,9%
2.b partie B    2 900 000   11,1%    2 900 000    8,3%       4 922 604   14,1%       69,7%
3. FORMATION                    1 600 000    6,1%       1 600 00    4,6%        1 518 458    4,4%      -5,1%
4. CISCP                         500 000    1,9%         500 000    1,4%         575 007    1,6%        15,0%
5.PPF                            900 00    3,4%          900 000    2,6%         917 568    2,6%        2,0%
6.NON AFFECTE                   1 800 00   6,9%         2 820 000    8,1%                             -100,0%
GRAND TOTAL                   26 200 00(   100,0%      35 000 000   100,0%     34 887 978   100,0%     33,2%
6    LA GESTION DU PROJET PAR LE GOUVERNEMENT
6.1   le Haut Comite Interministeriel
Le Haut Comite Interministeriel (HCI) cree en 1989 et reconduit en 1994 pour assurer le suivi des actions
sectorielles a continue son action avec efficacite. 11 est souhaitable que cet organe soit maintenu dans l'avenir car
c'est un relais indispensable entre les partenaires du secteur et les pouvoirs legislatifs et executifs. Le decret
instituant le HCI disposait d'une derogation pour la passation des marches qui a permis d'avoir une procedure
plus simple et plus rapide. Cette disposition doit etre maintenue dans l'avenir.
Cr6dit 2520/CD et 2520-1/CD PST2 - Rapport d'ach6vement de l'emprunteur                                   49



6.2  la Cellule de Coordination
La Cellule Interninisterielle de coordination des projets du secteur des transports (CISCP), creee en 1989 lors du
10 projet sectoriel de la Banque mondiale, a assure la coordination et le suivi du PST2. Son role a ete
fondamental parce que c'est le seul organe perenne et stable depuis plus de 10 ans qui possede la connaissance
historique des projets du secteur. La cellule a egalement assure la gestion fmanciere du credit de l'IDA. II avait
ete envisage de transferer progressivement les attributions de la cellule a la Direction generale mais dans la
phase actuelle il est necessaire de la maintenir.
6.3   les responsables ministeriels et les cadres dirigeants
Jusqu'A fin 1997, les cadres de la Direction generale n'ont pas change assurant une continuite dans les actions. La
restructuration du Ministere en septembre 1997 a cree un nouveau poste de Directeur gen6ral adjoint charge des
transports et deux postes de sous directeurs A la Direction des Routes et A la Direction de l'Aviation civile. Cette
disposition qui ameliorait le fonctionnement de la Direction generale s'est traduite par le changement du
directeur general, du Directeur des Routes et du Directeur de l'Aviation civile. Depuis, le Directeur general a ete
remplace trois fois.
Pour memoire, neuf ministres se sont succedes pendant les 6 annees d'execution du projet.
7   LA GESTION DU PROJET PAR L'IDA
7.1  le suivi par les charges de projet
Pendant les 6 annees de l'execution du projet, 5 charges de projet se sont succedes. Parall6lerment la strategie de
la Banque mondiale dans I'approche des projets transport a evolue vers la mise en place d'une vision A long
terme de la strategie sectorielle. Cefte situation a entrainm une remise en question d'options retenues. Le
Gouvemement a apprecie la disponibilite des charges de projet lors des missions de supervision et s'est fdlicite
de la remise immediate des aides memoires.
7.2  les non objections
Les reponses aux demandes de non objections ont ete donnees rapidement et n'ont pas freind le deroulement du
projet. Depuis 1999, la mise en place d'un systeme de courrier electronique a encore reduit les delais de reponse.
7.3  les decaissements directs
Les decaissements directs ont connu des retards qui sont devenues problematiques depuis 1998. Le dialogue
avec le service des decaissements est difficile, meme lorsque le charge de projet intervient pour regler des
problemes.
7.4  le compte special
La gestion du compte special a et delicate, en particulier dans les deux dernires annees du projet oui les re
alimentations ont e  longues. Le Gouvernement a demande A plusieurs reprises que le montant du compte
special soit relev6 ou que le montant des decaissements directs soit baisse. La Banque mondiale n'a pas regle ce
probleme si bien que la capacite de paiement sur le compte special est devenue inferieure aux montants des
factures presentees. Cette situation A entramee des retards de paiement de l'ordre de 2 mois.
8   LA COORDINATION AVEC LES AUTRES PARTENAIRES FINANCIERS
Le PST2 avait e  concu comme un ensemble d'actions financees par plusieurs bailleurs, y compris le
Gouvernement. La Banque mondiale avait ete designee comme chef de file des bailleurs de fonds et son role
devait permettre d'assurer la coordination des financements et I'appui institutionnel. II y a 10 bailleurs de fonds
qui sont intervenus pendant le PST2. Leurs financements ont concemr la construction et la rehabilitation des
infrastructures routieres et d'une partie des infrastructures aeroportuaires. L'implication des bailleurs dans le
processus de reformes institutionnelles a ete negligeable chaque bailleur se preoccupant de 1'execution de sa
composante physique.
Lors de la revue A mi-parcours, la Banque mondiale a effectivement recu I'appui formel de tous les bailleurs pour
la poursuite de la reforme et pour la perennisation du financement de 1'entretien routier.
Credit 2520/CD et 2520-1/CD PST2 - Rapport d'achevement de l'emprunteur                           50



Pour ce qui concerne la mise en place des credits d'investissement, les procedures particuli&es de chaque
bailleur ont conduit a des decalages importants dans la reconstruction du reseau routier, si bien que la charge
d'entretien a ete plus importante que prevue pour le CAER. A titre d'exemple la construction de la route
Djermaya -Massaguet, financee par la Banque Africaine de Developpement, a debute avec 5 ans de retard.
L'action des charges de projet de la Banque mondiale a permis de provoquer des concertations lors des missions
de supervision, en particulier avec l'Union europeenne et la BAD.
Depuis fin 1998, et les conclusions de la table ronde de Geneve IV, il a ete convenu que l'Union europeenne etait
le chef de file des bailleurs de fonds du secteur des transports. Dans la periode transitoire actuelle, la Banque
mondiale continue A jouer un role important pour accompagner les reflexions sur les reformes institutionnelles.
9   RECOMMANDATIONS
Les lecons tirees de l'execution du projet permettent de formuler les recommandations ci-apres pour les projets
futurs.
9.1   Assistance technique
Eviter dans la mesure du possible une assistance de substitution. II conviendra pour ameliorer la capacite de
l'administration:
* Donner une formation ciblee par poste;
- Accompagner les agents ainsi formes par un appui ponctuel etale dans le temps;
- Mettre en place un mecanisme de suivi evaluation de la performance.
9.2   Indicateurs de performance
Adopter des indicateurs simples et pertinents dont l'analyse permettra de mesurer l'impact du projet et de
prendre les decisions appropriees.
9.3   Ressources humaines
* Adopter une politique de recrutement pour repondre aux besoins;
*  Promouvoir de mesures de motivation du personnel;
* Octroyer de bourse de formations aux jeunes cadres pour des formations pointues faisant defaut;
* Assurer une stabilite aux postes de responsabilite pour une continuite dans les actions.
9.4   Le compte special
Relever le montant du compte special.
Credit 2520/CD et 2520-1/CD PST2 - Rapport d'achevement de l'emprunteur                          51



Annex 9: Table showing details of training programs.
The following tables summarize the results of the two training programs.
Table 1: Results of Initial Training Program (1994-1997)
Number of Persons trained
Public Sector  Private Sector     Total
Themes
Communcations/Management           31              14            45
Improvement Secretarial            15              21             36
Services
Introduction Microcomputing        46              26             72
Environmental Planning             20              0             20
Public Works Maintenance            0              39             39
Automobile - Electrical             0              4              4
Soldering                           0              7              7
Heavy Machinery Mechanics           0              12             12
Public Works Mechanics              0              7              7
Metrology/Weights&Measures          0              10             10
Laboratory Tests                    7              20            27
Work Site Organization              6              10             16
Introduction to Firm                6              14            20
Management
Introduction to Human Res.         19              4              23
Mgmt.
Transport Economics                72              25            97
Airport Infrastr. & Equipment       6              0              6
Sectoral Computer Science           7              65            72
Works Supervision                  23              2              25
Recycling of Roads                  0              35            35
Public Expenditure                 16              16            32
Complement - Computer               8              0              8
Science
Spreadsheet Excel                   8              0              8
SAARI Accounting System             4              0              4
Complement - Firm Mgmt.             7              0              7
Total                              324            339            663
Outside Chad
Human Resource Development          2              0              2
Road Maintenance Management         2              0              2
Road Safety                         I              0              1
Technical English                   1              0              1
Management Control                  0              2              2
Equipment Maintenance               0              3              3
Training of Trainers                0              2              2
Management                          1              0              1
SAARI 7.1 Accounting                1              0              1
Admin. & Finance Mgmt.              1              0              1
Civil Aviation Administration       1              0              1
Total                              10              7              17
52



Table 2: Results of additional Training Program (period 1999-2000)
Module                    No. of Persons trained
Transport Economics                               13
Road Safety                                        18
Monitoring and Supervision of Work Sites           13
Management of Public Contracts                    23
Technical English                                  7
Applied Statistics                                 9
Human Resource Development                         8
Economic Impact of Transport Projects              7
Improvement of Personnel Training                 37
Project Planning (PERT & ZOPP)                    32
Application of SGBD                                7
Application of Spreadsheets                        8
Office Management                                 24
Internet                                          12
Mastering Data Bases                               7
Mastering Spreadsheets                            29
Total                                             254
53



