Document of
The World Bank
FOR OmCIAL USE ONLY
Report No. 11670-CD
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
REPUBLIC OF CHAD
SECOND TRANSPORT SECTOR PROJECT
June 3, 1993
Infrastructure Operations
Sahelian Department
Africa Region
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



CURRENCY EOUIVALENTS
Currency Unit = CFA Franc (CFAF)
I US$   250 CFAF
I CFAF = 0,004 US$
FISCAL YEAR
January I - December 31
SYSTEM OF WEIGHTS AND MEASURES: METRIC
I meter (m) = 3.28 feet (ft)
1 kilometer (km) = 0.62 miles (mi)
1 square kilometer (km2) = 0.39 square miles
i metric ton (t) = 2.205 pounds (lb)
This report is based on findings of an IDA appraisal mission which visited Chad in January 1993,
comprising Messrs. Amadou B. Cisse, Principal Transport Engineer and Mission Leader, Abdeighani
Inal, Highway Engineer. Consultants were Messrs. Carlos de Castro, Transport Facilitation Specialist;
Jean Baudoin, Transport Institution Specialist; Jacques Baillon, Road Maintenance Specialist; Jacques
Bret, Mechanical Engineer; Guirec Delanoe, Transport Economist; Jean Dubost, Transport Industry
Specialist; Durany Jakob, Environment Specialist; Andre Garaud, Soils and Road Materials Specialist;
Michel Guimbert, Road Maintenance Specialist; Hennion, Transport Economist; Jean Marc Heron, Fin.
Specialist; Marc Pages, Environment Specialist; Louis-Pierre Ribes, Engineer, Bridge Specialist. Mr.
Peter Watson and Ms. Katherine Marshall are the managing Division Chief and Department Director
respectively for the operation.



FOR OMCIAL USE ONLY
ACRONYMS AND ABBREVIATIONS
AfDF                  African Development Fund
ASECNA                Agence de S6curit6 pour la Navigation A6rienne
BDEAC                 Banque des Etats de l'Afrique Centrale
BNF                   Bureau National de Fret
CAA                   Caisse Autonome d'Amortissement
CAER                  Compte Autonome d'entretien routier
CFD                   Caisse Francaise de Developpement
CTT                   Cooperative des Transporteurs Tchadiens
DTS                   Direction des Transports de Surface
ECC                   European Community Commission
EDF                   European Development Fund
EDIFACT               Electronic Data Interchange For Administration, Commerce and Transport
FAC                   Fonds d'Aide et de Cooperation
GETRANS               Gestion-Transport-Service
GNP                   Gross National Product
GPR                   Groupement Professionnel Routier
ICB                   International Competitive Bidding
ICC                   International Chamber of Commerce
IDA                   International Development Association
IMF                   International Monetary Fund
LCB                   Local Competitive Bidding
LNBTP                 Laboratoire National du Batiment et des Travaux Publics
(National Laboratory of Public Works and Building)
LVO                   Lettre de Voiture Obligatoire
MSE                   Medium-Scale Enterprises
MTPT                  Ministere des Travaux Publics et des Transports
NFS                   Net Freight Service
OFNAR                 Office National des Routes
ONPC                  Office National des Ports du Cameroun
PASET                 Projet d'Ajustement Sectoriel des Transports
PIP                   Public Investment Plan
PPF                   Project Preparation Facility
PST                   Projet Sectoriel Transport
PTA                   Preferential Trade Agreement
RFA                   R6publique F6d6rale d'Allemagne
RRP                   Regional reform program
SA                    Special Account
SDR                   Societ6 de D6veloppement Rural
SDT                   Syndicat des Transporteurs
SNER                  Soci6t6 Nationale d'Entretien Routier
SOE                   Statement of expenditure
TIPAC                 Transit International des Pays de l'Afrique Centrale
TSAIP                 Transport Sector Adjustment/Investment Program
TSP                   Transport Sector Project
TSP2                  Transport Sector Investment Project II
UDEAC                 Union des Etats d'Afrique Centrale
UNDP                  United Nations Development Program
USAID                 United States Agency for International Development
VIC                   Vehicle Inspection Centre
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance
of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.






REPUBLIC OF CHAD
TRANSPORT SECTOR PROJECT II
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
Table of Contents
CREDIT AND  PROJECT SUMMARY   .....................................                                                    i
I. COUNTRY POLICIES AND BANK GROUP'S ASSISTANCE STRATEGY .........
A. Introduction  ..............................................                                                1
B. Background and Recent Economic Performance  ........................    1
C. Bank's Assistance Strategy  .....................................    3
H. THE TRANSPORT SECTOR  .......................................                                                        4
A. Background  ..............................................    4
B. IDA  Involvement in the Transport Sector ............................    6
C. Implementation and Achievements of the Three Previous Projects .............    9
D. Lessons Learned and Remaining Sectoral Issues   .......................   12
Ml. RATIONALE FOR  IDA  INVOLVEMENT    .............................   13
IV. THE PROPOSED SECOND TRANSPORT SECTOR INVESTMENT PROJECT .... 14
A. Project Objectives  ..........................................   14
B. Project Description ..........................................    14
C. Project Costs and Financing  ....................................   24
D. Impact on Environment .......................................   27
V. PROJECT  IMPLEMENTATION    .......                         ..........               ...................   27
A. Status of Project Preparation and Readiness  ..........................   27
B. Implementing Agencies  .......................................   27
C. Project Coordination Unit (PCU) .................................   28
D. Monitoring and Evaluation .....................................   28
E. Procurement ..............................................   30
F. Disbursement  .............................................   31
G. Reporting and Auditing  .......................................   33
H. Project Sustainability  ........................................   34
VI. PROJECT JUSTIFCATION  AND RISKS  ..............................   34
VII. AGREEMENTS REACHED AND RECOMMENDATION ................... 35



ii
ANNEXES:
Annex 1: Key Macroeconomic Indicators, Balance of Payment, Status of Bank Operations
Annex 2: Detailed Cost Estimate
Annex 3: Disbursement Schedule
Annex 4: Project Implementation Schedule
Annex 5: Letter of Transport Sector Policy
Annex 6: Regional Integration Action Plan
Annex 7: Road Design and Construction Standards
Annex 8: Priority Network
Annex 9: Procurement Plan
Annex 10: Training Program
DOCUMENTS IN THE PROJECT FILE:
1:    Evaluation de la composante institutionnelle routiere du PASET, Septembre 1992
2:    Rapport de mission sur l'industrie des transports routiers du Tchad
Bilan et Orientations du PASET, Juin 1992
3:    Incidence des coflts de transport sur les prix a la consommation a N'Djamena, Octobre 1992
4:    Etude pour la Reforme de l'Entretien Routier
Rapport sur le diagnostic et les scenarios possibles, Septembre 1992
5:    Etude pour la Reforme de l'Entretien Routier
Rapport sur la reorganisation, Novembre 1992
6:    Definition d'un plan d'action pour la facilitation du transit international, AoOt 1992
7:    Etude pour la restructuration de la Brigade Routiere de Cotontchad, Septembre 1992
8:    Programme de recherche routiere pour l'amnlioration des standards de construction, Octobre
1992
9:    Etude de restructuration du Genie Routier Tchadien, Septembre 1992
10:   Inventaire - Diagnostic des ouvrages d'art du PST 2, Novembre 1992
11:   Etude d'impact du Second Projet Sectoriel des Transports, Octobre 1992
12:   Etude 6conomique pour le Second Projet Sectoriel des Transports, Novembre 1992
CHARTS:
Chart 1: Chart of the Ministry of Public Works and Transports
MAPS:        IBRD 24924



iii
REPUBLIC OF CHAD
SECOND TRANSPORT SECTOR PROJECT
CREDIT AND PROJECT SUMMARY
Borrower:          Republic of Chad
Beneficiary:        Ministry of Public Works and Transports
Credit Amount:     SDR 26.2 million (US$37.0 million equivalent)
ITrms:              Standard IDA terms with 40 years maturity
Co-financiers:     European Development Fund (FED, US$22.0 million equivalent); French
Development Fund (CFD, US$4.2 million equivalent); Central Africa
Development Bank (BDEAC US$15.0 million equivalent); OPEC Fund
(US$6.0 million equivalent). African Development Bank, BADEA, Islamic
Bank, Kuwait Fund also expressed interest with no precise amount yet.
Obective:          The main development objectives of the proposed project are: (a) to help
stimulate industrial and agricultural development and regional trade through
consolidating improvements in transport sector efficiency focussing on
continued reductions in vehicle operating costs and improvement in the
efficiency of the transport market; (b) to continue to improve public
investment efficiency, transparency and budgetary management; (c) to
improve internal resource mobilization to fill the long-term need for routine
road maintenance; (d) to promote private sector involvement in road
maintenance and strengthen the road transport industry; and (e) to streamline
and continue to improve public administration of the sector. To achieve the
objectives, the proposed Second Transport Sector Project (TSP II) would
implement: (a) the consolidation agenda to ensure that the positive
achievements under the TSAIP are maintained, (b) the continuing agenda of
sectoral objectives that were only partially met under TSAIP and (c) the
evolving agenda to address long-term issues of sustainability critical to the
transport sector program. In summary, the content of the agendas is as
follows:
Consolidation Agenda: investment planning
road maintenance
resource mobilization and allocation
liberalization and deregulation
Continuing Agenda:  institution building
private sector involvement



iv
Evolving Agenda:    secondary agricultural road rehabilitation
environment
regional integration and trade facilitation
Description:         The proposed project would support these agendas through a set of policy
measures largely met through up-front conditionalities and investment
components. The physical works component consists of: (i) a program of
road routine and periodic maintenance and bridge strengthening on the
existing priority network of 4,760 kIm; and (ii) a program of about 300 kun of
secondary roads crucial for the linkage between regions of agricultural
potential (Salamat region) and main consumption centers. The rograim of
institutional strengthening comprises: (i) consulting services for civil works
design and supervision, soil research studies and testing, and technical and
financial audits; (ii) consulting services to promote private entrepreneurship
for small and medium construction contractors and small truckers; (iii)
technical assistance and training (mainly short-term consultancies) for
transport sector institutions (Directorate of Roads, Air Tchad, BNF,
Directorates of Civil Aviation and Land Transport, and the Project
Coordination Unit; (iv) support for the implementation of a regional
integration action plan aiming at facilitating Chadian international trade for
road and air transport; and (v) implementation of a transport sector
environmental action plan.
Benefits and Risks:   The proposed project is justified since Chad's landlocked economy relies
entirely on roads for efficient intra- and inter-country trade. Rates of return
for highway rehabilitation and maintenance range from 14% to 42%. For the
package of secondary road rehabilitation, the rate of return is 13%. The
proposed project's approach is comprehensive and takes into account the
complementarity of air and road transport and measures aimed at having a
positive impact on the environment. The principal risk remains the chronic
political instability which might affect the political commitment to fulfill or
sustain policy reforms and agreed financial conditions. To minimize this risk,
careful attention was given during project preparation to building a broad
consensus at a high Government level, with technical staff, and with all
donors that are active in the sector on the measures proposed and supported
by the project. In addition, detailed procedures, standardized bidding
documents and implementation manuals, time-bound implementation
indicators, and the Government's experience in project execution tasks from
previous projects minimize the risks associated with project execution.



v
Summary Project Cost Estimate and Financing Plan
(Net of Taxes and Duties)
US$ Million
Project Components
Foreign    Local       Total
A. Physical Component
1. Investment Costs - Civil works
(a) Rehabilitation                                   30.2       1.8         32.0
(b) Periodic maintenance                             21.6       5.1        26.7
(c) Bridges                                           1.4                    1.4
(d) N'Djamena Interchange bldg                        3.4                    3.4
2. Recurrent Costs
(a) Routine Maintenance                               3.9      25.4        29.3
B. Institutional Strengthening Component
1. Consultants services for Public Works
(a) Studies and works supervision                     3.4                    3.4
(b) Technical assistance                             2.9                     2.9
(c) Audits and Proj. Coord. Unit                      1.6                    1.6
2. Consultants services for Transport and Civil Aviation
(a) Studies and supervision                           0.3                    0.3
(b) Technical assistance                             0.6                     0.6
3. Training and scholarship                            3.55                   3.55
4. Operating Costs (PCU)                                0.7       0.5          1.2
C. Continencies
1. Physical contingencies                              5.9        2.2         8.2
2. Price contingencies                                  3.4       2.2          5.6
D. Refinancing PPF                                        1.25                   1.25
TOTAL                                              84.1                 121.4
Financing Plan
(US$ million equivalent)
Local| Foreign       Total    % of total project cost
Government             37.3         --       37.3                  31%
IDA                       --      37.0       37.0                  30%
Other donors              --      47.1       47.1                  39%
Total project cost     37.3       84.1      121.4                  100%
Economic Rate of return:
For road periodic maintenance:   14% - 42%
For the package secondary agricultural road rehabilitation: 13%






REPUBLIC OF CHAD
TRANSPORT SECTOR PROJECT II
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
I. COUNTRY POLICIES AND BANK GROUP'S ASSISTANCE STRATEGY
A. Introduction
1.1          The Government of Chad has requested IDA financing for a follow up of the ongoing
Transport Sector Adjustment/Investment Program (TSAIP). The broad objective of the project is to
consolidate the achievements of TSAIP to help stimulate industrial and agricultural development and
regional trade through further improvements in transport efficiency, and public investment efficiency and
budgetary management. Its specific objectives are to reduce vehicle operating costs and transport prices
through a defined program of road rehabilitation and maintenance, to achieve regular and reliable
budgetary allocations to road maintenance and to increase the involvement of the private sector in
highway maintenance.
1.2          The total investment program cost is estimated at US$121.4 million equivalent (net of
taxes and duties), with a foreign exchange component of US$84.1 million. Government will finance
US$37.3 million in recurrent costs for routine maintenance and counterpart funding for donor
investments. The foreign exchange component will be fully funded by external donors. Under the
proposed project, which will be the fourth IDA-financed operation for the development of the transport
sector in Chad since 1986, IDA would finance a portion of the investment program for the five-year
period (1994-98) for an equivalent amount of US$37.0 million. Investment program and policy measures
supported through the project are based on lessons learned from the first three projects, the donors'
roundtable held in November 1992, sector studies commissioned between 1990 and 1992, and the
participatory approach adopted for the preparation of the project through the interministerial steering
committee.
B. Background and Recent Economic Performance
1.3          Background. Chad presents a major development challenge. It juxtaposes a highly
uncertain political situation, a prospect of renewed breakdown of order, extreme poverty, and reasonable
growth prospects. Chad is a vast country, the fifth largest in Africa, and groups together a large number
of extraordinarily diverse ethnic groups. With 5.8 million inhabitants and a per capita GNP estimated
at US$210 in 1991, Chad is one of the poorest, least-developed countries in the world. Economic
development efforts have been characterized by successive promising starts stymied by serious internal
and external blows. Recurring political instability and domestic strife, which erupted into civil war from
1979 to 1983, have been and remain the most intractable constraints to development. Chad has also been
severely affected by drought.  Despite a major post-war reconstruction effort, Chad's physical
infrastructure, human resources, and institutional and administrative capacity to support development are
today still at the level where most other low income sub-Saharan African (SSA) countries were in the
1960s. Chad ranks 150th out of 160 countries on UNDP's 1992 Human Development Index.



2
1.4          Despite all its handicaps, Chad has a number of positive elements to build upon and good
intrinsic growth potential. Compared to other Sahelian countries, Chad is relatively well endowed with
natural resources for agricultural production, especially in the south where much of the population is
concentrated. Food production is generally sufficient to meet domestic demand, and agriculture -
particularly livestock and cotton production - are key sources of future growth. The private sector could
play a dynamic role, beyond the informal and rural production circuit, as a driving force in the formal
economy. Exploitation of proven oil reserves for domestic consumption could add impetus to economic
growth in the medium term, by improving the reliability of supply and reducing the cost of electricity
and diesel fuel--key production inputs. Oil exploration in the south holds out the promise of substantial
reserves which could be exported; this could attract significant private investment and dramatically
transform Chad's long-term economic prospects. Chad's turbulent history has also left positive elements:
the civil service is modest in size; the economy is relatively unregulated; the population has shown great
self-reliance; and alternatives to public provision of services have developed. Chad does not have the
baggage of poor policies and entrenched interest groups supporting particular policies which hamper many
other African countries, so most development efforts are focused on building rather than dismantling.
The Government has exhibited a positive, open dialogue with donors as well as a willingness to try new
approaches. Finally, the international community has expressed a willingness to respond positively to
suitable development initiatives in recognition of the country's poverty and urgent development needs.
1.5          Economic Structure. Chad's economy is based on agriculture, which generates 35-40%
of GDP and provides a livelihood for more than 80% of the population. Subsistence production of food
crops by smallholders is the principal economic activity, but output fluctuates widely, depending upon
rainfall. Livestock and cotton constitute the most important sources of cash income for the rural
population and for export earnings (75%). The small industrial sector, which contributes about 20% to
value added, is dominated by the parastatal (COTONTCHAD) which processes and exports cotton. The
rest of the sector consists of several medium-scale enterprises and a large number of micro-enterprises
which produce consumer goods for the domestic market. The service sector makes up the remaining 40-
45% of GDP and includes a large trading sector.
1.6          Recent Economic Developments. During the post-war period 1984 to 1990, Chad made
substantial progress in rehabilitating its economy and promoting growth, despite internal and external
shocks. By 1987, Chad's economy was more or less restored to its pre-war level, and economic
conditions continued to improve during the 1987-90 adjustment period. The adjustment program focused
on improving public resource management and efficiency in the cotton sector, and also included policy
reforms in transportation, livestock and trade. In 1988 and 1989, most of the macro-economic objectives
outlined in the first two Policy Framework Papers (PFP) were attained. Important progress was made
in reviving key sectors of the economy. Together the adjustment program and the investment program
that emphasized agriculture and transportation reversed some of the negative impacts on the income and
living conditions of the population caused by the succession of civil war, drought and the cotton crisis.
Moreover, the program had a positive impact on growth performance, particularly in the cotton sector.
Real GDP growth averaged 4.5% per year and inflation was low. Public investment, which was totally
externally financed, doubled to nearly 10% of GDP in 1990; official development assistance flows tripled.
With the recovery in cotton export revenues, the current account deficit was reduced to 27% of GDP in
1990. The gross domestic savings rate, perennially negative, improved somewhat to -12% of GDP in
1990.
1.7          With the abrupt change in political regime in 1990, the adjustment program went off-track
and the fiscal situation deteriorated; the third-year PFP targets (1990-92) for revenues, current



3
expenditures, and the current budget deficit have all been missed by significant margins. The expenditure
overruns since 1990 have been due to pressures from the military expenditures and the civilian wage bill,
while revenues declined (particularly for customs). In late 1991, the Government presented an informal
outline of a stabilization program, including budgetary targets and related policy measures. However,
few concrete actions were taken until mid-1992. At that time, the Government, under the leadership of
a new prime minister, took decisive steps to stabilize the wage bill, including a temporary reduction of
nominal wages. The budget deficit burgeoned in 1991 (7% of GDP), although this was mitigated
somewhat by the high level of budget support from external donors. In 1992, this external support
largely dried up (dropping by half). The current deficit fell to US$65.7 million (4.7% of GDP) due
primarily to actions on the wage bill and lack of liquidity (65% of the deficit was covered by new
arrears). The most difficult economic issue facing the transition government, appointed by the National
Conference in April 1993, is how to deal with this financial crisis, in particular how to pay civil servants
and arrears to domestic suppliers who are on the verge of bankruptcy. Paradoxically, real economic
growth for 1991 and 1992 averaged 8% as favorable weather conditions led to strong growth in output
of food crops and cotton. However, the economic picture is less favorable than these figures indicate.
Though difficult to measure, a strong contraction in monetized, economic activity seems to be occurring
with the deepening of the budget crisis, decline of the cotton sector, and a substantial drop in investment.
C. Bank's Assistance Strategy
1.8          The Bank's assistance strategy supports the objectives of alleviating poverty and
improving the prospects for long-term growth by: (i) increasing the accessibility and quality of basic
social services; (ii) increasing incomes through productivity increases and improved services (including
transportation) to the agricultural sector where the majority of the population live and work; (iii)
improving basic infrastructure which serves to increase competitiveness and improve welfare; (iv)
promoting employment generation and entrepreneurship by encouraging the provision of services by the
private sector; (v) supporting the reallocation of public expenditures towards development purposes; and
(v) promoting a coherent strategy for tapping the potential of the energy sector.
1.9          The assistance strategy is flexible and designed to build on Chad's positive attributes,
continue the policy dialogue and adjust rapidly to an improvement in country conditions. Under the
current circumstances, the Bank is implementing a core program of support to alleviate poverty through
activities that address basic poverty issues, place minimal demands on Government administration and
finances, make maximum use of non-Government capabilities; and improve the prospects for long-term
growth. It emphasizes operations that can succeed now and yield benefits for the next generation: health,
education, agriculture, infrastructure, and energy. The Bank is working with Government towards a
redefinition of its role combined with a major effort to build the capacity of private business, community,
and voluntary organizations. The Bank will continue to work actively towards establishment of a macro-
economic framework that meets stabilization goals. (The Bank's Country Assistance Strategy is fully
explained in the Memorandum of the President for the Chad Education Project discussed by the Board
in May 1993.)



4
II. THE TRANSPORT SECTOR
A. Background
2.1          Chad's survival and future development as a landlocked country almost 2,000 km from
the sea with vast distances between the main urban centers depends on adequate transportation capacity
and reduced transport costs. Among the major characteristics of Chad's transport sector are the
predominance of the highway subsector which accounts for the bulk of domestic and international traffic,
and the limited volume of inter-urban passenger traffic, which was seriously disrupted by war and is still
negligible. There is no railway, nor are there any feasible plans to build one. Seasonal inland water
transport is possible on a few river sections and certain parts of Lake Chad, though navigability of
waterways has generally been negatively affected in recent years by erratic rainfall patterns. Because of
this, a meaningful strategy for Chad's transport sector must be focused on the highway network and the
trucking industry.
2.2          Highway Subsector. Chad's highway network consists of about 7,300 km of classified
roads (i.e. roads for whose maintenance the central government is formally responsible) and 24,000 km
of unclassified tracks in rural areas. The highway network suffered from many years of inadequate or
non-existent maintenance (particularly during the 1979-82 war). As a result, in 1986 only 30 km of
paved roads were in good condition out of the mere 300 km that existed before the war. Since then,
donor intervention, including strong and continuous IDA support has permitted the rehabilitation of about
3000 km out of the 3800 km considered by Government and the donors to constitute the priority road
network. The priority road network has been defined as the smallest subset of classified roads providing
adequate links between N'Djamena and major domestic centers of economic activity and between Chad
and neighboring countries. Out of the 3000 km rehabilitated, only 263 km have been paved; the rest
have been rehabilitated to modem earth road standards.
2.3          The rehabilitation works have stimulated road traffic levels that are considerably higher
than the forecasts made at the time of TSAIP appraisal. The traffic on paved roads ranges from 150 to
200 vehicles per day, while on modern earth roads the average is 50 vehicles per day. Between 1989
and 1992 the yearly growth in traffic was 25% with 50% of heavy trucks transporting both cotton
products and agricultural products grown in the area, as well as imported manufactured goods.
2.4          According to official statistics, domestic freight transport by road handles about 330,000
tons per year; of this 150,000 tons represents traffic internal to the relatively small cotton zone and
45,000 tons the distribution of petroleum products. Domestic food flows in a normal year are estimated
at about 15,000 tons.
2.5          7rucking Industry. Historically, road freight transport in Chad has been characterized
by a high degree of regulation and lack of competition. The Cooperative des Transporteurs Tchadiens
(CIT), which was liquidated under the TSAIP, was the cornerstone of this regulatory framework.
Following independence, CTT was created to help organize small Chadian transporters to compete with
Unitchadienne, a large foreign-owned transport company. In 1987, the Government passed legislation
giving C'T an absolute monopoly over all freight transport, international and domestic. Also in 1987,
the Government dissolved CTT's Board of Directors and established a Managing Committee whose
members were appointed by Government, effectively placing CTT directly under its control.



5
2.6           Since CTT was the road freight transport monopoly, it was legally entitled to centralize
all supply and demand. On the one hand, all truckers were required to become members of CTT and
to indicate to CTT their availability. On the other hand, all shippers were required to indicate to CTT
their transport needs. On the basis of information received from truckers and shippers, CTT matched
freight transport demand and supply according to internal procedures that were far from transparent.
CTT charged freight rates established by the Ministry of Transport and Civil Aviation (on the basis of
cost data supplied by CTr itself). It kept a commission equivalent to 10% of invoice amounts, which
some members complained was too high for the services provided by CTT. CTT was also in charge of
collecting transport taxes on behalf of the Government and occasionally received significant subsidies
from Government for truck purchases. While some small shippers and truckers may have illegally
negotiated freight transport contracts outside the framework of CTT, larger shippers had no alternative
to the CIT.
2.7           The existence of a captive market encouraged inefficiency and high costs in the industry.
In addition, the lack of competition among truckers allowed them to capture economic rents. Transport
prices were thus doubly penalized.
2.8          In 1988, the financial status of CTT was reviewed by an international auditor who
produced a proforma statement for fiscal year 1988. Inadequate accounting and irregularities had so far
hidden the extent of its financial problems. CIT not only had a current negative net worth and deficitary
earning capacity, but it had accumulated significant arrears in transferring to the Treasury the taxes that
it had collected on behalf of Government. In addition, CTT was coming under increasing criticism from
some CTT members, who were unhappy with the distribution of available freight, and by some shippers
who were disappointed with the quality of service. The combination of the complaints, the audit report
and increasing pressure from donors to liberalize the sector finally convinced the Government that CTT
had outlived its usefulness and that there was no alternative to its liquidation.
2.9           The Transport Sector Adjustment/Investment Project (TSAIP) (Credit 2007-CD) was
undertaken to support Government decision to implement a major policy reform package focusing on the
liberalization of the road transport industry, including specifically the abolition of CTT's monopoly (and
its liquidation) and a return to free contract negotiation between shippers and truckers. Government also
adopted a full liberalization of freight tariffs, by abolishing all government intervention in tariff
determination. These policy reforms became effective in December 1989 and resulted in the creation of
the three private groupings of independent truckers which substantially contributed to enhanced
competitiveness among truckers and to reduced transport rates.
2.10          In addition, a National Freight Bureau (BNF) was created to operate, under the overall
supervision of the Ministry of Public Works and Transport, as a non-profit clearing-house making
publicly available all demand and supply information provided by shippers and truckers. On the basis
of this information, shippers and truckers could enter into freely-negotiated transport contracts, recorded
by BNF for statistical purposes. BNF also started collecting freight taxes on behalf of the Treasury. A
recent audit of BNF showed that its mandate and statutes were satisfactory (although some amendments
are needed to more clearly specify its attributes), but that serious improvements are needed in its
management, notably with respect to financial management.
2.11         Air Transport. There is one international airport in Chad, serving the capital city of
N'Djamena, and a handful of smaller airports, of whiclh only those at Abeche, Sarh, Moundou, and Faya-
Largeau are in acceptable working condition. Air Tchad, the national airline, is a government-owned



6
enterprise which runs domestic scheduled flights and international charter services. Domestic commercial
air traffic is relatively light (about 8,000 passengers per year), but international traffic has grown rapidly
since 1982. N'Djamena airport handles annually about 2,000 international flights involving about 36,000
passengers and 6,500 tons of air freight. Regular domestic air service is provided by Air Tchad between
N'Djamena, Sarh, Moundou, Abeche, Mongo and recently Faya-Largeau. Demand for domestic air
transport is highly seasonal and average load factors are quite low. Although some domestic flights
operate at a loss, the Government attached great importance to them during the current post-war
reconstruction and unification period. Given the vast expanse of the country, the impossibility of
providing economically efficient road infrastructure beyond the priority network and the continuing
importance of promoting national integration, domestic air transport will continue to play an important
role in Chad's development for the foreseeable future.
2.12          Despite the extensive support given by Government, including the free transfer of two
planes and free technical assistance provided by the French, Air Tchad was virtually bankrupt in 1988
with an operating deficit of CFAF 685 million and a negative equity of CFAF 223 million. In that
context, it was agreed under the TSAIP to adopt a restructuring plan for Air Tchad through an Action
Plan agreed upon with IDA and signed by the Government and Air Tchad. Performance under the Action
Plan did not meet expectations (see para. 2.35), and the issue will be taken up in a revised form under
the proposed project (see para. 4.19).
B. IDA Involvement in the Transport Sector
2.13          IDA's post-war involvement in the transport sector began in 1986. IDA considered that
top priority should be given to restoring Chad's road maintenance capability in order to support the
largely uncoordinated efforts of many donors who were involved in rehabilitating parts of the main road
network. Good roads were urgently needed to restore the economy, particularly the cotton industry (the
country's main foreign exchange earner).
2.14          The Government had prepared an Interim Plan for 1986-88 which was presented to
donors at a Round Table Conference held in December 1985 under the sponsorship of the United Nations
Development Programme (UNDP).  In the plan, the Government identified the following broad
objectives:  achieve food self-sufficiency; resettle the population; reconstitute the livestock herd;
rehabilitate the transport system; and intensify, increase, and diversify export production, with a special
emphasis on cotton.
2.15          7he Highway Maintenance Project (Cr. 1728-CD). This project, approved on July 26,
1986, was the first post-war intervention by IDA and was designed to complement the efforts of other
donors in the sector and to initiate effective donor aid-coordination. It covered the first two years of a
five-year maintenance program for the priority road network. In addition to the high priority maintenance
program, the project supported studies and technical assistance for restructuring and strengthening the
road authority--Office National des Routes (OFNAR)--and training staff in OFNAR and other transport
policy-making agencies, in particular the Ministry of Transport and Civil Aviation. The goal of the
project was to develop, at least in nucleus form by 1988, the capacity to plan, manage and implement
a sustainable program of rehabilitation and maintenance of the high priority network. The specific
objectives were:



7
(a)   to develop the logistical (material and managerial) capacity within OFNAR to
maintain and manage the priority network;
(b)   to safeguard the road rehabilitation works already completed by foreign aid and
to ensure their maintenance, for which no provision had been made;
(c)   to re-establish normal use of the road network by repairing a damaged bridge,
the dilapidated ferries, and an unserviceable industrial road serving N'Djamena;
and
(d)   to assist in organizing the transport sector as a whole and the road sub-sector in
particular.
2.16         7he Road Reconstruction Project (Credit 1901-CD). The main objective of the Road
Reconstruction Project, approved on April 26, 1988, was to ensure timely completion of the agreed upon
high-priority program. Two formerly paved roads-between Djermaya and N'Djamena and between
N'Djamena and Guelengdeng-would be reconstructed, thereby reestablishing the urgently needed all-
weather access and unimpeded flow of goods and passengers along the main North/South corridor of the
country's road network.
2.17         These two important trunk roads were part of the pre-war 300 km paved road system
which had suffered severe deterioration through lack of maintenance. The N'Djamena-Djermaya road
(30 kim) was a key link in the country's northern road system. Although it was among the first sections
to be rehabilitated to gravel road standards in 1985 with financing from the French Government Aid
Agency (FAC), it had deteriorated rapidly again due to heavy traffic and poor soil conditions. The
second link (146 kim) connects N'Djamena to Guelengdeng, the first leg of the N'Djamena-Guelengdeng-
Bongor-Moundou axis (505 kIm) connecting the capital with the centers of industrial and agricultural
production in the Southern zone. (he reconstruction of the Guelengdeng-Bongor-Moundou section was
fully financed by German aid (KfW) and the BDEAC under the Transport Sector Adjustment/Investment
Project. The execution of the works is expected to start in September 1993.)
2.18         The Highway Maintenance Project and the Road Reconstruction Project were both
designed to help the Government carry out its post-war reconstruction efforts and strengthen its road
rehabilitation and maintenance capability. While focussed on short-term needs, the two projects also
served as a vehicle for dialogue between the Government and IDA in connection with major policy issues
and long-term options and provided the Government and the Association with an opportunity to prepare
a Comprehensive Transport Sector Strategy.
2.19         The transport Sector Adjustment/Investment Project (Cr. 2007-CD, approved on April
25, 1989). The comprehensive Transport Sector Strategy was conceived and designed as a vehicle to
support a Transport Sector Investment Plan (1988-93) and a package of major policy reforms. It also
served as a vehicle for coordinating donor involvement in Chad's road rehabilitation effort as a result of
which the transport sector has become a centerpiece of donor assistance in Chad.
2.20         The foundation of the Transport Sector Strategy is the premise that, in the medium to
long-term, Chad's economic growth will continue to depend essentially on agriculture and livestock. The
performance of the agriculture and livestock sectors depend on three main factors: climatic conditions,
the cost of production and the cost of distribution. Important in determining the latter two factors are



8
the cost and price of transporting inputs and outputs. Transport costs and prices in Chad have historically
been significantly higher than in neighboring countries because of (a) high vehicle operating costs due
to poor road conditions; (b) inefficiencies and monopoly price determination in the trucking industry; and
(c) inefficiencies and high costs resulting from limited competition in the road construction industry. It
was these obstacles to the efficient functioning of the sector--and hence the economy-- that the Transport
Sector Strategy sought to attack.
2.21          The Government thus formulated a Transport Sector Adjustment/Investment Project
(TSAIP, Cr. 2007-CD), which consisted of an integrated package of major policy reforms and
investments designed to be carried out concurrently in order to yield the full extent of potential benefits.
Without investments in road rehabilitation and maintenance, vehicle operating costs would remain high;
without increased competition in road construction there could not be any cost savings in road
rehabilitation and maintenance, and, as a result, more resources would be needed to provide a given
quantity of transport infrastructure. And, without liberalization and deregulation, the savings in vehicle
operating costs would not be passed on to shippers and consumers.
2.22          Given Chad's landlocked situation, the reduction in the cost and price of transport supply
can be expected to have a greater developmental impact than in countries where the incidence of transport
costs and prices is less pronounced. In particular, the creation of a deregulated trucking industry, free
from administered tariffs, operating on a well-maintained road network was expected to reduce
significantly the cost and the price of transport, to elicit a supply response from the productive sectors
on the economy and, thus, to act as a stimulant to economic development.
2.23          Actions under the Project. The actions designed under the TSAIP to implement the
strategy outlined above were:
(a)    a Government Transport Sector Investment Plan 1988-1993 aimed at completing
by 1993, the rehabilitation of the 3.800 km priority road network;
(b)    adoption of adequate road construction and design standards for the priority road
network which, given soil conditions and traffic forecasts, should be consistent
with the minimization of discounted capital and recurrent costs over the lifetime
of the road;
(c)    improvements in resource mobilization, notably from three different sources:
-      the improvement of performance on petroleum tax collection
-      the increase of petroleum tax rates
-      the creation of new road user charges
and resource allocation to ensure that, once rehabilitated, priority roads would
not fall back into disrepair;
(d)    abolishing CTT's monopoly and returning to free contract negotiations between
shippers and truckers;
(e)    liberalize freight tariffs;
(f)    increase the role of the Private Sector in road construction and maintenance:



9
the promotion of more extensive international competitive bidding for
road rehabilitation
the implementation of a training program to assist small and medium
sized contractors to undertake road maintenance;
(g)    reorganize sector institutions to clarify responsibilities, increase efficiency and
streamline administrative procedures; and
(h)   implement a restructuring program for Air Tchad.
All the actions listed above were achieved except the restructuring of Air Tchad and the resource
allocation for road maintenance; those objectives and targets were partially met.
2.24          The TSAIP, however, was restructured in 1992 due to the deterioration of the
macroeconomic situation following the abrupt change of government in December 1990. In fact, despite
the strong performance on sectoral reforms, the Government has experienced difficulties in re-establishing
macroeconomic balance. Specifically, revenue collection has proven difficult and overall budgetary
management has been weak, notably with respect to the civilian wage bill. As a result of this precarious
macroeconomic situation, IDA, at the request of the Government, reallocated the quick disbursing funds
to the investment component. Nonetheless, the restructuring pursued all the objectives of the initial
project and did not affect the policy reform package.
C. Implementation and Achievements of the Three Previous Projects
2.25          Overall, the three projects have made a significant contribution to restoring Chad's
transport sector to a level of performance that enables it to play a substantial role in the economic
development of the country. Compared with the other parts of the administration, the transport sector
is a model in terms of planning, implementation, resource mobilization and allocation, deregulation and
liberalization. It stands out as being a functioning sector in a country fraught with macroeconomic
problems, inefficient administration and chronic political instability. It is in large part due to the
existence of the three projects and to strong IDA pressure for effectiveness in project implementation that
the transport sector has been substantially protected from the problems that have afflicted almost all other
sectors. This is not to say that there have not been problems, but the achievements far outweigh the
problems. The following two sections set out the achievements and the unfinished agenda.
2.26          Physical Achievements. All three projects have been extremely successful in meeting their
physical targets. Under the Highway Maintenance Project, 2500 km of road were maintained and 600
km were rehabilitated. Costs were below appraisal estimates, the project was completed on schedule and
the Project Completion Report (PCR) confirmed that the economic rates of return were higher than
appraisal estimates (30%  compared with 21%).  The Road Reconstruction Project financed the
reconstruction of 254 km of paved roads. This project was also completed on time, within budget and
with a higher than estimated rate of return (20% compared with 13% even after the strengthening of
construction standards).
2.27          Seen as a whole, these projects achieved desired results, especially in a region where
transport projects typically suffer from substantial cost and time overruns and where rates of return are



10
frequently below appraisal estimates. The proposed project will continue to pursue the road rehabilitation
and maintenance objectives of its predecessors to ensure that roads are not allowed to slip back into
disrepair. It will also begin to expand investment interventions to rural roads connecting agricultural
production areas to the priority road network.
2.28         Financial Achievements. One of the important objectives of the TSAIP was to improve
resource mobilization and allocation to highway maintenance. External mobilization was excellent,
mainly due to IDA's active leadership in aid coordination. By December 1992, the rehabilitation of the
remaining sections of the 3,800 km of priority road network had been fully funded. Internal resource
mobilization for counterpart funding of external commitments and for routine maintenance was adequate
and allocated in a timely manner through FY91. A decline has been experienced since FY92, largely due
to the aftermath of the disturbances that disrupted political and economic life in Chad. Budgetary
contributions to routine road maintenance were adequate for 1989 and 1990 and amounted to 92% of the
target in 1991 despite the difficult budgetary situation. The budgetary allocation for the 1992 budget was
adequate, but difficulties with liquidity led to problems and delays in the actual transfer of resources.
950 million CFAF representing 70% of the FY92 allocation for road maintenance were actually paid.
The routine maintenance program continued to be executed efficiently; however, arrears were built up
concerning suppliers and the salaries of OFNAR workers. In addition, even though the level and
timeliness of funds allocated to road routine maintenance has not completely met targets, it is worth
noting that, in terms of the percentage of committed funds allocated, Chad is substantially above the
average of other Sahelian countries. Given that problems have been noted, the proposed project is
introducing--as up-front measures--mechanisms to improve future performance (see para. 4.6).
2.29         Liberalization and Deregulation Achievements.  The program of liberalization and
deregulation agreed upon under the TSAIP has been implemented with positive results. The CTI was
liquidated in April 1989, thus eliminating the monopoly on freight allocation. All road transport tariffs
and freight allocations were liberalized in November 1990. Truckers and shippers are now free to enter
into private negotiation to determine shipping contract terms, conditions and prices. Since certain vested
interests continue to try to undermine the liberalization process, it will be important in the proposed
project to include assurances from the Government that they will not take any steps that might tend to
undermine the remarkable progress that has been achieved (see para. 4.7).
2.30         Development Achievements. Improved roads and the liberalization of the transport sector
have resulted in an average 30% reduction of transport rates (not just costs). The following table shows
how these reduced transport rates translate into savings for consumers:
Cost in CFAF        N'Djamena                  AbWeh                  Moundou
Millet     Cement       Millet     Cement       Millet     Cement
100 kg      50 kg       100 kg      50 kg       100 kg      50 kg
1989           7400        3250        9000        3800        8000        3800
1991           6200        3100        4500        3500        4000        3200
1992           4500        3000        4000        3250        3000        3000



11
2.31         Achievements in Privatization. The privatization process made progress in some areas,
although delays occurred concerning private sector involvement in road maintenance activities.
Privatization of the Mani quarry operation was completed in December 1989. All periodic maintenance
and rehabilitation works, because of their size and complexity, are currently carried out by private
expatriate contractors. OFNAR has proved reluctant to put routine maintenance works--that could be
carried out by local contractors--out to bid, preferring to keep them for its own maintenance brigades.
Research work has confirmed that there are small Chadian firms with the capacity to carry out certain
works such as pothole filling, ditch cleaning and small bridge construction. Three pilot projects
demonstrated that local contractors were able to respond to simplified and standardized bidding
procedures. Consequently, measures will be introduced under the proposed project to prevent OFNAR
from blocking future progress in the area and to ensure that a growing proportion of routine maintenance
is entrusted to the private sector (see paras. 4.13-16 and 4.22-24). The emergency food aid vehicle fleet,
which was being operated by Government on an unfair competitive basis, has been disbanded and sold
at an auction to private sector operators.
2.32         In contrast, one extremely successful privatization operation is the Autonomous Road
Brigade which became fully operational as a private public works company (Entreprise Tchadienne des
Travaux Publics) on January 1, 1993.
2.33         The autonomous brigade was constituted in 1990 when bids were launched to rehabilitate
300 km of earth roads in the Guera region in the center of the country. Five offers were received from
expatriate firms, the lowest of which was twice as high as the project cost estimate. The analysis of the
offers showed clearly that the contractors were trying to cover the costs of potential risks of war by
adding an amortization margin to their estimates, resulting in a cost/km of CFAF 50 million. It was
decided, therefore, to cancel the bids and to create an autonomous brigade (detached from OFNAR) with
its own budget covering all operating costs including staff salaries, equipment amortization and technical
assistance. The works were completed in two years under the supervision of a German consulting firm.
Tlhe average cost/km of the road construction came to 23 million CFAF/km (10% below the consultant
estimates and 54% below the private contractors' offers). The quality of the works performed and the
ability of the brigade to perform adequately in difficult conditions, made it relatively easy to privatize the
brigade and to find a large number of private Chadian partners. The equity of 200 million CFAF has
been fully subscribed (47% by individual private Chadians, 23% by the staff of the company, 10% by
a private commercial bank, 10% by an expatriate firm and 10% by OFNAR.) It is worth mentioning that
no civil servant is among the shareholders. The privatization of this brigade is a perfect illustration of
what can be achieved if private initiative is protected from government interference. It is serving as a
model for the privatization of OFNAR, the first steps of which will be carried out under the proposed
project (see paras. 4.13-15).
2.34         The institution-buildingcomponent related to transport public sector organization was well
executed with reasonable performance by the consultants, many of whom were serving, by design, in line
positions. However, the capacity-building has been uneven. While management skills improved visibly
in accounting and procurement, the Chadians are still relying heavily on expatriate technical assistance
for planning, programming and works supervision activities. Part of the explanation is that there are not
enough staff well-trained to occupy all the key positions and Chadians have had to rely on technical
assistance to overcome these shortcomings. The problem is compounded by a high turnover of high level
staff and frequent cabinet reshuffles which affected the sector, both of which have disrupted training
efforts. Despite these constraints, the key positions in the Ministry as well as in OFNAR are held by



12
staff with good technical qualifications both at central and regional levels. It is hoped that such staff will
remain in the Civil Service in spite of its limited possibilities for advancement, low salaries and erratic
salary payments. Under the proposed project, in-house resident technical assistance will be substantially
reduced in favor of more short term assistance in order to allow (and to oblige) competent Chadians to
express their talent, instead of being tempted to hand over their responsibilities (see para. 4.30).
2.35         Air Tchad Restructuring Achievements.  The rehabilitation of Air Tchad is not yet
completed. The original objectives, set out in an Action Plan, aimed at (a) providing for Government
to compensate Air Tchad for losses incurred in supplying exclusive transport to isolated areas and (b)
adopting a set of targets designed to reduce Air Tchad operating costs and increase its autonomy from
government interference. Neither Government nor Air Tchad managed to comply with the Action Plan
and Air Tchad began experiencing renewed financial difficulties. After discussions with IDA, a new
management team, established in August 1992, introduced a number of changes, including reduced
management salaries, which are starting to reverse the trend. The new teamn also initiated negotiations
for a management contract with an external airline company.  Since the company appears to be
fundamentally salvageable, IDA has agreed to the establishment of a new Performance Plan for the
company for the period 1994-1996. This Performance Plan will be closely monitored under the proposed
project (see para. 4.19).
D. Lessons Learned and Remaining Sectoral Issues
2.36          The most important lesson learned is the value of an integrated package of policy reforms
and investments (it permits the achievement of more substantial benefits than pursuing the two agendas
separately). It also keeps the focus on the broad sectoral and development objectives, particularly where
economic ministries like Planning and Finance are concerned. With non-integrated projects, the debate
is often relegated to the technical ministries that have neither the competence nor the interest to resolve
critical issues related to sector financing and strategic policy setting on issues such as privatization. In
this case, the economic ministries were represented actively on the TSAIP interministerial steering
committee and participated actively in broad-ranging debates on issues that linked the sectoral objectives
to macro-economic policy. This approach will be continued in the proposed project.
2.37          In addition, an important lesson was learned regarding the long-term sustainability of
transport sector development and the need to focus on the precise mechanics of resource allocation. A
generic agreement on a dollar allocation to the sector is not enough. Real progress depends on a good
understanding of the tasks of the Minister of Finance and on careful management of the resource
allocation process (at least in the short-term) to ensure that good habits are developed. The TSAIP
supervision effort has focused on these issues and, despite the country's severe financial difficulties, the
sector has been reasonably well insulated from the financial problems that have plagued other sectors.
The challenge under the proposed project will be to consolidate these habits and to establish the
embryonic systems as permanent, fully internalized, reliable, sector-funding instruments (see para. 4.6).
2.38          Finally, we learned that greater private sector involvement requires a more fundamental
mental revolution than was first thought. Civil servants simply cannot be expected to promote the private
sector. What is required is a judicious combination of capacity-building based on reorganization and
restructuring of the public administration to perform more efficiently by using private management tools
and methods in utilizing financial and human resources, and capacity-tapping through greater private
sector involvement in public works construction programs as well as in transport services. The whole



13
process of planning, bidding, contracting, supervision and payments has to be rethought from the ground
up. The proposed project will take up the unfinished agenda of the TSAIP regarding institution building
and private sector involvement in an attempt to undertake this revolution through streamlined public
institutions, procedures and practices, and greater self-reliance among civil servants, combined with
contracting out of as much as possible of design, supervision and construction tasks to take maximum
advantage of private sector talent (see paras. 4.9-4.12, and 4.22-4.24).
2.39          The TSAIP did not explicitly address issues of the environment since the vast majority
of the project was aimed at rehabilitating and maintaining existing infrastructure with negligible
environmental impacts. In addition, the weakness of the administration was construed as an impediment
to establishing any kind of environmental management capacity. Since some improvements have been
made in sectoral administration, it is now believed that the time has come to begin to develop a basic
transport sector environmental program, which will focus on the establishment of a system of
environmental assessments. The assessments would be carried out by the private sector, but the Ministry
of Public Works and Transport would have to develop the capacity to manage the process and to interpret
the results. In addition, based on sector work results produced in the Sahel Department, the Ministry
would begin to introduce into its bidding documents and construction contracts clauses relating to the
environmental correctness of designs and on environmental protection and conservation measures to be
adopted during and after construction. Finally, the Ministry would carry out pilot projects to test the
feasibility of incorporating small water retention schemes (mini-dams) into road design (see also para.
4.26).
2.40          A final, but essential element of the proposed project, designed to counterbalance the
land-locked conditions of Chad, is a Regional Integration Program which will improve the regional routes
between Chad and Cameroon in particular, thereby facilitating transit operations through international
transport corridors (see para. 4.274.29).
III. RATIONALE FOR IDA INVOLVEMENT
3.1           A major objective of IDA's strategy in supporting Government's economic stabilization
process is to encourage it to maintain sound national investment policies and improve its competitiveness
in regional markets by reducing the cost of production inputs and outputs. Transportation has been at
the core of IDA's strategy over the past six years and road maintenance is still part of the core program
along with education and health. The proposed project supports these objectives, particularly those
related to private sector development, employment creation, and poverty alleviation. Furthermore, the
implementation of a set of sector policy actions and a comprehensive infrastructure rehabilitation and
maintenance program have already improved internal and external exchanges. Expanding and improving
both is essential to achieve economic growth. IDA's intervention would also help the Government to
coordinate and channel donor support to those activities that would contribute to a well-managed and -
maintained road network.
3.2          In addition, IDA's extensive country experience as well as its management experience in
the Sahelian region continues to contribute substantially to its successful leadership in coordinating donor
interventions.



14
IV. THE PROPOSED SECOND TRANSPORT SECTOR INVESTMENT PROJECT
A. Project Objectives
4.1          The main development objectives of the proposed project are: (a) to help stimulate
industrial and agricultural development and regional trade through consolidated improvements in transport
sector efficiency focussing on continued reductions in vehicle operating costs and improvement in the
efficiency of the transport market; (b) to continue to improve public investment efficiency, transparency
and budgetary management; (c) to improve internal resource mobilization to meet the long-term need for
routine road maintenance; (d) to promote private sector involvement in road maintenance and strengthen
the road transport industry; and (e) to streamline and continue to improve public administration of the
sector. To achieve these objectives, the proposed Second Transport Sector Project (TSP II) would
implement: (a) the consolidation agenda to ensure that the positive achievements under TSAIP are
maintained, (b) the continuing agenda of sectoral objectives that were only partially met under TSAIP
and (c) the evolving agenda to address newly introduced long-term issues for the transport sector. In
summary, the content of the agendas is as follows:
Consolidatlion Agenda:    investment planning
road maintenance
resource mobilization and allocation
liberalization and deregulation
Continuing Agenda         institution building
private sector involvement
Evolving Agenda           secondary agricultural road rehabilitation
environment
regional integration and trade facilitation
In line with the lesson learned that an integrated strategy encompassing policy reforms and physical
interventions is essential for sustainability, the project description presented below sets out in an
integrated manner the programs of policy objectives and the institutional measures and the physical
supporting investment components for each agenda item.
B. Project Description
The Consolidation Agenda
4.2          Sector Investment Planning Program. Under the TSAIP, the Government adopted a
transport sector strategy that included the following commitments:
(a)    Government would allocate priority in road expenditure to covering the full cost
of routine maintenance of the priority network. In addition, Government would
also allocate adequate resources to cover the operating costs of the Directorate
of Roads which is the key agency to implement the program.



15
(b)    Government would include in the Road Investment Program for the 1994-1998
period only the 3,800 km priority main road network and the 960 km secondary
agricultural roads network and would only include roads that were demonstrated
to be economically justifiable; and
(c)    Government would open execution not only of periodic, but also of routine
maintenance, works to private contractors, including small and medium scale
local firms.
These commitments are reiterated in the Letter of Transport Sector Policy that was presented to the
donors in November 1992 (attached as Annex 5). During negotiations, Government gave assurances
that it will continue to apply these principles throughout the life of the TSP II (para. 7.2(b)); i.e., (a) that
it will only rehabilitate the roads identified under the Road Investment Program, and any other roads
meeting a 12% economic rate of return, and (b) will apply the alignment, design and construction
standards acceptable to the Association (see para. 7.2(m)). During negotiations, Government confirmed
its intention not to undertake any investment or acquisition of transport equipment above an aggregate
amount of CFAF 200 million annually that are not included in the Investment Program without the prior
consent of IDA (para. 7.2(c)).
4.3          Road Maintenance and Rehabilitation Program.  The major physical investment
component of the TSP II for the five year period (1994-98) would be a program of routine and periodic
maintenance aimed at keeping the priority main and secondary agricultural network (a total of 4,760 km)
in adequate condition to handle traffic. Since previous projects focussed on the rehabilitation of the main
priority road network, the program under the TSP II will ensure:
(a)   the routine and periodic maintenance (including bridge strengthening) of the
already rehabilitated sections of the 3800 km main priority network;
(b)   the routine and periodic maintenance of 960 km of secondary roads with
agricultural potential, including cotton feeder roads; and
(c)    a bridge rehabilitation and maintenance program.
T he works will be carried out on the basis of adequate road design standards which, given soil conditions
and traffic and the scarcity of resources for future road maintenance, have been chosen to require a higher
initial investment but aim at reducing future maintenance costs. The road links to be rehabilitated and
the corresponding standards are listed in Annex 8. During negotiations, Government confirmed its
intention to continue to employ alignment and construction standards and designs acceptable to the
Association (para. 7.2(m).
4.4          The Road Maintenance (routine and periodic) Component which will support this program
is summarized in the table below:



16
Priority Main Network                 Secondary roads
km of roads   1994   1995   1996   1997   1998   1994   1995   1996   1997  1998
Periodic       703   304    328    280    260    140    120    100    60          40
Maintenance
Routine       3097  3496   3472   3520   3540    820    840    860   900    920
Maintenance                      _
Total         3800   3800      3800     3800    3800    960    960    960   960    960
In addition, the project will support the rehabilitation of 300 km out of the 960 km secondary priority
road network with agricultural potential. This rehabilitation subcomponent includes three roads intended
to open up the high potential Salamat agricultural region to urban markets in the North (Abeche),
Northeast (N'Djamena) and South (Sahr, Moundou, Guelengdeng) of the country.
4.5          Resource Mobilization and Allocation Program. As in the case of the TSAIP, one
important objective of the TSP II is that rehabilitated roads should not fall back into disrepair. The large
amount of financing required for the road rehabilitation program is only justifiable if the rehabilitated
roads are adequately maintained during their lifetime. In this respect, financial resource mobilization is
crucial. The Government was able to comply with routine maintenance requirements of the road network
until 1991, but in fiscal year 1992, only 70% of the required funds were allocated. To its credit, despite
this shortage, Chad still remains the best performer in routine maintenance resources mobilization of all
other African countries, particularly of the Sahelian countries. Nonetheless, increasing fiscal revenues
and strengthening financial management is essential to ensure that the road maintenance program is
adequately financed on a sustainable long-term basis.
4.6          To ensure adequate funding for road maintenance and counterpart funding, the
Government agreed during negotiations to allocate CFAF 1,800 million for FY94, including CFAF
1,300 million for routine maintenance and 115 million for the Directorate of Roads operating budget,
CFAF 2,000 million for FY95 including CFAF 1,500 million for routine maintenance and CFAF 120
million for the Directorate of Roads operating budget, CFAF 2,200 million for FY96 including CFAF
1,700 million for routine maintenance and CFAF 125 million for the Directorate of Roads operating
budget. CFAF 2,400 million for FY97 including CFAF 1,900 million for routine maintenance and CFAF
130 million for the Directorate of Roads operating budget, and CFAF 2,600 million for FY98 including
CFAF 2,100 million for routine maintenance and CFAF 135 million for the Directorate of Roads
operating budget (para 7.2 (a). These sums will be raised through freight taxes, petroleum taxation and
tolls on ferries and bridges. To ensure these funds are made available for road maintenance in a timely
manner, it has been agreed, as an interim measure and in consultation with the IMF, to create in a
commercial bank the Compte autonome d'entretien routier (CAER), an autonomous account for road
maintenance. During negotiations, agreement was reached that CAER will be created by instrument and
with operating procedures satisfactory to IDA and that CAER will be established in a commercial bank
for which withdrawal shall be made exclusively by MTPT for the payment of rehabilitation works, road
maintenance works of the priority road network and operating budget of the Directorate of Roads (para.
7.2(d)). In addition, it was agreed that CAER will operate in conformity with such operating procedures
during the preceding two months before effectiveness (para 7.3(g)). This account will be audited on a



17
quarterly basis (para. 5.13). The road maintenance account will receive directly, and on a monthly
basis, proceeds generated by freight taxes collected by BNF, ferry and bridge tolls, and the current share
(19.5%) of petroleum taxes. The allocations will be as follows:
Allocation   Ferries  N'Gueli bridge    Freight    Petroleum      Total     Monthly
Million CFAF                               taxes        taxes                Allocation
1993           50             240          570         640        1500         130
1994           50             250          600         900        1800         150
1995           50             260          630        1060        2000         165
1996           50             280          660        1310        2200         180
1997           50             300          700        1450        2400         200
1998           50             300          700        1550        2600         215
The system of monthly allocations was initiated in November 1992 and the November and December
1992 allocations were made satisfactorily. Despite some difficulties resulting from the operating
mechanisms for the autonomous account, allocations have also been made for the first five months of
1993. During negotiations, agreement was reached on the monthly allocations (as indicated above) to
be deposited into the Autonomous Account for Road Maintenance (CAER) (para. 7.2(e)). An annual
technical and financial review will be conducted to ensure that the amounts allocated during the previous
year were actually spent in accordance with the agreement above. It is worth noting that the average
yearly allocation for road maintenance over the period 1994-98 represents only 3.4% of the General
Expenditures Budget of Chad for FY92, considered to be a bad year for revenue collection.
4.7          LUberalizationandDeregulation Program. The liberalizationand deregulation agenda was
completed under TSAIP. The agenda under TSP II is to ensure (a) that the achievements of TSAIP not
be eroded and (b) that the operations and management of the Bureau National de Fret (BNF) be
improved. BNF will be provided technical assistance to support it in carrying out its missions of road
transport information broker and fiscal collection. The important missions of the BNF are as follows:
(a)   to serve as an information center on supply and demand of transport capacity for
both users of transport (shippers) and transport operators (truckers);
(b)   to monitor the share of freight carried by national and regional operators under
bilateral agreements;
(c)   to ensure the timely, efficient, and transparent collection of revenues related to
the Lettre de Voiture Obligatoire (LVO);
(d)   to gather statistics on freight transport; and
(e)   to provide the autonomous account for road maintenance (CAER) with revenues
collected from freight taxes.



18
During negotiations, Government gave assurances that it will continue its policy to keep road transport
tariffs free, freight allocations unregulated, and other basic shipping contract terms unregulated.
The Continuing Agenda
4.8          Institution-Building Program. One of the most important objectives of the TSP II is to
continue to improve institutional strengthening actions started under the previous transport projects.
Particular attention will be given to management issues and capacity-building to strengthen Government's
capacity to devise and implement appropriate transport sector policies and to plan and manage the
development of transport infrastructure and services. The project will assist the Government through
technical assistance, training, and consulting services (a) to increase the efficiency of the MTPT and its
Directorates in the area of planning, programming and road maintenance works supervision, (b) to
restructure OFNAR into a Societf Nationale, and (c) to complete the restructuring of Air Tchad.
4.9          Improvements to MTPT--Road Maintenance. Institutional management and development
aimed at focussing on policy reforms to ensure that road rehabilitation is managed effectively on a long-
term basis by institutional strengthening, restructuring and broadening of ownership of transport
parastatals directed toward short-term improvements and then the establishment of realistic strategies for
diversifying ownership or privatizing them in the medium-term. This has involved a fundamental
rethinking of all the agencies under MTPT tutelage and a redefinition of their respective roles,
particularly vis-a-vis the private sector, resulting in a new approach to maintenance works execution and
profound changes in the regulatory framework and philosophy governing sector activities.
4.10          For routine road maintenance, GOC has always relied on force account for the
implementation of its road maintenance programs. Despite considerable support from IDA and other
donors to improve the Road Authority (OFNAR) and the MTPT institutional capacity to program and
execute these works, problems remain:  frequent rotations of trained staff out of the programs;
cumbersome administrative procedures that hinder timely availability of all required inputs for work
execution difficult to achieve; and commandeering of public works equipment and personnel for non-
programmed works.
4.11          The TSP II would adopt a new approach to these issues based on (a) strengthening the
capacity of the Directorate of Roads to carry out the normative tasks of planning and programming annual
maintenance interventions, and for managing and supervising works carried out by contractors; (b) the
restructuring of OFNAR to de-emphasize its role in the execution of road maintenance by force account.
Under this approach, the Directorate of Roads would operate more like a contract manager, identifying
the roads to be maintained, and the maintenance standards, elaborating the detailed engineering documents
and bidding documents (with increasing participation by local consultants), managing the bidding process,
and supervising the works (again with increasing reliance on local consultants). In effect, the directorate
would operate as a streamlined contract manager along the lines of the 'AGETIP"1' agencies. In
addition, the road management unit established within the Directorate of Roads will monitor closely the
evolution of the road network, particularly the enforcement of rain barriers regulation and the truck
overloading issue in order to minimize its negative impact on the road network. While this issue is not
yet a serious problem in Chad, the road management unit will provide data collection and analysis which
will be discussed at the mid-term review in order to assess the actions which need to be taken.
AGETIP: Agence d'ex6cution de travaux d'ist&rft public.



19
4.12         An institutional reorganization of MTPT would also be carried out with the aim of
clarifying the responsibilities within and between the various entities concerned. A draft new organigram
and cahier des charges for MTPT and its agencies were submitted at negotiations (para. 7.1(a)).
During negotiations, Government confirmed its commitment to appoint and maintain high level staff
(with qualifications and experience acceptable to IDA) to head the main Directorates in the Ministry of
Public Works and Transport and entities under its tutelage (para. 7.2(f)).
4.13         Restructuring of OFNAR. The project will restructure OFNAR into the 'National Road
Maintenance Company" (SNER), a Government-owned company (Societe Nationale) operating according
to private management principles. SNER would be allocated no more than 50% of routine maintenance
works to be carried out through direct contract with the Directorate of Roads and financed by
Government contribution. Although the works would be carried out under what is technically force
account, SNER would have to sign a "shadow contract" with MTPT that would set out the obligations
of each party. Thus, the works would be supervised and paid for by the Directorate of Roads in the same
manner as works performed by private contractors. This means that SNER will receive payments for
actual works performed at a technical standard satisfactory to the supervision team. The "shadow
contracts" will be based on unit prices which will include SNER's operating costs, including technical
assistance fees, and equipment amortization as well as the costs of the works.
4.14         For 1994-1996, SNER will be allocated works for routine maintenance not exceeding 50%
of the annual routine maintenance costs (see paras. 4.23 and 5.3). The creation of SNER will reduce
OFNAR's 17 mechanized brigades to 11. The equipment division of OFNAR will be managed by SNER
as an autonomous profit center, able to lease the equipment both to SNER works brigades as well as to
private contractors.
4.15         In the medium-term, at the end of 1996, SNER would, on the basis of its private
management experience, open its capital to private Chadians and would bid for routine maintenance works
on a competitive basis with other private contractors. In the short-term, should SNER wish to participate
in periodic maintenance or road rehabilitation, it would have to enter into the bidding process in
competition with private sector firms.
4.16         A draft statutes and procedures manual for SNER were submitted at negotiations (para.
7.1 (b)). It was also agreed as a condition of effectiveness: (a) the adoption of a dissolution plan to
terminate the operations of OFNAR; (b) the adoption of the new organigram and "cahier des charges"
for MTPT; (c) the adoption of a new statutes and procedures manual for SNER; and (d) the appointment
of a General Manager, a Technical Director, a Financial Director, and a Management Comptroller for
SNER (para. 7.3(c),(d),(e) and (f)).
4.17         While SNER would benefit from limited technical assistance, this would not be financed
under the project. SNER as an independent entity has to cover all of its costs out of the proceeds of the
"shadow contracts" that it would sign with the MTPT. The practical result of this decision will be to
dramatically reduce SNER's demand for technical assistance, thereby promoting greater responsibility
and self-reliance.
4.18         Finally, effective project implementation under TSAIP has been largely assured by the
strong performance of the Project Coordination Unit and the Interministerial Steering Committee. The
Interministerial Steering Committee chaired by the Minister of Planning and comprising the Minister of
Finance, the Minister of Transport and Public Works, and the Secretary General of the Govermment and



20
Secretary General at the Presidency was very effective in dealing with all political decisions related to
the implementation of the ongoing TSAIP. During the preparation of the TSP II, the heavy involvement
of this steering committee was instrumental in building ownership of the reforms to be undertaken and
in re-enforcing Government commitment to creating an atmosphere favorable to good implementation of
the project. To ensure that this progress continues, Government confirmed, during negotiations, its
commitment to maintain the Project Coordination Unit headed by a qualified technician whose experience
is acceptable to IDA and to maintain the Interministerial Steering Committee (para. 7.2(g)).
4.19         Restructuring of Air Tchad. The National Airline Company, Air Tchad, has been under
restructuring since 1990. This restructuring, which should have been completed by December 31, 1992,
was designed to enable Air Tchad to become autonomous and more efficient by adopting private sector
management methods through a management contract with another airline. Despite the fact that the
completion of the restructuring of the company was delayed mainly due to the non-observance of the
requirements of the "Contrat-plan" both by Chadian government and Air Tchad managerial team,
considerable efforts have been made by the new management team since September 1992 to reduce the
financial deficit by adopting internal austerity measures (staff and salary reductions, lower operating costs,
renegotiation of commercial contracts). In early March 1993, discussions for a management contract
started between Air Tchad and an external airline company. During negotiations, it was agreed that a
management contract between Air Tchad and an external airline company will be signed no later than
December 31, 1993 (para. 7.2(h)). A new performance plan for Air Tchad will be agreed upon and
signed as a condition of effectiveness (para. 7.3(a)). The new performance plan is expected to guarantee
Air Tchad management autonomy and the management contract with an external airline company is
expected to make Air Tchad management more efficient. By December 1993, the company should find
itself in financial equilibrium. Since Air Tchad is supposed to be developing financial independence, no
technical assistance to Air Tchad would be financed under the proposed project.
4.20         The National Soils Laboratory (LNBTP), which has already been given the statute of
privately-managed agency, will participate on a contract basis in all geotechnical research and studies,
soil testing and civil supervision, and in the defining of road and building construction standards. A
reorganization to enable LNBTP to function effectively as a privately managed agency is currently
underway with the financing of the French Development Agency (CFD).
4.21         Under the TSP II, a road research program will be developed in collaboration with
LNBTP. This research program aims at optimizing the road construction standards and appropriate road
materials to be used for the road rehabilitation program, taking into account the lessons learned from
previous construction programs. The research program will also seek optimal solutions for shoulders and
slopes stabilization in relation with the environmental protection program.  During negotiations,
assurances were given that a contract will be signed between LNBTP and the Directorate of Roads for
the execution of the research program, on agreed TORs and the implementation schedule (para. 7.2(i)).
4.22         Increased Role of the Private Sector in Road Maintenance. Chad's domestic construction
industry is very limited in size and scope and includes only about ten contractors with real experience,
mainly in building construction. Nonetheless, experience elsewhere has shown that such an industry
develops rapidly when the demand is present. One of the objectives of the TSAIP was to reduce the cost
of road construction and maintenance by using more of the private sector in the rehabilitation and
maintenance activities.



21
4.23          The Road Reconstruction Project and the TSAIP were successful in promoting more
extensive international competitive bidding for road rehabilitation and periodic maintenance leading to
substantial reductions in the cost/km of road construction. However, private contracting for routine
maintenance fell short of the targets because of OFNAR's unwillingness to share the works with the
private sector.  In retrospect, it was in fact unrealistic to expect the agency responsible for the
programming and the execution of routine road maintenance activities and the control of all the financial
resources allocated for road maintenance to voluntarily relinquish control of its prerogatives. In light of
this, the TSP II will reinstate contract award prerogatives in the Directorate of Roads, on condition that
at least 50% of which will go to the private sector. During negotiations, Government confirmed its
intention to contract out no less than 50% of routine maintenance activities to the private sector in
accordance with competitive procedures, and beginning January 1, 1997 not provide any preference to
SNER relative to the domestic private sector in the contracting of routine maintenance works (para.
7.2(j)), to pay all amounts due to private sector contractors within 60 days of their due date and to
establish a monitoring system to track due dates and payment dates (para. 7.2(k)).
4.24          A survey of local construction firms has confirmed that the capacity exists or can be
developed in Chad--especially in the N'Djamena area--to carry out the works that are required. Sample
simplified bidding documents and standard contracts have been prepared on the basis of three pilot
projects that tested local entrepreneurs capacity to respond to call for bids. The establishment of the
CAER will also allow the Ministry to make payments to entrepreneurs on a timely basis, since this has
been shown elsewhere to be a critical element in developing a strong local construction industry. In
addition, the establishment within SNER of an equipment leasing function will permit small entrepreneurs
to participate in small contracts and develop their capabilities without the need for heavy investments in
the early stages. Should firms choose to invest, however, credit and technical assistance are available
from the non-governmental organization VITA, financed under the Social Dimensions of Adjustment
Project (Cr. 1872-CD).  The proposed project would complement this technical assistance with
construction industry-specific training and assistance tailored to the construction industry. The technical
assistance and training program will focus on management of private firms and accounting and
procurement. During negotiations, agreement was reached on the technical assistance and training
program for the private contractors (para. 7.2(1)).
The Evolving Agenda
4.25          Secondary agricultural road rehabilitation program. Since previous projects focussed
on the rehabilitation of the main priority road network, the program under the TSP II will extend this
main priority network to include a rehabilitation of a priority secondary network designed to link
agricultural production areas to the main centers of consumption via the priority main network. The
secondary road rehabilitation for the 1994-98 time slice would consist of 300 km (mainly the Salamat
region) out of the total 960 km of priority secondary road network rehabilitation program.
4.26          Environment. The TSAIP did not explicitly address issues of the environment since the
vast majority of the project was aimed at rehabilitating and maintaining existing infrastructure with
negligible environmental impacts. In addition, the weakness of the administration was construed as an
impediment to establishing any kind of environmental management capacity. Since some improvements
have been made in sectoral administration, it is now believed that the time has come to begin to develop
a basic transport sector environmental program. It will focus on the capacity to put in place a system of



22
environmental assessments. The assessments would be carried out by the private sector, but the Ministry
would have to develop the capacity to manage the process and to interpret the results. In addition, based
on World Bank sector work, the Ministry would begin to introduce into its bidding documents and
construction contracts clauses relating to the environmental correctness of designs and on environmental
protection and conservation measures to be adopted during and after construction. Finally, the Ministry
would carry out pilot projects to test the feasibility of incorporating small water retention schemes (mini-
dams) into road design.
4.27          Transit Facilitation and Regional Integration. The proposed project will support the
development of a Regional Integration Program expected to set up customs and insurance-coverage
measures and procedures which will:
*     simplify procedures and transit documents related to transport, customs
clearance, and trade in conformity with regionally (UDEAC) or internationally
(ICC and UNEDIFACT) harmonized rules;
*     redefine and strengthen civil and commercial responsibilities of road transport
operators and transit companies in order to streamline international transport
operations;
*     simplify insurance procedures in order to improve the competitiveness of the
regional transport corridors;
*     encourage the creation of private freight bureaus in Cameroon and Chad;
e     promote the grouping of individual truckers in order to ensure financial viability
and credibility; and
*     redefine the role of the Chamber of Commerce to limit negative interference.
The Regional Integration Program will be supported by the construction of a freight interchange center
in N'Djamena financed by CFD.
4.28          This strategy and plan of action have been developed specifically for Chad but fall within
the broader objectives of regional road transport industry development. With the proposed introduction
of the TIPAC (Transit International des Pays de l'Afrique Centrale) following the joint ECC (European
Community Commission), World Bank initiative of UDEAC regional integration, the road transport
industry in Chad should undergo substantial improvement if it is to remain competitive within the region.
The strategy proposed for the TSP and the plan of action encompass assistance to both the road transport
industry and to the institutions responsible for transport operations.
4.29          The Plan of Action aims at improving road transport by combining the Government
commitment to provide better transport services with the interest of the private sector operators; the
proposed plan of action will be monitored through measurable indicators proposed in a matrix shown in
Annex 6. IDA will finance technical assistance through BNF and MTPT to assist the development of the
Regional Integration Program.



23
4.30          Technical Assistance and Training Component. The technical assistance program was
designed by taking into account the lesson learned from previous projects. As shown in the graph below,
the technical assistance program under this project has been considerably reduced in comparison with the
previous project. The focus will be on short-term rather than long-term assistance. Furthermore, in
order to increase Chadian self-reliance, technical assistance in line positions will be discontinued and the
project will encourage spot advisory assistance to managerial positions as well as for the planning,
budgeting and procurement units. This technical assistance program will support both public and private
sectors. The proposed project would finance technical assistance for the following agencies:
1.    Project Coordination Unit (PCU): 30 man/months for Project coordination and sector
policy monitoring;
2.     General Directorate for Public Works and Transports: 23 man/months for procurement
issues, policy formulation and accounting. An additional 50 man/months will be
provided to assist emerging private contractors in management, accounting and works
execution;
3.    Directorate of Roads: 85 man/months for long-term and short-term assistance in the area
of investment planning, maintenance works supervision, technical studies and road
research and environmental issues;
4.    BNF: 2 man/months for management and accounting.
The program totalling 190 man/months is estimated at about US$4.1 million. In addition, consulting
services will be provided for civil works supervision for an amount totalling US$2.1 million.
Second TransDort Sector Proiect
120  Manxmonth                  Technical assistance to MTPT
100
*  Public Works (Directorste of Roads,
80                                                             OFNAR & Procurment unit
* Transport & Civil aviation
60                                                         E  Proj. Coord. Unit
40
20
0
1990    1991    1992    1993    1994    1995    1996    1997    1998



24
4.31          The training program of the proposed project will pursue the objectives set out under the
TSAIP, with an emphasis on dissemination of private sector management practices, human resource
management, and improvement of sector planning skills. The program will consist of: (a) 13 seminars
and 33 training courses for public sector staff; and (b) 36 seminars and 5 training courses for private
sector staff. The training program will amount to US$2.3 million. This program will be implemented
over a three year period (1994-96). A condition of effectiveness will be the adoption of a training
program for 1994 satisfactory to IDA (para 7.3 (h)).
4.32          The training program development for public sector staff main modules has already been
established under the previous TSAIP. For the private sector, the training module will have to be
established and agreed upon with IDA no later than December 31, 1993. The training program and
schedule is contained in Annex 10. It will be implemented and coordinated by the Ecole Nationale des
Travaux Publics (ENTP) and the Centre de Perfectionnement des 7ravaux Publics (CTPT) supported by
a technical assistance team.
C. Project Costs and Financing
4.33          The three agendas under the proposed project would be supported by (a) a physical works
component, comprising: (i) a program of periodic and routine road maintenance and bridge strengthening
on the existing priority main road network of 3,800 kin, plus routine and periodic maintenance on a 960
km secondary agricultural road network; (ii) a rehabilitation program of about 300 km of secondary roads
crucial for the linkage between regions of agricultural potential (Salamat region) and main consumption
centers; and (b) a program of institutional strenethening comprising : (i) consulting services for civil
works design and supervision, soil research studies and testing, and technical and financial audits;
(ii) consulting services to promote private entrepreneurship for small and medium construction contractors
and small truckers; (iii) technical assistance and training (mainly short-term consultancies) for transport
sector institutions (Directorate of Roads, Air Tchad, BNF, Directorates of Civil Aviation and Land
Transport, the Project Coordination Unit); (iv) support the implementation of a regional integration
action plan aiming at facilitating Chadian international trade for road and air transport; and (v)
implementation of a transport sector environmental plan.
4.34         The table below summarizes the estimated project costs. A detailed cost table is found
in Annex 2. During appraisal, the scope of the project was reduced to be in line with the core lending
program and the total external and internal financing available for the sector. Total project cost, net of
taxes and duties for the overall five year program is estimated at US$121.4 million equivalent, including
a foreign exchange component equivalent to US$84.1 million, and a local cost component of US$37.3
million equivalent. During negotiations the cost estimates were conrirmed by the Government (para.
7.2(n)).
4.35          Cost estimates are based on unit prices gathered from recent data on civil works contracts
for rehabilitation, periodic and routine maintenance under ongoing projects in Chad and neighboring
countries. Given the specific nature of these estimates, physical contingencies have been set at 10%,
which is adequate for the types of works to be performed.
4.36          The technical assistance cost estimates are based on recent rates for consulting services
in the region which amount to US$14,000 per man-month.



25
Summary Project Cost Estimate and Financing Plan
(Net of Taxes and Duties)
________ US$ Million
Project Components                  |
________________________________________l Foreign    Local       Total
A. Physical Component
1. Investment Costs - Civil works
(a) Rehabilitation                                  30.2        1.8        32.0
(b) Periodic maintenance                            21.6        5.1        26.7
(c) Bridges                                           1.4                   1.4
(d) N'Djamena Interchange bldg                       3.4                    3.4
2. Recurrent Costs
(a) Routine Maintenance                              3.9       25.4        29.3
B. Institutional Strengthening Component
1. Consultants services for Public Works
(a) Studies and works supervision                    3.4                    3.4
(b) Technical assistance                             2.9                    2.9
(c) Audits and Proj. Coord. Unit                      1.6                   1.6
2. Consultants services for Transport and Civil Aviation
(a) Studies and supervision                          0.3                    0.3
(b) Technical assistance                             0.6                    0.6
3. Training and scholarship                            3.55                  3.55
4. Operating Costs (PCU)                               0.7        0.5         1.2
C. Contingencies
1. Physical contingencies                              5.9        2.2         8.2
2. Price contingencies                                 3.4        2.2         5.6
D. Refinancing PPF                                        1.25                  1.25
TOTAL                                             84.1       373        121.4
4.37         Contingency allowances for price escalation were calculated according to the planned
implementation schedule based on an annual average rate of 4% for foreign exchange and of 3% for local
costs during 1994/98.
4.38         External financing of the program will amount to US$84.1 million equivalent or 100%
of foreign costs with the Government financing the remaining US$37.3 million equivalent or 31 % of total
costs and 100% of local costs. Government financing will represent 100% of the routine maintenance
costs, 20% of the periodic maintenance costs, and 5% of the rehabilitation costs. Following a Donors'
meeting held in November 1992, external financing is substantially assured for the required amount. IDA
financing represents US$37.0 million or 30% of the total. IDA financing would be applied to the
periodic maintenance and secondary network rehabilitation components and to technical assistance,



26
training and PCU operating costs. Other external financing will be provided by: the European
Development Fund (EDF) US$22.0 million equivalent or 20% of the total; French Cooperation Agency
(CFD) US$4.2 million equivalent; BDEAC US$15.0 million equivalent; OPEC Fund, US$6.0 million
equivalent. Kuwait Fund, Islamic Development Bank, African Development Bank (AfDB) and BADEA
have expressed interest in the road rehabilitation program and the training and technical assistance
component. The project activities to be financed by IDA are independent from other external financing.
The financing plan was confirmed during negotiations in accordance with the commitments made by the
other donors (para. 7.2(o)). Furthermore, the question has been raised as to whether these substantial
financing requirements might in fact be crowding out donor financing for social sectors such as education
and health, where implementation and absorptive capacity may be less developed. Analysis has shown
that donor financing for the social sectors is adequate and that the donors attach high priority to transport
sector development in Chad.
Financing Plan
(US$ million equivalent)
(Net of taxes and duties)
Local     Foreign     Total      % of total project cost
Government               37.3         -        37.3                    31%
IDA                        -        37.0       37.0                    30%
Other donors               -        47.1       47.1                    39%
Total project cost       37.3       84.1      121.4                   100%
D. Impact on Environment
4.39          The maintenance and rehabilitation components of the proposed project would have no
significant impact on the environment; the alignments of roads already exist and there is no risk of
deforestation or property disturbances. Environmental consideration will be an important component in
the design and execution of infrastructure operations. Measures will be included in the terms of reference
for detailed engineering and specifications. The environmental protection measures will take into account
the geographic specificities of the priority network with respect to geomorphology, hydrology, and
climatic conditions. For the existing network, measures will consist of preserving shoulders and
providing surface drainage systems, through: (a) protection of the slope of embankment and cuts
containing erodible soil, grass seeding, sodding or planting small trees and shrubs; (b) design of main
ditches so that the water will be properly channelled and the ditch sector protected against erosion; and
(c) improvement of critical parts of road surfaces vulnerable to erosion. In addition to protecting the
environment, erosion control measures would have the advantage of reducing maintenance work,
especially on surface drainage systems, small structures, and surfaces. While safety is also improved by
suitable shoulder greenery because it improves depth perception by providing vertical points of reference.
Other measures will consist of clearing ditches to evacuate stagnating water, and removing vegetation to
limit bush fires along the roads. A detailed environmental plan for the transport sector is in Annex 5.3.
During negotiations, Government confirmed its commitment to implement this plan (para. 7.2(p)).



27
V. PROJECT IMPLEMENTATION
A. Status of Project Preparation and Readiness
5.1          Detailed project preparation was conducted by technical committees of the Chadian
Government with the help of consultants financed under PPF P-722.0 and P-722.1 CD. During the
preparation process a donor meeting was held in November 1992 to endorse Government sector policy
statements and the investment program to be implemented under the project. Draft legal documents
related to all institutional arrangements (draft statute of SNER and CAER, draft performance plan for Air
Tchad, organigram of MTPT), procedures manuals for SNER and Directorate of Roads, draft bidding
documents, and a road maintenance execution program were prepared and are currently being reviewed
by IDA.  Detailed engineering studies for the reconstruction of secondary roads are underway.
Throughout project preparation, discussions were regularly held with other donors, particularly with the
European Economic Community (EEC), France, AfDB and OPEC Fund.
B. Implementing Agencies
5.2          The project would be implemented by the Ministry of Public Works and Transport
(MTPT) and the autonomous agencies under its tutelage, namely: the new national company SNER to
be created; the airline company (Air Tchad); the Soil Laboratory (LNBTP); and the National Freight
Bureau (BNF). The role of the Ministry would be redefined to include only planning, programming,
budgeting and supervision. The role of SNER operating under private sector management rules would
be limited to execution of maintenance works. The role of the private sector in works execution would
be greatly enhanced.
5.3          In light of the promotion of domestic construction industry, the SNER involvement in
maintenance works will be limited to a maximum of 50% of total routine maintenance costs. During
negotiations, agreement was reached to limit SNER activities to a maximum of 50% of total annual
routine maintenance costs for FY94, FY95, and FY96. To facilitate the implementation of the Project,
detailed Action Plans related to road maintenance, private sector development, training, regional
integration and environment have been set up.  During negotiations, Government confirmed its
commitment to carry out the project in accordance with the implementation schedule, supervision plan,
and the Action Plans attached to the Statement of Sector Policy (para. 7.2(r)).
C. Project Coordination Unit (PCU)
5.4          The PCU, instituted under the previous project, will continue to coordinate the various
activities within the Government and with donors. This unit will also provide to the implementing
agencies technical support for all issues related to the procurement procedures, contracting, accounting,
reporting and work supervision. In addition, the PCU would ensure inter-agency cooperation, facilitate
the smooth and timely implementation of the project, and provide channels of communication, not only
with IDA and the other donors involved in the project, but also with the Interministerial Steering
Committee which will monitor the project at a political level.



28
5.5          The PCU would be responsible for day-to-day coordination of project implementation and
monitoring. More specifically, the PCU would: (a) coordinate the preparation of annual work programs
and budgets for all components; (b) advise the implementing agencies on all procurement matters; (c)
prepare the semi-annual and mid-term reviews of the project in relation with the donors; (d) maintain and
consolidate all project accounts including special accounts; (e) make arrangements for the audit of project
accounts, SOEs, quarterly audits for CAER and Air Tchad; (f) prepare, as required, progress reports for
IDA, the Government and cofinanciers; and (g) maintain effective dialogue with key donors.
D. Monitoring and Evaluation
5.6          The monitoring and evaluation of project performance, of investments, and of policies,
would be carried out by the respective implementing agencies and coordinated by the PCU. Monitoring
indicators are shown in the table below and in Annex 6 and will be used to assess the progress of the
development of the transport sector program and to measure qualitative and quantitative improvements
due to project investments. IDA will also regularly supervise the project according to the set indicators.
Details of IDA's supervision plan are provided in Annex 4. During negotiations, Government confirmed
its intention to establish a monitoring and evaluation system for all implementing agencies under the
coordination of the PCU and to assess project implementation on agreed qualitative and quantitative
performance indicators (para. 7.2(s)).



29
Table 1: Performance Indicators
Indicator                                            Unit        1994        1995        1996      1997      19
1. General
Average increase of traffic on the priority network   %           5           5           5           5          5
Reduction of V.O.C.                                               -1          -I          -2         -2          -2
Average travel time on:
- N'Djamena - Moundou                               hours         S           7           6           6          6
- N'Djamena- Amtiman                                hours         14          12          10          9          9
Annual Expenditures for road research              MCFAF          S0          60          60         60         60
Annual Expenditures for environment                MCFAF          50         100         100         100        100
H. Rehabilitation works
Annual disbursement                                MCFAF        14050       10750       12075       S900       8900
Annual physical target                               km          178         174         147         100        100
% of secondary agricultural road rehabilitation       X          30           60          65         65         65
Number of bridge rehabilitation                       U           2           6           6           3          3
Number of works contracts, signed                     U           2           3           3           2          2
Percentage of contracts executed on time                         100         100         100         100        100
No. of roads studied                                 km          170         262          115        50          S0
No. of bridges studied                                U           13          5           5           3          3
m. Road Maintenance
Annual budget for maintenance (periodic and routine)  MCFAF     3811         4162        4346       4346       4346
Annual allocation to CAER                          MCFAF         1700        1900        2100       2300       2500
Annual physical target (paved roads)                 km          378         498         578         683        763
Annual physical target (earth roads)                 kmn        4200         4230        4230       4232       4232
Percentage of agricultural roads                      %           20          20          20         20         20
Number of contract with private sector                U           17          17          17         17          17
Percentage of conactm with local furm                 %           60          70          80         80         80
Registration of roads data                            U         19000       25000       35000       40000      40000
IV. Land Transport Activities
Quantity of LVO delivered                             U         20000       21500       23000      24000       25000
Percentage of LVO collection                          X           87          88          90         90         90
Average delay for LVO collection                     days         45          40          35         30         30
Number of passengers registered in the interchange
center                                                U         2500         2700        3000       3100       3200
Passengers Traffic at N'Djamena Airport               U         17000       24000       34000
Freight traffic at N'Djamena Airport                  T
V. Trainine
Annual budget for training                         MCFAF         300         350         400         200        200
Nujnber of staff trained:
- in the public sector                                U           20          25          25         15          15
- in the private sector                               U          150          150         150        80         80
Number staff week of training:
- in the public sector                               SW          260         260         260         100        100
- in the private sector                              SW          285         285         285         150        150
VI. Institutions verformance
Delay for contract award                             days        150          120         90         90         90
Delay for contract approval                          days         60          45          30         30          30
Delay for due paymenu                                days         60          40          60         60          60
Delay for production of activity reports             days         30          30          15         15          15



30
E. Procuremnent
5.7          The table below summarizes the project elements by category, estimated costs and
proposed procurement methods. A detailed procurement plan and timetable are given in Annex 9.
Chad's procurement laws and regulations have recently been revised and conform with IDA guidelines.
No special exemptions, permits or licenses need to be specified in credit documents for International
Competitive Bidding (ICB) as Chad's procurement practices allow IDA procedures to take precedence
over any contrary provisions in local regulations.
5.8          During the previous projects, special attention was given to the strengthening of
procurement procedures and contract awards and streamlining of contract approval system. The proposed
project will continue to improve quality and transparency of procurement methods by streamlining and
rationalizing bid analysis and evaluation procedures, and by setting up a technical committee more
competent in procurement and civil works issues.
5.9          Procurement of civil works contracts for road rehabilitation, building, and construction
financed by other donors will follow their specific procedures and those financed by IDA will be carried
out under ICB, in accordance with Bank's Guidelines for Procurement under IBRD Loans and IDA
Credits (May 1992). Technical assistance and consulting services financed by IDA will be procured in
accordance with Bank's Guidelines for the Use of Consultants (August 1991). Maintenance works
financed by IDA estimated to cost less than the equivalent of US$300,000 each up to an aggregate amount
of US$8.7 million may be awarded under contracts on the basis of competitive bidding advertised locally
in accordance with procedures satisfactory to the Association. Office supplies up to an aggregate amount
of USS 100,000 may be procured through local shopping with procedures satisfactory to the Association.
During project supervision, Bank financed works contracts above a threshold of US$200,000 would be
subject to the Bank prior review procedures. The review process will cover about 85% of the total works
contract value. For consultants contracts, the prior review threshold would be US$100,000. Prior review
would also apply to all terms of reference, employment of individuals, sole source contracts and contract
amendments raising the contract value to US$100,000 or more. Procurement arrangements under IDA
financing are summarized in the following table:



31
Procurement Method
Amount and Methods of procurnemet /a
USS miRlion equivalkt
Item                      ICB            LCB              Other           Other donors bl     Total
1 Civil Works                              18.5           9.8                                  76.5           104.8
(17.6)         (8.7)                                                (26.3)
2. Consulting services for T.A.,
works supervision and studies                                          10.2                                  10.2
(6.2)                               (6.2)
3. Training                                                                3.9                                  3.9
(2.55)                              (2.55)
4. Operating Costs (PCU)                                                   1.2                                  1.2
(0.7) c/                            (0.7)
5. Reimbursement PPF                                                       1.25                                1.25
(1.25)                              (1.25)
TOTAL                   18.5           9.8              16.6                 76.5           121.4
(17.6)         (8.7)           (10.7)                               (37.0)
a/ Amounts in parenthesis indicate IDA financing   el Operating costs fr Project Coordination Unit
b/ Parallel financing by donors including Government would be in accordance with their own procedures
During negotiations Government confirmed its agreement to use the Bank's standard bidding documents
for ICB, LCB, Letter of Invitation for Consultants, and the procurement plan (para. 7.1(t)). Government
also confirmed its intention (i) to allow any local or foreign contractor to indicate the percentage of the
bid to be paid in foreign currency; (ii) to use the procedures manual for the Directorate of Roads related
to bids, evaluation and payments of works which would be reviewed by and agreed upon with IDA (para.
7.2(t)).
F. Disbursement
5.10              The IDA  credit would be disbursed as follows:
Disbursement of IDA Credit
Category                        IDA Credit Disbursement           9 Expenditures to be
Amount of Credit Allocated    financed a/
(US$ million)
1. Civil Works                                                  23.0                               95
2. Consulting Serv. for T.A.
works supervision and studies                                6.2                                100
3. Training                                                      2.55                              100
4. Operating costs for Project Mgmt Unit                         0.7                               75
5. PPF Refinancing                                               1.25                         Amount Due
6. Unallocated                                                   3.3
TOTAL                                                37.0
a/       Of amounts net of taxes



32
IDA Disbursement Schedule
(net of taxes and duties)
US$ million
IDA FY                    Total
Quarters         Partial        Cumulative
1994 I
II           1.5             1.5
III          1.0             2.5
IV           2.0             4.5
1995 I           1.4             5.9
1I           1.4             7.3
III          1.2             8.5
IV           1.6             10.1
19961             1.4             11.5
II           1.4             12.9
III          0.7             13.6
IV           1.8             15.4
1997 I           2.4              17.8
1I           2.2             20.0
III          2.0             22.0
IV           2.4             24.4
1998 I           2.2             26.6
11           2.0             28.6
III          2.0             30.6
IV           1.4             32.0
1999 I           2.5             34.5
1I          2.5             37.0
5.11         The credit is expected to be fully disbursed by December 31, 1998. The estimated
schedule of disbursement shown in Annex 2 assumes that the Credit would become effective by December
1993.
5.12          To facilitate project implementation, the borrower will open a special account in a local
commercial bank on terms and conditions acceptable to IDA, to receive, upon effectiveness of the credit,
an initial deposit equivalent in CFAF to US$750,000 representing the estimated level of expenditure for
a four month period. The account will be replenished periodically and will operate according to
procedures and conditions acceptable to IDA. All withdrawal applications submitted to IDA will be fully
documented except for payments against contracts of less than US$20,000 equivalent, in which case the



33
expenditure). Supporting documentation for such payments will be retained by the Executing Agency for
examination by IDA supervision missions and independent auditors. Should any disbursements be made
from the account that are not acceptable to IDA, the Government would deposit the corresponding amount
into the account. The detailed disbursement schedule over a period of five years is given in Annex 2.
In addition, disbursements in FY93 reflect the refinancing of PPFs P-722-0 CD and P-722-01 CD
(US$1.25 million).
G. Reporting and Auditing
5.13         With the help of the consented technical Directorates and their consultants, the Project
Coordination Unit will prepare quarterly reports on the project implementation and expenditures which
will also be submitted to the Association, together with key indicators for monitoring progress of the
envisaged reforms. During negotiations, agreement was reached on the following:
(a)    all project components and accounts will be audited annually by an independent
auditor acceptable to the Association;
(b)   the audit report should be made available not later than six months following the
end of each year. Records and accounts in relation to the SOE operations will
be subject to a separate audit report; the satisfactory conclusions of which is one
condition for the replenishment of the special account. The auditor's reports will
include an opinion on the reference to the use of the Statement of Expenditure
(para. 7.2(u));
(c)   to improve transparency in the management methods, a quarterly audit should be
undertaken for the Road Fund (CAER); Air Tchad and BNF, in scope, detail and
by independent auditors satisfactory to IDA, to be provided within thirty days of
the end of each quarter (para. 7.2(v)).
(d)   terms of reference and short list for audit firms (para. 7.2(w)). A condition of
effectiveness will be the appointment of an external auditor under a multi-year
contract acceptable to IDA (para. 7.3(b)).
5.14         Supervision Plan: A project monitoring and supervision plan totalling 108 staff weeks
durijng the life of the project is detailed in Annex 4.
5.15         Annual Reviews. The project will be implemented over a five-year period. The project
design will include an annual review to check the overall performance of the project, achievements of
previous years as well as the program, the procurement plan and the budget for the next year (using
performance indicators described in Annex 4). Agreement on the scope and dates for the annual reviews
was reached during negotiations (para. 7.2(x)).
5.16         Mid-term review. A mid-term review will be carried out in mid-1995, as a more in-depth
annual review. The review will be another opportunity to evaluate, and, if needed, to modify some major
features of the project. The review will also create an opportunity to evaluate the need to readjust
activities in order to meet the key project objectives. During negotiations, agreement was reached on



34
the scope and terms of reference of the mid-term review, which will be based on a technical and financial
audit of the project (para. 7.2(y)).
H. Project Sustainability
5.17          The focus of the policy reforms and institutional strengthening is to ensure that road
rehabilitation is managed effectively. The creation of a compte autonome d'entretien routier (CAER),
an autonomous account which will receive the road maintenance funds on a monthly basis, will help to
ensure the adequate financing of road maintenance on a sustainable long-term basis. In the short-term,
capacity improvements of the transport parastatals would be achieved through restructuring and
broadening ownership, which will set the stage for full privatization. Consolidating the achievements of
the previous projects and adopting new approaches to continuing agenda items will also enhance project
sustainability.
VI. PROJECT JUSTIFICATION AND RISKS
6.1           The specific justification of the proposed project is provided by the standard cost-benefit
analysis methodology for road rehabilitation projects. On the cost side, the cost of road rehabilitation
and subsequent routine and periodic maintenance have been taken into account. On the benefit side, the
analysis includes the expected reduction in vehicle operating costs accruing to normal traffic; it also
includes benefits associated with the increase in agricultural value added from the regions that produce
a marketable surplus, and the benefits derived from the induced traffic. These benefit estimates appear
conservative when compared with the actual benefits observed under the Road Maintenance Project (Cr.
1728-CD); the Road Reconstruction Project (Cr. 1901-CD) and the TSAIP (Cr. 2007-CD) whose
estimated rates of return were 21%, 42% and 15%, respectively. Other non-quantifiable benefits such
as positive externalities induced on the core network by its extension have not been included. The
Economic Rate of Return (ERR) for the road rehabilitation component which accounts for 56% of the
physical investment has been estimated at between 14%  and 42%.  For the proposed secondary
agricultural road rehabilitation component, the approach taken is based on the increased agricultural
production that would be induced by the project. The Salamat area is of high agricultural potential and
couid potentially serve a number of urban markets to the northwest (N'Djamena), the northeast, (Abechd)
and the south (Sahr, Moundou, Guelengdeng). Without improved roads, there is no possibility of
commercializing agricultural production. The project proposes, therefore, a package of three roads to
be rehabilitated in order to maximize the access to markets of the agriculturalists. On the basis of
conservative assumption regarding induced production, the package of roads yields a combined ERR of
13%, with ERR's for the individual segments of 10%, 14% and 15%. The decision to include the road
with the 10% ERR is based on: (a) the economic judgement that production will increase more if the
region is truly opened up to a range of markets, (b) the fact that the market concerned is the capital city
(i.e. the largest market) and (c) experience under previous projects that induced traffic has been typically
substantially higher (up to 50% higher) than appraisal estimates. Thus, we can be confident of the
economic justification of this component.



35
6.2          The principal risk remains the chronic political instability which might affect political
commitment to fulfill or sustain policy reforms and agreed financial conditions. To minimize this risk,
careful attention was given during project preparation to sustaining the dialogue at high Governrnent, as
well as technical levels, on the measures proposed and supported by the project, and to obtain consensus
and commitment to the priority program with Government and all donors active in the sector. In
addition, detailed procedures, standardized documentation for project implementation and the fact that
the Government has experience in most of the project execution tasks from the previous projects minimize
the risks that might be associated with project execution.
VII. AGREEMENTS REACHED AND RECOMMENDATION
7.1          The following events took place prior to negotiations:
(a)   the submission of a new organigram and cahier des charges for MT  and its
agencies (para 4.12); and
(b)   the submission of a draft statutes and procedures manual for SNER (para 4.16).
7.2          The following agreements were reached during negotiations
(a)    annual allocation of:
-     at least CFAF 1,800 million for road maintenance and rehabilitation for
the priority roads network for FY94 including at least CFAF 1,300
million and at least CFAF 115 million for the Directorate of Roads
operating budget;
-     CFAF 2,000 million for road maintenance and rehabilitation for FY95
including at least CFAF 1,500 million for routine maintenance and
CFAF 120 million for the Directorate of Roads operating budget;
-     CFAF 2,200 million for FY96 including CFAF 1,700 million for routine
maintenance and CFAF 125 million for the Directorate of Roads
operating budget;
-     CFAF 2,400 million for FY97 including CFAF 1,900 million for routine
maintenance and CFAF 130 million for the Directorate of Roads
operating budget; and
-     CFAF 2,600 million for FY98 including at least CFAF 2,100 million for
routine maintenance and CFAF 135 million for the Directorate of Roads
operating budget (para 4.6).



36
(b)   the application of the principles defined in the Letter of Transport Sector Policy
that was presented to the donors in November 1992 throughout the life of the
TSP II (para. 4.2), and, specifically, that freight tariffs and shipping contracts
would be freely negotiated (para. 4.7);
(c)   the confirmation of its intention not to undertake in the transport sector any civil
works or acquisitions of transport equipment above an aggregate amount of
CFAF 200 million annually which are not included in the Investment Program
without prior consent of IDA (para. 4.2);
(d)    confirmation that CAER will operate under operating procedures satisfactory to
IDA and that CAER will be established in a commercial bank for which
withdrawal shall be made exclusively by MTPT for the payment of rehabilitation
works, road maintenance works of the priority road network and operating
budget for the Directorate of Roads (para. 4.6);
(e)   the monthly deposit allocations for CAER (para. 4.6): CFAF 150 million/month
in FY94; CFAF 165 million/month in FY95; CFAF 180 million/month in FY96;
CFAF 200 million/month in FY97; CFAF 215 million/month FY98 (para 4.6);
(f)   the appointment and the maintaining of high level staff, with qualifications and
experience acceptable to IDA, to head the main Directorates in the Ministry of
Public Works and Transport and entities under its tutelage (para. 4.12);
(g)   the maintaining of the Project Coordination Unit headed by a qualified technician
whose experience is acceptable to IDA and to maintain the Interministerial
Steering Committee (para. 4.18);
(h)   the confirmation of the signing of a management contract between Air Tchad and
an external airline company no later than December 31, 1993 (para. 4.19);
(i)   the confirmation of the signing of a contract between LNBTP and the Directorate
of Roads for the execution of the research program, on agreed TORs and
implementation schedule (para. 4.21);
(j)   the contracting out annually no less than 50% of routine maintenance activities
to the private sector in accordance with competitive procedures, and beginning
January 1, 1997 not provide any preference to SNER relative to the domestic
private sector in the contracting of routine maintenance works (para. 4.23);
(k)    all amounts due to private contractors will be paid within 60 days of their due
date and a monitoring system will be established to track due dates and payment
dates (para. 4.23);
(I)   the confirmation of the technical assistance and training program for the private
contractors (para. 4.24);



37
(m)   the employment of alignment and construction standards and designs acceptable
to the Association (para. 4.3);
(n)   the confirmation of the cost estimates of the project (para. 4.34);
(o)   the confirmation of the financing plan in accordance with the commitments made
by the other donors (para. 4.38);
(p)   the confirmation of Government's commitment to the implementation of the
environmental plan for the transport sector (para. 4.39);
(q)   the agreement to limit SNER activities to a maximum of 50% of total annual
routine maintenance costs for FY94, FY95 and FY96 (see para 7.2(g)) above and
para. 5.3);
(r)   the implementation of the Project in accordance with the implementation
schedule, supervision plan, and the Action Plans attached to the Statement of
Sector Policy (para. 5.3);
(s)   the establishment of a monitoring and evaluation system for all implementing
agencies under the coordination of the PCU and to assess project implementation
on agreed qualitative and quantitative performance indicators (para. 5.6);
(t)   the use of the standard bidding documents for ICB, LCB, Letter of Invitation for
Consultants, the procurement plan, and the procedures manual for the Directorate
of Roads related to bids, evaluation and payments of works (para. 5.9);
(u)   the carrying out of an annual audit of all project components and accounts by an
independent auditor acceptable to the Association (para 5.13(a)); assure the audit
report is made available no later than six months following the end of each year;
and a separate audit is carried out for SOEs (para. 5.13(b));
(v)   the undertaking of a quarterly audit for the autonomous account (CAER); Air
Tchad and BNF in scope, detail and by independent auditors satisfactory to IDA,
to be provided within thirty days of the end of each quarter (para. 5.13(c));
(w)   the agreement on terms of reference and short list of Audit firms (para. 5.13(d));
(x)   the agreement on the scope and dates for the annual reviews (para. 5.15); and
(y)   the agreement on the scope and terms of reference of the mid-term review to be
carried out not earlier than June 1, 1995 and not later than September 30, 1995
(para. 5.16).
7.3          The following are conditions of effectiveness:
(a)   the performance contract for Air Tchad, acceptable to the Association, should be
signed by Air Tchad and the Government (para. 4.19);



38
(b)    appointment of an external auditor acceptable to IDA under terms and conditions
including a multi year period of service, satisfactory to IDA (para. 5.13(d));
(c)   the creation of SNER by an instrument and with statutes, as well as the adoption
of operating procedures manual, satisfactory to IDA (para 4.16(c));
(d)   the appointment and maintaining by SNER of a Managing Director, a Technical
Director, a Financial Director and a Management Comptroller, each with
qualifications and experience and under terms and conditions satisfactory to IDA
(para 4.16(d));
(e)   the reorganization of MTPT in accordance with the new organigram agreed upon
with IDA (para 4.16(b));
(f)   the adoption of a dissolution plan to terminate the operations of OFNAR (para
4.16(a));
(g)   the establishment of CAER by instrument and with operating procedures,
satisfactory to IDA; and CAER operating in conformity with such operating
procedures during the preceding two months (para 4.6); and
(h)   the adoption of a training program for 1994 satisfactory to IDA (para 4.31).
7.4           Subject to the above conditions, the proposed project is suitable for a Credit of US$37.0
million equivalent to the Republic of Chad on standard IDA terms.



39
,ANNEX 1
Key Economic Indicators
KEY ECONOMIC INDICATORS
(in % a,cept as indicated othaeise)
E  --    -:  -: ~(cat)
GDP growth rate l/       25.9   -4.1    -2.0    15.5    4.9    4.5    8.4
GDP per capita growth    23.4   -6.6    -4.5    13.0    2.4    -3.0    5.9
Exports/GDP              17.9    19.0    22.0    21.4    19.6    193    18.5
InvestmentlGDP           5.4      9.1    10.2    7.9      9.0      9.4    8.1
Dom.savings/GDP         -22.4   -22.1   -19.6   -13.5   -16.0   -12.2  -17.0
Government revenue/GDP   6.9      6.8     7.9     8.0- 8.9         9,6    8.8
Current expendituresJ
GDP                      -      9.5    11.3    10.0    13.1    14.4  10.8
Current deficit/GDP       -       2.7    -3.3    -2.0    4.2   -4.9   -7.0
Aid disbursetnents ($m)   144    221      285     291    315       327    373
Real cffective exchange   100    90.2    89.6    96.7    87,3    93.3
rate index (1985 = 100) 2/
1/ Rainfall essentially explains the wide fluctuations in GDP growth rates From a longer-term perspective, the
growth rate for the decade of the 1980's was substantially better than earlier periods (1977 constant prices): 0.6%
for 1965-73 and -1.5% for 197380.
2 Trade-weighted average of nominal exchange rate index for each of Chad's main trading paers and
competitors, adjusted for relativc inflation in Ch  and these countries. Increase idica appreciaton.



40
ANNEX"
Page 1
Second Transoort Sector Proiect
Detailed Financina Plan
(Net of Taxes and Duties)
US $ million
Project components                     BDEAC    EDF   CFD    IDA   OPEC   GOC    TOTAL
A. PHYSICAL COMPONENT
1. Investment Costs - Civil works
a. Rehabilitation                  7.1    3.6            14.3    5.2    1.8       32.0
b. Periodic maintenance            5.1    7.8             8.7            5.1      26.7
c. Bridges                                 1.4                                     1.4
d. Road terminal                                  3.4                              3.4
2. Recurrent costs
a. Routine maintenance                     3.9                          25.4      29.3
B. INSTITUTIONAL STRENGTHENING COMPONENT
1. Consultants services for Public Works
a. Studies and supervision         0.7    0.6             2.1                      3.4
b. Technical assistance                    1.0            1.9                      2.9
c. Audits & Proj. Coord. Unit                             1.6                      1.6
2. Consultants services for Transport & Civil Aviation
a. Studies and supervision                        0.3                              0.3
b. Technical assistance                                   0.6                      0.6
3. Training and scholarship                    1.0           2.3                       3.3
4. Operating costs                                           0.7            0.5        1.2
C. CONTINGENCIES
1. Physical contingencies              1.3    1.6    0.4    2.2    0.5    2.2          8.2
2. Price contingencies                 0.8    1.0    0.2    1.1    0.3    2.2          5.6
D. REFINANCING PPF                                               1.5                       1.5
TOTAL                              15.0   22.0    4.2   37.0    6.0   37.3       121.4



41
ANNEX 2
Page 2
Second Transport Sector Proiect
Detailed IDA financina
(Net of Taxes and Duties)
- US $ million -
Project components                               Total    IDA   % IDA
A. PHYSICAL COMPONENT
1. Civil works
a. Rehabilitation                        32.0    14.3    45%
b. Periodic maintenance                  26.7      8.7    33%
c. Bridges                                1.4              0%
d. Road terminal                          3.4              0%
2. Recurrent Costs
a. Routine maintenance                   29.3              0%
B. INSTITUTIONAL STRENGTHENING COMPONENT
1. Consultants services for Public Works
a. Studies and supervision                3.4      2.1    62%
b. Technical assistance                   2.9      1.9    66%
c. Audits & Proj. Coord. Unit             1.6      1.6   100%
2. Consultants services for Transport & Civil Aviation
a. Studies and supervision                0.3              0%
b. Technical assistance                   0.6      0.6   100%
3. Training and scholarship                   3.3      2.3    70%
4. Operating costs                            1.2      0.7    56%
C. CONTINGENCIES
1. Physical contingencies                     8.2      2.2    26%
2. Price contingencies                        5.6      1.1    19%
D. REFINANCING PPF                                 1.5     1.5   100%
TOTAL                                   121.4    37.0    30%



42                     ANNEX 2
Page 3
Second Transport Sector Project
IDA Disbursement Schedule
(net of taxes and duties)
IDA FY              US $ million
Quarters                Total
Partial    Cumulative
1994       1
11             1.5        1.5
III            1.0        2.5
IV             2.0        4.5
1995       1              1.4         5.9
11             1.4        7.3
III            1.2        8.5
IV             1.6        10.1
1996       1              1.4        11.5
11             1.4        12.9
III            0.7        13.6
IV             1.8        15.4
1997       1              2.4        17.8
11             2.2        20.0
III            2.0        22.0
IV             2.4        24.4
1998       1              2.2        26.6
11             2.0        28.6
III            2.0        30.6
IV             1.4        32.0
1999       1              2.5        34.5
11             2.5        37.0



43
ANNEX 2
Second transport Sector Proiect                          Page 4
Imnlementation Schedule (All donors financinal
(Net of Taxes and Duties)
--- ---- ~- US S million -------
Project components                       1993   1994   1995   1996   1997   1998         Total
A. PHYSICAL COMPONENT
1. Investment Costs
a. Rehabilitation                          3.5    7.7    5.7    7.6    7.5        32.0
b. Periodic maintenance            3.1    7.9    8.7    7.1                       26.7
c. Bridges                                 0.5    0.5    0.5                       1.4
d. Road terminal                                  1.7    1.7                       3.4
2. Recurrent costs
a. Routine maintenance             3.0    5.7    6.0    5.7    5.7    3.1         29.3
B. INSTITUTIONAL STRENGTHENING COMPONENT
1. Consultants services for Public Works
a. Studies and supervision                 0.9    0.9    0.8    0.5    0.3         3.4
b. Technical assistance            0.3    1.2    0.9    0.5                        2.9
c. Audits & Proj. Coord. Unit              0.5    0.5    0.5    0.1    0.1         1.6
2. Consultants services for Transport & Civil Aviation
a. Studies and supervision                        0.1    0.1                       0.3
b. Technical assistance            0.0    0.2    0.2    0.2                        0.6
3. Training and scholarship            0.0    1.1    1.0    1.1                        3.3
4p.Operating costs                     0.0    0.2    0.2    0.3    0.2    0.1          1.2
C. CONTINGENCIES
1. Physical contingencies              0.3    1.6    2.3    2.1    1.2    0.7          8.2
2. Price contingencies                        0.5    1.3    1.9    1.2    0.7          5.6
1.5                                            1.5
TOTAL                               8.2   23.8   32.1   28.3   16.5   12.5       121.4



44
Annex 2
Page 5
Second Transoort Sector Project
1 20   Man x month                  Technical assistance to MTPT
100
*Public Works (Directorate of Roads,
80                                                                    OFNAR & Procurmrnt unit)
* Transport & Cvil asiation
60                                                                    Proj. Cooed. Unit
40
20
0
1990      1991     1992       1993      1994      1995      1996      1997      1998



45
Annex 2
Page 6
Second Transport Sector Project
Disbursment schedule
140 --US$ million
Disbursment
120
100
80-                                      /0 -,'... Othe-r
60
40
2 0
Chad
10  
1993          1994          1995           1996          1997          1998



46
Annex 2
Page 7
Second Transoort Sector Proiect
Disbursment profiles
140    US S million
Disbursment
120
100          * TOTAL
80 -          CHAD
60           JIDA
40
20
0
1993         1994         1995         1996         1997          1998



47
Annex 3
Page 1
Terms of Reference
for Technical Assistance
SOMMAIRE
INTRODUCTION
II.    ACTIONS ENVISAGEES
1.    Objectifs
2.    Composition des equipes
3.    Description des tlches et qualifications
4.    Suivi de siege
5.    Transfert de connaissance
III. PROGRAMME D'INTERVENTION



48
Annex 3
Page 2
I.    INTRODUCTION
Depuis 1989, le Ministere des Travaux Publics et des Transports met en oeuvre avec d6termination
la politique gouvernementale relative au secteur.
Au cours des trois prochaines ann6es, des efforts consistants doivent toujours etre foumis pour
atteindre les objectifs assignes.
Un appui a l'Administration est donc indispensable pour la concr6tisation des mesures fondamentales
deja arretees.
HI.    ACTIONS ENVISAGEES
1.    Objectifs
Les progres attendus en matiere de:
- liberalisation du secteur,
- facilitation du transit international,
- amelioration de 1'exploitation des transports routiers et aeriens,
- entretien et r6habilitation du r6seau routier,
- promotion du secteur prive,
- renforcement des institutions,
- gestion des ressources humaines,
doivent permettre de contribuer efficacement au developpement economique et social.
L'assistance technique, par ses activites d'appui a la Cellule Interministerielle de Suivi et de
Coordination des Projets du Secteur et aux divers services techniques du Ministere doit favoriser
l'atteinte de ces objectifs.
La mission d'appui comportera deux volets:
- assistance a la CISCP et au sous-secteur routier,
- assistance dans le domaine des transports.
2.    Composition des 6quipes



49
Annex 3
Page 3
La composition des equipes d'assistance technique et le temps de presence de chaque expert sont les
suivants:
a)      Coordination et Travaux Publics
Quantites        Positions                              Responsabilit6s                                Dur6e
(homme/mois)
1            Conseiller du         - Coordination des aides exterieures                                   30
Coordonnateur        - Toutes questions de politique gen6rale de l'OFNAR
et des TP en matiere de routes
- Administration des projets
I            Chef de la Cellule    - Toutes questions relatives a l'6laboration des dossiers              1S
Juridique et des       d'appels d'offres, et a la passation des contrats.
Marches
I            Adjoint au Directeur   - Planification et normalisation dans le secteur routier.             10
des Routes, Expert
en planification     - Assistance et contr6le pour 1'ex&eution du I'actualisation
d'6tudes technico-&onomiques.
Conseiller en
1            gestion des travaux    - Toutes questions techniques et administratives au niveau de la      15
d'entretien          Division de 1'Entretien Routier.
Chefs de service
regional
2                                  - Toutes questions techniques de la competence d'une Delegation        45
Experts court terme    regionale dans le domaine routier.
- Diverses etudes et missions                                         15
TOTAL                                                         130



so
Annex 3
Page 4
b)     Transports
Quantites                Positions                 Responsabilit6s           Dur6e (homme/mois)
Conseiller du Directeur   - Toutes questions de               8
General en matiere de    politique generale en
transports               matiere de transports
Experts court terne      - Diverses etudes
1                                                               ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~20
TOTAL                                                 28
3.     Description des tAches et qualifications
Tous les experts de l'assistance technique doivent avoir une parfaite connaissance de la langue francaise et de
bonnes qualites pedagogiques pour assurer le transfert de leur technologie vers les cadres nationaux et avoir
travaille dans un ou plusieurs pays en developpement. Les qualifications et fonctions specifiques des
membres de l'equipe devront etre:\
a)     Coordination et Travaux Publics
*      Conseiller du Coordinateur
Cet expert, de haut niveau, devra poss6der une tres grande aisance dans l'art de pratiquer des
relations publiques. 11 aura une tres bonne connaissance des problemes techniques lids I la
construction et 1'entretien des routes en Afrique ainsi qu'une bonne culture en economie de
transport. II aura une pratique d'au moins cinq annees dans l'exercice d'une fonction de haut
niveau. II aura une bonne pratique des bailleurs de fonds et de leurs procedures.
Cet expert aura pour taches essentielles:
- le conseil du Coordinateur
-l'assistance au Directeur General des Travaux Publics principalement dans ses
fonctions de Conseiller technique de son Ministre en matiere de routes,
- la collecte, la tenue a jour et le traitement de toutes informations sur les projets de
developpement en cours de preparation ou d'ex6cution dans le secteur routier et des
transports routiers,
- la preparation de rapports periodiques en cette matiere permettant la diffusion de ces
informations aupres des services nationaux et des bailleurs de fonds interesses et
mettant en evidence les probIlmes particuliers pour lesquels une concertation entre
certains bailleurs et le gouvernement pourrait assurer des r6sultats plus satisfaisants,



51
Annex 3
Page 5
- l'organisation de r6unions de coordination,
- l'examen des programmes de travail et des budgets annuels en vue de
s'assurer que toutes les obligations du gouvernement resultant de conventions
ou d'accords de credit dans le secteur des transports soient assur6s.
*     Chef de la Cellule Juridique et des Marches
Cet expert, specialiste de l'administration des march6s publics devra egalement
poss6der une bonne experience technique en matiere de travaux publics.
II aura une pratique d'au moins dix ann6es dans des fonctions similaires.
Dans le cadre de l'organisation et la supervision du fonctionnement du service qu'il
anime, cet expert aura pour taches essentielles:
- l'application des textes reglementaires,
- la r6vision ou l'elaboration des documents contractuels types,
- l'instruction des appels d'offre pour les march6s du secteur des transports,
- le suivi des processus administratifs visant a la passation des march6s,
- la conservation des documents originaux des marches,
- le conseil des directeurs techniques en cas de litige dans l'interpretation des
marches.
*     Adjoint au Directeur des Routes, expert en planification
Cet expert sera un ingenieur routier ayant une tres bonne experience en organisation
et gestion des services de planification et normalisation en matiere de travaux routiers
et de bonnes connaissances en 6conomie des transports. I1 aura une experience d'au
moins dix ann6es de pratique dans un tel service, dont cinq ann6es de fonctions
similaires exercees dans un pays d'Afrique.
Ces fonctions comporteront notamment les taches suivantes:



52
Annex 3
Page 6
- assistance au Directeur des Routes en toutes matieres techniques, economique
ou de gestion,
- appui a la normalisation,
- aide au developpement de la recherche routiere.
*     Conseiller du Chef de la Division de I'Entretien (Direction des Routes)
Cet expert sera un ingenieur routier ayant une excellente experience de l'entretien
routier tant en travaux qu'en gestion administrative et programmation. I1 aura une
experience d'au moins dix annees de pratique dans ces domaines dont cinq annees en
Afrique.
Cet expert aura pour taches essentielles:
- le conseil au Chef de Division en matiere de gestion de l'entretien routier,
- l'elaboration d'un systame de gestion informatise,
- le suivi de la normalisation dans les domaines de sa competence.
$     Chef de Service Regional des Routes
Ces experts seront des ingenieurs routiers ayant une experience administrative de suivi
et contr6le de travaux d'entretien routier. Ils auront une experience de quelques
annees dans un pays d'Afrique dans des fonctions similaires.
Leurs fonctions comporteront les tiches suivantes:
- la mise en place des procedures de gestion administrative, financiere et
technique adaptees a l'organisation generale de l'entretien routier,
- la supervision du point de vue de l'administration des taches de l'entretien
routier,
- la definition des plans types des rapports d'activite.



53
Annex 3
Page 7
D'une maniere generale, ils animeront et dirigeront les activites de l'Administration dans les regions
dans le domaine des routes. Deux experts seront mis en place, l'un en charge des services routiers
relatifs aux delegations regionales du Sud Ouest et du Sud Est, I'autre du Centre Ouest et de l'Est.
Experts court terme
Ces experts de haut niveau sont appeles a etre mobilis6s en fonction des besoins de
I'Administration. I1 pourra s'agir, sans que cette liste soit exhaustive, de:
- expert institutionnel,
- expert juriste,
- expert environnement,
- economiste specialiste des infrastructures routieres.
Une exp6rience reussie en Afrique est indispensable.
b) Transports
--    Conseiller Transports aupr*s du Directeur G&nral
Cet expert, specialiste des transports (terrestres et a6riens) doit avoir une grande
experience en matiere d'economie, d'affretement et de transit. Un ou plusieurs
experiences concretes dans l'entreprise sont souhaitables. Une bonne connaissance du
contexte africain sera appr6ci6e.
Cet expert aura pour tAches essentielles:
- le conseil du Directeur General en matiere de transports,
- la coordination technique des differentes directions concemees par les
transports,
- la mise a niveau de la reglementation des transports et le conseil en matiere
de transit intemational,
- le developpement des systames d'information sur les transports,
- l'appui et le conseil aux organismes du secteur (BNF et AIR TCHAD).



54
Annex 3
Page 8
*     Experts court terme
Ces experts de haut niveau seront mobilises en fonction des besoins de
l'Administration. II pourra s'agir sans que cette liste soit exhaustive de:
- expert 6conomiste,
- expert juriste,
- expert informaticien,
- expert statisticien.
Une experience reussie en Afrique est indispensable.
4.    Suivi de siege
Pour chacun des volets, le Consultant devra definir l'appui qu'il compte fournir au travers d'un
correspondant "au siege". Cet expert, de haut niveau, devra avoir une experience de l'Afrique, du
secteur des transports, des pratiques administratives, ainsi que des proc6dures et regles des bailleurs
de fonds.
5.    Transfert de connaissance
Chacun des experts resident au Tchad devra assurer aupres de son adjoint (ou homologue selon le
cas) le transfert de connaissance indispensable necessaire a assurer le releve au depart du consultant.
m. PROGRAMME D'INTERVENTION
La duree de l'intervention est de 36 mois.
Apres une phase continue fixee de 6 a 12 mois selon le cas (excepte le Conseiller du Coordinateur),
I'appui au Ministare des Travaux Publics et des Transports sera apport6 au travers de missions plus
ponctuelles aux objectifs particuliers precis, etablis en fonction des besoins.



ANNEXE 3
Page 9
PST 2 - PLANNING PREVISIONNEL ASSISTANCE, FORMATION, ETUDES, MINISTERE MTPT
1993         1994              1995              1996              1997          1998
III  IV  I   11   III  IV  I   11   III  IV  I   11  III  IV   I    11  III  IV   I   11
Cseiller Tech. DGTPT             A
Remise niveau reglem             A      _   _
Informatisation DTS              A                      _
Comite Uaison                    A
Aide gestion PME                 F       _    _      _    _         _
Indicateurs Econ.                A       _   -   _      _
Gares Routieres                  E          _
Aide gestion BNF                 A      _        _
Plan formation trans.            F       _
Negociations recipr.             A                                                                                              1
Procedures UDEAC                 A                     _
Audit Air Tchad                  A    _   _          _    _  _   _    _         _
Assistance Tech. DAC             A             _
Conseiller CISCP
Experts court terme CISCP et DG         _      _       _        -   -       _      _     _
Chef Div. Ress. Humaines
Expert Marche                                                   _
Conseil. Directeurs I Planif.
Expert Planification                              _
Expert Gestion Tx Entret.                                           _
Experts court terme                            _          _      _          _      _
Chef Serv. Reg. Routes NDJ
Chef Serv. Reg. Routes SAR                                _                 _
Chef Serv. Reg. Routes MOU
Chef Serv. Reg. Routes ABE                                                   _
A: Assistance; F: Formation; E: Etudes.



56
ANNEX 4
Page 1
Project Monitoring and Supervision Plan
1.           IDA Supervision Input. Regular supervision needs are described in Table I of this Annex.
In addition, specific tasks such as review of program reports, terms of reference, quarterly and annual audits,
annual work program, procurement and disbursement actions are estimated to require 14 staff weeks of
various specialist input a year which are not included in Table 1.
Borrower's contribution to Supervision
2.     The bulk of the supervision will be handled by the Interministerial Steering Committee and the
Project Coordination Unit which will focus on the monitoring of all the implementing agencies to follow all
the issues related to policy measures, budgetary allocations, donors coordination, procurement, and physical
implementation.
3.     Ouarterly progress reports would be submitted to IDA and all the other donors concerned. They
would include a summary of implementation under each project component, financial statements on project
expenditures, updated project implementation, procurement schedules, as well as the status of contract
advertising, bidding, awards, completion dates and compliance with aggregate limits on specified methods of
procurement. The Project Coordination Unit would collect inputs for each implementing agency and prepare
the reports. These reports will highlight in particular the actual status of performance indicators in
comparison with the performance plans.
4.     Quarterly audit reports will be provided for the CAER and Air Tchad.
5.    Joint semi-annual reviews. Twice a year (October/November and March/April) the Project
Coordination Unit would organize a joint IDA/other donors/Government review of the project implementation
based on: (i) the progress report (which, for the purposes of the semi-annual review, would also include an
annual work program and corresponding budget for the year considered and a draft budget and work program
for the following year); (ii) an assessment of technical assistance performance and execution of the training
program; and (iii) the status of policy and project monitoring indicators.
6.     A mid-term review: In addition, the project management would carry out mid-way through
implementation, a review of the project including donors commitments during the roundtable held in
November 1992. This review will be held in June 1995. The review will cover all aspects, withi a special
focus on (i) progress in implementing policy measures and their impact on sector development (public and
private), cost and efficiency of the system; (ii) effectiveness of budget allocation measures; (iii) effectiveness
of private sector development measures.
7.     Project Completion Report. Within six months of the Credit closing date a completion report,
prepared in accordance with terms of reference satisfactory to IDA would be transmitted to IDA.



57
ANNEX 4
Page 2
TABLE 1
Supervision Plan
IDA Fiscal Year (FY)               Activity                       Skill                     Staff Weeks
and Approx. dates                                            Requirements
FY94                         Launching of the project     Sector policy dialogue, civil    12
Oct/Nov 93                                              works, procurement, Project
Mgmt, privatization process
March/April 94             Supervision mission           Civil works, financial       18
Review the implementation    specialist, Project Mgmt
of the overall project.      airline specialist
Physical implementation of
works. Actual allocation for
CAEF, Air Tchad,
performance plan, TA and
Training program
FY95                         Semi-annual review mission.   Same as above                10
June/July 94               Review progress made that
year and plans for the next
year including efficiency in
public sector management,
performance of SNER, TA
and Training program,
Review of donors
commitment
Oct/Nov 94                 Supervision mission                                        10
March/April 95             2nd Semi-annual review       Same as above                 10
FY96
Jul/Aug 95                 Supervision mission           Same as above                10
Oct/Nov                    3rd Semi-annual review        Same as above                10
mission
March/April 96             4th Semi-annual review       Same as above                 10
mission
FY97
Nov/Dec 96                 Project completion mission   TBA                           18
TOTAL
FY94                                                                                  30
FY95                                                                                  30
FY96                                                                                  30
FY97                                                                                  18



Annex 4
Page 3
Project Implembntation Schedule
All donors financed operations
Project Component
1993            1994                 1995                1996                1997           1998
Ill  IV   I    11   III  IV    I    11   Ill  IV    I   11   Ill  IV    I    11   III  IV    I    11
A. PHYSICAL COMPONENT
1. Investment Costs - Civil Works
a. Rehabilitation
b. Periodic Maintenance            _
c. Bridges
d. Road Terminal
2. Recurrent costs
a. Routine Maintenance
B. INSTITUTIONAL STRENGTHENING COMPONENT
1. Consultant Services for Public Works
a. Studies and Supervision
b. Technical Assistance
c. Audit and Proj. Mang. Unit
2. Consultant Services for Transport & Civil Aviation
a. Studies and Supervision
b. Technical Assistance
3. Training and scholarship
4. Operating Costs                   -



59
ANNEX 5
Page 1
Republic of Chad
Ministry of Planning and Cooperation
From:                                                                  Washington, May 15, 1993
The Minister
To:
Mr. Lewis T. Preston
President
World Bank
Washington, D.C.
Dear Mr. President:
On behalf of the Government of Chad, I have the honor to send you herewith the Letter of
Transport Sector Policy, prepared in close collaboration with representatives of the World Bank.
This Letter of Sector Policy ties in with the sector strategy prepared in collaboration with
your staff and submitted to the donor community in November 1992.
The Government of the Republic of Chad hereby requests IDA's support in the financing of
a Second Transport Sector Project (PST2).
With this in mind, I have included in the attached document a brief review of the objectives
of the program of reforms already undertaken in the transport sector and a description of further actions that
the Government intends to take.
Yours, etc.
ls! Ibni Oumar Mahamat Saleh



60
ANNEX 5
Page 2
GOVERNMENT OF THE REPUBLIC OF CHAD
LETTER OF TRANSPORT SECTOR POLICY
1.    Introduction - Recent developments in the Chadian economy
Chad, one of the world's poorest countries with an estimated average per capita income of
US$190 in 1991, has been experiencing serious economic and financial difficulties for the past 20 years.
Since 1983, the country has been making progress along the path to political stabilization,
democratization, and economic reconstruction. The National Conference held from January to April 1993
represented an important milestone, holding out hope for the country's future. The many difficulties
encountered, linked essentially to the country's low level of development and to its physical environment,
must be overcome.
During the period 1982-85, record cotton harvests allowed Chad to substantially increase its
GDP (+7% a year). But since the onset of the cotton crisis in 1986, the economy has slowed down so
much that its growth rate is now lagging behind that of the population.
The Chadian economy is characterized by:
-     major handicaps of a non-economic nature, in particular       the country's climate
and landlocked situation;
inadequate levels of exports, concentrated mainly on cotton and cattle on the hoof;
inadequate levels of private investment to meet potentially large requirements.
2.    Economic development strategy
To solve both its basic development problems and the structural problems of its economy,
Chad proceeded at the end of the war, with the support of the international community (Geneva 1985), to
draw up an Interim Development Plan (1986-88).
The long-term objectives of this plan, still valid today, consisted of making the country self-
sufficient in food, reducing its dependence on cotton, rehabilitating and maintaining the transport system,
and accelerating the development of its human resources.
In 1991, the Government confirmed the main thrusts of its development policy:
improve social conditions so that the people are better equipped to handle the cultural,
political, socioeconomic, and technological changes that country has to face;



61
ANNEX 5
Page 3
increase production capacities through institutional modernization and economic
liberalization;
-      restore key economic and financial equilibria and maintain a healthy rate of growth.
Within the framework of this economic development strategy, the transport sector has a key
role to play in light of the country's landlocked situation, the geographic dispersal of its economic activities,
and the progress that it may be expected to achieve once it has access to the broader regional dynamic.
The role of foreign trade in Chad's economy, the growth of the country's urban population,
and the development of regional markets are all further reasons for the key strategic role assigned to the
transport sector.
With its many macroeconomic functions, the transport sector supports the country's other
economic activities. It plays a particularly important role upstream and downstream of both agricultural
production and trade, and is a major generator of employment.
3.     Transport sector strategy
Bearing in mind the importance of this sector, and desiring to strengthen the objectives
assigned to it, the Government has reaffirmed the basic principles of its strategy:
-      reduction of transport costs;
-      institution building;
-      liberalization of the sector.
These key principles essentially involve actions along the following lines:
-      assigning priority, for the sector as a whole, to investment in routine and periodic
maintenance and rehabilitation, but limiting this investment to a specific high priority
transport network providing a permanent link between the major production and
consumption centers;
promoting expansion of the private sector, by permitting private contractors to bid on works
traditionally and routinely executed by force account, leaving the Government to develop its
expertise in the areas of design, planning, and supervision;
continuing the process of restructuring Air Tchad, including signature of a contrat-plan with
the Government or a cooperation agreement with external partners, for the purpose of
streamlining the company's management and making it financially viable.



62
ANNEX 5
Page 4
These actions are designed to create the appropriate conditions for the sector's participation
in the revival of the national economy.
To implement this strategy, the Government launched a Transport Sector Adjustment Project
(1989-93), and has now prepared a Second Transport Sector Project (1993-98).
4.     Action program
(a)    Actions already undertaken
In 1989, the Government identified a high priority road network, and decided to concentrate
its efforts on the rehabilitation and maintenance of that network. The investment program, approved at the
1988 Donors Meeting, was launched and duly respected.
The key sector policy reforms were implemented, specifically the liberalization of road
transport through the abolition of monopolies and administrative tariffs.
At the same time, the Government acquired the institutional resources required for rigorous
management of the sector. Government agencies and parapublic institutions were restructured in an effort
to make them more cost-effective. Thanks to modernization of the administrative and legal framework for
government contracts it was possible for substantial progress to be made in the management of public
investment programs.
The Government also took resolute action to apply certain new basic legal provisions,
particularly in the area of liberalization of the sector, with a view to improving the transport of both goods
and passengers and thereby improving conditions of trade, increasing the country's levels of economic
performance, and lowering costs.
(b)    Proposed actions
In view of the magnitude of the tasks remaining to be done, despite the substantial efforts
already made, the Government wishes to confirm its adherence to its original objectives.
To ensure the coherence of its actions in the transport sector, the Government thus intends
to lose no time in implementing the following measures:
continued institution building at the Ministry of Public Works and Transport, with a view to
improving the efficiency of Government agencies by restricting their role to design,
planning, regulation, and supervision;
development of human capacities through more rigorous human resource management;



63
ANNEX5
Page 5
support for the agricultural development policy through rehabilitation and maintenance of a
network of some 900 km of feeder roads, thus bringing the priority network to close to
4,700 km;
facilitation of international transit through measures designed as part of the move toward
regional integration, primarily with Cameroon and the CAR;
improvement of surface transport operations;
coherent and increased mobilization of local resources linked to the sector;
allocation of adequate levels of local financial resources to road maintenance;
creation of an Autonomous Account for Road Maintenance, to ensure availability and
efficient management of the funds allocated to maintenance;
promotion of local private entrepreneurs in the public works area, particularly where road
maintenance contracts are concerned;
conversion of Office National des Routes into a societe nationale with a private-type
management structure, with plans to study its subsequent privatization;
opening up of LNBTP's capital to private-sector participation;
active continuation of the overhaul and adaptation of the procedures governing contract
award, approval and management, so as to make the choices more transparent, expedite
works execution, and ensure prompt settlement of the corresponding payments.
All measures relative to implementation of this Letter of Policy are set forth in the annexed
action plans.
Conclusion
The present Letter of Transport Sector Policy and the annexes thereto are evidence of the
Government's determination to lay solid bases for our nation's economy within the framework of the
Transport Sector Project. It is intended to serve as a reference for all actions taken in this area during the
period concerned, and in that capacity merits the understanding and respect of all of our partners in
development.



64
ANNEX 5-1
Page I
ACTION PLAN
FOR THE ROADS SECTOR
Foreword
Within the framework of the Transport Sector Adjustment Program 1989-93, some 2,800
km of the 3,800-km high priority road network have been rehabilitated. Within the framework of the
Second Transport Sector Project (1994-98), it was agreed to increase this priority network to 4,760 km, to
include a network of what are essentially secondary rural roads, with a view to promoting the development
of agricultural production and facilitating trade between surplus and deficitary areas.
Bearing in mind the efforts already made to rehabilitate the road network, and desiring to
safeguard the national assets, the Government intends to devote particular attention to maintenance of the
revised priority network.
The Government intends to continue the efforts being made in the area of highway research
to optimize construction standards.
Environmentally-oriented actions are today high on the list of Government concerns. The
physical investments already carried out represent a useful yardstick for measuring impact. Certain
environmental changes, whose results are already perceptible, are sometimes negative. The factoring of
environmental considerations into transport sector projects should lead to improvements in investment
quality. Environmental data, like technical and economic data, should be available for the Government, as
contracting authority [mattre d'ouvrage], to use as pointers throughout the project cycle.
Objectives
Following are the objectives of the action plan for the road sector:
A.  ROAD MAINTENANCE
Improve management of the road network through better works programming and rigorous
on-site supervision.
Improve the conditions and methods of execution of road maintenance programs.
Ensure the availability of adequate financing for maintenance of the priority network.



65
ANNEX S-1
Page 2
B.    NETWORK REHABILITATION
-     Pursue rehabilitation of the priority road network and initiate rehabilitation of feeder roads
linking production areas with the priority network.
-     Rehabilitate or construct bridges and culverts to ensure continuity of traffic flow within the
priority network.
C.    HIGHWAY RESEARCH
-     Improve the capacities of the Highways Directorate in the area of site investigation
[gtotechnique routi&rej to ensure a more informed approach to the complexities and
particularities of the local context in terms of geomorphology, availability of materials and
of water, climatology, and the environment.
Set up geotechnic data banks based on works and experiments.
Assign a broader role to the LNBTP and develop its technological skills, spirit of initiative,
and competitiveness.
Improve the quality of interaction among the LNBTP, the Directorates of the Ministry of
Public Works and Transport, and the other technical ministries active in the area of
environmental protection.
D.    ENVIRONMENT
-     Minimize constraints, in particular through better protection of the forest resource and
strengthening of the reforestation policy.
-     Improve the existing situation by instituting mechanisms for collaborating with external
agencies and with the local communities concerned.
Actions
1.    TO ACHIEVE THE OBJECTIVES OF THE ROAD SUBSECTOR:
A.    THE FOLLOWING INSTIUTIONAL MEASURES HAVE ALREADY BEEN TAKEN:
*     Preparation of legislative measures redefining the organization of the Ministry of Public
Works and Transport, focusing in particular on the role and functions of the Highways
Directorate.



66
ANNEX S-1
Page 3
*     Preparation of all legislative measures redefining the existence, organization and functions of
the High Interministerial Committee responsible for monitoring PASET projects, the
Technical Committee, and the Interministerial Project Monitoring and Coordination Unit.
*     Preparation of the statuts of the new road maintenance company (Societe Nationale de
l'Entretien Routier - SNER).
*     Preparation of legislative measures:
-     creating the independent road maintenance account and establishing procedures for
its management and the appointment of its authorized signatories.
These documents will indicate the pertinent budget line items and the procedures for funding
the account;
*     Preparation of decrees instituting a simplified procurement procedure for PST2:
a decree redefining the functions of the High Interministerial Committee, extending
these to include supervision of all PST2 procurement operations during the period
1994-98;
-     a decree redefining the functions of the Technical Committee, extending these to
include performance of all operations involved in the issue of invitations to tender,
bid appraisal and analysis, and contract award;
-     a decree delegating contract approval authority to the Chairman of the High
Interministerial Committee for the entire period 1994-98;
-     Preparation of legislation to govern administrative classification of the road network.
*     Approval of the General Conditions of Contract.
B.    THE FOLLOWING INSIITONAL MEASURES WILL BE TAKEN:
By July 31, 1993:
*     Approval of all of the above pieces of legislation.
By September 30. 1993:
*     Establishment of OFNAR's closing balance at June 30, 1993.
*     Establishment of SNER's opening balance at September 1, 1993.



67
ANNEX S-1
Page 4
2.  TO IMPROVE MANAGEMENT OF THE ROAD NETWORK THROUGH BETTER WORKS
PROGRAMMING AND RIGOROUS ON-SITE SUPERVISION, THE GOVERNMENT
UNDERTAKES TO:
(a)    Transfer network management and works programming and supervision from SNER to the
Highways Directorate:
-      prepare by June 30 each year a current and periodic maintenance program, taking
account of the geographic distribution of the stretches concerned and of the available
budget resources;
-      perform a yearly update of the rain gates map, aiming in particular to have these
installed on rehabilitated stretches;
-      organize annual programs for traffic counts, vehicle weight checks, and traffic
surveys;
(b)    Have all periodic maintenance works performed by private contractors or companies with
private-type management, in accordance with the specifications of contracts for works
concluded with the Highways Directorate.
(c)    Make settlement for all road maintenance works on the basis of a unit price list, paying only
for those services actually performed.
AND TO THIS END THE FOLLOWING ACTIONS HAVE ALREADY BEEN TAKEN:
(a)    Preparation of sample bidding documents for both current and periodic maintenance,
consisting in each case of the Special Conditions of Contract, Technical Specifications, bill
of quantities, and price list.
(b)    Preparation of sample contracts for the management of ferries, traffic counts, and rain gates.
(c)    Preparation of a manual of procurement procedures.
AND THE GOVERNMENT UNDERTAKES TO TAKE THE FOLLOWING MEASURES:
By June 30. 1993:
(a)    Preparation of a manual of accounting procedures, including all accounting documents
related to contracts for road maintenance and related activities.



68
ANNEX 5-1
Page 5
(b)    Preparation of a system of cost analysis for works, using actual data from the maintenance
contracts to determine the unit costs and costs per kilometer of maintenance tasks according
to the nature of different stretches of road.
(c)    Preparation of a road maintenance standards manual describing the types and frequency of
maintenance tasks by standard of road stretch, geographic location, and traffic breakdown.
By June 30, 1994:
*     Design an HDM-type computer model for network management and install this at the
Highways Directorate.
3.  TO IMPROVE CONDMTIONS AND METHODS OF IMPLEMENTATION OF ROAD
MAINTENANCE PROGRAMS THE GOVERNMENT UNDERTAKES TO:
(a)    Take steps to promote autonomous administrative and financial management at SNER:
(b)    Transfer from OFNAR to SNER the capital goods needed for its operations, to enable it to
achieve the projected levels of competitiveness.
(c)    Entrust SNER, by negotiated contract, with half of the current maintenance program for the
first three crop seasons.
4.  TO ENSURE ADEQUATE FINANCING OF THE HIGH PRIORITY NETWORK THE
GOVERNMENT UNDERTAKES TO:
(a)    Assume:
100% of the cost of management and operation of the
maintenance units;
100% of the cost of current maintenance;
5% of the cost of periodic maintenance.
(b)    Improve recovery of road user fees (road, ferry and bridge tolls, freight taxes [taxes
d'affretement routier] collected by the BNF) and petroleum taxes.
(c)    Ensure funding of the Autonomous Road Maintenance Account through monthly deposits in
cumulative annual amounts of at least CFAF 1,800, 2,000, 2,200, 2,400 and 2,600 million,
respectively, for fiscal years 1994, 1995, 1996, 1997 and 1998. These resources will come
primarily from road user fees and from DTS and petroleum tax revenues, in accordance
with the following distribution:



69
ANNEX 5-1
Page 6
1994     1995     1996     1997     1998    TOTAL
Ferry tolls                     50       50       50       50        50       250
N'Gueli bridge toll            250      260      280      300       300     1,390
BNF freight tax                600      630      660      700       700     3,290
Sales of public works
equipment                      160      160      260                          480
Petroleum taxes                740      900    1,050    1,350    1,550      5,590
Total               1,800    2,000    2,200    2,400    2,600    11,000
Per month                      150      165      180      200       215
5.  TO CONTINUE REHABILITATION OF THE HMGH PRIORITY ROAD NETWORK AND
ENSURE REHABILITATION OF THE SECONDARY RURAL ROADS LINKING
PRODUCTION AREAS TO THE NATIONAL PRIORITY NETWORK, THE
GOVERNMENT UNDERTAKES TO:
(a)    Carry out the feasibility studies and detailed engineering studies prior to implementation of
the works:
letters of invitation for the preliminary studies and bidding documents shall all
conform to the external partners' rules of procurement;
the preliminary studies shall take the enviromnent factor into consideration: an
impact assessment shall be systematically incorporated into each feasibility study and
the pertinent technical specifications included in the works contracts;
(b)   Implement the investment program agreed with the external partners, and consequently:
-     implementing only the program adopted for the period 1994-98;
-     asking the external partners for prior consent to all other actions, not included in the
above investment program, in an annual cumulative amount of over CFAF 200
million;
-     revising the investment program annually in consultation with the external partners,
in light of the past year's performance in terms both of program implementation and
of the country's overall economic situation;
-     carrying out the rehabilitation works in accordance with the design and construction
standards adopted. Proposals to improve these standards may be envisaged, to take
account of the physical and specific environment of a given road and of its



70
ANNEX 5-1
Page 7
consequences in terms of sustainability of the works carried out (materials, erosion,
etc.);
(c)    Through the appropriate agencies, continue to seek financing from its partners for those
parts of the program that are still without financing.
(d)    Make available the counterpart funds necessary to successful implementation of the program.
6.   TO REHABILITATE OR CONSTRUCT BRIDGES AND CULVERTS ESSENTIAL TO THE
CONTINUITY OF TRAFFIC FLOW WITHIN THE PRIORITY NETWORK, THE
GOVERNMENT UNDERTAKES TO:
(a)    Continue the inventory and diagnostic survey of bridges and culverts within the priority
network during the first half of 1993.
(b)    Establish a rehabilitation program with the Highway Data Bank taking account of the
priorities and programming of network rehabilitation.
(c)    Perform the engineering studies of the bridges and culverts to be rehabilitated or constructed
(bidding documents).
(d)    Implement the program for rehabilitation of the designated feeder road network.
7.  TO INCREASE THE CAPACITIES OF THE HIGHWAYS DIRECTORATE IN THE AREA
OF SITE INVESTIGATION [GEOTECHNIQUE ROUTIEREJ TO ENSURE A MORE
INFORMED APPROACH TO THE COMPLEXITIES AND PARTICULARITIES OF THE
LOCAL CONTEXT IN TERMS OF GEOMORPHOLOGY, AVAILABILITY OF
MATERIALS AND OF WATER, CLIMATOLOGY AND ENVIRONMENT, THE
GOVERNMENT UNDERTAKES TO:
(a)    Initiate methodologies for laboratory tests most appropriate to the local context.
(b)    Prepare display charts for use in programs to train personnel in methods of site
investigation.
8.  TO SET UP GEOTECHNIC DATA BANKS BASED ON WORKS AND EXPERIMENTS,
THE GOVERNMENT UNDERTAKES TO:
(a)    Take inventory of all documentation existing at this date:
listing all reports of studies and all supervision and consultancy reports published by
the Highways Directorate since 1986 concerning paved and unpaved roads.



71
ANNEX 5-1
Page 8
listing all results of laboratory tests, whether obtained by LNBTP, acquired by
consultants responsible for studies or works supervision, or furnished by contractors
using their own laboratories.
-     classifying, systematizing, and filing all of these documents.
(b)    Monitor the post-acceptance behavior of roads on which works were performed during
PASET, focusing in particular on paved roads, and compile or update the corresponding
contract compliance documents [dossiers de recolement].
(c)    Draw up a study and research program related to road construction projects, and take the
following steps to implement it:
-      initiate pavement and materials studies, taking account of the local context;
-     participate in the design and implementation of test strips on future roads (paved and
unpaved);
*     initiate monitoring of these test strips during their implementation and following
their acceptance.
(d)    Prepare a geotechnic map of Chad.
9.  TO ASSIGN A BROADER ROLE TO THE LNBTP AND DEVELOP ITS
TECHNOLOGICAL SKILLS, ITS SPIRIT OF INITIATIVE, AND ITS COMPETITIVENESS,
T1HE GOVERNMENT UNDERTAKES TO:
(a)    Effectively privatize management of the LNBTP and eventually set up a laboratory in the
form of a private commercial company.
(b)    Encourage the LNBTP, which will not receive any subsidized financial or technical
assistance, to conclude contracts for assistance, in particular with respect to management,
the technical performance of its contracts, and the training of its personnel.
(c)    Encourage the LNBTP to adopt a more dynanic trade policy, enabling it to participate in
studies, works supervision, and monitoring activities involving the network.
(d)    Encourage the LNBTP to participate in the training seminars and programs arranged by the
Ministry of Public Works and Transportation.



72
ANNEX 5-1
Page 9
10.  TO IMPROVE THE QUALITY OF LINKS BETWEEN THE LNBTP, THE DIRECTORATES
OF THE MINISTRY OF PUBLIC WORKS AND TRANSPORT, AND THE OTHER
TECHNICAL MINISTRIES ACTIVE IN THE AREA OF ENVIRONMENTAL
PROTECTION, THE GOVERNMENT UNDERTAKES TO:
(a)    Set up a planning unit at the Highways Directorate to handle relations with all other
ministries involved in the rehabilitation program.
11.  TO PROTECT THE FOREST RESOURCE AND STRENGTHEN THE REFORESTATION
POLICY, THE GOVERNMENT UNDERTAKES TO:
(a)    Put in place an environmental unit attached to the Highways Directorate, to coordinate
activities and in particular to monitor project-induced environmental changes.
(b)    Provide training on environmental topics, to ensure sustainability of the actions taken, and
provide managerial staff at the Ministry of Public Works and Transportation with the basic
skills in this area.
(c)    Include an environmental impact assessment in all road feasibility studies.
(d)    Prepare technical specifications for subsequent inclusion in contracts for studies and works.
12.   TO IMPROVE THE EXISTING SITUATION BY INSTITUTING COLLABORATION WITH
EXTERNAL AGENCIES AND THE AFFECTED LOCAL COMMUNITIES, THE
GOVERNMENT UNDERTAKES TO:
(a)    Coordinate studies with the Ministry of Tourism and the Environment, and routinely consult
the local communities.
(b)    Support the regional units of the Ministry of Tourism and the Environment (Regional Forest
Inspectorates), strengthening their capacities for controlling wood and fauna offtake.
(c)    Sensitize the local communities to environment-related actions.



73
ANNEX 5-1
Page 10
13.   TO SUPERVISE THE PROPER DEVELOPMENT OF THE PROJECT AND
ACHIEVEMENT OF ITS OBJECTIVES THANKS TO THE PROGRAMMED ACTIVITIES,
THE GOVERNMENT UNDERTAKES TO CARRY OUT PERIODIC MEASUREMENTS OF
PERFORMANCE INDICATORS, AS FOLLOWS:
Institutional aspec:
(a)    Have six-monthly audit missions check on the progress of institutional restructuring and its
impact on the institutions' operations.
(b)    Verify the existence of monthly activities reports (Divisions) and quarterly reports
(Directorates and Regional Delegations).
(c)    Verify the existence of specific technical reports (supervision missions, traffic counts, traffic
surveys, etc.).
(d)    Verify that the computer model has been installed at the Bureau de Gestion Routiere.
(e)    Verify that the Planning Unit and the environmental officer at the Highways Directorate
have been effectively installed.
(f)    Verify the existence of the geotechnic library.
Road maintenance and rehabilitation:
(a)    Perform quarterly audits of the Autonomous Account for Road Maintenance.
(b)    Perform monthly comparisons of actual and estimated expenditure.
(c)    Verify the number of maintenance contracts signed with private enterprises.
(d)    Verify actual monthly disbursement on maintenance.
(e)    Verify the length of rehabilitated roads or the number of bridges or culverts repaired or
constructed.
(f)    Verify actual expenditure on rehabilitation.
(g)    Survey traffic on the maintained and rehabilitated network.
(h)    Obtain transport production indicators (load factors, passengers and tons/km) from the
Directorate of Studies and Planning.



74
ANNEX 5-1
Page 11
(i)    Obtain annual information on vehicle operating costs (economic and financial).
(j)    Ascertain the economic rate of return of the work performed.
Highway research and environment:
(a)    Verify the existence of the geotechnic map of Chad.
(b)    Verify the inclusion of impact assessments in the terms of reference for road studies.
(c)    Verify the existence of environment-related technical specifications in study and works
contracts.
14.   TO ACHIEVE THE ESTABLISHED OBJECTIVES THE GOVERNMENT UNDERTAKES
TO TAKE THE FOLLOWING MEASURES IN THE AREA OF HUMAN RESOURCES:
(a)    Perform a human resources assessment upon completion of PASET.
(b)    Perform an assessment of the human resources required for PST2 (numbers, qualifications,
etc.).
(c)    Plan the human resources needed by the Government in order to ensure as smooth a
transition as possible from the existing to the projected situation.
(d)    Mobilize external resources (technical assistance) needed for implementation of the program,
preferably in the form of short-term focused missions.
(e)    Define the personnel management and career development structure.
(f)    Perform ongoing job/skills match reviews.
(g)    Coordinate all training activities with a view to maximizing efficiency.
(h)   Identify actions to be taken in connection with management of PST2 personnel and with
training.
(i)    Redefine the roles of Ecole Nationale des Travaux Publics (ENTP) and the Centre de
Perfectionnement et de Recyclage (CPT).
(j)    Develop training programs covering new topics (environment, etc.).



75
ANNEX 5-1
Page 12
PRIORITY ROAD NETWORK
Name of stretch                                         Length (lmn)
Primary Priority Network
- Walia-N'Gu6li                                                  6.00
- Voie de conbournement                                  20.50
- N'Djam6na-Djermaya                                             26.50
- Djermaya-Massaguet                                             45.50
- Djermaya-Dandi                                                 66.00
- Massaguet-Massakory                                            68.00
- Massaguet-N'Goura                                             124.00
- N'Goura-Bokoro                                                104.00
- Bokoro-Mongo                                                  201.00
- Mongo-Mangalmc                                                        122.00
- Mangalme-Oum Hadjer                                           109.00
- Oum Hadjer-Abechc                                             146.00
- Ab6ch6-Adre-Frontier                                          174.00
- N 'Djam6na-Guelengdeng                                        144.00
- Guelengdeng-Bongor-Koyom                                      160.00
- Koyom-Ere-Kclo                                                         58.00
- Guelengdeng-Sarh                                              402.50
- Sarh-Moundou-Lr&6                                             603.00
- Sarh-Maro-Sido                                                125.50
- Massakori-Bol-Bagasola                                237.50
- Ab6ch6-Biltine                                                 92.00
- Mongo-Ati                                                             154.00
- Mbaikoro-Bedaoyo                                              112.50
- Moundou-Bolarobou                                             115.00
- Mongo-Abou Deia                                                       122.50
- Abou Deia-Am Tinman                                           135.00
- Doba-Gor6                                                              95.00
SUBTOTAL                                                   3,769.50
Secondary Priority Network
- N'Djamena-Linia-Dourbali                                      103.00
- Bitkine-Melfi                                                 118.00
- Bokoro-N'Gama                                                  75.00
- Sarh-Kyabc                                                     98.00
- Kelo-Lai                                                               60.00
- Koumra-Moissaia                                                        74.00
- Koyom-Lai                                                              68.00
- Pala-Fianga                                                    72.00
- Kemdera-Moissala                                              127.00
- Doba-Lai                                                               104.00
SUBTOTAL                                                        955.50
GRAND TOTAL                                                4,725.00



FINANCING OF RoM MAINTENANCE
ANUIAL BUDGET BREAKDOWN
(in CFAF *itlions)
Name of stretch                       Length-km         1994          1995           1996            1997           1998          TOTAL         Agent
PERIODIC MAINTENANCE
BDEAC                                    528.0            425           425             425             425           425          2,125      Bidding
CCE                                      715.5            650           650             650             650           650         3,250       Bidding
IDA                                      197.5            662           721             850            960          1,085         4,278       Bidding
CHAD                                                      321           452             449             510           575          2,307      Bidding
Subtotat,
Periodic Naintenice                      1,'U1.0          2,058         2,248           2,374           2,545         2,735         11,90
CURRENT MAINTENANCE
BDEAC
CCE                                      715.5            326           326             327             330           330          1,639      Bidding
IDA                                                       .
CHAD, graveL roads                     3,917.5            768           863             920           1,030         1,130         4,711      SNER+Bid
CHAD, asphalt roads                      526.5            130           130             153             212           232           857          SNER
SubtotaL,
Cwrrent bmint                            5,159.5          1,224         1,319           1,400           1,572         1,692          7,207
Chad, network mgt (*)                                       193           193             193             193           193            965
TOTAL net of inflation and
contingencies
BDEAC                                    528.0            425           425             425             425           425         2,125
CCE                                    1,431.0            976           976             977             980           980         4,889
IDA                                      197.5           662            721             850            960          1,085         4,278
CHAD                                   4,444.0          1,412         1,638           1,715           1,945         2,130         8,840
TOTAL NETWORK                            6,600.5          3,475         3,760           3,967           4,310         4,20          20132
Inflation                                                  69           231             415            645            925         2,265
Contingencies                                             346           379             396             434           465          2,020
GRAND TOTAL
BDEAC                                    528.0            477           500             523             531           553          1,500
CCE                                    1,431.0          1,095         1,138           1,182           1,225         1,275          3,415
IDA                                      197.5            745           850           1,045           1,200         1,411         2,640
CHAD                                   4,444.0          1,555         1,885           2,043           2,431         2,770          5,483
TOTAL                                    6,600.5          3,872         4,373           4,793           5,387         6,009         24,434
* Operating costs:  road maintenance, ferries, rain gates, traffic counts.
OQ z
(D M
k_n
rDto
m-



77
ANNEX 5-1
Page 14
HIGHWAY RESEARCH ACTION PLAN
Foreword
During implementation of PASET, 263 km of paved roads were either reconstructed or
strengthened. Unpaved roads, bridges and culverts were rehabilitated.
The Government intends to pursue its efforts to increase the stretches of paved and unpaved
roads, and in the case of the latter to improve the quality of works in terms of site investigation. The
inadequacy or outright absence of good quality road materials justifies this highway research action plan.
Objectives
The objectives are as follows:
improve the capacities of the Highways Directorate in the area of site investigation to ensure
a more informed approach to the complexities and particularities of the local context in
terms of geomorphology, availability of materials and of water, climatology, and the
environment;
set up geotechnic data banks based on works and experiments in progress;
assign a broader role to the LNBTP and develop its technological skills, its spirit of
initiative and its competitiveness;
improve the quality of the interaction among the LNBTP, the Directorates of the Ministry of
Public Works and Transport, and the other technical ministries active in the area of
environmental protection.
Actions
To achieve the above objectives, the Government undertakes to:
-     take inventory of all study, supervision and other reports dating back to 1986 concerning
paved and unpaved roads;
-     systematize these documents to ensure that the system used for their filing matches that of
the Highways Directorate of the Ministry of Public Works and Transportation;
-      inventorize, systematize and file all laboratory test results, whether obtained by LNBTP, by
the consultants hired to perform studies or supervisory services, or by contractors using
their own laboratories;



78
ANNEX 5-1
Page 15
monitor the post-acceptance behavior of roads on which works were performed during
PASET, focusing in particular on paved roads;
prepare the corresponding contract compliance documents;
initiate methodologies for laboratory tests most appropriate to the local context;
prepare a geotechnic map of Chad;
participate in the design and implementation of strip tests on future roads (paved and
unpaved);
initiate strict monitoring of these strip tests during implementation and following their
provisional acceptance;
prepare display charts for use in programs to train personnel in site investigation methods.



79
ANNEX 5-2
Page I
LAND AND AIR TRANSPORT ACTION PLAN
Foreword
During implementation of PASET 1989-93, the transportation subsector has undergone
radical changes at both the institutional and the sectoral level.
These radical changes have not yet been fully incorporated into the day-to-day operations of
either the Government or the private sector.
The overall objective of the PST for the land and air transport subsector consists of
consolidating options defined and developed within the PASET framework, and of empowering managerial
and lower-level staffs of the hlTPT's transport divisions to assume responsibility for the management of this
subsector.
At the same time, particular attention will be devoted to training and sensitization of the
private sector, actions essential to ensure the avoidance of misunderstandings between the Government and
the transport sector operators.
Given that the transport industry is so crucial to Chad's economic life, all of the institutions,
both public and private, involved in the sector will ultimately need to provide initial training programs for
their senior staff and specialized and full-time technicians, at present in woefully short supply.
Lastly, transport operations must respect the environment and observe the basic rules of
road safety.
Objectives
The objectives are as follows;
*     ensure coordination and monitoring of the various PST activities;
*     bring the regulatory framework into line with the present economic context;
*     keep track of the fleet and its growth in order to maintain the transport data bank and
provide a basis for economic indicators;
*     control fraud, introduce basic safety habits and install a more regular system of tax
collection;
*     update the files;



80
ANNEX 5-2
Page 2
*     monitor the development and economic impact of measures taken, or to be taken, in the
transport sector;
*     facilitate transport document control by routing all vehicles through a designated hub [centre
d'echange routierl;
*     update BNF's 1992 accounting system;
*     implement a staff training plan;
*     negotiate new reciprocity agreements with Cameroon;
*     conclude an agreement with Nigeria;
*     ensure smooth transition between the two systems;
*      implement the recovery program for Air Tchad;
e     update the regulatory framework governing civil aviation and the functions of the
Directorate of Civil Aviation.
Actions
To achieve these objectives, the Government undertakes to:
e     assign a transport adviser to the MTPT General Directorate;
*     update overland transportation legislation by April 30, 1993;
i     put in place an operational data processing system capable of issuing the various transport-
related documents;
*     set up an Interministerial Coordinating Committee linking the different departments
responsible for road inspection;
*     by November 30, 1993, develop a management assistance plan for SMEs in the transport
sector;
*     construct a hub [centre d'echange routierl at N'Djamena;
*     put in place an accounting plan at BNF, and recruit and train a qualified accountant to keep
the accounts and perform quarterly financial audits;
*     implement a management training plan for SMEs in the transport sector;



81
ANNEX 5-2
Page 3
*     by December 31, 1993, develop transit reciprocity negotiations with Cameroon and Nigeria;
*     adopt measures, legislative provisions and deadlines for performance of the UDEAC
agreements, by January 31, 1994;
*     implement a recovery program for Air Tchad that will enable it to regain financial
equilibrium, redefine its trade policy within a national, international and interregional
context, and initiate performance of a management contract by December 31, 1993;
*     develop the Chadian Code of Civil Aviation and reorganize the functions of the Directorate
of Civil Aviation;
*     formulate a short- and medium-term civil aviation development policy.



82
ANNEX 5-3
Page 1
ENVIRONMENTAL ACTION PLAN
Foreword
Attention to environmental considerations in transport sector projects should make it possible
to improve investment quality. Environmental data, like technical and economic data, should be available
for the Government, as contracting authority Imaftre d'ouvragel, to use as pointers throughout the project
cycle.
Objectives
The objectives are as follows:
minimize constraints, in particular through better protection of the forest resource and
strengthening of the reforestation policy when road works are to be performed;
minimize the negative impact of environmentally-motivated changes through better project
design and greater collaboration between government agencies and local communities.
Actions
To achieve these objectives, the Governrment undertakes to:
-      put in place an environmental unit attached to the Highways Directorate, to coordinate
activities and in particular to monitor project-induced environmental changes;
-     support the regional units of the Ministry of Tourism and the Environment (Regional Forest
Inspectorates) to strengthen their capacities for controlling wood and fauna offtake;
-      sensitize the local communities to environment-related actions;
-     provide training on environmnental topics, to ensure sustainability of the actions taken and
provide managerial staff at the Ministry of Public Works and Transportation with the basic
skills in this area;
-      include an environmental impact assessment in all road feasibility studies;
-     prepare technical specifications for subsequent inclusion in study and works contracts;
-      coordinate studies with the Ministry of Tourism and the Environment, and routinely consult
the local communities.



83
ANNEX 5-4
Page 1
ACTION PLAN FOR PRIVATE SECTOR DEVELOPMENT
Foreword
In developing the private sector, the Government intends to facilitate the emergence of small-
and medium-scale enterprises qualified to carry out road maintenance and rehabilitation programs.
The existence of a favorable political, legal and economic context is essential to expansion
of the Chadian private sector. The Government therefore intends to adopt practical measures and
administrative, financial and technical procedures that will lead to prompt solution of the problems
encountered by local contractors.
Objectives
The objectives of this action plan are:
improve the productivity of government agencies in order to establish optimum relations
between those agencies and the private sector;
promote private initiative in the areas of public works and transportation;
improve the performance of the parapublic enterprises to make them competitive and
prepare them for privatization.
Actions
To achieve these objectives, the Government undertakes to:
-      improve organization, operation and supervision of the financial circuits, so as not to hold
up contractors' payments;
-     extend to implementation of PST2 the same regulatory provisions and procurement
procedures used for awarding the project preparation studies;
-     enact the necessary legislation (General Conditions of Contract) to ensure coherent
management of works contracts;
-     organize external and internal audits of financing operations;
-     dissolve OFNAR and set up the Societe Nationale d'Entretien Routier, with a private-type
management structure;
-     open up the capital of LNBTP to private sector participation;



84
ANNEX 5-4
Page 2
actively pursue the recovery of Air Tchad, take steps to ensure sustainable consolidation of
its operating equilibrium through conclusion of a partnership agreement, and open up its
capital to the private sector;
sell its shares in the capital of SOTEC to Chadian private citizens, in accordance with a
timetable renegotiated with the company's external shareholder;
provide technical support and develop training programs for Chadian SMEs;
assign to the Ministry of Public Works and Transportation the functions of delegated
contracting authority [mattre d'ouvrage d6ligu0l and engineer [mattre d'oeuvre] for
maintenance works on cotton feeder roads that are to be performed under private contract;
open up the road maintenance market to SMEs, including provisions for subcontracting
[tdcheronnagel, through appropriate works packaging.



85
ANNEX5 5
Page 1
HUMAN RESOURCE MANAGEMENT ACTION PLAN
Foreword
From the analysis of the summary reports prepared, particularly in 1992, it appears that
adoption of an overall personnel management strategy is absolutely essential in the present context.
The higher levels of performance required of both Government and private sector personnel
will require a more rigorous approach to career development, with greater attention to staff qualifications
and assignments.
Objectives
The objectives are as follows:
-     plan the human resources needed by the Government in order to ensure as smooth a
transition as possible from the existing to the projected situation;
-     perform ongoing job/skills match reviews;
-     streamline personnel management procedures;
-     coordinate all training activities with a view to maximizing efficiency.
Actions
To achieve these objectives, the Government undertakes to:
-     study a human resources management plan (overall assessment of resources existing and
required, definition of ENTP's role, definition of the detailed objectives of the management
structure);
-     install and update a file of the staff of the Ministry and its various agencies;
-     perform ongoing staff performance evaluations;
-     define rules of management (recruitment, new staff regulations);
-     establish a forward management system as a basis for the preparation of recruitment and
training plans;



86
ANNEX 5-5
Pag 2
extend in-service training programs to new agencies (particularly those of an administrative
and financial nature);
strengthen action already initiated within the PASET framework in the road and transport
sectors;
develop training programs on new topics (the environment, for example);
support the Centre de Formation et de Perfectionnement to enable it to expand its actions,
aiming primarily at the private sector;
redefine ENTP's functions and objectives in light of the results of the planned study.



87
ANNEXC
Page 1
ACTION PLAN FOR REGIONAL INTEGRATION AND TRANSIT FACILITATION
1.            Transport and regional transit facilitation in Chad has been naturally constrained by its
landlock situation and by its dependance on transit services from neighboring countries ( in particular
Cameroon and Nigeria). In spite of substantial progress made in liberalization and competitive edge in
recent years (liberalization measures taken under the TSAIP), the Chadian transport industry suffers from
severe constraints of both regional and natural character.
2.            Since the UDEAC Treaty came into force, there have been no successful efforts to facilitate
regional transport among member countries. Individual actions have proliferated; but the potential benefits
of such national actions has been neutralized by regional vested interests or by interests of groups or
institutions which run counter to the efficiency of transport, to the liberalization of trade, and in general to
the integration of practices, documents and procedures.
3.            National regulations show substantiai disparity between UDEAC countries depending on
original legal models, date of adaptation and latest amendments. All regulations have diverse weights and
dimensions standards. In addition, national regulations have priority of observance. Both the UDEAC
regulations and national regulations are not adapted to modem multimodal transport technical developments
and are, therefore, restrictive.
4.            The most important effects of this disparity are high cost of services and transit delays. The
cost of regional non factor services on imports was estimated in 1989-1990 to be 16% for Cameroon, 39%
for Chad, and 31% for Central Africa.
5.            Aggregate total transports costs through the Cameroon corridor (including freight-forwarding
fees) for freight travelling to the Central African Republic are estimated between 1.2 and 2.6 billion CFAF
per year and between 980 million and 1.5 billion for Chad.
6.            At present, the consequences of the trade and transport logistic issue in Chad and in the
region may be summarized as follows:
(a)    generalized cost of transport raising the cost of imports and exports and short cutting
competitiveness;
(b)    substantial financial cost of trade due to immobilization of freight in transit;
(c)    inefficient utilization of equipment and facilities;
(d)    substantial fiscal losses in terms of import duties; taxes, etc.;
(e)    growth of parafiscal remunerations to parasite institutions not contributing to economic
growth;



88
Annex 6
Page 2
(f)    lack of confidence in legal channels; and
(g)    discouragement of import substitution of non-factor transport and insurance services (freight
forwarding).
7.            A strategy and plan of action contained are structured in agreement with the specific needs
of Chad but fall within the broader objectives of regional road transport industry development. In
consideration of the proposed introduction of the TIPAC (Transit International des Pays de l'Afrique
Centrale) as a result of the joint ECC (European Community Commission), World Bank initiative of
UDEAC regional integration, the road transport industry in Chad should undergo substantial improvement if
it is to remain competitive within the region. The strategy proposed for the TSP and the plan of action
encompass assistance to both the road transport industry to the institutions responsible for transport
operations.
8.            The development strategy falls within the following general parameters:
(a)    define and strengthen civil and commercial responsibilities and liabilities of road transport
operators with a view to integrating the Chadian road transport industry within the
responsibility and liability legal framework of regional transport;
(b)    strengthen the institutional capacity of the DTS, Conseil Consultatif des Transports, and
BNF with a view to providing a coherent institutional framework for private sector
development and to improving information and fiscal collection channels;
(c)    encourage private sector associations of operators (groups d'interet economique) with the
objective of: (a) providing road transport operators with economies of scale for the
procurement of inputs; (b) channeling financial assistance for vehicle rehabilitation; and (c)
channeling professional training to the road transport industry;
(d)    provide financial assistance to the road transport industry for vehicle rehabilitation and
facilities, with a view to allow Chadian road transport participation in the TIPAC regional
system; and
(e)    link provision of financial assistance to the private sector small and medium enterprises
(road transport) to access to professional training, and provide human resources development
for both private and public sector.
9.            The Plan of Action contains the following measures proposed with the objective of
increasing the efficiency of road transport by combining the Government commitment to provide better
transport services with the interest of the private sector operators; the proposed plan of action will be
monitored through measurable indicators proposed in a matrix shown in Annex_
Institutional Measures:



89
Annex 6
Page 3
(a)    define the objectives and role of public institutions related to road transport development, in
particular DTS, and Comite Consultatif des Transports;
(b)    assist the above institutions and develop their human resource capabilities;
(c)    update and harmonize road transport legislation in the national and regional context; in
particular harmonize liability, vehicle standards and security requirements with regional and
international requirements (when appropriate);
(d)    draft a road safety policies and regulations; and
Private Sector Development Measures:
(a)    promote road transport associations;
(b)    encourage professional training by linking improvement in management of small and
medium enterprises and accounting;
(c)    promote private sector investment in joint industry terminal facilities.
Technical Measures:
(a)    create a vehicle Inspection control center in N'Djamena;
(b)    encourage rehabilitation of econimically viable vehicles.



90
Annex 6
Page 4
Plan of Action: Monitoring Indicators
Monitoring Indicators                              Timing
I) Institutional Measurmc
(a) Define objectivea and role of public tnnsport      (i) Adopting of adminiatrative and/or       (1) prior to TSP nI effectiveneas
institutions (DTS, Comite Consultatif des              legal instruments defining objectives and
Transports)                                            role of DTS and Comite Consultatif
(b) Development of transport institutions humsn       (i) drafting a blue-print of appropriate     (i) prior to TSP n effectivenes
resource capabilities                                  training and profeusional development
measures in accordance with TSP II
parameters and donors capabilities
(ii) agreeing with Bank and with donors
on human resourcea development actions       (ii) following TSP U effectivenea
(iii) implementing human resource
progranms                                    iii) one year after TSP n effectiveness
(c) Harmonize road transport legialation in the        (i) drafting liability, vehicle standards and    (i) in agreement with the timing of
national and regional context:                         security standards proposala in             TIPAC implementation agreements to be
- liability requirements                              coordination with the ECC/World Bank         aigned by 1993
- vehicle standardt                                   TIPAC initiative, with a view to
- secufity requirements                               harmonize road transport legialation on a
regional basis
(ii) enscting national legislstion in
accordance with recommfendations of          (ii) at the time of TIPAC implementation
TIPAC implementation; protocol to be         as a full transit system early 1994
signed by 1993
(iii) signing  nd executing proposed        (iii) horizon of 1995
legialation
(d) Draft a road safety policies and regulations       C') As for (1)(r)(ii)(iii) above             Ci) As for (l)(c)(i)Cii)(ii)
(e) Draft and implement technical control of vehicle    (i) Drafting of regulations and actng on    Ci) Prior to TSP H effectiveneu
regulations                                            vehicle technical control facilities decision
as part of TSP 11 implementation
CiH) Setting-up vehicle technical control
facilities and approving corresponding      (ii) Following TSP 11 effectiveneu
regulations
(iii) Enforcing tochnical control of        (iii) Two yers after TSP [ effectivenea
vehicles
2) Private Sector Development Measures
(a) Promote road transport associations                (i) Agreement with ECC and Worid Bank    (i) in agreement with the tiding for
on financial intermediation to private      TIPAC implementation
ector as part of TIPAC implementation
(b) Encourage professional training                    (i) Agreement with ECC and World Bank    (i) As part of the TEPAC irnplementation
on a mechanism to liak acceu to credit
facilities to professional trining
(c) Encourage private sector investrmnt in joint       (i) Preparation of a program to facilitate  Ci) As part of the TIPAC implenentation
industry terminal facilities                          acces to ECC and World Bank credit,
directed to private secto opertors
wishing to invest in joint industry
terminal facilites
(3) Technical Measures
(a) Create a vehicle inspection contrl center in      (i) Feasibility sudy for proposed facility   (i) Following TSP U project effectivene"
N'Djamena                                              Gti) Acdng on proposah in agreement          CiH) Early 1994
with TSP U implementation schedule



91
Annex 7
Page 1
TECHNICAL DESIGN STANDARDS FOR ROADS
Geometrical Standards
The geometrical standards applicable to the road system in the Republic of Chad are illustrated in
diagrams 2/1 and 2/2.
For paved roads, distinction is made between rural sections, and the urban sections of national
highways.
For unpaved roads, standards are based on a certain level of heavy vehicle traffic (DLW exceeding
3T).



92
Anex 7
Page 2
DIAGRAM No. 2/1
GEOMETRICAL STANDARDS
PAVED  ROAD                              Crovn wd h. 8 m.
A) RURAL
Flatrne sols                  I       ' '     ng-  'm/
Fine 3o3  =                               '             Road bass
)  N  SE Nub - base
2 h   l  I      ,-NG       I \2-
SLf grade w.1m.
ICrown wkih . S m.
Laterite 3ols0i13nw6m 
pnZ  |    5        |                |    >  ~~~~~~~~~~Usurfaced shodder
_                       ,         ~~~~~~~~~~~~~Road bass
3/ /~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~u - Sbase
774    1                I                ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~NG      \/2
l           ~~~~~Sib - grad w 9.5 9Om'.
B ) URBAN SECTION
C ta&g   71 m.                      Sh.   wo ,
I  t'   Subbrgw-7m.           1~~~~~~~~~~~~Su - basswihz



93
DIAGRAH No. 2/2                           Agnex 7
Page 3
GEOMETRICAL STANDLARDS
UNPAVED ROAD
Level 1   0-5 HV/DAY                     C Cmwifutu6m.        IWeascouUeu1520Ocm.
<~~~~~~~tr reuedt  10 -15Xm.                    <
Su -ngrade Sw a 7m.
S Y32 for iat bwmaions
2V1 crotr sois
Level 2   5-10 HV/DAY
Cn>e wif.68M.
1-   ow~ '   -~dm  -      'l. ___________i Wear gouu th25-30cm.
/      |                 ~~~~~~~~~~~Sub -gade w.-9 m.                  \
Levels 3 to 5 over 10 RV/DAT
Cmaw wi 9 gm
W, Ii,h hco 2u0t .-.30 35cm.
Sub- guow.10                      l



94
Annex 8
Reseau Prioritaire
Designation de I 'inzineraire                         Longueurs (kn)
Reseau routier Prioritaire Primaire
- Walia-N'Gueli                                              6,00
- Voie de contournement                                    20,50
- N'Djamrna-Djermaya                                        26,50
- Djermaya-Massaguet                                        45,50
- Djermaya-Dandi                                            66,00
- Massaguet-Massakory                                      68,00
- Massaguet-N'Goura                                        124,00
- N'Goura-Bokoro                                           104,00
- Bokoro-Mongo                                            201,00
- Mongo-Mangalme                                           122,00
- Mangalme-Oum Hadjer                                      109,00
- Oum Hadjer-Abeche                                        146,00
- Abch-Adr&-Frontiere                                      174,00
- N'Djamena-Guelengdeng                                    144,00
- Guelengdeng-Bongor-Koyom                                 160,00
- Koyom-Ere-Kelo                                            58,00
- Guelengdeng-Sarh                                        402,50
- Sarh-Moundou-Lere                                       603,00
- Sarh-Maro-Sido                                           125,50
- Massakori-Bol-Bagasola                                  237,50
- Abeche-Biltine                                           92,00
- Mongo-Ati                                                154,00
- Koyom-Ere-Kalo                                            58,00
- Mbaikoro B6daoyo                                         112,50
- Moundou-Bolarobou                                        115,00
- Mongo-Abou Dela                                          122,50
- Abou Dela-Am Timan                                       135,00
- Doba-Gore                                                 9S0
Sous Total                                           3769,50
Reseau routier Prioritaire Secondaire
- N'Djamena-Linia-Dourbali                                 103,00
- Bitkine-Melfi                                            118,00
- Bokoro-N'Gama                                             75,00
- Sarh-Kyab6                                                98,00
- Keio-Lal                                                  60,00
- Koumra-Moissaia                                           74,00
- Koyom-Lai                                                 68,00
- Pala-Fianga                                               72,00
- Kemdera-Moissala                                         127,00
- Doba-LaT                                                 1040
Sous Total                                             955,50
TOTAL GENERAL                                         4725,00



ANNEX 9
Page 1
Second Transport Sector Project
Procurenent Plan
Call              Bid              Award            Contract       Implementation
for offers        opening                             approval           starting
Bridge rehabilitation study                   5/15/93            7/15/93           8/15/93           10/15/93          10/30/93
Detailed Engineering for                      8/31/93           10/30/93          11/30/93           1/15/94           1/30/94
secondary road rehabilitation
Technical assistance to MTPT                   5/31/93           7/15/93           8/15/93           9/30/93           10/30/93
Civil works supervision                        5/31/93           7/31/93           8/15/93           9/30/93           10/15/93
Road maintenance works (IDA-1)                5/311/93           7/31/93           8/15/93           9/30/93           10/31/93
Road maintenance works IIDA-2)                5/31/93            7/31/93           8/15/93           9/30/93           10/31/93
Road maintenance works (IDA-3)                5/31/93            7/31/93           8/15/93           9/30/93           10/31/93
Road maintenance works ICHAD-1)               5/31/93            7/31/93           8/15/93           9/30/93           10/31/93
Road maintenance works (CHAD-2)               5/31/93            7/31/93           8115/93           9/30/93           10/31/93
Road maintenance works (CHAD-3)               5/31/93            7/31/93           8/15/93           9/30/93           10/31/93
Road maintenance works (CHAD-4)               5/31/93            7/31/93           8/15/93           9/30/93           10/31/93
Other maintenance contracts {CHAD)                                                                   7/31/93           9/30/93
Secondary road rehabilitation (IDA-1)          1/15/95           3/15/95           4/15/95           5/31/95           9/30/95
Secondary road rehabilitation (IDA-2)          1/15/95           3/15/95           4/15/95           5/31/95           9/30/95



96                                            ANNEX 10
Page 1
Second Transport Sector Project
Training Program
ACTIONS                     INDICATORS                   IMPLEMENTING AGENCY             MONITORING METHOD
Training for public  - 11 training for Pubiic Works staff   - Human resources unit       - Physcal supervision
sector staff         - 22 trainings fir Transport & Civil     IDAF/MTPT)                   & extemal audits
Aviation staff                                                   - Progress report
- 13 seminars for lower staff PWITAC    - Human roeources unit     - Extemal audits
(DAF/MTPT)
Support to privato   - 5 training for high level staff      - Human resources unit         Specific audits
contractor             30 mechanical seminars (40 por.)       (DAF/MTPT)                   on performance target
- 6 seminars for manager (6 pet.)
- Training for lower staff (150 road toehnk - Training center
and lower staff at N'Damena)                                        Progress report
- Training for small contractors         Troining oenter              Physoal supervision
50 staff per year in accounting,
management and mechanic
- Training for medium level stoff        Ecole Nationale doc TP
(60 pars.)
Support to private     Mechanical and driving seminar         Training oenter            - Specific audits
small truckers         with private PW staff                                               Progress report
- Seminar for management/accounting      Servido Ressouroee
to 10 small truckers (80 par.)         Humaines (DAF/MTPT)



97
;   |              X~~~~~~~~~~~



MINISTERE DES TRAVAUX PUBLICS
ET DES TRANSPORTS
(Services centraux)
INSPECTION CENERALE                                                      DIREC|ON
.~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~Csr .. D.r.b
j  D C LA InCATtON   l    DIRECTION        l  l       DC SUBACC        l           NRCCT           l          DIRECTION                    DIRECTION                   DIRU C TIO
.:tTuD95 ICT                       DISDiTRA14SPORTS         ~~~~~~~Dt LAVAO D I VILE        DES TRAVAUXI               DE LURSANISM                DU CADflA11RE T
DE LA PLAMI  AT"                    "ACE                                           ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~De ILATIMINTS CIVILS  ET DE LUHA*17AT  DC LA CAR OGRAIPHII



NOTES






NOTES






MAP SECTION






'6.I.                                      2'                     212                   24
N                                                          ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~CHAD               ARAB
>-                        \                           '          \ \SECOND TRANSPORT SECTOR                                REP.
PROJECT (TSP 11)                                    OF
22                                            \                                                 goh Pnordy NMb , PobdR.6*d by 1993              EGYPT
'm on   Pg_d Ro.d,
\l -  T.oo-o- 5y Ro=d Nb-4 . b. R4.6ood Llnd.r TPS i
BYA '                                                                  t i  _    Rrldgo be 8.9200.4 sl  d        '    ''
LIBYA                                                              ArpASeO-y 44h tb RR.hod       il.nd
Rood Nnt-okm
tt     \             20^  ?        9_r/ todo                                   gi  d                                                J
NIGER                                                                                         P -  Eok{d
Mino, E.00 T-,ok
/'      CHAD                      . j                                 (E ,Ai,g OFNAR R. ol         Rood M1otlolo0              !
j,01 IAn  Rg- Agoncr    ,         C otlto e.
SUDAN                                          Mo., i                        C ey eet!
NIGERIA  .                                                               f           L              -  - dtonnoi   do,,ns               |n
CENTRAL(
CAMEROON        .'AFRICANI              I
NIGER                    )
.7,~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~W
2   oSoiw                     t                                       , Atod  ,              j
rf~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~o 0010,40t^,0 
- 4 _ ~~~~C.^d                                               Ali
K    \o d                   >     , ,X                                                                                      ;                70SUDAN
s                                                                                                                                      <~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~-s
NIGERIA                                t          neCI4                                                  1      (012
Ii 0*.                    oonoooondA.T-
CAMEROON                    -.
.4'  ,eoe,~~~~~~e,,eN~~~                                                   CENTRAL AFRICAN
0001NO,O~~~0~~?  ~~  -,                                  REPUBLIC                            ,, ,I,0
//                                                                           ..4,,,n,n,~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~l T1. -W.    -
I?                   I                     10                    IS 18                  20'                   22                    ,l,e dlO            .



