Page  1
CONFORMED COPY
CREDIT NUMBER 2520 CD
Development Credit Agreement
(Second Transport Sector Project)
between
REPUBLIC OF CHAD
and
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
Dated July 21, 1993
CREDIT NUMBER 2520 CD
DEVELOPMENT CREDIT AGREEMENT
AGREEMENT, dated July 21, 1993, between REPUBLIC OF CHAD (the Borrower) and 
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION (the Association).
WHEREAS the Association has received a letter, dated May 15, 1993, from the 
Borrower describing a program of actions, objectives and policies designed to 
strengthen the management and operation of the Borrower's transport sector 
(hereinafter called the Program), and declaring the Borrower's commitment to the 
execution of the Program;
WHEREAS the Borrower, having satisfied itself as to the feasibility and priority 
of the Project described in Schedule 2 to this Agreement, has requested the 
Association to assist in the financing of the Project; and
WHEREAS the Association has agreed, on the basis, inter alia, of the foregoing, 
to extend the Credit to the Borrower upon the terms and conditions set forth in this 
Agreement;
NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:
ARTICLE I
Page  2
General Conditions; Definitions
Section 1.01. The "General Conditions Applicable to Development Credit 
Agreements" of the Association, dated January 1, 1985, with the last sentence of 
Section 3.02 deleted (the General
Conditions) constitute an integral part of this Agreement.
Section 1.02. Unless the context otherwise requires, the several terms defined 
in the General Conditions and in the Preamble to this Agreement have the respective 
meanings therein set forth and
the following additional terms have the following meanings:
(a)
"Air Tchad" means Societe Air Tchad, a company organized under the laws 
of the Borrower;
(b)
"Air Tchad Performance Contract" means the performance contract, in form 
and substance satisfactory to the Association, to be entered into between the Borrower 
and Air Tchad in accordance
with Section 6.01(b) of this Agreement;
(c)
"BNF" means the Bureau National de Fret (the National Freight Office), 
established pursuant to the Borrower's Decree No. 270/PR/MTAC/89, dated April 14, 
1989;
(d)
"CAER" means the road maintenance account (Compte Autonome d'Entretien 
Routier), to be established in accordance with Section 6.01(g) of this Agreement;
(e)
"CFAF" or "CFA Francs" means the currency of the Borrower;
 
(f)
"DR" means MTPT's Roads Department (Direction des Routes);
 
(g)
"LNBTP" means the Laboratoire National du Batiment et des Travaux 
Publics, the soils research laboratory, established pursuant to the Borrower's 
Ordonnance 007/PR/MTP/89, dated April 21,
1989;
(h)
"MTPT" means the Borrower's Ministry for Public Works and Transport 
(Ministere des Travaux Publics et des Transports);
(i)
"OFNAR" means the Office National des Routes (the National Roads Office), 
established pursuant to Ordonnance No. 004/PR/84, dated February 2, 1984;
(j)
"PCU" means the inter-ministerial project coordination unit established 
by the Borrower for purposes of coordinating implementation of the Project;
(k)
"Primary Priority Roads Network" means the approximately 3800 km of roads 
comprising the primary priority roads network (the Reseau routier Prioritaire 
Primaire), as described in the Program;
(l)
"Priority Roads Network" means the Primary Priority Roads Network and the 
Secondary Priority Roads Network, collectively;
(m)
"Project Preparation Advance" means the project preparation advance 
granted by the Association to the Borrower pursuant to the agreements, dated February 
24, 1992 and March 11, 1993, between the Borrower and the Association;
(n)
"Roads Investment Program" means the Borrower's Investment Program for 
Roads, 1994-1998, dated November 1992, as amended by the minutes, dated November 25, 
1992, of the Borrower's transport sector round table meeting;
(o)
"Secondary Priority Roads Network" means the approximately 960 km of 
roads comprising the secondary priority roads network (the Reseau routier Prioritaire 
Secondaire), as described in the Program;
(p)
"SNER" means the Societe Nationale d'Entretien Routier (the National 
Roads Maintenance Company), to be established in accordance with Section 6.01(a) of 
this Agreement; and
Page  3
(q)
"Special Account" means the account referred to in Section 2.02 (b) of 
this Agreement.
ARTICLE II
The Credit
Section 2.01. The Association agrees to lend to the Borrower, on the terms and 
conditions set forth or referred to in the Development Credit Agreement, an amount in 
various currencies equivalent to twenty-six million two hundred thousand Special 
Drawing Rights (SDR 26,200,000).
Section 2.02. (a) The amount of the Credit may be withdrawn from the Credit 
Account in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 1 to this Agreement for 
expenditures made (or, if the Association shall so agree, to be made) in respect of 
the reasonable cost of goods, works and services required for the Project described in 
Schedule 2 to this Agreement and to be financed out of the proceeds of the Credit.
(b)
The Borrower shall, for the purposes of the Project, open and maintain in 
CFA Francs a special deposit account in a commercial bank on terms and conditions 
satisfactory to the Association, including appropriate protection against set-off, 
seizure or attachment. Deposits into, and payments out of, the Special Account shall 
be made in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 5 to this Agreement.
(c)
Promptly after the Effective Date, the Association shall, on behalf of 
the Borrower, withdraw from the Credit Account and pay to itself the amount required 
to repay the principal amount
of the Project Preparation Advance withdrawn and outstanding as of such date and to 
pay all unpaid charges thereon. The unwithdrawn balance of the authorized amount of 
the Project Preparation Advance
shall thereupon be cancelled.
Section 2.03. The Closing Date shall be December 31, 1998, or such later date as 
the Association shall establish. The Association shall promptly notify the Borrower of 
such later date.
Section 2.04. (a) The Borrower shall pay to the Association a commitment charge 
on the principal amount of the Credit not withdrawn from time to time at a rate to be 
set by the Association as of June 30 of each year, but not to exceed the rate of 
one-half of one percent (1/2 of 1%) per annum.
(b)
The commitment charge shall accrue: (i) from the date sixty days after 
the date of this Agreement (the accrual date) to the respective dates on which amounts 
shall be withdrawn by the Borrower from the Credit Account or cancelled; and (ii) at 
the rate set as of the June 30 immediately preceding the accrual date or at such other 
rates as may be set from time to time thereafter pursuant to paragraph (a) above. The 
rate set as of June 30 in each year shall be applied from the next payment date in 
that year specified in Section 2.06 of this Agreement.
(c)
The commitment charge shall be paid: (i) at such places as the 
Association shall reasonably request; (ii) without restrictions of any kind imposed 
by, or in the territory of, the Borrower; and (iii) in the currency specified in this 
Agreement for the purposes of Section 4.02 of the General Conditions or in such other 
eligible currency or currencies as may from time to time be designated or selected 
pursuant to the provisions of that Section.
Section 2.05. The Borrower shall pay to the Association a service charge at the 
rate of three-fourths of one percent (3/4 of 1%) per annum on the principal amount of 
the Credit withdrawn and
outstanding from time to time. 
Section 2.06. Commitment charges and service charges shall be payable 
semiannually on June 15 and December 15 in each year.
Section 2.07. (a) Subject to paragraphs (b) and (c) below, the Borrower shall 
repay the principal amount of the Credit in semi-annual installments payable on each 
Page  4
June 15 and December 15 commencing December 15, 2003 and ending June 15, 2033. Each 
installment to and including the installment payable on June 15, 2013 shall be one 
percent (1%) of such principal amount, and each installment thereafter shall be two 
percent (2%) of such principal amount.
(b)
Whenever: (i) the Borrower's gross national product per capita, as 
determined by the Association, shall have exceeded $790 in constant 1985 dollars for 
five consecutive years, and (ii) the
Bank shall consider the Borrower creditworthy for Bank lending, the Association may, 
subsequent to the review and approval thereof by the Executive Directors of the 
Association and after due consideration by them of the development of the Borrower's 
economy, modify the terms of repayment of installments under paragraph (a) above by 
requiring the Borrower to repay twice the amount of each such installment not yet due 
until the principal amount of the Credit shall have been repaid. If so requested by 
the Borrower, the Association may revise such modification to include, in lieu of some 
or all of the increase in the amounts of such installments, the payment of interest at 
an annual rate agreed with the Association on the principal amount of the Credit 
withdrawn and outstanding from time to time, provided that, in the judgment of the 
Association, such revision shall not change the grant element obtained under the 
above-mentioned repayment modification.
(c)
If, at any time after a modification of terms pursuant to paragraph (b) 
above, the Association determines that the Borrower's economic condition has 
deteriorated significantly, the
Association may, if so requested by the Borrower, further modify the terms of 
repayment to conform to the schedule of installments as provided in paragraph (a) 
above.
Section 2.08. The currency of the French Republic is hereby specified for the 
purposes of Section 4.02 of the General Conditions.
ARTICLE III
Execution of the Project
Section 3.01. (a) The Borrower declares its commitment to the objectives of the 
Project as set forth in Schedule 2 to this Agreement and, to this end, shall: (i) 
carry out the Project through MTPT, and (ii) cause SNER, BNF and Air Tchad to assist 
in carrying out Part B of the Project, with due diligence and efficiency and in 
conformity with appropriate administrative, financial, engineering and transport 
practices, and with due regard to ecological and environmental factors, and shall 
provide, and cause SNER, BNF and Air Tchad to provide, promptly as needed, the funds, 
facilities, services and other resources required for the Project.
(b)
Without limitation upon the provisions of paragraph (a) of this Section 
and except as the Borrower and the Association shall otherwise agree, the Borrower 
shall carry out the Project in accordance with the Implementation Program set forth in 
Schedule 4 to this Agreement.
Section 3.02. Except as the Association shall otherwise agree, procurement of 
the goods, works and consultants' services required for the Project and to be financed 
out of the proceeds of the Credit
shall be governed by the provisions of Schedule 3 to this Agreement.
Section 3.03. The Borrower shall adopt and implement annual budgets which 
allocate: 
(a)
at least CFAF 1,800,000,000 for road maintenance and rehabilitation for 
the Priority Roads Net- work for fiscal year 1994, including at least CFAF 
1,300,000,000 for routine maintenance and at least CFAF 115,000,000 for DR's operating 
budget;
(b)
at least CFAF 2,000,000,000 for road maintenance and rehabilitation for 
the Priority Roads Net- work for fiscal year 1995, including at least CFAF 
1,500,000,000 for routine maintenance and at least CFAF 120,000,000 for DR's operating 
budget;
Page  5
(c)
at least CFAF 2,200,000,000 for road maintenance and rehabilitation for 
the Priority Roads Net- work for fiscal year 1996, including at least CFAF 
1,700,000,000 for routine maintenance and at least CFAF 125,000,000 for DR's operating 
budget;
(d)
at least CFAF 2,400,000,000 for road maintenance and rehabilitation for 
the Priority Roads Net- work for fiscal year 1997, including at least CFAF 
1,900,000,000 for routine maintenance and at least CFAF 130,000,000 for DR's operating 
budget; and
(e)
at least CFAF 2,600,000,000 for road maintenance and rehabilitation for 
the Priority Roads Network for fiscal year 1998, including at least CFAF 2,100,000,000 
for routine maintenance and at least CFAF 135,000,000 for DR's operating budget.
Section 3.04. The Borrower shall:
(a)
during fiscal years 1994 through 1998, only rehabilitate: (i) the roads 
set out in the Roads Investment Program for rehabilitation during such fiscal years, 
and (ii) such other roads for which the rehabilitation provides at least a 12% 
economic rate of return (as determined in accordance with procedures acceptable to the 
Association); and
(b)
during fiscal years 1994 through 1998, not undertake in the transport 
sector any civil works or acquisitions of transport equipment (other than those set 
out in the Roads Investment Program
for each such fiscal year) which aggregate more than CFAF 200,000,000 per fiscal year 
without the prior consent of the Association.
Section 3.05. The Borrower shall, in executing roads works, follow the alignment 
and construction standards and designs agreed upon with the Association (as such 
standards and designs may be modified from time to time with the consent of the 
Association).
Section 3.06. The Borrower shall, in implementing its road maintenance budgets 
(including those set out under Section 3.03 above), operate the CAER under operating 
procedures satisfactory to the Association, which shall include the following:
(a)
maintenance of the CAER in a commercial bank from which withdrawals shall 
be made exclusively for expenses relating to road maintenance and rehabilitation for 
the Priority Roads Network and for the operating expenses of the DR;
(b)
management of withdrawals from the CAER by MTPT;
 
(c)
monthly payments by the Borrower into the CAER, to be drawn primarily 
from revenues from ferry tolls, the N'Gueli bridge tolls and freight taxes, as well as 
from petroleum taxes, as follows: 
(i)
during each month in 1993 beginning after the Effective Date, an 
aggregate of at 
least CFAF 130,000,000;
 
(ii)
during each month in 1994, an aggregate of at least CFAF 
150,000,000;
(iii)
during each month in 1995, an aggregate of at least CFAF 
165,000,000;
(iv)
during each month in 1996, an aggregate of at least CFAF 
180,000,000;
(v)
during each month in 1997, an aggregate of at least CFAF 
200,000,000; and
(vi)
during each month in 1998, an aggregate of at least CFAF 
215,000,000; and
(d)
procedures for recordkeeping, reporting and auditing, providing, among 
other things, for (i) the maintenance of records of all deposits into and withdrawals 
Page  6
from the CAER, and (ii) quarterly
audits of the CAER (in scope and detail, and by independent auditors, satisfactory to 
the Association), to be provided to the Association within thirty days of the end of 
each quarter.
Section 3.07. The Borrower shall continue to: (a) ensure that no tariffs are 
imposed on road transport, and (b) permit shippers and truckers to enter into freely 
negotiated contracts.
Section 3.08. The Borrower shall, through the Closing Date:
(a)
ensure that at least 50% (by value) of routine road maintenance works are 
annually contracted to the private sector in accordance with competitive procedures, 
and beginning January 1,
1997, not provide any preference to SNER relative to the Borrower's private sector in 
the contracting of routine maintenance works; and
(b)
(i) pay all amounts due to private sector contractors for periodic and 
routine road maintenance works, and road rehabilitation works, within 60 days of their 
due date, and (ii) in
connection therewith, establish not later than December 31, 1993, and thereafter 
operate, a payments monitoring system, under an operational plan satisfactory to the 
Association, to track when payments are due and are made.
Section 3.09. (a) The Borrower shall carry out, jointly with the Association, 
not earlier than June 1, 1995 and not later than September 30, 1995, a mid-term review 
of the progress made in carrying out the Project and the Program. This review shall 
cover, among other things: (i) the execution of the reform measures under the Program 
and the Project, and their impact on public and private participation in the transport 
sector, and the cost and efficiency of the sector, (ii) the impact of budget 
allocation measures (including the operation of CAER), (iii) the effectiveness of 
private sector development  measures, (iv) the execution and impact of training 
programs under the Project, (v) SNER's operations and possible modalities for its 
privatization, (vi) MTPT's efforts to reduce truck overloading and their impact, and 
(vii) the achievement of the Project's objectives in light of the monitoring 
indicators
agreed upon with the Association.
(b)
MTPT shall transmit to the Association, at least 60 days prior to the 
mid-term review described in paragraph (a) above, a report (based on the audit 
referred to in paragraph (c) below), in
scope and detail satisfactory to the Association, describing the status of the items 
listed in such paragraph (a) and of Project and Program implementation generally.
(c)
The Borrower shall conduct, during the second quarter of 1995, a 
technical and financial audit of the Project, in scope and detail, and by independent 
auditors, satisfactory to the Association.
(d)
Based on such review, the Borrower shall promptly prepare an action plan, 
acceptable to the Association, for the further implementation of the Project and the 
Program, and shall thereafter implement such action plan.
(e)
The Borrower shall carry out, jointly with the Association, during the 
third quarter of each year (other than 1995), a review of the progress made in 
carrying out the Project and the Program, and, in connection therewith, shall transmit 
to the Association at least 30 days prior to such review, a Project budget, 
implementation plan and procurement schedule for the succeeding year.
ARTICLE IV
Financial Covenants
Section 4.01. (a) (i) The Borrower shall maintain or cause to be maintained 
records and accounts adequate to reflect in accordance with sound accounting practices 
the operations, resources and expenditures in respect of the Project (including with 
respect to the CAER) of the departments or agencies of the Borrower responsible for 
carrying out the Project or any part thereof.
Page  7
(ii) The Borrower shall cause Air Tchad and BNF to maintain records and accounts 
adequate to reflect in accordance with sound accounting practices their respective 
operations and financial
condition.
(b)
The Borrower shall, and shall cause Air Tchad and BNF to:
 
(i)
have the records and accounts referred to in paragraph (a) of this 
Section 
including those for the Special Account for 
(1) each fiscal year of the Borrower, 
and (2) each fiscal 
quarter of Air Tchad, BNF and CAER, audited in accordance with 
appropriate auditing principles consistently applied, by independent auditors 
acceptable to the Association;
(ii)
furnish to the Association, as soon as available, but in any case 
not later than 
(1) six months after the end of each such 
year, for the Borrower's accounts, and 
(2) thirty days after the 
end of each such quarter, for the accounts of Air Tchad, 
BNF and CAER, 
a certified copy of the report of such audit by said auditors, of 
such scope and in such detail as the Association shall have reasonably requested; 
and
(iii)
furnish to the Association such other information concerning said 
records, accounts 
and the audit thereof as the Association shall from 
time to time reasonably 
request.
 
(c)
For all expenditures with respect to which withdrawals from the Credit 
Account were made on the basis of statements of expenditure, the Borrower shall:
(i)
maintain or cause to be maintained, in accordance with paragraph 
(a) of this 
Section, records and accounts reflecting such 
expenditures;
(ii)
retain, until at least one year after the Association has received 
the audit report 
for the fiscal year in which the last withdrawal from 
the Credit Account or payment 
out of the Special Account was made, all 
records (contracts, orders, invoices, 
bills, receipts and other 
documents) evidencing such expenditures;
(iii)
enable the Association's representatives to examine such records; 
and
(iv)
ensure that such records and accounts are included in the annual 
audit referred to 
in paragraph (b) of this Section and that the report 
of such audit contains a 
separate opinion by said auditors as to 
whether the statements of expenditure 
submitted during such 
fiscal year, together with the procedures and internal 
controls involved in their preparation, can be relied upon to support the related 
withdrawals.
ARTICLE V
Remedies of the Association
Section 5.01. Pursuant to Section 6.02 (h) of the General Conditions, the 
following additional event is specified, namely that a situation has arisen which 
shall make it improbable that the
Program, or a significant part thereof, will be carried out.
ARTICLE VI
Effective Date; Termination
Section 6.01. The following events are specified as additional conditions to the 
effectiveness of the Development Credit Agreement within the meaning of Section 12.01 
(b) of the General Conditions:
Page  8
(a)
SNER shall have been established by instrument and with statutes 
satisfactory to the Association, and shall have adopted an operating procedures manual 
satisfactory to the Association;
(b)
the Air Tchad Performance Contract shall have been executed by the 
Borrower and Air Tchad;
(c)
the Borrower shall have employed an independent auditor satisfactory to 
the Association, under terms and conditions (including a multi-year period of service) 
satisfactory to the Association;
(d)
SNER shall have employed a managing director, a technical director, a 
financial director, and a management comptroller, each with qualifications and 
experience and under terms and conditions satisfactory to the Association;
(e)
the departments of MTPT shall have been reorganized as agreed upon with 
the Association;
(f)
the Borrower shall have taken actions (including the adoption of a 
dissolution plan), satisfactory to the Association, to terminate the operations of 
OFNAR;
(g)
the Borrower shall have established CAER by instrument, and with 
operating procedures, satisfactory to the Association, and shall have operated CAER in 
conformity with such operating procedures during the preceding two months; and
(h)
the Borrower shall have adopted for purposes of Part B of the Project a 
training program for 1994 satisfactory to the Association.
Section 6.02. The date ninety (90) days after the date of this Agreement is 
hereby specified for the purposes of Section 12.04 of the General Conditions.
ARTICLE VII
Representatives of the Borrower; Addresses
Section 7.01. The Minister for Planning and Cooperation of the Borrower is 
designated as representative of the Borrower for the purposes of Section 11.03 of the 
General Conditions.
Section 7.02. The following addresses are specified for the purposes of Section 
11.01 of the General Conditions:
For the Borrower:
Ministry of Planning and Cooperation
BP 286
N'Djamena
Republic of Chad
Cable address:
Telex:
 
MINPLAN
5329 KD
N'Djamena
For the Association:
International Development Association
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America
Cable address:
Telex:
 
INDEVAS
248423 (RCA)
Washington, D.C.
 82987 (FTCC)
Page  9
 64145 (WUI) or
197688 (TRT)
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their duly authorized 
representatives, have caused this Agreement to be signed in their respective names in 
the District of Columbia, United
States of America, as of the day and year first above written.
REPUBLIC OF CHAD
By /s/ K. L. Mekonyo
Authorized Representative
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
By /s/ Edward V.K. Jaycox
Regional Vice President
Africa
SCHEDULE 1
Withdrawal of the Proceeds of the Credit
1.
The table below sets forth the Categories of items to be financed out of the 
proceeds of the Credit, the allocation of the amounts of the Credit to each Category 
and the percentage of expenditures for items so to be financed in each Category:
                             Amount of the
                           Credit Allocated          % of
                            (Expressed in        Expenditures
     Category               SDR Equivalent)     to be Financed
(1) Civil Works                                  95%
    (a)  for Periodic          6,200,000
         Maintenance of
         the Primary
         Priority Roads
         Network under
         Part A.1 of the
         Project
    (b)  for Road              8,300,000
         Rehabilitation
         of the Secondary
         Priority Roads
         Network under
         Part A.2 of the
         Project
    (c)  for Bridge and        2,500,000
         Culvert Rehabi-
         litation under
         Part A.3 of the
Page  10
         Project
(2) Consultants'                                100%
    Services:
    (a)  for Part A            1,500,000
         of the Project
    (b)  for Part B            2,900,000
         of the Project
(3) Training                   1,600,000        100%
(4) Operating                    500,000         75%
    Costs for
    PCU
(5) Refunding of                 900,000        Amount due
    Project                                     pursuant to
    Preparation                                 Section 2.02 (c)
    Advance                                     of this Agreement
(6) Unallocated                1,800,000
         TOTAL                26,200,000
                              ==========
2.
For the purposes of this Schedule:
 
(a)
the term "training" means expenditures for fellowships, study tours, 
conferences, workshops, courses and other forms of training, each as are approved by 
the Association; and
(b)
the term "operating costs for PCU" means incremental operating 
expenditures for office supplies, vehicle and machinery operation and maintenance, 
field allowances, and salaries for PCU
contract-staff, incurred by the PCU in carrying out the Project.
3.
Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1 above, no withdrawals shall be 
made in respect of payments made for expenditures prior to the date of this Agreement.
SCHEDULE 2
Description of the Project
The objectives of the Project are to: (i) consolidate improvements in the 
efficiency of the Borrower's transport sector, (ii) improve MTPT's efficiency and 
management of the transport sector,
(iii) assist the Borrower in implementing the Roads Investment Program, (iv) improve 
resource mobilization for road maintenance, and (v) increase private sector 
participation and efficiency in
transport sector activities.
The Project consists of the following parts, subject to such modifications 
thereof as the Borrower and the Association may agree upon from time to time to 
achieve such objectives:
Part A:
Road Infrastructure Maintenance and Rehabilitation
 
1.
Periodic and routine maintenance of about 3800 km of the Primary Priority Roads 
Network, and routine maintenance of about 960 km of the Secondary Priority Roads 
Network.
2.
Rehabilitation of about 300 km of the Secondary Priority Roads Network.
 
3.
Rehabilitation and maintenance of about 25 bridges and culverts.
 
Page  11
Part B:
Institutional Development
 
1.
Improving the institutional capacity of MTPT (including DR) to plan, program and 
monitor road maintenance works and conduct other transport sector activities, and 
related training of staff.
2.
Operation of SNER to implement road maintenance works in accordance with private 
sector management practices, and related training of staff.
3.
Improving the operational capacity of BNF (including its management and 
accounting systems) and related training of staff.
4.
Improving the efficiency of Air Tchad's operations through the implementation of 
the Air Tchad Performance Contract and the employment of an airline management firm.
5.
Training of private sector road maintenance contractors in management, 
accounting and other areas, and training of truckers regarding efficient and 
conservationist use of roads.
6.
Development and implementation through MTPT and BNF of an action plan to support 
transport transit facilitation and regional integration.
7.
Development of an environmental action plan for roads, and execution of related 
pilot programs.
* * *
The Project is expected to be completed by June 30, 1998.
SCHEDULE 3
Procurement and Consultants' Services
Section I.
Procurement of Goods and Works
 
Part A:
International Competitive Bidding
 
Except as provided in Part C hereof, works shall be procured under contracts 
awarded in accordance with procedures consistent with those set forth in Sections I 
and II of the "Guidelines for
Procurement under IBRD Loans and IDA Credits" published by the Bank in May 1992 (the 
Guidelines).
(a)
For fixed-price contracts, the invitation to bid referred to in paragraph 
2.13 of the Guidelines shall provide that, when contract award is delayed beyond the 
original bid validity period,
the successful bidder's bid price will be increased for each week of delay by two 
predisclosed correction factors acceptable to the Association, one to be applied to 
all foreign currency components
and the other to the local currency component of the bid price. Such an increase shall 
not be taken into account in the bid evaluation.
(b)
In the procurement of works in accordance with this Part A, the Borrower 
shall use the relevant sample bidding documents issued by the Bank, with such 
modifications thereto as the Association
shall have agreed to be necessary for the purposes of the Project. When no relevant 
sample bidding documents have been issued by the Bank, the Borrower shall use bidding 
documents based on other internationally recognized standard forms agreed with the 
Association.
Part B:
Preference for Domestic Contractors
 
In the procurement of works in accordance with the procedures described in Part 
A hereof, the Borrower may grant a margin of preference to domestic contractors in 
accordance with, and subject
to, the provisions of paragraphs 2.55 and 2.56 of the Guidelines and paragraph 5 of 
Appendix 2 thereto.
Page  12
Part C:
Other Procurement Procedures
 
1.
Items or groups of items for periodic road maintenance works, estimated to cost 
the equivalent of $300,000 or less per contract, up to an aggregate amount equivalent 
to $8,700,000, may be procured under contracts awarded on the basis of competitive 
bidding, advertised locally, in accordance with procedures satisfactory to the 
Association.
2.
Items or groups of items for office supplies, up to an aggregate amount 
equivalent to $100,000, may be procured under contracts awarded on the basis of 
comparison of price quotations obtained from at least three suppliers eligible under 
the Guidelines, in accordance with procedures satisfactory to the Association.
Part D:
Review by the Association of Procurement Decisions
 
1.
Review of invitations to bid and of proposed awards and final contracts:
 
(a)
With respect to each contract estimated to cost the equivalent of more 
than $200,000, the procedures set forth in paragraphs 2 and 4 of Appendix 1 to the 
Guidelines shall apply. Where payments for such contract are to be made out of the 
Special Account, such procedures shall be modified to ensure that the two conformed 
copies of the contract required to be furnished to the Association pursuant to said 
paragraph 2 (d) shall be furnished to the Association prior to the making of the first 
payment out of the Special Account in respect of such contract.
(b)
With respect to each contract not governed by the preceding paragraph, 
the procedures set forth in paragraphs 3 and 4 of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines shall 
apply. Where payments for such contract are to be made out of the Special Account, 
such procedures shall be modified to ensure that the two conformed copies of the 
contract together with the other information required to be furnished to the 
Association pursuant to said paragraph 3 shall be furnished to the Association as part 
of the evidence to be furnished pursuant to paragraph 4 of Schedule 5 to this 
Agreement.
(c)
The provisions of the preceding subparagraph (b) shall not apply to 
contracts on account of which withdrawals from the Credit Account are to be made on 
the basis of statements of expenditure.
2.
The figure of 15% is hereby specified for purposes of paragraph 4 of Appendix 1 
to the Guidelines.
Section II.
Employment of Consultants
 
1.
In order to assist the Borrower in carrying out the Project, the Borrower shall 
employ consultants whose qualifications, experience and terms and conditions of 
employment shall be satisfactory to the Association. Such consultants shall be 
selected in accordance with principles and procedures satisfactory to the Association 
on the basis of the "Guidelines for the Use of Consultants by World Bank Borrowers and 
by the World Bank as Executing Agency" published by the Bank in August 1981 (the 
Consultant Guidelines).  For complex, time-based assignments, the Borrower shall 
employ such consultants under contracts using the standard form of contract for 
consultants' services issued by the Bank, with such modifications as shall have been 
agreed by the Association. Where no relevant standard contract documents have been 
issued by the Bank, the Borrower shall use other standard forms agreed with
the Association.
2.
Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1 of this Section, the provisions of 
the Consultant Guidelines requiring prior Association review or approval of budgets, 
short lists, selection procedures, letters of invitation, proposals, evaluation 
reports and contracts shall not apply to contracts estimated to cost less than 
$100,000 equivalent each. However, this exception to prior Association review or 
approval requirements shall not apply to the terms of reference for such contracts nor 
to the employment of individuals, to single-source hiring of firms, to assignments of 
a critical nature as reasonably determined by the Association, and to amendments of 
contracts raising the contract value to $100,000 equivalent or above.
Page  13
SCHEDULE 4
Implementation Program
1.
The Borrower shall operate the PCU under terms of reference, and with staffing 
(including their qualifications and experience) satisfactory to the Association, and 
shall not replace the coordinator of the PCU without the prior consent of the 
Association; such terms of reference shall include the requirement that the PCU: (a) 
monitor the implementation of the Project by MTPT, Air Tchad and BNF, and (b) furnish 
to the Association semiannual reports regarding Project implementation, including  
documentation evidencing actual expenditures on periodic and routine road maintenance 
made during the preceding six-months pursuant to Section 3.03 of this Agreement.
2.
The Borrower shall operate the inter-ministerial coordination committee 
(established pursuant to the Arrete dated March 20, 1992) under the terms of reference 
agreed upon with the Association.
3.
The Borrower shall implement, in a timely manner, the action plans set out as 
annexes within the Program relating, among other things, to road rehabilitation, roads 
research, environmental management, institutional development of transport sector 
institutions, and training.
4.
(a)
The Borrower shall prepare, not later than August 30 of each year, and 
thereafter adopt and implement, an annual work program, satisfactory to the 
Association, for implementation of Part A of the Project during the succeeding 12 
month period beginning October 1 and ending September 30, which work program shall 
provide for periodic maintenance for about 1,400 km and routine maintenance for about 
4,760 km of the Priority Roads Network.
(b)
The Borrower shall adopt, not later than September 30, 1995, and 
thereafter implement a multi-year work program satisfactory to the Association for 
carrying out Part A.2 of the Project and
shall not carry out any rehabilitation activities under such Part before the adoption 
of such work program.
5.
The Borrower shall adopt not later than November 30 of each year, and thereafter 
implement, a training program for the subsequent calendar year, satisfactory to the 
Association, which program shall take into account the experience of the preceding 
year's training program and cost-effectiveness considerations.
6.
In carrying out Parts A.1, A.2, A.3 and B.7 of the Project, the Borrower shall 
adopt and thereafter implement an environmental impact mitigation plan satisfactory to 
the Association.
7.
In carrying out Parts A.2 and A.3 of the Project, the Borrower shall 
rehabilitate the list of roads and bridges and culverts agreed upon with the 
Association (with such modifications thereto as may be agreed to by the Association).
8.
The Borrower shall, to the extent practicable, contract periodic and routine 
maintenance works under the Roads Investment Program on the basis of the standard form 
documentation employed pursuant to paragraph (b) of Part A of Schedule 3 to this 
Agreement. 
9.
In carrying out Part B.1 of the Project:
 
(a)
the Borrower shall operate the departments of MTPT responsible for 
investment planning, roads, land transport and civil aviation in accordance with the 
organizational structure agreed upon
with the Association; and
(b)
in connection therewith, DR shall be responsible for contracting out MTPT 
road maintenance works to SNER and the private sector and shall identify roads to be 
maintained, establish maintenance standards, elaborate detailed engineering and 
bidding documents, manage the bidding process and supervise the works.
10.
In carrying out Part B.1 of the Project, the Borrower shall maintain as the 
directors of (a) MTPT's Direction Generale des Travaux Publics et des Transports, (b) 
Page  14
the DR, (c) MTPT's Direction de l'Aviation Civile, (d) MTPT's Direction des Transports 
de Surface, and (e) MTPT's Direction des Etudes et de la Planification, persons with 
qualifications and experience and under terms of reference satisfactory to the 
Association. 
11.
In carrying out Part B of the Project, the Borrower shall cause:
 
(a)
BNF, Air Tchad and LNBTP to maintain as their respective chief directors 
persons with qualifications and experience and under terms of reference satisfactory 
to the Association; and
(b)
SNER: (i) to maintain as its managing director, technical director, 
financial director and management comptroller, persons with qualifications and 
experience and under terms of reference satisfactory to the Association, and (ii) to 
conduct its operations in accordance with the operating procedures manual adopted in 
accordance with Section 6.01(a) of this Agreement (with such modifications thereto as 
may be agreed to by the Association).
12.
The Borrower shall implement in a timely manner the OFNAR dissolution plan 
adopted in accordance with Section 6.01(f) of this Agreement.
13.
In carrying out Part B.4 of the Project, the Borrower:
 
(a)
shall, and shall cause Air Tchad to, comply with the provisions of the 
Air Tchad Performance Contract (with such modifications thereto as may be agreed to by 
the Association); and
(b)
beginning not later than December 31, 1993 and for at least 3 years 
thereafter, shall cause Air Tchad to employ the services of an airline management 
firm, with qualifications and experience and under terms and conditions satisfactory 
to the Association.
14.
In carrying out Part B of the Project, MTPT shall employ the services of LNBTP, 
under terms and conditions satisfactory to the Association, for purposes of carrying 
out roads and soil research programs.
15.
The Borrower shall implement, not later than June 30, 1995, a data collection 
and analysis program regarding loading of trucks, under terms of reference 
satisfactory to the Association.
SCHEDULE 5
Special Account
1.
For the purposes of this Schedule:
 
(a)
the term "eligible Categories" means Categories (1) through (4) set forth 
in the table in paragraph 1 of Schedule 1 to this Agreement;
(b)
the term "eligible expenditures" means expenditures in respect of the 
reasonable cost of goods, works and services required for the Project and to be 
financed out of the proceeds of the Credit
allocated from time to time to the eligible Categories in accordance with the 
provisions of Schedule 1 to this Agreement; and
(c)
the term "Authorized Allocation" means an amount equivalent to CFAF 
200,000,000 to be withdrawn from the Credit Account and deposited into the Special 
Account pursuant to paragraph 3 (a) of this Schedule.
2.
Payments out of the Special Account shall be made exclusively for eligible 
expenditures in accordance with the provisions of this Schedule.
3.
After the Association has received evidence satisfactory to it that the Special 
Account has been duly opened, withdrawals of the Authorized Allocation and subsequent 
withdrawals to replenish the Special Account shall be made as follows:
(a)
For withdrawals of the Authorized Allocation, the Borrower shall furnish 
Page  15
to the Association a request or requests for a deposit or deposits which do not exceed 
the aggregate amount of
the Authorized Allocation. On the basis of such request or requests, the Association 
shall, on behalf of the Borrower, withdraw from the Credit Account and deposit into 
the Special Account such amount or amounts as the Borrower shall have requested.
(b)
(i)
For replenishment of the Special Account, the Borrower shall 
furnish to the 
Association requests for deposits into the 
Special Account at such intervals as the 
Association shall specify.
 
(ii)
Prior to or at the time of each such request, the Borrower shall 
furnish to the 
Association the documents and other evidence 
required pursuant to paragraph 4 of 
this Schedule for the 
payment or payments in respect of which replenishment is 
requested. On the basis of each such request, the Association shall, on behalf of 
the Borrower, withdraw from the Credit Account and deposit into 
the Special Account 
such amount as the Borrower shall have 
requested and as shall have been shown by 
said documents and 
other evidence to have been paid out of the Special Account for 
eligible expenditures.
All such deposits shall be withdrawn by the Association from the Credit Account under 
the respective eligible Categories, and in the respective equivalent amounts, as shall 
have been justified by said
documents and other evidence.
4.
For each payment made by the Borrower out of the Special Account, the Borrower 
shall, at such time as the Association shall reasonably request, furnish to the 
Association such documents and other evidence showing that such payment was made 
exclusively for eligible expenditures.
5.
Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 3 of this Schedule, the Association 
shall not be required to make further deposits into the Special Account:
(a)
if, at any time, the Association shall have determined that all further 
withdrawals should be made by the Borrower directly from the Credit Account in 
accordance with the provisions of Article V of the General Conditions and paragraph 
(a) of Section 2.02 of this Agreement; or
(b)
once the total unwithdrawn amount of the Credit allocated to the eligible 
Categories, less the amount of any outstanding special commitment entered into by the 
Association pursuant to Section 5.02 of the General Conditions with respect to the 
Project, shall equal the equivalent of twice the amount of the Authorized Allocation.
Thereafter, withdrawal from the Credit Account of the remaining unwithdrawn amount of 
the Credit allocated to the eligible Categories shall follow such procedures as the 
Association shall specify by notice to the Borrower. Such further withdrawals shall be 
made only after and to the extent that the Association shall have been satisfied that 
all such amounts remaining on deposit in the Special Account as of the date of such 
notice will be utilized in making payments for eligible expenditures.
6.
(a)
If the Association shall have determined at any time that any payment out 
of the Special Account: (i) was made for an expenditure or in an amount not eligible 
pursuant to paragraph 2 of this Schedule; or (ii) was not justified by the evidence 
furnished to the Association, the Borrower shall, promptly upon notice from the 
Association: (A) provide such additional evidence as the Association may request; or 
(B) deposit into the Special Account (or, if the Association shall so request, refund 
to the Association) an amount equal to the amount of such payment or the portion 
thereof not so eligible or justified. Unless the Association shall otherwise agree, no 
further deposit by the Association into the Special Account shall be made until the 
Borrower has provided such evidence or made such deposit or refund, as the case may 
be.
(b)
If the Association shall have determined at any time that any amount 
outstanding in the Special Account will not be required to cover further payments for 
eligible expenditures, the Borrower shall, promptly upon notice from the Association, 
refund to the Association such outstanding amount.
Page  16
(c)
The Borrower may, upon notice to the Association, refund to the 
Association all or any portion of the funds on deposit in the Special Account.
(d)
Refunds to the Association made pursuant to paragraphs 6 (a), (b) and (c) 
of this Schedule shall be credited to the Credit Account for subsequent withdrawal or 
for cancellation in accordance with the relevant provisions of this Agreement, 
including the General Conditions.
