Page  1
CONFORMED COPY
CREDIT NUMBER 2520 CD
(Amendment)
Agreement Amending
Development Credit Agreement
(Second Transport Sector Project)
between
REPUBLIC OF CHAD
and
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
Dated March 7, 1995
CREDIT NUMBER 2520 CD
(Amendment)
AGREEMENT AMENDING
DEVELOPMENT CREDIT AGREEMENT
AGREEMENT, dated March 7, 1995, between REPUBLIC OF CHAD (the Borrower) and 
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION (the Association).
WHEREAS (A) the Borrower and the Association have entered into a Development 
Credit Agreement (Second Transport Sector Project), dated July 21, 1993 (the 
Development Credit Agreement), for the purpose of assisting in the financing of the 
project described in Schedule 2 to the Development Credit
Agreement (the Project);
(B)
the Borrower has requested the Association to provide additional 
assistance towards the financing of the Project by increasing the amount made 
available under the Development Credit Agreement by an amount in various currencies 
equivalent to eight million eight hundred thousand Special Drawing Rights (SDR 
8,800,000); and
WHEREAS the Association has agreed, on the basis, inter alia, of the foregoing, 
to provide such additional assistance to the Borrower upon the terms and conditions 
set forth in this Agreement;
NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:
Page  2
ARTICLE I
Amendments to the Development
Credit Agreement
Section 1.01. Section 1.02 of the Development Credit Agreement is amended by: 
(i) deleting the "and" at the end of Subsection (p); (ii) substituting "; and" for "." 
at the end of Subsection (q); and (iii) adding a new Subsection (r) as follows:
"(r) "Amending Agreement" means the Agreement Amending the Development 
Credit Agreement 
(Second Transport Sector Project) between the Borrower and 
the Association, dated March 7, 
1995;".
 
Section 1.02. Section 2.01 of the Development Credit Agreement is amended to 
read as follows:
"Section 2.01. The Association agrees to lend to the Borrower, on the 
terms and conditions 
set forth or referred to in the Development Credit 
Agreement, an amount in various currencies 
equivalent to thirty five million 
Special Drawing Rights (SDR 35,000,000) (the Credit), which 
includes an 
original amount in various currencies equivalent to twenty-six million two hundred 
thousand Special Drawing Rights (SDR 26,200,000) and an additional amount in 
various currencies 
equivalent to eight million eight hundred thousand Special Drawing 
Rights (SDR 8,800,000) (the 
Additional Financing)."
 
Section 1.03. A proviso is added at the end of Section 2.04 (b) of the 
Development Credit Agreement reading as follows:
"; and provided, however, that any commitment charge on the Additional 
Financing shall 
accrue from a date sixty (60) days after the date of the 
Amending Agreement."
Section 1.04. The following amendments are made to the table set forth in 
paragraph 1 of Schedule 1 to the Development Credit Agreement:
(a)
the amount of the Credit allocated to Category (1)(b) is increased from 
SDR 8,300,000 to SDR 15,180,000; 
(b)
the amount of the Credit allocated to Category (2)(a) is increased from 
SDR 1,500,000 to SDR 2,400,000;
(c)
the amount of the Credit allocated to Category (6) is increased from SDR 
1,800,000 to SDR 2,820,000; and
(d)
the total amount of the Credit referred to at the end of the said table 
is increased from SDR 26,200,000 to SDR 35,000,000.
Section 1.05. Part A.2 of Schedule 2 to the Development Credit Agreement is 
amended and restated in its entirety as follows:
"2.  Rehabilitation of (i) the Abou Deia-Deresna, Bitkine-Melfi and 
Eref-Mangalme roads, 
and (ii) about 300 additional kilometers of the 
Secondary Priority Roads Network."
ARTICLE II
Effective Date; Termination
Section 2.01. This Amending Agreement shall not become effective until 
satisfactory evidence shall have been furnished to the Association that:
(a)
the execution and delivery of this Amending Agreement on behalf of the 
Borrower have been duly authorized or ratified by all necessary governmental action; 
and
(b)
the Borrower shall have prepared bidding documents, satisfactory to the 
Association, for the works to be carried out under Part A.2(i) of the Project.
Page  3
Section 2.02. As part of the evidence to be furnished pursuant to Section 2.01 
of this Amending Agreement, there shall be furnished to the Association an opinion or 
opinions, satisfactory to the Association, of counsel acceptable to the Association, 
showing, on behalf of the Borrower, that this
Amending Agreement has been duly authorized or ratified by, and executed and delivered 
on behalf of, the Borrower and is legally binding upon the Borrower in accordance with 
its terms.
Section 2.03. This Amending Agreement shall come into force and effect on the 
date upon which the Association dispatches to the Borrower notice of its acceptance of 
the evidence required by Section 2.01 of this Amending Agreement.
Section 2.04. If this Amending Agreement shall not have come into force and 
effect by a date ninety (90) days after the date of this Amending Agreement, this 
Amending Agreement and all obligations of the parties hereunder shall terminate, 
unless the Association establishes a later date for the
purposes of this Section. If this Amending Agreement shall terminate under the 
provisions of this Section, the Development Credit Agreement shall continue in full 
force and effect, as if this Amending Agreement had not been executed.
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their duly authorized 
representatives, have caused this Amending Agreement to be signed in their respective 
names in the District of Columbia, United States of America, as of the day and year 
first above written.
REPUBLIC OF CHAD
By /s/ Favitsou Boulandi
Authorized Representative
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
By /s/ Francisco Aguirre-Sacasa
Acting Regional Vice President
Africa
