Report No. 773-YAR                                                                         FILE  COPY
Appraisal of
a Hodeida Water Supply and Sewerage Project
Yemen Arab Republic
June 3, 1975
Projects Department
Europe, Middle East and North Africa Regional Office
Not for Public Use
Document of the International Bank for Reconstruction and Development
International Development Association
This report was prepared for official use only by the Bank Group. It may not
be published, quoted or cited without Bank Group authorization. The Bank Group does
not accept responsibility for the accurac y or completeness of the report.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
Currency Unit = Yemeni Rial (YRls)
YRlS 1        = US$ 0.222
US$ 1         = YRls 4.50
WEIGHTS AND MEASURES
Kilometer (kmi)                   = 0.62 mile
Square Kilometer (km2)            = 0.386 square mile
Hectare (ha)                      = 2.47 acres
Millimeter (mm)                   = 0.03937 inch
Centimeter (cm)                  = 0.3937 inch
Meter (m)                         = 39.37 inches
Cubic Meter (m3)                  = 264 US gallons
Cubic Meters per second (m3/sec) = 22.8 million US gallons per day
Liter (1)                         = 0.264 US gallon
Liters per second (1/sec)         = 22,800 US gallons per day
Liters per capita per day (lcd)  = 0.264 US gallon per capita per day
Milligram per liter (mg/l)        = 1.0 parts per million
GLOSSARY OF ABBREVIATIONS
Arab Fund   =  Arab Fund for Economic and Social Development
MPW         =  Ministry of Public Works
NWSA        =  National Water and Sewerage Authority
UNDP            United Nations Development Program
USAID       =  United States Agency for International Development
UNICEF          United Nations Children Fund
WHO         =  World Health Organization
YAR         =  Yemen Arab Republic
NWSA's FISCAL YEAR
July 1 to June 30



APPRAISAL OF
A HODEIDA WATER SUPPLY AND SEWERAGE PROJECT
YEMEN ARAB REPUBLIC
TABLE OF CONTENTS
Page No.
SUMMARY AND CONCLUSIONS ............ ..          ..............    i-iii
I.   INTRODUCTION             ............................ ...........     1
II.   WATER SUPPLY AND SEWERAGE SECTOR ..............                       2
A.   General ........       ........................                 2
B.   Water Resources and Sewerage ..................                 2
C.   Sector Organization .          . .........................     3
D.    Sector Program ......        ....................              3
E.   Previous Bank Lending .....         ..................          4
III.   THE PROJECT AREA ...... ................                              5
A.    Location of the Project .......................                5
B.   Existing Water Supply and Sewerage in Hodeida..                 5
IV.   THE PROJECT ........          ................................        6
A.   Objectives of the Project ..... ..........                      6
B.   Project Description ..... .............                         7
C.   Status of Engineering ..... ............                        9
D.    Cost Estimates ................................                9
E.    Financing Plan ..............     ..     ................    10
F.    Implementation ..............     ..     ................    12
G.   Disbursements .................................                15
V.   THE PROJECT ENTITY ..................................               16
A.    Establishment ....................      .............         16
B.   Organization and Management ................         ...       16
C.   Operations .......          .............................      18
D.   Accounts .......         ...............................       18
E.   Audit ........       .................    .......             19
F.    Billing and Collection .....          ...................     19
G.   Insurance ..................................... ..             19
Messrs. W.J. Cosgrove (Sanitary Engineer), G. Heyland (Financial
Analyst) and W. Keilani (Financial Analyst) wrote this report.



TABLE OF CONTENTS (Continued)                                  Page No.
VI.  FINANCE ......... ...................*............*.    20
A.  Background ..... - ....   ................... ..o..    20
B.  Present  Position   .....    -    .........o  ...........  20
C.  Tariffs    ......    -   .........   o  ........-.- - ...  21
D.  Future Performance .... o......o      .......-.... ..    22
VII.  JUSTIFICATION .................... . ........ .    23
A.  Environmental and Health Impact  ... *..O ... .....  23
B.  Economic Justification .............. .. ..... o...    24
VIII.   AGREEMENTS REACHED AND RECOMMENDATION ........  ......    25
List of Annexes
1.  Existing Facilities
2.  Project Description
3.  Cost Estimates
4.  Construction Schedule
5. Organization Charts
6.  Key Indicators
7.  Disbursement Schedule
8.  Projected Income Statement for Sana'a Water Supply 1975-1984
9.  Projected Income Statement for Hodeida Water Supply 1976-1984
10.  Projected Income Statement for Hodeida Sewerage 1978-1984
11.  Assumptions for Financial Projections
12.  NWSA - Projected Income Statement 1975-1984
13.  NWSA - Projected Cash Flow Statements 1975-1984
14. NWSA - Projected Balance Sheets 1975-1984
15.  Economic Justification
16.  Hodeida Growth of Water and Sewer Connections
Maps
11453    Location Map
11515    Water Supply Component
11516    Sewerage Component



APPRAISAL OF
A HODEIDA WATER SUPPLY AND SEWERAGE PROJECT
YEMEN ARAB REPUBLIC
SIJMMARY AND CONCLUSIONS
i.        Water supply services in the Yemen Arab Republic (YAR) are now
receiving adequate attention. Existing facilities are still inadequate,
shortages are still widespread and many wells are contaminated, but the situa-
tion is rapidly changing for the better. In the rural sector a program of
works is well underway with assistance from WHO, UNICEF and bilateral agencies.
IDA is assisting the rural water supply program through financing of the
construction of about 90 village water supply systems under the Southern Up-
lands Rural Development Project (Credit 545-YAR). Impetus has been given to
development in the urban water supply sector through creation in November 1973
of the National Water and Sewerage Authority (NWSA). This authority is the
beneficiary of Credit 464-YAR which finances a project to supply water to the
capital city, Sana'a, which is suffering from serious water shortages and
health hazards resulting therefrom.
ii.       The port of Hodeida also suffers from severe water shortages.  Al-
though about 30% of the population is connected to the existing water supply
system, the supply is limited, distrlbution is restricted in coverage and
intermittent and the water is of poor bacteriological and chemical quality.
It would however, be highly undesirable to increase the volume of water
available to Hodeida without making provision for the disposal of water-borne
wastes. Much of the city is low-lying with a high groundwater table. Pre-
sent ineffective disposal methods result in offensive pools of stagnant
sewage within the built-up area - a situation which is intolerable since
several illnesses which are endemic to the region may be transmitted by flies
and other vermin or even by direct contact as with children playing in the
waste water.
iii.      To help alleviate some of these problems, a water supply and sewer-
age project is proposed whose water supply component would be financed by IDA
and sewerage component would be financed by the Arab Fund for Economic and
Social Development (Arab Fund). The water supply component would include a
well field, transmission main, storage, distribution and house connections.
It would provide connections to 75% of the households by 1985 and adequate
supplies to meet the needs of the city until then. The sewerage component
includes house connections, local sewers, collectors, treatment and final
disposal. It would serve the same population as the water supply component.
The project also would include the purchase of maintenance and office equip-
ment, technical assistance and training for NWSA personnel. An amount is pro-
vided for the preparation of a development plan for Hodeida.



- ii -
iv.       The estimated project cost is US$31.2 million including physical
and price contingencies. The foreign exchange cost is US$19.6 million or
632 of total cost. Towards these costs, the Government would borrow US$28.3
million - US$8.1 million from IDA and US$20.2 million from the Arab Fund -
representing 90.7% of the total (or all the foreign exchange costs and about
75% of local costs). From the Credit an amount of US5197,000 would be used
by the Government to finance preparation of a Rlodeida development plan. Of
the remaining combined borrowing US$15.7 million would be onlent to NWSA at
an annual interest rate of 6% for 20 years including 5 years' grace; and the
remaining US$12.4 million would be passed on to NWSA as an investment in
equity, together with US$2.9 million from the Government's own resources.
This equity is needed to ensure the financial viability of the authority.
v.        NWSA was established by the Government in November, 1973 to provide
for the urgently needed development of the sector within the urban areas.
It has been responsible for the Sana'a water supply system since October,
1974 and the Hodeida system since April 30, 1975. Progress in establishing,
organizing and staffing NWSA has been very satisfactory considering the scar-
city of trained personnel in the sector and that it is the first public
utility to be established in the country. Final design and supervision of
the project works will be carried out by consultants.
vi.       Major civil works contracts and equipment contracts financed by the
IDA credit would be put to tender based on international competitive bidding
in accordance with the Bank Group's "Guidelines for Procurement." A prefer-
ence margin of 15% or customs duty, whichever is less, is proposed for do-
mestic manufacturers.  No preference has been requested for civil works since
local civil works contractors submitted substantially lower prices than for-
eigners for the Sana'a water supply project. Procurement of the Arab Fund
component of the project, the sewerage facilities, will also follow inter-
national competitive bidding under the regulations of the Arab Fund. The
construction works are expected to begin in 1976 and be completed in 1979.
vii.      The Government must proceed with the provision of water supply and
sewerage for Hodeida if the basic water needs of the population are to be
met, a health hazard is to be removed, and provision is to be made for future
development of this growing port city. The major elements of the project
represent the least cost solution from among several alternatives. Continu-
ing assistance to NWSA is essential to its development and to its ability to
deal with future problems in the sector on a national scale. Using only in-
cremental revenues from paying customers as a measure of total benefits, the
economic rate of return on the investment program of which the project is the
first stage is estimated at 10.9%. Benefits not measured by this rate of
return include the supply of water to the non-connected population and the
public health benefits from a safe water supply and adequate sewerage.
viii.     Existing agreements which require NWSA to earn a positive rate of
return in the year 1978, rising to 5% in 1984 and 7-1/2% in 1987 would remain
effective under the proposed credit.



- iii -
ix.       The estimated average water tariff which will be initially required
in Hodeida is YRls 2.0/m3 (US$1.68/1,000 gal).  Although this is one of the
highest in the Middle East it is roughly equal to what is paid by the present
customers connected to the existing system which provides poor quality water
with intermittent service and it reflects the long-term marginal cost of water
discounted at 12% rate. The average initial tariff for sewerage service would
be 3.0 YRls (US$2.52/1,000 gal) of water consumed. This high tariff would
produce a financial rate-of-return of 2% on the sewerage investment and is
close to the long-term marginal cost of sewerage discounted at a 12% rate.
Because the Government attaches high importance to sewerage of Hodeida, con-
nection to the sewer system would be compulsory for all those connected to the
water supply. Low-income families would be aided in financing connection costs
by the Hodeidah Cooperative Organization which would also meet the cost of
water distributed from public taps. Water distributed from mosques would be
paid for by the Ministry of Awkaf (Religious Affairs).
x.        On the basis of the agreement reached, the project is suitable for
an IDA credit of US$8.1 million equivalent.






APPRAISAL OF
A HODEIDA WATER SUPPLY AND SEWERAGE PROJECT
YEMEN ARAB REPUBLIC
I. INTRODUCTION
1.01      The Government of the Yemen Arab Republic (YAR) has requested IDA
to consider financing water supply and sewerage works in Hodeida. The cost
of these works as well as the technical and operational assistance to the
National Water and Sewerage Authority (NWSA), the training of NWSA staff and
the preparation of a development plan for Hodeida, which are included in the
project, has been estimated at US$31.2 million, with an estimated foreign
exchange component of US$19.6 million. An IDA credit of US$8.1 million is
proposed for the water supply works and technical assistance and would be
partially passed on by the Government to NWSA together with an additional
US$20.2 million from the Arab Fund which would finance the sewerage works.
1.02      In March, 1974, an IDA credit 1/ of US$6.25 million (464-YAR) was
made to the Government and passed on to NWSA to finance a water supply system
for Sana'a, the capital of YAR. Tenders were received for the Sana'a project
in January, 1975, most contracts have been awarded and the works are now
underway.
1.03      Feasibility studies for the Ilodeida project were prepared by
Italconsult of Italy, subcontractors to UNDP/WHO, as part of the Master Plan
for water supply and sewerage for the city to the year 2000. A preappraisal
mission to Yemen in November 1974 reviewed progress on studies for the water
supply component and agreed with NWSA and the Government on the scope of
this component. An appraisal mission composed of Messrs. Cosgrove, Heyland
and Keilani agreed with NWSA and the Government on the scope of the project,
including the sewerage component, and appraised the project in January and
February 1975. Following review by the mission of the program of works the
project components were defined, a construction program established and cost
estimates prepared. This report is based on the mission's findings and on
information obtained from the Government, NWSA and the WHO consultants.
1/   Report No. 287a-YAR of January 14, 1974 and Loan Agreement of March 4,
1974.



*     - 2 -
II. WATER SUPPLY AND SEWERAGE SECTOR
A. General
2.01      The YAR, located in the southwest corner of the Arabian Peninsula,
occupies a largely mountainous area of about 195,000 km3. It is bordered on
the north and northeast by Saudi Arabia, on the south and southeast by the
People's Democratic Republic of Yemen, and on the west by the Red Sea. The
country has three distinct geographical regions; the highlands, covering most
of the interior; the coastal plain, extending about 70 km inland along the
Red Sea and the eastern plateau, which has a desert climate and little vegeta-
tion. (Map IBRD 11453).
2.02      The first census ever carried out in YAR was held on February 1,
1975 but the results are not yet available. Tax collection records put the
population in 1971 at 5.9 million with an annual growth rate estimated at
2.2%. Most of the people are settled tribesmen who live in small towns and
villages scattered throughout the highlands and the coastal plains with
husbandrv and farming as their main occupation. Only about 10% of the popu-
lation can be regarded as urban, residing primarily in the three main cities
of Sana'a, Ta'izz and Hodeida. Demographic studies undertaken as part of the
UNDP/WHO water supply and sewerage studies for Sana'a and Hodeida estimate
the population of Sana'a at 90,000 and Hodeida's population at 54,000. The
population of Ta'izz has not been covered by a recent study and estimates
vary from 80,000 to 100,000.
B. Water Resources & Sewerage
2.03      The country relies solely on groundwater for its water supply as
there are no permanent sources of surface water.  Some of the old river beds
have heavy flows during the summer rains, but none contains running water
throughout the year. There are springs in and around Sana'a and Taizz, but
they do not yield sufficient water to supply these cities. In most areas
the groundwater is moderately mineralized. In the highlands the alkalinity
and hardness are fairly high (250 to 450 mg/i), while in the coastal zone
the salt content is high (2,000 to 3,000 mg/l).
2.04      Presently, most of the people in the YAR obtain their water supplies
from shallow wells or from water vendors. In the main urban centers limited
piped water supply is provided by local cooperative organizations and private
enterprises. The villages and rural areas depend primarily on hand dug wells.
The existing water supply facilities are inadequate, water shortages are wide-
spread and most wells, particularly hand-dug wells, are contaminated. Con-
tinual lowering of the water table, due to limited recharge and increasing
extraction for both agricultural and domestic uses, is being experienced by
many communities particularly in the Sana'a area.



- 3 -
2.05       Hydrological studies have been undertaken for the main cities of
Sana'a, Taizz and Hodeida and potential groundwater sources to meet their
long-term requirements have been located. There is very limited hydrological
data available for the rest of the country. However, recent country-wide
drilling experiments indicate that water supplies for most of the rural com-
munities can be assured by deep boreholes reaching the underlying cretaceous
sandstones some 200-300 m below.
2.06       Although a very few institutions and housing developments have
wastewater systems, there are no municipal sewerage schemes in YAR.
C. Sector Organization
2.07       The Ministry of Public Works (MPW) is presently responsible for
planning and executing all Government projects in the sector. It has two
main sections dealing with water - Municipal and Rural Affairs and Rural Water
Supply. The latter section was established in 1972 and is responsible for
all rural water supply schemes and for coordinating external assistance for
such schemes.
2.08       In the main centers, the piped water supply systems are operated by
local authorities and private enterprises. The Kennedy Memorial Water Supply
System, which was built in 1964/1965 was Ta'izz' first piped water supply
project. The Port Authority of Hodeida presently operates a water supply
system which was originally intended to serve the needs of the harbor but has
since been extended to serve public standpipes as well as some buildings and
households.
2.09       NWSA was established by the Government in November, 1973 in order
to provide for the urgently needed development of the sector within the urban
areas. Actual takeover of each municipality must be authorized by Government
decree. Responsibility for Sana'a was transferred to NWSA in November, 1974
and the Authority was authorized to take over the Hodeida system on April 30,
1975. The Ta'izz system will not be transferred to NWSA until about 1977 in
order to give the newly-established authority sufficient time to organize and
train its personnel.
D. Sector Program
2.10       Feasibility studies now nearing completion for water supply and
sewerage in the three urban centers indicate that investments for these proj-
ects (allowing for price inflation) may reach US$74.1 million by 1982. The
Government gave top priority to the Sana'a water supply project because of
the critical water shortage which exists in the capital city. Almost equal
importance is attached to the Hodeida water supply and sewerage project because
of the insanitary conditions existing in the port city. The following is an



- 4 -
estimate of NWSA's investment requirements through 1982 taking into account
projects already under discussion and those urgently needed:
Components                                     YRls Million  US$ Million    %
Sana'a Water Supply (IDA Project)                    31            6.9        10
"1    "     is"  Cost Overruns                    16           3.5          5
It    "     it"  Extension (1979-1982)           10            2.2          3
Hodeida Water and Sewerage (proposed project)    140             31.1         42
if   it   it   is    Extension (1980-1982)  25                 5.5          7
Sana'a Sewerage (first stage)                        67          14.9         20
Ta'izz Water Supply Improvements & Extensions        45           10          13
Total                                    334           74.1        100
This program does not include any compensation for the water supply system
in Hodeida since the Government is expected to hand over the installations
to NWSA as a contribution in kind so that no financing by NWSA is needed.
Its residual value may be of the order of YRls 2.0 million (US$0.44 million).
2.11      A rural water development program under the authority of MPW (para
2.07) is well under way with assistance from WHO, UNICEF and bilateral agencies.
A grant of US$3.0 million from Abu Dhabi was used to acquire drilling equip-
ment. USAID is using this equipment to carrv out a village water supply
program which also provides training for well drillers and related technicians.
Saudi Arabia recently agreed to provide US$48.0 million for 36 rural water
supply systems expected to serve about 120 villages. Because of severe
Government budget restraints, progress on implementing the water supply pro-
gram will depend very largely on the support given by external agencies.
E. Previous Bank Lending
2.12      An IDA credit (464-YAR) in the amount of US$6.25 million for the
Sana'a water supply project became effective on July 15, 1974. This credit
was to cover all of the foreign exchange costs and part of the local costs of
a project to supply the capital city, Sana'a, with its first public water
supply system. Although delays by the consultant preparing the tender docu-
ments have set back the project by about six months, it is still expected
that the works will be completed on schedule by mid 1977. Tenders amounting
to US$10.3 million have now been received covering most of the works and to
cover the current inflationary trends the Government has undertaken to pro-
vide an additional amount of US$3.5 million as an equity investment in NWSA.
Credit 545-YAR for the Southern Uplands and Rural Development was approved by
the Board on May 6, 1975. This credit finances part of the cost of village
water supply schemes within the rural project area estimated to cost US$1.8
million.



-5-
III. THE PROJECT AREA
A. Location of the Project
3.01      Hodeida, the principal port of YAR, is located on the shore of the
Red Sea about 220 km (136 miles) north of the Gulf of Aden (Map IBRD 11453).
It is the third largest city in YAR with a population presently estimated at
54,000 which has been growing at a rate of nearly 6% per year. The ground-
water basin in which Hodeida is situated and which will supply the future
potable water needs of the city is part of the Red Sea coastal plain known as
the Tihama. Morphologically this is a very uniform tilted alluvial plain,
rising gradually with an average gradient of about 0.5% from the Red Sea
coast to an elevation varying between 100 and 300 meters (328 to 984 feet)
above sea level at the foothills. Numerous old river beds originating in the
mountains recharge the aquifer in the plain by infiltration of the flood
waters which they carry during the rainy season. The climate is characterized
by low rainfall and very high temperatures together with increasing humidity
toward the sea.
B. Existing Water Supply and Sewerage in Hodeida
3.02      The City of Hodeida has a public water supply system served from
two well fields, al-Hali and Baydda. The system was not designed as a city
water supply; it is rather the unplanned adoption and extension of systems
originally implemented to supply port facilities which are at present run
by the Port Authority. Some 30% of the inhabitants are served intermittently
through house connections, many from public taps and a few purchase their
water from water vendors. Some use is also made of generally polluted brack-
ish groundwater extracted from individual private wells. The system has a
pumping capacity of about 5,000 m3 per dayS Due to the precarious state of
the distribution lines, only about 3,000 m per day are estimated to be avail-
able for private and public consumption. The main deficiencies of the present
water supply system are:
(a) poor bacteriological quality and high salinity of the supply,
averaging 2,300 mg/l of total dissolved solids, with the
allal supply at 3,300 mg/l;
(b)  the lLmited coverage, lack of capacity and deterioration of
the distribution lines,
(c) insufficiency of the supply, most apparent during the summer
months;
(d) lack of an adequately staffed organization with responsibility
to run the system.



-6-
A detailed description of the existing water supply system in Hodeida is
given in Annex 1. In order to prevent further deterioration of the service
to those already connected and to ensure adequate supplies for the Port,
agreement has been reached that NWSA will not connect any new customers until
additional sources of supply are added to the system which are adequate to
serve them.
3.03      Domestic water consumption in Hodeida ranges from about 15 litres
per capita per day (lcd) for the unconnected population to about 70 lcd for
the connected population. The average per capita consumption in the city
is about 35 lcd. The overall average per capita consumption, including
public, commercial and industrial uses, is 66 lcd while the overall peak per
capita consumption is 84 lcd. Unaccounted for water, believed to be mostly
losses, represents 40% of the volume supplied from the wells. Private con-
nections are not metered; the users pay a monthly rate o4 20 YRls per house-
hold. Assuming that the average family consumes 10.4 m3/month (4.8 persons
at 70 lcd) the present unit cost of the water to the connected population is
1.92 YRls/m3 (US$1.62/1000 gal). There is no charge to those taking water
from the public taps. Those who purchase their water from the vendors pay
the equivalent of about YRls 20/i3 (US$16.82/1000 gal).
3.04      No sewerage exists in Hodeida at present.  Sewage is disposed in
pit latrines, cesspools, soakage pits and, in certain cases, through septic
tanks or dumped in the streets. In low-lying areas of the city, with a high
groundwater table, these systems have resulted in offensive pools of stagnant
sewage within inhabited areas. This condition makes possible the transmis-
sion of a number of illnesses and infections including typhoid, paratyphoid,
bacillary dysentery, cholera, parasitic worms, infectious hepatitis and hook-
worm. The mode of transmission may be through direct contact, e.g., children
playing in the waste water, or through food contaminated by flies and other
vermin feeding upon human excreta. The introduction of increased supplies of
water without proper means of disposal would aggravate the situation.
IV. THE PROJECT
A. Objectives of the Project
4.01      The prolect represents the main stage of works recommended under
a Water Supply and Sewerage Master Plan prepared by consultants, Italconsult,
as part of a UNDP-pre-investment study executed by WHO during the period 1973
to 1975. The project's water supply component wlll provide water through
house connections to 75% of the population in 1985 and provide a safe, reli-
able supply through public taps to the remainder of the population. The
sewerage component will provide for the collection and treatment of sewerage
for those connected to the water supply system. Trunk water mains and the
principal collector sewers will have hydraulic capacities which should be
adequate to serve the population of the Year 2,000.



-7-
B. Project Description
4.02      The major components of the project are the water supply and sewer
works shown on Maps 11515 and 11516, and described in detail in Annex 2. The
following is a summary of the project elements:
(A) a water supply component composed of
(i) a well field east of Baydda with an initial capacity
of 180 l/sec;
(ii)  a 400 mm transmission line (length 10.6 km);
(iii)  headworks (reservoir and pumping station);
(iv) main and secondary distribution (22.5 km varying in
diameter from 200-500 mm);
(v) tertiary distribution (106 km of 80 mm diameter and
accessories);
(vi) about 4,000 additional house connections to be
installed during the project period;
(vii)  consulting engineering services for final design and
supervision.
(B) assistance in the development of NWSA
(i) purchase of maintenance equipment and vehicles;
(ii) purchase of office equipment, furniture, calculators
and drafting equipment;
(iii) technical assistance re hiring, training, personnel
administration and standard engineering practices;
(iv) training of engineering, management and operations
personnel;
(C) preparation of a development plan for liodeida;
(D) a stowerage component composed of
(i) principal collector sewer (5.89 km varying from 250 mm
to 1 ,000 nr,i diameter);
(it) collection systems in 12 sub-hasins (total length 140.8
km varying from 200 nun to 35( mm diameter);



-8-
(iii)  11 pumping stations;
(iv) house connections to be installed during project period
(5,000 units, 100 mm);
(v) sewage treatment plant;
(vi) consulting engineering services for final design and
supervision.
4.03      The water supply component has been selected to meet the needs of
the population of liodeida until 1985 and includes mains in all streets ex-
pected to be built upon before completion of the project. The master plan
solution was selected on its technical merits from five possible projects
studied after economic comparison at discount rates from 6% to 14% showed it
to be one of two solutions lhaving equal present values which were considerably
lower than those of the other possible projects. The originally proposed
site of the well field to serve as the source of supply was selected by the
consultants to provide the required volume of water with total dissolved
solids somewhat lower than the maximum suggested by WIiO (1,100 mg/l compared
to the suggested maximum of 1,500 mg/l). An alternative site in the same
aquifer which could provide the volume required contains total disolved solids
near the suggested maximum limit but is considerably closer to the city and
might be developed at about 54% of the cost of the originally recommended
source. The Government and NWSA agreed that the lower cost source should be
included in the project. The water which it will furnish will be of con-
siderably better quality than the water presently being distributed in Hodeida
which contains an average of 2,300 mg/l of dissolved solids.  This remains
the least-cost solution even if it should be decided to develop the higher
quality source following future expansion of the city (say in 1990).
4.04      Of particular concern and interest is the relatively high level of
nitrates found in all of the groundwater in the region of Hodeida and in many
other areas of the country. High levels of nitrates are reported to be a
possible cause of methaemoglobinaemea in infants (the "blue baby" illness).
WHiO has established a recommended maximum concentration of nitrates of 45 mg/l,
a maximum which was subsequently adopted by most countries with drinking water
standards. Reported levels of nitrates in groundwater presently supplied to
Hlodeida vary from 52 mg/l to 540 mg/l with an average in the distribution
system of about 100 mg/l. Similar levels are reported in Ta'izz. In spite of
these high nitrate levels there are no reports of methaemoglobinaemea from
the hospitals in these two cities. Agreement has been reached that this
question will be explored in depth by the Government in cooperation with WHO
and that the Government will submit the results of this study to IDA within
two years of effectiveness of the credit. Agreement has also been reached
that in the event that it should be shown that there is a danger to infants
in Hodeida from this level of nitrates, arrangements will be made for the
supply of the small quantity of low nitrate water needed for the infants of
liodeida. This could be done, for example, by making the required volume
available at a central point such as the hospital.



-9-
4.05      The sewerage component provides for sewers to be constructed in all
streets where watermains have been laid. The location of the collector sewers
has been generally determined by topography and street layout. Nearly 90% of
all sewers will be of the minimum diameter recommended by the consultants
(200 nmm).
C. Status of Engineering
4.06      Final designs and bid documents for the water supply and sewerage
components will be prepared by consultants selected from a short list of firms
who are acceptable to IDA and in accordance with agreed terms of reference.
Agreement has been reached that consultants acceptable to IDA will be re-
tained to supervise the construction of the works, for hydrogeological studies
and for the preparation of the Hodeida development plan. The sewage treat-
ment process and final disposal method to be used has not yet been finally
selected. The possibilities being studied by the consultants include ocean
disposal through a long outfall without treatment, conventional complete
treatment followed by water reuse or treatment in stabilization ponds followed
by reuse for irrigation. Agreement has been reached that IDA will be consult-
ed on the choice of the treatment process and method of final disposal and
that this process and method shall be acceptable to IDA.
D. Cost Estimates
4.07      Cost estimates for the project are summarized as follows and pro-
vided in detail in Annex 3.
Local   Foreign   Total   Local   Foreign   Total  % of
YRls thousands             US$ thousands          Total
A. Water supply
component            5,085   21,034  26,119    1,131    4,673   5,804   18.6
B. Development of
NMSA                   492    1,320   1,812        109       293     402    1.3
C. Ilodeida devel-
opment plan            171       504     675        38       112     150    0.5
D. Sewerage com-
ponent              19,478   36,863  56,341    4,329    8,192  12,521   40.1
Physical contin-
gencies              3,362    7,209  10,571        747    1,601   2,348    7.5
Expected price
increases           23,805   21X21   45,021    5,291    4,714  10,005   32.0
Total             52 393   88 146 140 539   11 645   19 S85  31 230  100.0



- 10 -
4.08      Cost estimates are determined on forecast June, 1975 construction
costs. That they are reasonable was confirmed by January, 1975 bids for
Sana'a water supply project. They include 15% for physical contingencies on
all construction and supply items and a total of 47% for price increases over
the duration of the project. Annual price increases were assumed as follows:
1975   1976   1977   1978   1979 and
onwards
Local costs                           25%    25%    25%    25%        10%
Internationally procured
- equipment                         12%    10%      8%     8%        8Z
- civil works (foreign component) 16Z    14%    12%    12%          122
The estimate for the sewerage component is based on the conservative assump-
tion that the treatment process used will be conventional activated sludge,
which has the highest total cost and foreign exchange component. If the
studies underway demonstrate the acceptability of stabilization ponds as the
treatment process, the total cost might be reduced by US$3.2 million and the
foreign exchange cost by US$2.2 million.
Proposed Amount of IDA Credit
4.09      The project would be financed by an IDA credit of US$8.1 million
equivalent on the usual terms and a loan from the Arab Fund of US$20.2 mil-
lion equivalent, assumed to be at 4% interest for 20 years including five
years grace. These two sources would represent about 90.7% of total proj-
ect costs or all of the foreign exchange costs and about 75% of local costs.
E. Financing Plan
4.10      The following table shows the summary of the estimated total fund
requirements for the period of project construction (FY1976-1980) and the
assumed sources from which they will be met.



- t1 -
FY 1976-1980
Requirements                                   YRls Million  US$ Million   %
Capital Expenditures:
- Project                                     139           30.9        64
- Sana'a Project                               47           10.4        22
- Others                                       15            3.3         7
Sub-Total                           201          44.6        93
Interest Capitalized                                8           1.8         4
Increase in Working Capital                         7           1.5         3
4            216          47.9       100
Sources
Internal Cash Generation                           19           4.2
Less:  Debt Charges                                 5           1.1
Net Internal Cash Generation                       14           3.1         7
Subsidiary Loan Agreement (Credit 464-YAR)         16           3.6         7
Proposed Government Loan:
IDA Credit Proceeds                            20            4.4         9
Arab Fund Loan Proceeds                        51           11.3        24
Proposed Government Equity Investment             102          22.6        47
Customer Contributions                             13           2.9         6
216          47.9       100
4.11      The borrower of both Credit and Loan would be the Government.  From
the Credit an amount of US$197,000 would be used by the Government to finance
the Hodeida development plan.  The remainder of IDA proceeds and the Arab
Fund proceeds would partly be relent by the Government to NWSA and partly
be transferred as contribution towards equity of NWISA. It is proposed that
the relent portion should be 56% of the proceeds (US$15.7 million) and the
equity portion 44% (US$12.4 million). These proportions would establish a
reasonable capital structure. The portion transferred as equity, together
with the Government's supplementary contributions of US$2.9 million (9.3% of
project costs), would bring total equity investment for the project to US$15.3
million which is 49% of the project costs excluding the Hodeida development plan
plan component. Interest is capitalized during the construction period. It
is proposed that the relending of both Credit and Loan portions be executed
by one subsidiary loan agreement. Assuming a notional interest rate of 8.5%
on the IDA Credit portion and an anticipated onlending rate of 4% on the Arab
Fund Loan portion the weighted average on both would be 5.3% p.a. A higher
rate, however, is proposed in order to take into account the cost of capital,
but not too high to prevent NWSA from generating cash from its revenues for



- 12 -
further investments. An interest rate of 6% p.a. would appear to meet both
requirements. The onlending period should be 20 years, which is conventional
for public utilities projects, including 5 years of grace which corresponds
to the project disbursement period. The execution of a subsidiary loan
agreement between the Government and the NWSA with terms and conditions satis-
factory to IDA will be a condition of effectiveness. Agreement was reached
during negotiations that the Government will arrange to provide funds as
needed for the project, including those made necessary by any cost overruns.
Signature of the loan agreement between the Government and the Arab Fund would
also be a condition of effectiveness.
4.12      Under existing agreements the cost-overruns for the Sana'a water
supply project are to be financed by the Government (para 2.12). Extensions
of the Sana'a water supply system are expected to be financed partly from
further Government equity investments, customer contributions, and internal
cash generation. The same applies to projected investments for Sana'a sewerage
and Ta'izz water supply.
F. Implementation
Construction Schedule
4.13      Construction of the water supply system would begin about mid-1976;
the new works would be partially operative by the end of 1977 and would be
completed by the end of 1978. Construction of the sewerage works would be-
gin about the end of 1976; the system would be partially operative at the
end of 1978 and construction would be completed by the end of 1979. (Annex 4).
Personnel Responsible for Execution
4.14      NWSA's Chief Engineer would be responsible for the overall control
of this project as well as for the Sana'a water supply project. He would be
assisted by a resident Yemeni engineer on each project and a team of Yemeni
inspectors (Annex 5). As project preparation is already underway, it is
desirable that the Yemeni engineers who will serve as resident engineers on
the Sana'a and liodeida projects be recruited as soon as possible in order
to take advantage of training by working with the consultants. Agreement has
been reached that these engineers will be recruited within three months of
the date of effectiveness of the credit.
4.15      A well-qualified expatriate sanitary engineer has already been re-
cruited as technical advisor by NWSA in accordance with the existing agree-
ments. Provision has been made in the cost estimates for further technical
assistance which may be required to provide guidance to NWSA on hiring,
training, personnel administration, operations and standard engineering prac-
tices, as well as the costs of training not provided by the UNDP or bilateral
agencies (para 5.07 and Annex 2).



- 13 -
Procurement
4.16      All major contracts for the supply of equipment, pipes and civil
works for Parts A and B of the project (water supply component and assistance
to NWSA) would be awarded after international competitive bidding in accord-
ance with Bank Group "Guidelines". A margin of preference for local equipment
manufacturers of 15% or customs duties, whichever is lower, would be granted,
but during appraisal and in the course of negotiations no preference was re-
quested for local civil works contractors since their bids for the Sana'a
project were considerably lower than those of foreign contractors.
4.17      Minor contracts for maintenance and supply of equipment costing
less than YRls 100,000 (US$22,200) subject to an aggregate of YRls 1 million
(US$220,400) for Parts A and B would be awarded on the basis of competitive
bidding advertised locally in accordance with NWSA procedures, which are
acceptable to IDA.
4.18      Tender documents for the supply of equipment and pipes whose value
exceeds YRls 100,000 (US$22,200) and civil works whose value exceeds YRls
500,000 (US$111,100) would be submitted to the Bank for approval before bids
are requested. Tender documents for construction contracts would be combined
as far as possible in order to encourage international competition. Where
the construction schedules so indicate (Annex 4) tenders for different con-
tracts will be invited simultaneously.
4.19      Procurement of the Arab Fund component of the project, the sewerage
facilities, will also follow international competitive bidding (including
non Bank member countries), under the regulations of the Arab Fund.
Hlodeida Development Plan
4.20      It became evident during project preparation that there is no long-
range planning for the development of Hodeida. Expansion of the city takes
place haphazardly with "squatter" type growth. The WHO interim report on
Hodeida sewerage recommends that a development plan be prepared for the city.
The Government requested that financing be provided under the project for the
preparation of such a plan and provision has been made in the cost estimates
for the required technical assistance (Part C of project). Suggested Terms
of Reference for these studies are included in Annex 2. Agreement has been
reached that the expert(s) to undertake this study will be retained within
six months of effectiveness of the credit and that the necessary measures to
ensure implementation of a plan will be taken within two years of the date of
effectiveness after consultation with IDA.
Land Acquisition
4.21      The law establishing NWSA (para 5.03) gives the authority the power
to compulsorily acquire land, right-of-way and wayleaves, thus systematizing
the traditional rights of eminent domain enjoyed by the Ruler under Moslem Law.



- 14 -
Aquifer Protection
4.22      Groundwater potential in the Hodeida area has been evaluated at
around 60 million cubic meters per year of water of varying quality. This is
large when compared with the city water requirements which will reach 10 mil-
lion cubic meters in the year 2000. However, considering the present stage
of groundwater usage with a total extraction of about 30 million cubic meters
per year, mainly for agricultural uses, it is important that the performance
of the aquifer be followed carefully and that future extractions for purposes
other than public drinking water supplies be controlled to ensure that the
latter supplies will remain available. The situation in the area selected
for the well field is even more critical because the future demands represent
a larger percentage of the aquifer capacity in this more limited area. In
order to follow the aquifer behavior and obtain a more reliable estimate of
its capacity it is essential that a program be established for the continuing
collection of related data and that a reassessment of the aquifer capacity
be carried out from time to time based on this data. Provision has been made
in the project estimates for technical assistance of a hydrogeologist to de-
fine the data collection program and carry out a reassessment of groundwater
resources when sufficient data is available. Terms of Reference for this
assistance are included in Annex 2. Agreement has been reached that this
expert will be retained by NWSA within six months of the effectiveness of the
credit and that NWSA will maintain the data collection program which is es-
tablished.
4.23      The selected well field area must be protected against uncontrolled
development of groundwater resources by private individuals and measures must
be taken to prevent pollution. Legislation providing such protection has been
adopted for the aquifer which supplies Sana'a and is enforced by NWSA. Agree-
ment has been reached with the Government that similar measures will be taken
within six months of effectiveness to protect the aquifer supplying Hodeida.
Monitoring Criteria and Project Supervision
4.24      Annex 6 shows the key indicators which would be monitored during
the execution of the project to measure the achievement of the technical,
financial, administrative and training goals set for the proposed project.
Agreement has been reached with NWSA that the information requested will be
gathered and reported to IDA on a quarterly basis.
4.25      Frequent Bank supervision of the project is contemplated.  While
the NWSA personnel are competent and will be assisted by qualified consultants,
this type of authority is new to YAR and they will have a significant volume
of work with which to cope. The Bank supervision will therefore focus on the
evolving organization of NWSA, personnel training and financial and technical
planning.



- 15 -
G. Disbursements
4.26      The proposed IDA credit of US$8.1 million would be disbursed towards
the cost of Parts A, B, and C of the project over five years as follows:
a)   Equipment and Materials - 100% of the c.i.f. cost of imported
(US$2.93 million)          equipment and pipe; 100% of the ex-
factory cost of locally-manufactured
equipment and pipe; 85% of the cost
of locally procured imported equip-
ment and pipe.
b)   Civil Works               - 80% of the cost of construction and
(US$1.67 million)          installation contracts.
c)   Technical Services        - 100% of the total cost of consultants
(US$0.94 million)          for design, supervision and technical
assistance and of training costs for
NWSA personnel under Parts A and B of
the project.
d)   Technical Services        - 100% of the total cost of technical
(US$0.20 million)          assistance for the preparation of the
Hodeida development plan (Part C of
the project).
e)   Unallocated               - for physical and price contingencies.
(US$2.36 million)
Disbursements made after April 1, 1975 for total costs of consultants amounting
to not more than US$100,000, would be payable retroactively. The percentage
disbursement on civil works would be subject to revision by IDA up to a max-
imum of 100% in order to disburse in total US$8.1 million. Advance payments
to contractors would be permitted, up to a maximum of 15%, under specific
arrangements for each contract subject to prior IDA approval. Disbursement
schedule is given in Annex 7.
4.27      The proposed loan from the Arab Fund, totalling US$20.2 million,
would be disbursed directly by the Arab Fund on the justified request from the
Borrower. IDA and the Arab Fund will keep each other informed of the status
of disbursements under the proposed credit and loan.



- 16 -
V. THE PROJECT ENTITY
A. Establishment
5.01      The project would be carried out by NWSA, the nationwide authority
for all urban water supply and sewerage operations. NWSA was established in
November 1973 as an autonomous agency for commercial activities and with
complete financial responsibility. A national organization was selected to
ensure optimum utilization of the limited managerial and technical talents
available for the development, construction and operation of new urban water
supply and sewerage systems.
5.02      The law establishing NWSA provided for the taking-over of existing
facilities in Sana'a, Hodeida, Ta'izz and in further towns when suitable fol-
lowing the issuing of Government decrees authorizing the takeovers. Formal
transfer of the Sana'a system to NWSA was affected in October 1974. Transfer
of the Hodeida system to NWSA was authorized by a Government decree of April
30, 1975. Agreement has been reached that the physical transfer of the
Hodeida system to NWSA will take place by January 1, 1976. This should give
NWSA sufficient time to recruit the necessary additional staff.  It is expect-
ed that the Ta'izz system (Kennedy Memorial Water Supply System) serving YAR's
second largest town will not be handed over to NWSA before mid-1977.
B. Organization and Management
5.03      The legislation for NWSA's operations is satisfactory and provides
the authority with the powers and responsibilities needed for effective per-
formance. Control of NWSA is vested in a Board of seven members consisting
of the Minister of Public Works as Chairman, the Deputy Minister of Public
1Works as Vice Chairman, the Deputy Minister of Treasury, the Director General
of NZWSA, the head of Municipal Affairs, two members representing the local
government and the private sector (a banker and a sanitary engineer at the
present time). The Board is responsible to the Council of Ministers. The
Council's approval is required for establishing and changing water and sewer-
age rates and other charges, such as connection fees and/or customer contribu-
tions towards investments. Borrowings from sources other than the Government
are sub lect to approval by the Council and the Consultative Assembly.
5.04      The organization of NWSA is shown in Annex 5.  The Director General
is responsible to the B3oard for the performance of NWSA. Reporting directly
to the Director General are the four central departments for Administration,
Finance, Engineering and Purchasing whereas the branches report to the
Director General through a coordinating Director of Operations who also pro-
visionally will fulfill the function of Deputy Director General. A Director
of Finance engaged by NWSA has been dismissed for unsatisfactory performance;
a new candidate for this position who is acceptable to IDA is expected to



- 17 -
take up duties on July 1, 1975. NWSA is committed under existing agreements
to consult with IDA before any changes in its senior personnel or its orga-
nization structure.
5.05      According to its decentralized organization (paras 5.04 and 5.08)
NWSA has its headquarters staffed with supervising and administrative per-
sonnel, with the personnel in the branches executing the water supply and
sewerage operations. At the time of appraisal the number of NWSA's employees
totalled about 40 of which 25 in Sana'a were taken over from the former supply
authorities, and 15 have been engaged for the central services. The Hodeida
system is presently operated by a staff of about 30 employees of the Port
Authority.
5.06      NWSA is now able to recruit experienced professional and skilled
workers by offering attractive salaries and wages, and fringe benefits. The
authority is in principle not bound to Government salary scales, but as long
as there were no significant revenues and all salaries for the central serv-
ices were paid out of the Government's budget, there had been restrictions
on salary levels. For the financial year beginning July 1, 1975, however,
the Government has agreed that part of the national development fund would
be made available to NWSA which would use it to supplement the salaries to
make them competitive with salaries and working conditions in private industry.
As soon as N^WSA's revenues allow for direct payments of salaries and wages,
the payroll will disappear from the Government's budget, and NWSA will be in
a position to decide on a proper salary scale entirely within its own re-
sponsibility. These measures make it possible for NWSA to advertise in for-
eign newspapers in order to recruit suitable staff from those Yemenis who work
under better conditions in various countries of the Middle East. In fact this
would be a less expensive and more efficient solution than relying only on the
limited national labor market which would involve extended foreign training.
Training
5.07      Training of personnel at all levels will be a long-term need for
N4SA. The tender documents for the Sana'a Water Supply Project (Credit 464-
YAR) included provisions for the training of NWSA personnel by suppliers, and
the engineering consultants contract also provides for training. The technical
advisor hired by NWSA in January, 1975 to provide for operating assistance
(para 4.15) has recently established a satisfactorv organization chart for
all operating levels, on which basis the number and qualifications for all
positions were indicated. These personnel requirements will be met as far
as possible by hiring skilled workers, for which NWSA can offer competitive
salaries (para 5.06). The training program will therefore depend on the
success in hiring experienced personnel, and on the training needs of the
personnel taken-over together with the water supply systems in Sana'a and
lHodeida, whose qjualifications and training requirements are not yet known in
full. An acceptable basic short-term program for NWSA's personnel training
has been submitted to IDA (Annex 2), and UNDP has agreed to provide or to
finance for all of the training needs expressed in this program. An official
request for this training, including the names of the individuals for whom



- 18 -
the training is requested, was submitted to UNDP in April, 1975. An addi-
tional training program will have to be established after the quality of
newly recruited staff is known.
C. Operations
5.08      In view of NWSA's nationwide activities the operational requirements
are decentralized in local branches (Sana'a, Hodeida and later Ta'izz - para
5.02). These are headed by Branch Managers, who supervise the day-to-day
operations including the related financial and administrative tasks. Re-
commendations as to how far financial responsibility should be centralized
in the headquarters or delegated to the branches will be submitted by finan-
cial consultants (para 5.13).
5.09      Operations have been limited to date.  The operation of water supply
systems taken over in Sana'a from the National Cooperative for Sana'a Develop-
ment and in Hodeida from the Port Authority have continued nearly as before
under control of NWSA. Improvements in the existing systems are under way,
but the objectives of NWSA in these cities will only be fulfilled when the
new projects (Sana'a Water Supply-Credit 464-YAR and the proposed Hodeida
Water and Sewerage Project) are completed.
D. Accounts
5.10      The financial needs of NWSA - capital and operational - are form-
ulated in annual budgets subject to approval by the Board of Directors and the
Council of Ministers. A commercial accounting system will provide control.
NWSA's accounts were opened in November, 1973 and are limited to entries of
amounts received and spent without distinguishing between assets and expenses.
Although all payments were made through the Government in the period of set-
ting up, NWSA now makes certain payments directly from Government resources
transferred to the authority. Wages and salaries for headquarters staff are
still paid by the Government; payroll administration will be taken over by
NWSA only when it is able to meet personnel expenses from its own income
(para 5.06).
5.11      A balance sheet has not yet been established.  The first partial
financial year from November 1973 to June 1974 was not closed off so that
the first statements covering 20 months of operation will be made at June
30, 1975. All entries are properly made and the vouchers are kept in order
so that information for future regrouping and allocation into a suitable
accounting system (para 5.14) will be found without difficulty. A skilled
bookkeeper is responsible for this sector.



- 19 -
5.12      Apart from NWSA's central accounting the branches carry their own
accounts. They were established when NWSA took over and include all finan-
cial transactions within the respective branches. The system is similar to
that in the headquarters; only revenues and expenditures are posted. The
branches, however, pay salaries, wages and other expenses from their revenues
from water sales. The branch accounts are completely independent with no link
to the central accounts; it is expected that the financial consultants will
make recommendations to improve this situation.
5.13      The agreements for the Sana'a Water Supply Project (Credit 464-YAR)
provide for a study carried out by consultants to design and supervise the
implementation of an adequate accounting system. The study is being carried
out by the firm of Shair and Co. (Lebanon) in cooperation with Deloitte,
Robson, Morrow Co. (U.K.), the final recommendations on financial accounting,
customer billing and stock control are expected to be submitted to IDA by
July 1975.
E.  Audit
5.14      Existing agreements also provide for annual audit by an independent
auditor.  NWSA has requested proposals from four auditors and will make a
selection in June, 1975.
F. Billing and Collection
5.15      Billing and collection is executed within the branches using pro-
cedures inherited from the former authorities. Water rates are charged monthly
and the customers pay the charges at the branch's cashiers. Few customers pay
by check, and those mainly commercial establishments. Customers when connect-
ed are required to deposit an amount covering three months charges. In the
event that the monthly bills are not paid, the deposit is applied to the un-
paid balance. When the deposit is totally expended the service is cut. Pos-
sible improvements in these existing procedures are also being studied by the
consultants (para 5.13).
G. Insurance
5.16      The lack of responsible and capable insurers in Yemen Arab Republic
has delayed the taking out of insurances for NWSA's risks as required under
existing agreements. Negotiations are now under way with the recently estab-
lished Mareb Insurance Company (Yemeni-British-Kuwaiti Cooperation) in order
to obtain adequate coverage of all risks.



- 20 -
VI. FINANCE
A. Background
6.01      Although NWSA has a broad measure of financial autonomy, certain
financial decisions are subject to Government approval. These include the
annual budget and financial statements, external borrowings, major procure-
ment, and water and sewerage rates.
6.02      Since NWSA is a new organization almost all capital requirements
including initial working capital are met by the Government in the form of
capital equity investments and loans, both almost completely originating from
development credits and loans to the Government: the existing and proposed
IDA Credit and the proposed Arab Fund Loan. Customer contributions and cash
generation which will help finance investments become significant in later
years only.
B. Present Position
6.03      NWSA is still in the organization stage.  According to information
obtained from the accounts carried in headquarters and projections made for
the period until June 30, 1975, a surplus of about YRls 250,000 is forecast.
The branches of Sana'a and Hodeida are able to cover their operational expend-
itures with the revenues from water sales and to provide moreover a surplus
towards the expenses of the central services. These results, however, are
fortuituous and do not give any indication as to future performance since
the rates for water sales and other services remain unchanged from those of
the former authorities (para 5.02) and no provision was made for depreciation
of the fixed assets of the water supply systems during this period. The
Sana'a Development Board was compensated by the Government when it handed
over its property to NWSA, but the latter was not charged for the system since
most of the installations will be abandoned when the project is completed.
6.04      In the present situation of negligible cash generation, cash re-
quirements are met by the Government, which pays the salaries of the person-
nel in the headquarters and transfers cash to NWSA for other expenditures.
Insofar as the Sana'a Water Supply Project is concerned the amounts with-
drawn from IDA are recorded partially as loans and partially as equity con-
tributions in the portion of 56% and 44% respectively as agreed upon in the
subsidiary loan agreement to Credit 464-YAR.



- 21 -
C. Tariffs
6.05      At present water from the existing systems in Sana'a and Hodeida
is supplied on the same conditions in use before take-over by NWSA, but ef-
forts are being made to reduce the number of customers supplied at low rates
(armed forces and government employees) and those supplied free of charge
(port employees, public and government buildings, hospitals, schools, parks
and mosques). Existing agreements oblige the Government to ensure prompt
payments for water supplied to its services and to the public through facili-
ties under its supervision including the local cooperatives, the National
Development Board and the Mosques, which are under control of the Ministry
of Awkaf (religious affairs).
6.06      A tariff study for Sana'a financed by Credit 464-YAR is well under
way (para 5.13). It is desirable that the same consultants carry out a simi-
lar study for Hodeida. Agreement has been reached that NWSA will engage
consultants to study tariff requirements for Hodeida water supply and sewerage,
and to prepare recommendations for general conditions of supply and services
from NWSA, part of which would be a policy on charges and connection fees.
The consultant's recommendations for Sana'a will be available by mid-1975, and
it should be possible to submit the results for Hodeida by the end of 1975.
6.07      Under agreements for Credit 464-YAR, NWSA is required to earn a
positive rate of return in the year 1978, which shall then gradually increase
to not less than 5% in 1984 and not less than 7-1/2% in 1987 and thereafter.
It is proposed that these overall rates of return remain unchanged. In con-
sideration of the social benefits arising from the provision of proper sewer-
age, a sewerage tariff has been assumed which provides a financial rate of
return of about 2% only. To meet the average rate of return requirements
for all NWSA operations this will necessitate tariffs for water which provide
an average rate of return of 6.8% on the water supply operations in 1984.
The average rates per m3 of water sold in line with financial requirements
would be as follows:
Sana'a Water     Hodeida Water    Hodeida Severa e    Hodeida Total
YRls/  US$/1,000 YRls/  US$/1,000   YRls/  US$/1,000  YRls/  US$/1,000
Period    m3       gal.     m3       gal.       m3       gal.       m3      gal.
Up to
1980     1.50    1.26    2.00       1.68      3.00       2.52     5.00    4.21
1981 to
1983     2.00    1.68    2.50       2.10      3.00       2.52     5.50    4.63
1984      2.00    1.68    3.00       2.52      3.60       3.02     6.60    5.54
The Sana'a appraisal assumed an average rate of YRls 1.20, but expected proj-
ect cost increases of about 60% and significantly higher inflation than pro-
jected on operating expenses made it necessary to adjust the tariff assump-
tion. Nevertheless, the projected tariff remains lower than that projected
for Hodeida where a two year lag in construction timing produces project costs



- 22 -
which are expected to be more severely affected by inflation. A revised
income statement for Sana'a is attached as Annex 8.
6.08      Though the tariffs as shown above appear to be high compared to
water prices in other countries, they are not higher than the prices paid for
water in Sana'a and Hodeida presently, which are equivalent to YRls 2.0 to 5.0
per m3 (US$2.1 to US$4.2 per 1,000 gal.) for connected customers and much more
for supplies from water vendors (para 3.03). The tariff study which is under-
way will propose at least one tariff structure which provides rates lower
than the average for low-income customers.
6.09      The Governor of Hodeida suggested that a tariff should be applied
high enough from the very beginning to cover both water and sewerage charges.
This would make the citizens accustomed to the cost of the combined services
and thus obviate possible reluctance to connect to the waste water system for
financial reasons when this service is available (one to two years after the
water supply). Agreement has been reached with NWSA that it will implement
water supply and sewerage tariffs acceptable to IDA in Hodeida not later than
March 31, 1977. Agreement has been reached with the Government that it will
take the necessary measures by March 31, 1977 to require connection to the
fronting sewers by those who are connected to the water supply system and that
the Hodeida Cooperative Organization will provide financial assistance to
low-income customers to enable them to pay the cost of connecting.
F. Future Performance
6.10      The projected Income Statements for the Hodeida water supply com-
ponent and the sewerage component are shown in Annexes 9 and 10. All figures
are based on assumptions explained in Annex 11. For revenues from Hodeida
sewerage tariffs the assumption was made that income will be generated before
sewerage is available under the combined tariff as pointed out in para 6.09
so that from 1978 to mid-1980 significant earnings appear.
6.11      The Consolidated Income Statement of NWSA (Annex 12) shows projected
net surplus in all years except 1980 and 1981 when interest begins to be
fully charged against operations. The statement does not include projections
for Taizz, which may be taken over in 1977, or for Sana'a sewerage. The ab-
normal surpluses in 1978 and 1979 are related to the charging of sewerage
tariffs in Hodeida before sewerage is in service (para 6.09). The normal
operating period when the new projects will be in full service starts in 1980.
Tariff increases of YRls 0.50/m3 for water in Sana'a and Hodeida are forecast
in 1981 to reflect the impact of inflation on operating expenses. The operat-
ing ratio shows a reasonable level of 68% average over the projected period
with a declining trend from 1980 onward. NWSA's overall rates of return would
be in accordance with the existing agreements (para b.07) and agreement has
been reached that NWSA will set such tariffs that its overall water supply
and sewerage operations produce these rates.



- 23 -
6.12      The Cash Flow Statements (Annex 13) reflect the large requirements
in capital. The internal cash generation is relatively small in relation to
capital expenditures and contributes only 9% to them during the projected
period. Cash for investments through customers' contributions has been taken
at the very low value of 7% of capital expenditures, since the ability of a
large portion of the population to contribute is probably limited to the
payment for the connections. Investments outside the projects have to be
financed almost exclusively by Government contributions.
6.13      NWSA's average internal cash generation during the projected period
in relation to its net fixed assets plus work in progress varies considerably,
reaching not more than 3.7% in 1984 after having been negative in 1981. Net
cash generation from operations provides an average coverage of 1.6 times the
debt service requirements. Since it is anticipated that NWSA will need fur-
ther financing to cover planned future investments in Sana'a and Hodeida,
Government equity investment of YRls 26 million is assumed during the period
1981 to 1984. Other loans are not forecast since they would not be in com-
pliance during this period with the debt service covenant under existing agree-
ments (debt service coverage of at least 1.5 times).
6.14      The Balance Sheets (Annex 14) project a reasonable debt equity
ratio of about 40% long-term debt and 60% equity with a trend of increasing
equity. Retained surplus and customer contributions together should be about
20% of total equity by 1984. The Government contributions during the projects'
execution include the capitalized interest.
VII. JUSTIFICATION
A. Environmental and Health Impact
7.01      The water component will bring about a significant improvement in
health and living conditions for the residents of Hodeida. Safe water of
much improved chemical quality will be distributed through an adequate distri-
bution system continuously under pressure in place of the present polluted,
highly saline water which is distributed on an intermittant basis. Water
from the new system will be available to the entire population of the city
with 75% to be served through direct connections by 1985 and the remainder
served through easily accessible public taps.
7.02      The sewerage component will eliminate the unsanitary conditions
which already exist in the low-lying areas of the city where a combination
of impermeable soils and high groundwater levels makes disposal of sewage in
conventional septic tanks or cesspools very difficult. It will also ensure
that this situation is not aggravated by the additional volume of water from
the water supply and ensure that a similar situation will not develop in
other parts of the city.



- 24 -
7.03      The measures designed to assist in the development of NWSA will help
to strengthen the authority so that it can better contribute to improvements
in the sector throughout the country. The preparation of a development plan
for Hodeida and its subsequent implementation should contribute towards-the
creation and maintenance of an improved general environment as well as reduce
the costs of the urban infrastructure.
B. Economic Justification
Least Cost Solution
7.04      All components of the project will be constructed at least cost
(paras 4.03 and 4.05).
Adequate Tariffs
7.05      The average tariffs for water supply and sewerage which will be
charged to metered customers (para 6.07) are adequate to meet all costs of
expected current prices also are close to the long-term marginal costs of
providing these services to these customers calculated at a discount rate
of 12% (Annex 15). The average incremental cost would be lower than the
proposed tariff if the volume supplied to unconnected consumers were included
in the calculation of marginal cost.
Demand
7.06      Projections of population and water demand are shown in Annex 16.
Since no census had ever been taken in Hodeida prior to the design of this
project, the consultant undertook a sample socio-demographic study on which
to base his forecasts. Population growth is projected at an average annual
rate of 4%. Domestic water consumption by connected customers is assumed to
increase from a relatively low value of 62 lcd in 1975 to 135 lcd in the year
2000. These projections are reasonable and considering the present low con-
sumption and an assumed increasing standard of living no adverse consumer
reaction to the relatively high water and sewerage tariffs is expected.
Rate of Return
7.07      If willingness to pay is to be the measure of benefits of sewer
systems, then the cost and benefits of sewerage should be calculated jointly
with those of water supply. Elements of both systems to be constructed under
the project will have sufficient capacity to serve the needs of the popula-
tion of Hlodeida in the year 2005 after numerous other supporting investments.
In the rate of return analysis (Annex 15) these further investments were in-
cluded in the cost stream and compared with benefits measured by the revenues
from water sales and sewerage services provided to connected customers. The
economic rate of return on the program of water and sewerage works is 10.9%.
This moderate rate would be higher if a value were assigned to the water which



- 25 -
will be supplied to the poorest segment of the population through the public
taps and would also be slightly increased if the future benefits of using
treated sewage for irrigation were considered. Moreover, revenues alone do
not fully reflect the health benefits from a safe water supply and adequate
sewerage. In the absence of a relevant value for the opportunity cost of
capital in YAR (there is no domestic or foreign capital market), this rate of
return should be considered reasonable. It would fall to 8.7% if all costs
of the program were underestimated by 20% and to 9.2% if the revenues were
overestimated by 20%.
VIII. AGREEMENTS REACHED AND RECOMMENDATION
8.01      During negotiations agreement was reached that the Government will:
(i) explore the question of the acceptability of nitrates in the
Hodeida drinking water and submit the results of this study
to IDA within two years of the date of effectiveness (para
4.04);
(ii) in the event that it should be shown that there is a danger
to infants in Hodeida from high nitrate concentration in the
drinking water, ensure that arrangements will be made for the
supply of the quantity of low nitrate water needed for the
infants of Hodeida (para 4.04);
(iii) provide funds for NWSA to ensure project financing, including
cost overruns (para 4.11);
(iv) retain experts to prepare the Hodeida development plan within
six months of effectiveness of the credit and take the neces-
sary measures to ensure implementation of the plan within two
years of effectiveness of the credit (para 4.20);
(v) take the necessary measures to give NWSA control over ground-
water development and pollution control in the area of the
aquifer supplying Hodeida within six months of effectiveness
(para 4.23);
(vi) take the necessary measures by March 31, 1977 to require
connection to the fronting sewers by those who are connected
to the water supply system (para 6.09);
(vii) provide financial assistance to low-income customers through
the Hodeida Cooperative Organization to enable them to pay
the cost of connecting (para 6.09);
(viii)  complete the physical transfer of the existing Hodeida water
system to NWSA by January 1, 1976.



- 26 -
and that NWSA will:
(i) not connect any new customers to the existing Hodeida water
distribution system until additional sources of supply are
added which are adequate to serve them (para 3.02);
(ii)  retain the services of consultants acceptable to the Associa-
tion for the supervision of construction of the project works
and for the hydrogeological studies (para 4.06);
(iii)  consult the Association on the choice of the sewage treatment
process and method of final disposal and employ processes and
methods acceptable to IDA (para 4.06);
(iv)  recruit the staff engineers required for the supervision of
the project works within three months of the effectiveness of
the credit (para 4.14);
(v) retain the services of an expert hydrogeologist for studies
of the Hodeida aquifer within six months of the effectiveness
of the credit and maintain the data collection program to be
established by this expert (para 4.22);
(vi)  gather the data required to monitor the project and report
it to the Association on a quarterly basis (para 4.24);
(vii)  engage consultants to carry out rate studies for Hodeida
(para 6.06);
(viii)  implement water supply and sewerage tariffs acceptable to IDA
in Hodeida not later than March 31, 1977 (para 6.09); and
(ix)  fix tariffs to produce a positive rate of return on average
net fixed assets beginning in 1978, gradually increasing to
not less than 5% in 1984 and 7-1/2% in 1987 (para 6.07).
8.02      It will be a condition of effectiveness of the credit that:
(i) a subsidiary loan agreement acceptable to the Association be
executed between Government and NWSA (para 4.11);
(ii)  the loan agreement between the Government and the Arab Fund
be signed (para 4.11).
8.03      Subject to the conditions of effectiveness described in para 8.02
project is suitable for an IDA credit of US$8.1 million on the usual terms,
of which US$7.9 million to be passed on to NWSA, with US$3.5 million as an
equity investments and US$4.4 million to be on-lent.



ANNEX 1
Page 1 of 3 pages
YEMEN ARAB REPUBLIC
HODEIDA WATER SUPPLY AND SEWERAGE PROJECT
Existing Facilities
Hodeida Water Supply
1.        A first public water supply system was introduced in Hodeida in the
late 19th Century. A number of hand-dug wells were constructed in the al-Hali
(meaning sweet) area about 2-km inland from the seashore town. Water was
lifted by animal power to an elevated open tank of about 50 m3 capacity from
where it flowed through a 150 mm clay pipe to five watering points in the
town. Water vendors, who still operate, supplied the houses either from Hali
or the public points. The elevated tank, clay pipeline and the watering
points are still in use.
Hali Wells System
2.        In 1960, in order to supply the Port then under construction, a new
system was developed utilizing the Hali field. New boreholes were sunk and
water pumped to a 200 m3, 25 m high elevated steel tank built on the then
northern edge of the old town through a 150 mm cast-iron pipe. From there
water flowed to the Port and another branch 150 mm cast-iron fed a nearby
compound housing port construction staff. The old 50 m3 elevated tank at
Hali was also supplied from the well pumps. As new houses and hotels were
gradually built around the elevated steel tank and housing compound, they too
were connected to the new supply.
3.        The Hali system at present has a capacity of about 2,000 m3 per
day. Of these some 1,000 m3 per day are delivered to the town via the old
elevated tank and clay pipes and the remainder is pumped to the elevated steel
tank. The system components now in use include:
(a) Three boreholes, characteristics unknown, with static levels
at 2-4 m depth and dynamic levels from 13-18 m deep. These
are fitted with three electrical submersible pumps delivering
50, 30 and 20 m3 per hour each. The pumps lift water to the
50 m3 elevated tank and two 75 m3 ground-level steel tanks.
(b) A 150 mm clay pipeline of unknown length from the elevated tank
to some of the old watering points in town.
(c)  A booster station with two pumps next to the 75 m3 ground-level
tanks pumps water to the elevated steel tank in the town. The
pumps have a capacity of 50 m3 per hour each against a head of
30 m.



ANNEX 1
Page 2 of 3 pages
(d) A conveyance line 150 mm CI, 2,750 m long from the booster sta-
tion to the elevated steel tank.
(e) A 200 m3 elevated steel tank, with bottom elevation 25 m above
seal level and with a booster station at the base to lift up
water arriving from Hali.
Baydda Well System
4.        The Baydda well system was connected to the Hodeida supply in 1972.
Water from wells sunk in the Baydda area, some 7-km inland east of the port,
is pumped to ground-level tanks and a booster station at the port. From there
a branch leads to the port and another to the elevated steel tank in the
city. The Baydda system was originally intended to feed a planned fish
processing factory at the port. As the city water needs increased and the
fish factory construction was delayed, on completion the system was linked
to the city supply.
5.        The Baydda system has a capacity of about 3,200 m3 per day.  Of
these about 200 m3 per day is used by the port and 3,000 m3 per day is deli-
vered to the city. The system components include:
(a) Four boreholes about 100 m deep, with static water levels
at 10-14 m depth and dynamic levels reaching 30 m depth. Two
of the wells, No. 3 and 4, are fitted with the original ver-
tical shaft electric pumps with about 60 m3 per hour capacity
each and 55 m working head. Wells No. 1 and 2 have new pumps,
electrical submersible with in-line horizontal pumps at the
well head, with about 40 m3 per hour capacity and 55 m
working head.
(b) A conveyance line from the wells to the port, cast iron with
cold cement joints, 250 mm diameter 6,600 m long.
(c) At the port, two 500 m3 each circular concrete ground-level
tanks followed by a booster station. This includes four
horizontal centrifugal pumps - driven by electric motors,
each with a capacity of 75 m3 per hour and working head of
55 m. Only two pumps can be operated simultaneously - with
150 m3 per hour output - as the line to town cannot stand
a higher pressure head.
(d) A conveyance line to the town ending in the 200 m3 elevated
steel tank, cast iron with cold cement joints, 250 mm diameter
4,100 m long.



ANNEX 1
Page 3 of 3 pages
(e) A chlorinator at the booster station, now out of order, was
used to chlorinate incoming water from the wells in the two
ground-level tanks.
Distribution Lines
6.        Distribution lines have been installed in the town mainly since
1970.  These are in fact lines branching from the elevated steel tanks feed-
ing house connections and some 12 new public watering points and some of the
5 old watering points. Branches have also been taken off from the conveyance
lines of the Hali and Baydda systems. The lines were not laid according to
any design or plan, but rather haphazardly as funds were made available.
From the latest field surveys it was learned that most of the distribution
lines are of 100 mm galvanized steel pipes with screwed and socketed joints.
In all the main distribution lines are as follows:
200 mm, 500 m long asbestos-cement
150 mm, 1,650 m long old (1960) cast iron pipes
150 mm, 1,350 m long new (1970) cast iron pipes
100 mm, 7,000-8,000 m long new (1970) galvanized steel pipes
In addition to the above, there exist several stretches of 50 mm and less
galvanized steel pipes. About 1,800 connections to the system serve about
1,600 customers.
Water Quality
7.        The groundwater in and close to Hodeida, is highly mineralized
after flowing in the aquifer some 60 km from the foothills fed by the valley
floods from the eastern highlands. Relatively less mineralized tongues of
water have been located on the flow lines of ancient valleys, now covered
by dunes. The water from the Hali wells has a total dissolved solids content
of around 3,500 mg/l and is salty to taste - 1,400 mg/l of chlorides and 880
mg/l of sodium. On the other hand, the Baydda wells have a total dissolved
solids (TDS) content of around 1,700 mg/l of which 580 mg/l of chlorides
and 400 mg/l sodium. These waters are barely salty to taste and have been
found acceptable to the inhabitants of Ilodeida. Any new source of supply
should guarantee a continuous quality similar to that of Baydda or better.



ANNEX 2
Page 1 of 5 pages
YEMEN ARAB REPUBLIC
HODEIDA WATER SUPPLY AND SEWERAGE PROJECT
Project Description
A. Water Supply Component
General
1.        The water supply component is the first phase of a Master Plan for
the extraction, conveyance, regulation and distribution of water to supply
Hodeida in the period 1975-2000. The Master Plan was prepared in 1973-1974
by Italconsult of Italy under a UNDP/WHO technical assistance program. Feasi-
bility studies and preliminary engineering were prepared for works required
to meet the city's needs until 1985. The project works amount to more than
88% of the total investment required for Hodeida water supply during the
period 1975-1984. The works are composed of the elements described below.
Well Field
2.        The proposed well field is located about 10.5 km to the east of
Hodeida and 4.0 km to the east of the existing Baydda well field which was
developed with Russian assistance. It is located in the eolian dune area
which has seen minimum development to date and where the topography and soil
type do not favor competing land use. The first stage of development would
involve the construction of seven wells, spaced between 250 and 500 meters
apart, each with an approximate average yield of 25 1/sec and peak capacity
of 50 1/sec. Total depth of the wells would be about 40 meters. The ground-
water table at this location is about 15 meters above sea level.
3.        Although Italconsult's hydrogeology report describes the general
characteristics of the aquifer which will be tapped by these wells, there is
little data available on the characteristics of the particular site. Terms
of Reference for the consultants who will undertake the final design provide
for supervision of additional pilot drilling to verify existing resistivity
survey and water quality data and provide reliable background data for produc-
tion well design.
4.         Because of the distances involved, the lack of adequate capacity
and the unreliability of the existing electric power supply, provision is
made in the project for the generation of all of the power required for the
new wells as well as the existing Baydda wells.



ANNEX 2
Page 2 of 5 pages
Transmission Line
5.        The transmission line to convey the water from the well field to
the headworks would follow a route from the new well field to the Baydda
field and thence cohtinue to the site of the existing headworks at the Port.
The new transmission line (400 mm) would operate in parallel with the exist-
ing 250 mm line, making optimum use of the capacity of the existing main.
Final design of this part of the system would consider the feasibility of
siting new wells in the existing Baydda field in order to increase the capa-
city of the existing system while awaiting completion of construction of the
new system.
Headworks
6.        The new headworks would be constructed near the site of the exist-
ing headworks of the port system. They would include construction of one of
the two regulation tanks foreseen for 1985 (capacity 3,750 m3 each), three
pumps (75 1/s, 160 l/s and 220 l/s) civil works, a transformer station and
other electrical works. Terms of Reference for the final design require the
consultant to investigate the feasibility of an elevated tower as an alter-
native to the ground-level tank presently foreseen.
Distribution System
7.        The project would include all mains and distribution lines which
will be installed from 1976 through 1978 at which time all urbanized areas
would be served. The following is a summary of lengths and diameters involved:
Category                       Unit            Quantity
Main lines (200-500 mm)        km                22.5
Distribution (mostly 80 mm)   km                 106
House connections              units            4000
The existing distribution works (see Annex 1) will be incorporated into the
new svstem to the extent that they are capable of furnishing continuing serv-
ice under the new water pressures. The existing 1,800 connections will also
be maintained in service to the extent possible.
Hydrogeological Studies
8.        The groundwater studies on which the selection of the source of
supply was determined are based on field investigations carried out during a
ten month period in 1972 and on incomplete previously reported data. The
results obtained will need to be continually verified on the basis of addi-
tional future information if the quality and quality of groundwater required
to supply Hodeida in the future are to be ensured. It is intended that the
data collection itself be carried out by the personnel of NWSA. In order to
ensure that the needed programme of data collection is well established and



ANNEX 2
Page 3 of 5 pages
to carry out reassessment of groundwater resources, four man-months of expert
services are provided for under the project. Terms of Reference for this
expertise are attached to this annex as Attachment 1.
B. Sewerage Component
9.        The sewerage component is the first phase of a Master Plan for the
collection, treatment and disposal of sewage and industrial wastes in Hodeida
until the year 2000. The project selected is based on agreement reached
among NWSA, WHO, the consultants and the Government following review of the
consultants interim report which took place during the appraisal mission.
The final drafts of the feasibility study and preliminary engineering studies
will take into consideration points agreed upon during review of the interim
report. A final decision on the methods of treatment and disposal was not
taken during the review of the interim report. The consultant was directed
by WHO to provide more detailed information on the possible methods available,
and in particular on treatment of the sewage in stabilization ponds followed
by reuse for irrigation.
10.       The lengths and diameters of sewers and the number of pumping
stations provided for in each basin of the sewer system are summarized in
Table 1 of this annex.
C. Assistance for the Development of NWSA
11.       The project includes the supply of equipment to assist NWSA in the
operation and maintenance of its systems. This includes maintenance and
inspection vehicles, meter repair and testing equipment, leak detection
equipment and sewer cleaning equipment. Supply of office equipment, furniture,
calculators and drafting equipment under the project is intended to facilitate
central office and local administration of the project. Provision is also
made for expatriate technical assistance for NWSA to provide guidance on mat-
ters such as hiring, training, personnel administration, operations and stand-
ard engineering practices. Although UNDP has agreed to provide for all of
the training presently required for NWSA personnel, 1/ it is possible that
1/   The following is a list of training requirements (by position) submitted
by NWSA to UNDP and which UNDP agreed to provide or to finance:
2 sanitary engineers:      training at master's level
2 sanitary engineers:      training to B.Sc. level
8 clerks                 )
6 typists (2 bilingual) ) to be trained by UNDP in Yemen
2 bookkeepers             to be trained in Cairo
3 leading artisans  :    to be trained in Khartoum by the local
water authority



ANNEX 2
Page 4 of 5 pages
there will be some specialized training or special circumstances under which
it would be desirable for NWSA to arrange for training itself. The project
therefore includes sufficient funds for a total of ten man-years of expatriate
tec'nical assistance and/or overseas training for NWSA personnel. The final
distribution of this amount will be decided according to the evolving needs
of NWSA.
D. Hodeida Development Plan
12.       lhe population of Hodeida, presently estimated at 55,000 has been
growing at a rate approaching 6% per year. Demographic projections indicate
that this growth rate will drop to about 4% per year because of an anticipated
decreasing birth rate. M4uch of the new population is settling in unplanned
or poorly planned developments around the existing city. The municipal
authorities have prepared a development plan which is, in effect, only a
prediction of the type of development which will take place around the city
if the present trends continue. It is evident from this plan that the city
will be unattractive and difficult to service with infrastructure and that
any infrastructure provided will be much more costly than it would be in a
planned community. The project includes for the financing of about 18 months
of technical assistance by an individual town planner (as opposed to a con-
sulting firm) who would prepare a practical development plan for the munici-
pality and aid in determining measures to bring some order into the squatter
type development. Terms of Reference for this consultant are attached to
this annex as Attachment 2.



YEMEN ARAB REPUBLIC
t'ODEIDA WATER SUPPLY AN0 SEWERAGE PROJECT
SEWERAGE COMPONENT
PIPE LENGTHS AND COSTS BY BASIN
Basin I        Basin 2       Basin 3       Basin 4         Basin 5        Basin 6        Basin 7           Basin 8        Basin 9        Basin 10      Basin 11        Basin 12       Collector         Pipe Lengths
Dias.       Unit   L        YRl 000     t0            th 00             YRlt 0 ngth   00 0            Le'WI,000                               Ith   000   Le5 Rt 000  thOO0  Length 000  LeSth  000   Llth  000  Lenth    000   Asbestos
co st           YIBs           1515          YR1s           TRIs          YiRIs            YRIs            'RIS            YRl            YR a    Ys   " RIS    EN     YRIa           YR TIs    gth   yRla   Cesentf    Concrete
200        141                                                7.13   1005   2.50   353   19.87   2802                        13.33   1880   3.92   553   2.35   331   6.25    881   0.50    71   23,98   3381    79.83
90   17.55   158    3.05   275   4.84   436                                     10.00    900   24.37   2193                                                   4.00    360                                                 63.81
250        189                                                                               0.42      79                                    0.47    89   0.46    87                                     0,20      38      1.55
162   _________0.17                                                                                               28                                                                                                              0.17
300        236                                                                               0.50    118                      0.23      54                 0.25    59   0.13    31                       0,36      85    1.47 O
199                                                                      ~~~~~ ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~0.69    137                                                                                        0 .69
350        268                                                                               0.64    172                      0.31      83                                0.65   174                                      1.60
218                                                                                               1.22      6        =                                                                              1                       1.22
400        345                                                                                                                0.09      31                                1.52   524                     0.38    131    1.99
283    0.77    218                                                                                      0.19      54                                                                                               _____          0.96
450        389
318
500        449    1.95    876                                                                                                                                                                                             1.95
360
600OP       568                                                                      __    0.61    348                                                                                   ______ 1.23    698    1.84
80   902                                                                                                       ____2.57   2318    2.57
1000       1273  |__|_                                                                                                                                                                                    1.15   1464    1.15
Pumping
Stations  546.000      1        546  I1                                                                   546      1       546     2      1092                                  1      546                     5      2730    (11)
TOTAL                       3220            275           436   _       1005            353            4963            324   __          140   .        642   _       477           2416             71            10845
Note:  Where two unit costs are given for a specific diameter the higher one is the eatimated cost of asbestos cement or plastic (PVC) pipe
installed below the water table and the lower one is the estimated cost of concrete pipe installed above the water table.                                                                     



ANNEX 2
Attachment 1
Page 1 of 2 pages
YEMEN ARAB REPUBLIC
HODEIDA WATER SUPPLY AND SEWERAGE PROJECT
Hodeida Aquifer Studies
Suggested Terms of Reference for Hydrogeologist
Background
1.        Hydrogeologist studies of the Hodeida aquifer have been carried out
by Italconsult under a UNDP/WHO technical assistance program (UNDP: Yemen
507; WHO: Yemen 3202). The report, dated November 1973, is based on field
investigations carried out in 10 months during 1972 and on scarce previously
reported data. The results obtained therefore, will need to be continuously
verified on the basis of additional future information. Continued and more
extensive meteorological and hydrological observations, for example, together
with corresponding groundwater level responses will enable to obtain a more
reliable assessment of recharge. Data collected during the drilling of any
well, and information from wells and well fields under operation, can on the
other hand further clarify the hydraulic characteristics of the aquifers and
aspects of the groundwater quality.
2.        Groundwater potential in the Hodeida area has been evaluated at
around 60 million cubic meters a year. This is large when compared with
the city water requirements which will reach 10 million cubic meters in the
year 2000. However, considering the present stage of groundwater usage with
a total extraction of about 30 million cubic meters a year, mainly for agri-
cultural uses, any further development of the resource must be carefully
recorded and kept under control. It must be noted that most of the present
development has been achieved by private initiative and most likely this will
be the case in the near future also.
3.        Under these circumstances the most efficient use of groundwater and
the conservation of the resource is already of primary importance. Further-
more, the assessment of groundwater resources is based on limited data of
short duration in a climatic period extremely arid and hence not representa-
tive. Therefore, a refinement of the present estimates appears necessary.
Scope of Studies
4.        To achieve the objectives set forth above the consultant shall:



ANNEX 2
Attachment 1
Page 2 of 2 pages
(a)  review the Italconsult report (estimated duration one
month);
(b)  visit the site and instruct the personnel of NWSA on
data to be collected and methods to be used in collect-
ing and reporting data (estimated duration one month).
Among data to be collected are:
(i) climate and hydrological observations with
continuously expanding network,
(ii)  groundwater level and salinity observations,
(iii)  updating of water point inventory,
(iv)  recording location and estimated volume of all
groundwater abstractions; and
(c)  following a suitable period of observation (say three years
of complete data collection supplemented by data available
for the period 1973-1975), reassess the capacity of the
groundwater resources, make recommendations as to quanti-
ties which may be abstracted for uses other than public
water supply and propose measures for the ongoing management
of the aquifer (estimated duration two months).



ANNEX 2
Attachment 2
Page 1 of 2 pages
DRAFT TERMS OF REFERENCE
Hodeidah Development Plan
PROBLEM:
The municipality of Hodeida is currently facing increasing urban
settlement problems associated with population growth. The population, pre-
sently estimated at 55,000 has been growing at an annual rate of six percent.
Migrants to Hodeida are, for the most part, housed in unstructured squatter
settlements located in Haret al Urual (in the eastern sector of the city).
While the master plan for water supply has been prepared, 1/ other infra-
structure services are now needed and will be in greater demand as growth
continues. Transportation and housing programs need immediate attention.
Moreover, the municipality lacks local guidance in terms of physical and
financial planning for both immediate needs and future growth and development.
Presently, separate authorities exist for all infrastructure services, and
the Central government provides for major public improvements. The current
development plan for the municipality simply maps continued development in a
similar fashion to that which has occurred in the past.
NEEDS:
In order to assist the municipality at the local level in the estab-
lishment of a planning program, the World Bank has agreed to assist in financing
eighteen months of urban planning technical assistance. Specifically, the
objective of the assistance is:
1.   The preparation of a land use and zoning plan for the muni-
cipality including implementation and financing guidelines.
2.   The provision of technical assistance related to squatter
settlement, housing and transportation.
3.   Assistance in the organization of a program of local planning
activities including the identification of technical staff
responsibilities (staff to be provided by the Governor and
the Municipality).
4.   Assistance in the identification of emerging planning and devel-
opment issues which will require specialized study.
1/   Hodeida Water Supply, First Stage Program:  World Health Organization,
1974.



ANNEX 2
Attachment 2
Page 2 of 2 pages
REQUIREMENTS:
In order to provide immediate and direct technical assistance to
the municipality, the consultant must provide for participation by an indi-
vidual town planner for a period of approximately eighteen months who has the
following qualifications:
(a) Demonstrated ability to organize and direct urban land use
studies.
(b) Preferred experience in technical training and community
participation in similar countries.
(c) Educational qualifications to include a university degree in
urban planning and a minimum of ten years' experience.
CONSULTANT RESPONSE:
Prospective consultants are expected to prepare a brief proposal
outlining the following:
1.   Familiarity with the Hodeida region.
2.   A proposed approach to the immediate housing and transportation
problems.
3.   The work to be accomplished in preparing a development plan for
Hodeida including a budget and time schedule.
4.   Background experience and qualifications to perform the work.



ANNEX 3
Page 1 of S pages
YEMEN ARAB REPUBLIC
HODEIDA WATER SUPPLY AND SEWERAGE PROJECT
COST ESTIMATES
SULMARY OF COSf 1STIMATES
A.  WATER SUPPLY COMPONENT
Local    Foreign    Total       Local    Foreign    Total
----- Y?ls thousands -----      ------US$ thousands------
1.  Wells and power supply       219      1,090    1,309         49        242       291
2.  Connection line             124       1,088    1,212         28        242       270
3.  Transmission line           289       2,435    2,724         64        541       605
4. Head works                   968       1,064    2,032        215        236       451
5.  Main and second dis-
tribution                 1,266       5,400    6,666        281      1,200     1,481
6.  Tertiary distribution     1,321       5,641    6,962        294      1,253     1,547
7.  House connections           224       1,397    1,621         50        311       361
8. Land acquisition              50                   50         11                   11
Sub-total              4,461      18,115   22,576        992     4,025      5,017
9.  Final design                269       1,218    1,487         60        270       330
10. Supervision                   310      1,566    1,876          69       348       417
11.  Hydrogeology studies          45        135      180          10        30        40
Sub-total              5,085      21,034   26,119      1,131      4,673     5,804
12. Physical contingencies
(153/J Items 1 - 7)         662-    2,717    3,379          147       603        750
13.  Expected price increases  3,040       5,130    8,170        676      1,140     1,816
Total cost of water       8,787      28,881   37,668      1,954     6,416      8,370
supply component            -                               -                    -



ANNEX 3
TABLE 1
Page 2 of r pages
B.   DEVELOPMENT OF NWSA
Local    Foreign    Total       Local    Foreign    Total
____Hls thousands -------       ------ US$ thousands-----
1. Maintenance equipment
and vehicles                           657        657                  146        146
2.  Office equipment and
furniture                   132        123        255         29        27         56
3.  Technical assistance
and training                360        540        900         80       120        200
Sub-total                492      1,320     1,812        109        293        402
4.  Expected price increase    241         330        571         54         73       127
Total cost NWSA develop-   733       1,650      2,383       163        366        529
ment component                                    _         .           _
C.   PREPARATION OF HODEIDA DEVELOPMENT PLAN
Local    Foreign    Total       Local    Foreign    Total
-   YRls                                 thousands ------
Expert services             171        504        675         38       112        150
Expected price increase      84        126        210        19         28         47
Total                    255        630        885        57        140        197
_           _         _          -          -  



ANNEX 3
TABLE 1
Page 3 of 7pages
D.   SEWERAGE COMPONENT
Local    Foreign    Total        Local    Foreign    Total
-YWIs thousands ------          ==-US$ thousands------
1.   Basin 1                       1,616      1,454      3,070        359        323        682
2.   Basin 2                         167        149        316         37         33         70
3.   Basin 3                         264        236        500         59         52        111
4.   Basin 4                         500        647     1,147         111        144        255
5.   Basin 5                         175        228        403         39         51         90
6.   Basin 6                       2,319      3,257      5,576        515        724      1,239
7.   Basin 7                      1,768      1,945       3,713        393        432        825
8.   Basin 8                      1,266       2,300      3,566        281        511        792
9.   Basin 9                         320        413        733         71         92        163
10.   Basin 10                        226        317        543         50         71        121
11.   Basin 11                      1,270      2,209      3,479        282        491        773
12.   Basin 12                         36         46         82          8         10         18
13.   Collector                     3,728      8,470    12,198         828      1,882      2,710
14.   Treatment and disposal        3,103      7,117    10,220         690      1,581      2,271
15.   House conmections             1,240      1,160      2,400        276        258        534
16.   Land acquisition                700        -          700        156        -          156
Sub-total                18,698    29,948    48,646        4,155      6,655    10,810
17.   Final design                    559      2,815      3,374        125        626        751
18.   Supervision                     221      4,100      4,321         49        911        960
Sub-total                19,478    36,863    56,341        4,329      8,192    12,521
19.   Physical Contingencies
(15] for Items 1 - 15)       2,700      4,492      7,192        600        998      1,598
20.   Expected price increase   20,440    15,630    36,070           4,542      3,473      8,015
Total cost of sewerage    42,618    56,985    99,603          9,471    12,663    22,134
component



APPRAISAL OF
HODEIDA WATER SUPPLY AND SEWERAGE PROJECT
YEMEN ARAB REPUBLIC
Water Supply Component
Cost Estimate by Years
YRts Million/l
TOTAL                              1976                               1977                               1978
Project Elements                         Foreign                Foreign                            Foreign                           Foreign                            Foreign
Year Ending June 30th                     Exchange    Local    Exchange    Total         Local    !Exchane    Total        Local    Exchange    Total         Local    Exchange    Total
1.   Wells and power supply                       83         0.22       1.09       1.31        0.11       0.55        0.66        0.11       0.54        0.65         -          -           -
2.   Connection line                              90         0.12       1.09       1.21        0.06       0.49        0.55        0.06       0.60       0.66          -          -           -
3.   Transmission line                            90         0.29       2.43       2.72        0.14       1.20        1.34        0.15       1.23        1.38         -          -           -
4.   Head works                                   52         0.97       1.06       2.03        0.31       0.35        0.66        0.65       0.72        1.37         -          -           -
5.   Main and secondary distribution              81         1.27       5.40       6.67        0.32       1.37        1.69        0.64       2.73        3.37        0.31       1.30        1.61
6.   Tertiary distribution                        81         1.32       5,64       6.96        0.32       1.37        1.69        0.64       2.72        3.36        0.36       1.55        1.91
7.   House connections                            86         0.22       1.40       1.62        0.05       0.29        0.34        0.09       0.58        0.67        0.08       0.53        0.61
8.   Land acquisition                              0         0.05        -         0.05        0.05        -          0.05         -          -           -           -          -           -
Sub-Total                                          4.46      18.11       22.57        1.36       5.62        6.98       2.34       9.12       11.46        0.75       3.38        4.13
9.   Final design                                 82         0.27       1.22        1.49       0.27       1.22        1.49         -          -           _           _          _           -
10.   Supervision                                  84         0.31       1.56        1.87        0.11      0.50        0.61        0.15       0.78        0.93        0.05       0.28        0.33
11.   Hydrogeology studies                         84         0.03       0.15        0.18        0.02      0.07        0.09         -          -           -          0.01       0.08        0.09
Sub-Total                                          5.07      21.04       26.11        1.76       7.41        9.17       2.49       9.90       12.39        0.81       3.74        4.55
12.   Physical contingencies 15% (1-7)                        0.66       2.72        3.38        0.20      0.84        1.04        0.35       1.37        1.72        0.11       0.51        0.62
13.   Expected price increase/2                               3.04       5.13        8.17        0.49      0.98        1.47        1.67       2.63        4.30        0.88       1.52        2.40
Total expected cost of project               77         8.77     28.89       37.66        2.45       9.23       11.68        4.51      13.90       18.41        1.80       5.77        7.57
/1 At June 1975 prices
/2  Local inflation 25% per year:                                                                                                                                                               X
1974    1975    1976    1977 onwards                                                                                                      m    E
Civil works      18%      16%     14%      12% annually                                                                                                    . M
Equipment        14%     12%      10%       8% annually                                                                                                   o
- No expenditures
S09



APPRAISAL OF
HODEIDA WATER SUPPLY AND SEWERAGE PROJECT
YENEN ARAB REPUBLIC
Sewerage Component
Cost Estimate by Years
YRIs Million/l
TOTAL                            1977                             1978                             1979
Foreign              Foreign                         Foreign                          Foreign                          Foreign
Project Elements                         Exchange    Local    Exchange    Total       Local   Exchange    Total       Local   Exchange    Total        Local    Exchange    Total
1.  Basin 1                                      47        1.62      1.45       3.07         -         -          -         0.81       0.73      1.54        0.81      0.72        1.53
2.  Basin 2                                      47        0.17      0.15       0.32       0.17       0.15       0.32        -          -          -          _         _           _
3.  Basin 3                                      48        0.26      0.24       0.50        0.26      0,24       0.50        -          -
4.   Basin 4                                     57        0.50      0.65        1.15       0.10      0.13       0.23       0.40       0.52       0.92        -
5.  Basin 5                                      58        0.17      0.23       0.40         -         -          -         0.17       0.23       0.40        -          -          -
6.  Basin 6                                      58        2.32       3.26       5.58        -         -          _         1.16        1.63      2.79       1.16       1.63       2.79
7.  Basin 7                                      52        1.77       1.94       3.71        -         -          -         0.88       0.97       1.85       0.89       0.97       1.86
8.  Basin 8                                      64        1.27      2.30        3.57       0.63      1.15       1.78       0.64        1.15      1.79        -          -          -
9.  Basin 9                                      56        0.32      0.41        0.73        -         -          -         0.32       0.41       0.73        -
10.  Basin 10                                     59        0.22      0.32        0.54        -         -          -         0.22       0.32       0.54        -          -
11.  Basin 11                                     64        1.28       2.20       3.48        -         -          _         0.64        1.10      1.74       0.64       1.10       1.74
12.  Basin 12                                     50        0.04      0.04        0.08        -                    -                      -         -         0.04      0.04        0.08
13.  Collector                                    69        3.73       8.47      12.20       2.01      4.61       6.62       1.72        3.86      5.58        -          -          -
14.  Treatment and disposal                       70        3.10      7.12       10.22        -         -          -         1.03        2.36      3.39       2.07       4.76       6.83
15.   Rouse connections                           48        1.24       1.16       2.40        -         -          -         0.67        0.62      1.29       0.57       0.54       1.11
16.  Land acquisition                              0        0.70        -         0.70        -         -                    0_70         _        0.70                   -          -
Sub-Total                                        18.71     29.94      48.65        3.17      6.28       9.45       9.36       13.90     23.26       6.18       9.76      15.94
17.  Final design                                 83        0.56       2.81       3.37       0.56      2.81       3.37         -          -         -           -         -          -
18.   Supervision                                 95        0.22      4.10        4.32       0.05      0.78       0.83        0.10       1.95      2.05        0.07      1.37       1.44
Sub-Total                                        19.49     36.85       56.34       3.78      9.87      13.65       9.46       15.85     25.31       6.25      11.13      17.38
19.  Physical contingencies 157% (1-15)                     2.70      4.49        7.19       0.48      0.94       1.42        1.30       2.10      3.40        0.92      1.45       2.37
20.   Expected price increaseaj                            20.44      15.63      36.07       2.44      2.69       5.13        9.66       6.61     16.27        8.34      6.33      14.67
Total expected cost of project components   57       42.63      56.97      99.60       6.70     13.50      20.20       20.42      24.56     44.98       15.51     18.91       34.42
Li At June A97S1 #r4
/2  Local inflation assumed at 25% per year;                      1974   1975   1976   1977 onwards                                                                                       tw
International inflation                      Civil works      18%    16%    147    12% annually                                                                                       0
Equipment        147%   12%    10%     87. annually                                                                                     U
-  No expenditures                                                                                                                                                                        D



YEMEN ARAB REPUBLIC
HODEIDA WATER SUPPLY AND SEWERAGE PROJECT
SEWERAGE COMPONENT
CONSTRUCTION SCHEDULE
PROJECT ELEMENTS             1975                  1976                 1977                  1978                 1979
SEWERS AND                           11-                                          - 
PUMPING STATIONS               , T =    T  _                                           , T
Ras;im1    2, 3               1PSl Sbl 55  t          MSz    _     _             I.,^   f. f  ."  .........................   .
BasTIsh 4, 8        ,          "1I    oMKP                      liN          -  - K  m   -         -MD__ili......... i
Basins 5,9, 10                 il-i   &56IEil           f I dE  f
F3'4sir's 1, 6,7, 11                 I              l gici  195IKrrAZ      K S1I3
Basin   12                             lol   1111111 lmilvrlA  f                             p            Dx      c
MAIN COLLECTOR               ur.   .MS                                  m            ---                
TREATMENT &                            I          I                                     M
DISPOSAL                                                                               I  I' ~~  - M
HOUSE CONNECTIONS                      j        Imu  ii                          M                                 ---     
ssssI DESIGN
w_ -Az TENDERING & CONTRACT AWARD
CONSTRUCTION                                                                                                                   (D
*--MS.-FABRICATION & SHIPPING                                                                                      World Bank-9629
*-M---MOBILIZATION
..f....-FLOAT
(O)  START OPERATIONS COLLECTION SYSTEM
2)  START OPERATIONS TREATMENT WORKS



YEMEN ARAB REPUBLIC
HODEIDA WATER SUPPLY AND SEWERAGE PROJECT
WATER SUPPLY COMPONENT
CONSTRUCTION SCHEDULE
PROJECT ELEMENTS                  1975                  1976                1977                 1978
WELLS                          -          mmmi ii I   I               - -       - _" ,f.    _
F LECTROMECHANICAL                                                           .
Well Pumps                                        am I I I      '         L -   -  -l  :^ _ _   - l
Power Lines                                       s l III        m    fS 
Pumping Statior-                              i sssIII ;m  F-                           f
BUILDINGS & STRUC1(URES                                                                     (
Pump Houses                  ss III ri  -                                           *-M_
Headworks                "m 'mm Mi _ _                                                  f A
WATER PIPES
Pipe & House Connection Supplies    Ali Egli rnrA                         -
Transmission Lines                        |.* s     |  |   tFS_
Mains                                      ol al I                       -
Distribution Lines                        issii s   si     - 4
HOUSE CONNECTIONS                                m          -             I -I    1ITTI1
REMEDIAL WORKS                        ....LI
(Existing System)                       S     ,      Mx                         II
,loss's DESIGN
oS #4 TENDERING AND CONTRACT AWARD
INSTALLATION OR CONSTRUCTION
-f ... FLOAT                                                                                           World Bank-9630
*- 4SUPPLY
*w.FS-- FABRICATION AND SHIPPING
.M... MOBILIZATION
()  START OF PUMPING
* CONSTRAINTS



YEMEN ARAB REPUBLIC
HODEIDA WATER SUPPLY AND SEWERAGE PROJECT
NATIONAL WATER AND SEWERAGE AUTHORITY
ORGANIZATION CHART
|BOARD OF|
DIRECTOR OF
.  .  _OPERATIONS
ASST. DIRECTOR
GENERAL
DIRECTOR       DIRECTOR
PURCHASING          OF             OF              CHIEF
OFFICER         FINANCE     ADMINISTRATION     ENGINEER
SANAA            HODEIDA
BRANCH MANAGER   BRANCH MANAGER         BRANCHES
& ENGINEER        & ENGINEER
- L       LINE OF AUTHORITY
LINES OF COMMUNICATION
World Bank-9631
*0
a,
Ct,
co,



YEMEN ARAB REPUBLIC
HODEIDA WATES3 SUPPLY AND SEWYERAGE PROJECT
NATIONAL WATER AND SEWERAGE AUTHORITY
DEPARTMENT ORGANIZATION CHART
(SHORT TERM)
|EIDS        CIIEEDIDRENT                                                                                                                                 IOPUYF  
EGNE       DEIN     EN GIN          EER                                                                                                 OFGNTN             IDRAIDRACTT.           IAUDNT
E                  
| NFCORSE ZS      DRAUGHTS MAN|            WORDS I
2 RTAI5  EER DARTR           RATET  GIA                   TA   N      IU NGUTE  DER           ATI N                                                                                                                             | ADUTMINITSTRRATSNION|OULAGNGGLR
STELPERS  REGUANID  I REGGASIG  OlGA  A ARTWTI DT  RRTLPETG   1 AGELTTTT  IGGTUT, DITATIRUAI
I      3 iDLRRR  1 E.EUTRIUUNTVWITI,RITNII
~~~~~~W-                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              [T +4



YEMEN ARAB RERIBLIC,
HODEIDA WATER SUPIPLY AND SEWERAGE PROJECT
KEY INDICATORS
1975      1976      19Y(       1978      1979       1980
I. PyialCiea
(a)  Sana'a water
water produced 1000 m3/year
- water sold, 1000 m3/year
- unaccounted-for water %
- total number of connections
- total number of metered connections
(b)  Hodeida water
- water produced 1000 m3/year
- water sold, 1000 m /year
- unaccounted-for water '/
- total number of connections
- total number of metered co-4ections
(c) Hodeida sewerage
- volume treated
- number of conlections
- sewer connections/water connection
II. Financial Criteria
-rate of return
- internal cash generation
-debt service coverage
- revenue effectiveness index
- average revenue/m3 produced  Sana1a                                                                        CN
Htdeida
-operating expenmes/m3 prod-cAed. SaDaT, 3
IlodeiTht 
D
o)



1975      1976      1977       1978      1979       1980
III.   Staffing and Training
- number of permanent employees
- Sana'a
- Hodeida
- employees per 1000 connections
Sana'a
Hodeida
- number of employees trained (cumulative)
- professional
- tradesmen and operators
- man-months of training (cumulative)
- professional
- tradesmen and operators
IV.   Water Quality
(a)  Sana'a
- total dissolved solids (avge)
- hardness (avge'
- nitrates (avge)
- pH (avge)
(b)  Hodeida
- total dissolved solids (avge)
- hardness (avge)
- nitrates. (avge)
- pH (avge)
V.   Public Health Statistics
(a)  Sana'a
- typhoid - number of cases                                                                            m
- number of deaths                                                                          M 
- malaria - number of cases                                                                            o
- number of deaths
- cholera - number of cases
number of deaths X
- methaemoglobinaemia - number of cases                                                                0
- number of deaths



1975      1976      1977       1978      1979       1980
(b) Hodeida
- typhoid - number of cases
- number of deaths
- malaria - number of cases
- number of deaths
- cholera - number of cases
- number of deaths
- methaemoglobinaemia - number of cases
- number of deaths
(c)  All Country
- typhoid - number of cases
- number of deaths
- malaria - number of cases
- number of deaths
- cholera - number of cases
- number of deaths
- methaemoglobinaemia - number of cases
- number of deaths
0
tD



ANNEX 7
Fage I or-2 pages
APPRAISAL OF
HODEIDA WATER SUPPLY AND SEWERAGE PROJECT
YE;1EN ARAB REPUBLIC
Water Supply Component
Estimated Schedule of Disbursement by IDA
IDA Fiscal Year           Disbursement           Cumulative
and Half Year                                    Disbursement
US$ million            US$ million
1975/76
December 31, 1975             .16                    .16
June 30, 1976                 .37                    *53
197 /77
December 31, 1976            1.09                   1.62
June 30, 1977                1.85                   3.47
1977/78
December 31, 1977            1.85                    5.32
June 30, 1978                1.24                    6.56
1978/79
December 31, 1978            1.04                    7.60
June 30, 1979                0.50                    8.10



ANEXk 7
-ag-e   of 2 pages
APPRAISAL OF
HODEIDA WATER SUPPLY AND SEWERAGE PROJECT
YEMEN ARAB REPUBLIC
Sewerage Component
Estimated Schedule of Disbursement by Arab Fund
Year Ending              Disbursement              Cumulative
June                                               Disbursement
US$ million              US$ million
1975/76
December 31, 1975            .18                       .18
June 30, 1976                .36                       .5
1976/77
December 31, 1976            .90                      1.44
June 30, 1977              1.80                       3.21
1977/78
December 31, 1977          1.80                       5 o4
June 30, 1975              3.63                       8.67
1978/79
December 31, 1978          4.53                      13.20
June 30, 1979              3.50                      16.70
1979/80
December 31, 1979          2.00                      18.70
June 30, 1980              1.50                      20.20



APPAISAL OF
A HODEIDA WATER SUPPLY AND SEWERAGE PROJECT
YPMEN ARA1 REPUBLIC
NWSA - SANA'A wATER SUPPLY
INCOME STATEMENT   PROJECTED 1975-1984
July 1 - June 30                                   1975          1976          1977           1978          1979          1980           1981          1982          1983           1984
Total Population ('000 at year end)                 96           102           108            114           121           128            135           143           151            159
Number of Connections ('000 ah year end)                                         4.5            6.7           8             9.3I          10.6          13.4           14.8          16.2
Water Produced          ('000 m )                 1000          1200           1400          2150          2700          3250           3750          4400          5100           575o
Water Sold              (  "    )                  600           800           1000          1720          2160          2600           3000          3520          4080           4600
Water Tariff            (YRLS per m3)                                             1.50          1.50          1.50           1.50          2.00          2.00           2.00          2.00
Operating Revenues-__1_ ----------YRls million--------------.------ --- -----------------
Water Sales                                       .58           .80           1.50           2.58          3.24          3.90           6.00          7.04           8.16          9.20
other Revenues                                                  .15             .44           .34           .25            .26           .30           .30            .32           .32
.03
Total Revenues                              .61            .95           1.94          2.92           3.49          4.16          6.30           7.34          8.48           9.52
Operating Expenses
Personnel                                          .37           .47            .60           .72           .93          1O05           1.19          1.34           1.51          1.70
Maintenance Materials                              .02            .03           .04           .14           .22            .25           .28            .30           .32           .34
Power                                              .03            .05           .16           .30           .41            .54           .66            .76           .86           .98
Other Expenses                                     .04            .10           .17           .22           .25            .28           .40            .55           ,61            .82
Total Operating Expenses                      .46           .65           .97          1.38           1.81          2.12          2.53           2.95          3.30           3.84
Income before Depreciation                           .15            .30           .97          1.54          1.68           2.04          3.77          4.39           5.18           5.68
Less Depreciation                                      -             -            0.40           .97           1.23          1.46          1.62           1.79          1.91           2.07
Net Income Befo-ie Interest                         .1S            .30           .57           .57            .45           .S8          2,15          2.60           3.27           3.61
Less InterestLi1                                       -      '      -             -   -         -                                         1.15    _      1.12          1.08           1.05
Net Income                                             .15           .30           .57            .57          (.12)         (.13)         1.00           1.48          2.19           2.56
Return on Averege Net Fixed Assets (7Z)                                                         1.8            1.2          -. -           4.6            5.1            5.9           6.4
L Interest is capitalized during the construction period.



APPRAISAL OF
A IODEIDA aATER SUPPLY AND SEWERAGE PROJECT
YEMEN ARAB REPUBLIC
HODEIDA
WATER COMPONENT
INCOME STATEMENTS FOR THE YEARS 1976-1984
Year Ending June 30                           1976          1977          1978         1979          1980         1981          1982          1983         1984
Total Population                             55,670        58,200         60,430       62,900        65,440       68,034        70,750        73,530        76,410
Water Produced (m3 000)                                     1,004          1,004        1,240         1,863         2,143        2,443         2,750         3,067
Water Sales    (m3 000)                                       803            803          992         1,490         1,744        1,952         2,200         2,454
Charges Average YRITS per m3                  A                             2.00         2.00          2.00         2.50          2.50          2.50         3.00
Revenues                                       ---------- ---------------------------------YRIs Million- -_____-____-__________- ________________
Water Sales                                   .40         1.13          1.61         1.98          2.98         4.36          4.88          5.50         7.36
Other Revenues                                ,o                          w           .12           .05           .05          .05           .05           .05
Total Revenues                          .50          1.23         1.71          2.10          3.03         4.41          4.93          5.55         7.41
Operating Expenses
Personnel                                     .31          .40           .51          .60           .78           .88         1.00          1.13          1.27
Maintenance Material                          J10          . 0          ,.11          .20           .21           .22          .25           .27           .27
Power Costs                                   ,04          .19           .19          .26           .39           .44          .50           .58           .69
Other Expenses                                .02          .05           .08          .10           .12           .14          .16           .17           .20
Total Operating Expenses                .47          .74           * 89         1.16          1.50         1.68          1.91          2.15         2.43
Income before Depreciation                     .03           .49           .82          .94          1.53         2.73          3.02          3.40         4.9R
Less Depreciation                               .10          .10           .50         1.17          1.31          1.'40        1.55          1.70          1.73
Net Income Before Interest             (.07)          .39          .32          (.23)          .22         1.33          1.47          1.70         3.25
Less Interest                                                                                        1.19          1.14         1.09          1.03           .98
Net Income                             (.07)          .39           .32         (. 23)        (.97)          .19          .38           .67          2.27
Return on Average Net Fixed                                                                          0.7          3.5           3.6           3.8           7.2
Assets (7,)
|I  Households are charged a flat rate of 20 lTr./mjjoflth
March 1975



APPRAISAL OF
A _JDEIDA WATER SUPPLY AND SEWERAGE PROJECT
YEMEN ARAB REPUBLIC
HODEIDA
SEWERAGE COMPONENT
INCOME STATEMENTS FOR TIIE YEARS 1978-1984
Year Ending June 30                                        1978          1979         1980          1981         1982          1983          1984
Total Population                                          60,430        62,900       65,440        68,050        70,750       73,550        76,410
Number of Connections                                        425         1,800        2,700         3,100        3,530         3,978         4,435
Water Sales (m 000)                                          803           992        1,490         1,7X4         1,952        2,200         2,454
Charges (Average)
Sewerage Tariffs at YRL/mI3 of Water Consumption          3.00          3.00         3.00          3.00         3.00          3.00         3.60
Revenues                                                   -- - - - -               - -YRls Million------------------------------------------
Sewerage Charges                                          2.41          2.97         4.47          5.23         5.85          6.60           8.83
Sales of Treated Water                                                   .15          .18           .21           .24          .27           .30
Other Revenues                                             .10           .15           .16          .17           .18           .19           .19
Total Revenues                                       2.51          3.27         4.81          5.61         6.27          7.06          9.32
Operating Expenses
Personnel                                                  .15           .21           .34          .38           .43           .49          .55
Maintenance Material                                                                   .40          .45           .50           .50          .50
Power Costs                                                                            .30          .32           .35           .36          .40
Other Expenses                                             .10           .15           .25          .30           .45           .45           .60
Total Operating Expenses                              .25           .36         1.29          1.45         1.73          1.80          2.05
Income Before Depreciation                                  2.26          2.91          3.52         4.16          4.54          5.26         7.27
Less Depreciation                                            -             -            1.36         2.91          3.09          3.14          3.i2
Net Income Before Interest                           2.26          2.91         2.16          1.25          1.51         2.12          4.05
Less Interest                                                                           1.25         2.98          2.89          2.82          2.75
Net Income                                           2.26          2.91         0.91         (1.73)        (1.38)         (.70)        1.30
Return on AXera         ix                                                              2.3           1.4          1.7           2.1           4.2
March 1975



ANNEX 1 1
Page 1 of 2 pages
YEMEN ARAB REPUBLIC
HODEIDA WATER SUPPLY AND SEWERAGE PROJECT
Assumptions for Financial Forecasts Income and Expenditures Statements
Water Sales
1.        Details of estimated water production are shown in Annex 16.  Sales
are assumed to be 80% of water produced.
Revenue
2.        It was assumed that all new water connections will be metered and
that water rates would be charged which provide for an average revenue of
YRls 2.00/m3 of water during 1976-1980 increasing to YRls 2.50 in 1981 and to
YRls 3.00 in 1914. The average charge for Hodeida sewerage is estimated at
YRls 3.00 per mi of water sold increasing to YRls 3.60 per m3 in 1984.
3.        Other revenues include rents, interest and charges for delayed
payments and 20% of the connection charges which were considered to represent
overheads and surplus.
Costs
4.        Personnel expense was based on projected staffing increased to cover
inflation at a rate of 25% per annum till 1979 and at 10%, from 1980 onwards.
I'ead office salaries and wages were allocated at 50% on each of Sana'a and
Hodeida water supply projects up to 1978, then at 40% on each of the water
supply projects and 20% on Hodeida sewerage. The direct salaries and wages
for Hodeida sewerage project were estimated at 1/3 of the direct Hodeida
water salaries and wages.
5.        No provision was made for bad debts since amounts to be deposited
by customers secure payments of bills.
6.        Maintenance material was estimated at 0.5% of the gross value of
fixed assets at the beginning of the year.
7.        Power costs were estimated at 0.30 YRls per Kwh and increased by 10%
as from 1978. Power generated by NW4SA has been calculated at the same cost as
power purchased.
8.        The depreciation rates used as shown below resulted in an average
annual rate of about 3% on annual average gross fixed assets. The policy
will be to start depreciation on assets during the year in which they go
into operation.



ANNEX 11
Page 2 of 2 pages
Depreciation Rate
% per year
Well field                                           4.0
Connection lines                                     2.5
Head works                                           4.0
Power supply                                         3.0
Mlain and Secondary lines                            2.5
Elouse connections                                   5.0
Equipment                                           10.0
Vehicles                                            20.0
Land                                                 nil
Cash Flow
9.        It was assumed that water and sewerage customers would be required
to pay a connection fee of 400 YRls for each new connection, 20% of which was
allocated to revenues. No customers contributions towards water investment
were projected; customer's contributions for sewerage were assumed to be
equivalent to about 10% of project costs.
10.       Interest during construction was capitalized and thus included in
capital expenditures. The Government as beneficiary of this interest will
leave these amounts in NWSA as equity investment.
11.       Capital requirements from 1983 onwards, in excess of net internal
cash generation, were assumed to be financed by the Government as equity
investment.
Balance Sheet
12.       The written down value of the existing water supply system was
estimated at YRls 2 million.
13.       Interest during the construction period was capitalized as part of
fixed assets.
14.       The balance of accounts receivable for water was estimated at 3
months' sales. A higher ratio was estimated for sewerage to reflect the
assumed collection of customers' contributions over a five-year period.
15.       Deposits for water and sewerage were estimated at two months'
sales and charges.



APPRATT, OF
A T{O0Dj1TIA V\A'V1:  npr'm ANB SFW:ERA(CE PROJECT
'YEMEN ARAB RlEI'TJiLIC
NWSA - INCOME STATEMENT - PROJECTED 1975-1984
FY July 1 - June 30                  19'15    1976    1977    1978    1979    1980    1981    1982    J 983    1984
-     -       --                YRIS millions -------------------------------
Operating Revenues
Water Sales Sana'a                0.58    0.80   150    2.58    3.24    3.90    6.00    7-04    8.16    9.20
Water Sales Hodeida                .10    0.40    1.13    1.61    1.98    2.98    4.36    4.88    5.50    7.36
Sewerage Charges Hodeida          -        -        -      2.41    2.97    4047    5.23    5085    6.60    8.83
Sales of Treated 'later            -       -        -       -        .15      .18     .21      .24     .27      .30
Other Revenues                     .03     .25      .54     .54      o52      .47     .52      .53     .56      .56
Total Revenues                   .71    1.45    3017    7.14    8.86   12.00   16.32   18.54   21.09   26.25
Operating Expenses
Personnel                          .37      .78    1.00    1.38    107L    2.17    2.45    2.77    3.13    3.52
Maintenance Material               .02     .13      a14     .25      o42      .86     .95    1.05    1,09    1.11
Power                              .03     .09      .35     .49      .67    1,23    1.42    1.61    1.80,   2.07
Other Expenses                     04       .12     .22      o40     .50      .65     .84    1.16    1.23    1.62
Total Expenses                  .46    1.12    1.71    2e52    3.33    4.91    5,66    6.59    7.25    8.32
Inccme before Depreciation         .25     .33    1.46    4.62    5.53    7,09   10.66   11.95   13.84   17.93
Less Depreciation                     -        .10     .50   147   2_40    4.13    5,93    6.37    6,75    7.02
Net Income Before Interest         .25      .23     .96    3.15    3.13    2, 96    4.73    5.58    7,09   10.91
Less Interest                         _        -        -       -      -057    3.15    5.27    510    4.93    4.78
Net Income                         o25     .23      .96    3.15    2,56   ( .19)   (.54)    .48    2.16    6.13
Operating Ratio  (,)                65      84       69      56        65     7.5       71       70      66       59
Return on Average Net Fixed
Assets  (%)                        6.3    .6.1    410        2.2     2.4      2..7    3.3      5.0
March 1975



APPRAISAL OF
A ICSEDDA WATER SUPPLY AND SEWERAGE PROJECT
_MIS N  RABA REPUBLIC
NWSA - CASH PLOW STATEMTS - PROJECTED 1975-1984
To tal
FY July 1 - June 30                                                    1975       1976        1977         1978        1979        1980        1981        1982         1983        1984        1975-84
------------------------------------------------- YRIs Millios_-----_--_______________________________--
Internal Sources of Funds
Net Income before Depreciation                               (1)      .25         .33        1.46        4.62        5.53         7.09       10.66       11.95       13.84        17.93        73.66
Operationnl Requirements
Increase (Decrease) in Working Capital other than Cash  (2)           (.40)      (.82)      (1.12)       2.37        3.61         1.31        1.43         .03       . (.52)       (.38)        5.51
Interest Charged to Operations:
- IDA Credit 464-YAR Proceeds                                                  -           -           -           .57          .71        1.15        1.12        1.08        1.05          5.68
- Proposed IDA Credit Proceeds                                      -                      -           -           -          1.19         1.14        1.09        1.03          .98         5.43
- Proposed Arab Fund Loan Proceeds                                  -          -           -           -           -          1.25         2.98        2.89        2.82        2.75         12.69
A-ortization of Loans!
- IDA Credit 464-YAR                                                -          -           -           -           -            .79         .79         .79         .79          .79         3.95
- Proposed IDA Credit                                               -          -           -           -           -           -           1.32        1. 32       1.32         1.32         5.28
- Proposed Arab Fund I.an                                           -          -           -           -           -           -           3.39        3.39         3.39        3.39        13.56
Total Operational Requiremen-s                       (3)    (.40)        (.82)      (1.12)       2.37        4.18        5.25        12.20       10.63        9.91         9.90        52.10
Balance of Internal Funds Available for Investments             (4)      .65       1.15         2.58        2.25        1.35        1.84        (1.54)       1.32       3.93          b_03        21.56
(1-3)
Capital Expenditures
Project - Sane'a Water Supply/L                                     .75       11.79       21.80        7.62    -  5.15          2.61                                                         49.72
- hodeida Water Suply/l                                   -          5.25       16.07       11.20         3.56        2.76         -            -           -           -          38.84
- Hodeida Sewerage 7                                       -          2.24       13.59       27.59       41.84        19.77         -            _           _           _         105.03
Others                                                              -          1.52          .49       3.63         2.01        7.93        8.81       12.54        11.55       10.37        58.85
Total Capital Investment                             (5)      .75      20.80        51.95       50.04       52.56       33.07         8.81       12.54       11.55       10.37        252.44
Balance to be Financed                           (5-4)          (6)      .10      19.65        49.37       47.79       31.21       31.23        10.35      11.22          7.62       2.34       230.88
Government Loans!
- Proceeds Credit 464-YAR                                          .20        3.83        7.56        3.03        1.13          -           -                                               15.75
-    "     Proposed Credit                                         -          3.88        7.46        6.57        1.87          -           -           -            -           -          19.78
,,       C       Loan                                                   1.22        6.08       12.16       18.11       13.33          -           -           -            -          50.90
Total Loans                                                   .20        8.93       21.10       21.76       21,11       13.33          -           -           -            -          86.43
Goverrmnt Equity TInvestment-                                          .40      10.07        28.17       26.75       26.15       10.62         9.00        9.00        7.00        1.00       128.16
Customers Contributions                                               -            .19         .67        1.83        5.13        4.74         1.17        2.17         .24        1.27         17.41
Total Funding                                        (7)      .60       19.19       49.94       50.34       52.39       28.69        10.17        11.17       7.24         2.27       232.00
Cash Increase (Decrease) for Year               (7-6)                    .50        (.46)        .57        2.55        1.18        (2.54)       (.j8)       (.05)        (.38)       (.07)        1.12
Cash at Beginning of Year                                                -           .50         .04         .61        3.16        4.34         1.80        1.62        1.57         1.19
Cash at End of Year                                                      .50         .04         .61        3.16        4.34         1.80        1.62        1.57        1.19         1.12
Debt Service Coverage (times) (1:15-27)                                  -           -           -           -           -          1.8          1.0         1.1          1.3         1.7          1,6
Internal Financing of Capital Investment (I) (4 as % of 5)               -          6           5           4           3            6         negative   11            34           77            9
--do-- a. % of Not Fixed Assets Plus 
Work in Progress (Annual Average)          (%)                           -          8.8         5,2         2.3         0.9          1.0       negative        .6         1.9         3.7          -
L   Including interest capitalized during construction.
-   Hot applicable
March 1975



APPRAISAL OF
A IODEIDA WATER SUPPLY AND SEWERAGE PROJECT
YEMEN ARAB REPUBLIC
NWSA - BALANCE SHEETS - PROJECTED 1975-1984
FY Ending June 30                                               1975        1976        1977        1978        1979        1980        1981       1982        1983        1984
---------------------------------------------YRls Millions---------------------------------------------
Assets
Fixed Assets                                                  2.15         2.15       29.00       76.54      85.70      201.37      214.08      229.82      242.07      252.64
Less Depreciation                                              -            .10         .60        2,07        4.47       8.60       14.53       20.90       27.65       34.67
Net Fixed Assets                                         2.15         2.05      28.40       '74.47      81.23      192.77      199.55      208,92      214.42      217.97
Work in Progress                                               .60        21.40       46.50       49.00       92.40        9.80        5.90        2.70        2.00       1.80
Total Fixed Assets                                       2.75       23.45       74.90      123.47      173.63      202.57      205.45      211.62      216.42      219.77
Stocks                                                         .05          .29         .65         .85         .95       1.20        1.35        1.55        1.75        1.90
Accounts Receivable                                            .10          .61        1.10        2.80        5.80        8.55      10.45       10.20       10.00        9.75
Cash and Equivalent                                            .50          .04         .61        3.16       4.34        1.80        1.62        1.57        1.19        1.12
Total Current Assets                                      .65          .94        2.36       6.81       11.09       11.55       13.42       13.32       12.94       12.77
Total Assets                                       3.40        24.39       77.26      130.28       184.72    214.12       218.87      224.94      229.56      23P.54
_qjuity and Liabilities
Government Equity Investment                                  2.40        12.47       40.64       67.39       93.54     104.16      113.16       122.16      129.16     130.16
Retained Surplus                                               .25          .48        1.44        4.59        7.15        6.96        6.42        6.90        9.06       15.19
Customers' Contributions                                       -            .19         .86        2.69        7.82      12.56       13.73        15.90      16.14       17.41
Total Equitv                                             2.65        13.14      42.94       74.67      108.51      123.68      133.31      144.96      154.36      162.76
Long-Term Debt - IDA Credit 464-YAR                            .20         4.03       11.59       14.62       15.75       14.96       14.17       13.38       12.59       11.80
- Proposed IDA Credit                          -           3.88       11.34      17.91       19.78       19.78        18.46      17.14        15.82      14.50
- Proposed Arab Fund Loan                      -           1.22        7.30       19.46      37.57       50.90        47.51       44.12       40.73       37.34
- Other Loans                                  -                        -           -           -                -           -            -                 -
Deposits                                                       .30          .30         .60         .75         .95        1.25        1.60        1.85        2.20        2.50
Accounts Payable                                               .25         1.82        3.49        2.87        2.16        3.55        3.82        3.49        3.66        3.64
Total Liabilities                                         .75        11.25       34.32      55.61       76.21       90.44        85.56       79.98       75.00       69.78
Total Equity & Liabilities                         3.40        24.39       77.26      130.28      184.72      214.12      218.87    224.94        229.36  ~232.54
Debt:Equity Ratio                                              16:84        42:58       42:58       41:59       41:59       42:58       37.63       34.66       31.69       28.72



ANNEX 15
Page 1 of 4 pages
YEMEN ARAB REPUBLIC
HODEIDA WATER SUPPLY AND SEWERAGE PROJECT
~zncAnalyses
A, Ave--ag  Incremental Costs
1.        The principal water mains and the collector sewers will be built
with adequate hydraulic capacity to serve the population of Hodeida in the
year 2005 at forecast greatly increased per capita water consumptions. The
incremental cost of water supply and sewerage must therefore take into ac-
count not only the project investments and their benefits but all of the
supporting investments which lead to the full utilization of their capacity
in the year 2005 as well as the benefits derived therefrom. Tables 1 and 2
set out the amounts taken into account and some of the assumptions on which
they are based. Contingencies have been taken at the expected value of 10%
rather than the 15% which represents unforeseen expenses. In calculating
the incremental cost the discounted residual value of the works in service
has been subtracted from the total discounted cost.
2.        The average incremental cost of water is calculated by dividing the
total increased volume of water consumed by metered customers into the sum
of the capital cost of the facilities and the total incremental cost of
operation and maintenance relating to the additional water, all discounted
to present value. The average incremental cost of water at a discount rate
of 12 percent per year is YRls 2.1/m3. It would be lower if water distributed
to unconnected customers were included in the calculation.
3.        The long-term cost of sewerage is calculated by dividing the total
volume of water consumed by metered customers into the sum of the capital,
operation and maintenance costs of the sewerage facilities, all discounted
to present value. The average long-term cost of sewerage at a discount rate
of 12% per year is YRls 3.36/m3 of water consumed.
B. Economic Rate of Return
4.        For this purpose the combined costs of the water supply and sewerage
project program until the year 2005 have been compared with the sum of the
revenues derived from the incremental water sales at YRls 2.00/m3 and from
sewerage charges of YRls 3.00/m3 on all water sold to metered customers (the
rates proposed for the initial tariff). No benefit is attributed to free
supplies through public taps. Table 3 shows the amounts taken into account.
The discount rate which equalizes costs and revenues of the program is 10.9%.
It would be 8.7% if all costs of the program were underestimated by 20% and
9.2% if all revenues were overestimated by 20%.



ANNEX 15
TABLE 1
Page 2 of 4 pages
YEMEN ARAB REPUBLIC
A hODEIDA WATER SUPPLY AND SEWERAGE PROJECT
LONG-TERM4 MARGINAL COST OF WATER
Metered                                          Costs                                                    ResidualLC
Fiscal       Sales                                         YRls '000
Ye ar       00Q m3                                                       Ma in tenance/5                                Value
and              Other       Total         End
Investments /2    Personnel      Power /4       Material           Expenses     Costs       Period
1976         -               8,830               -            -               -                  -         8,830        883
77         -              11,720               -           _                _                  _       11,720       1,523
78         -               3,940               -           -                -                  -         3,940        630
79         290               502               30           70             125                31           758         95
1980         589               370               36          142             127                32           707         81
81         825               396               51          199             129                32           807         99
82       1,076             1,3.8               52          260             135                34         1,799        369
83       1,338               387               59          322             137                34           939        120
84       1,607               413               67          338             139                34        1,041         140
1985       1,891               440               76          456             139                35         1,146        163
86       2,190               708               90          529             140                35        1,502         283
87       2,491               556              100          601             143                36        1,436         239
88       2,799               229              104          676             149                37        1,195         105
89       3,130                64              104          756             149                37        1,110          31
1990       3,482             6,019/3            224          841             179                37         7,300      3,130
91       3,847               -                224          929             179                37        1,369         -
92       4,188               -                224        1.011             179                37        1,451         -
93       4,507               736              252        1,088             183                46        2,305         445
94       4,889               242              260        1,180             184                46        1,912         155
1995       5,181                64              260        1,251             185                46         1,806         43
96       5,533                64              260        1,336             185                46        1,891          45
97       5,893               757              274        1,422             189                47        2,689         553
98       6,240             1,345              300        1,506             196                49        3,396       1,022
99       6,578               -                300        1,588             196                49        2,133         -
2000       6,971               -                300        1,683             196                49         2,228        -
01       7,476               -                300        1,805             196                49         2,350        -
02       7,974               338              306        1,925             197                49         2,815        297
03       8,471                64              306        2,045             198                49         2,662         58
04       8,972                64              306        2,166             198                49         2,783         60
2005       9,465                64              306        2,285             198                49         2,902         62
10,631
LongEte54m marginal cost at 127, discount rate = YRis 2.10 m3
/L  Incremental sales to metered customers from water supply program.
/2  Adjustments + 10% expected physical contingencies
- 5% indirect taxes and taxes on profits.
/3  Covers possible need for development of new source of supply in this year.
/4 Assu.mes shadow price for power YRls 0. 19/kwh which is production cost for new supplies.
/5  Assumed to be 0.5% of assets in service.
/6  Assumes average depreciation rate of 37. per year.
March 17, 1975



ANNEI 15
YEMEN ARAB REPUBLIC                                                   Page 3 of 4 pages
A hODEIDA WATER SUPPLY AND SEWERAGE PROJECT
LONG- TERM MARGINAL COST OF SEWERAGE
Metered/a
Fiscal       Sales                                           Costs
Year      '000 m3                                         YRls '000                                            Residual/5
llintenance/4                              Value
and             Other      Total        End
______                    Investments /2    Personnel      Power /3    Material           Expenses    Costs      Period
1976         -                -                -           -               -                -          -          -
77        -              14,332              -           -               -                _       14,332      1,863
78        -              25,221              -           -               -                -       25,221      4,035
79        932            17,084              97          220            283              250      17,934      3,245
1980      1,231             1,000             144          242            288              275       1,949        220
81      1,467             1,060             146          264            293             300        2,063        265
82      1,718             1,123             151          286            299             325        2,194        314
83      1,980             1,191             156          308            305             350        2,310        369
84      2,249             1,262             159          330            311             365        2,427        429
1985       2,533            1,338             162          370            318              390        2,528       495
86      2,832             7,067/6           179          405            353             400        8,404      2,827
87      3,133             1,503             179          445            361             400        2,888        646
88      3,441             1,593             179          480            369             400        3,021        733
89       3,771            1,689             183          515            377             420        3,184        828
1990      4,124             1,790             187          555            386              440       3,358        985
91      4,490             7,657/6           206          590            425             460        9,338      4,211
92      4,831             2,012             206          625            435             460        3,738      1,167
93      5,149             2,133             206          665            445             460        3,909      1,301
94      5,531             2,261             216          700            457             490        4,124      1,447
1995       5,823            2,397             221          740            469             520        4,347      1,606
96       6,180            9,144/6           243          775            514             545       11,221      6,401
97       6,535            2,693             243          815            528              545       4,824      1,966
98      6,882             2,854             243          850            542             545        5,034      2,169
99      7,220             3,026             250          890            557             575        5,298      2,391
2000      7,613             3,207             258          930            573             605        5,573      2,630
01       8,118           10,1776            283          970            624              635      12,689       8,650
02       8,616            3,603             283        1,010            642             635        6,173      3,171
03      9,113             3,820             283        1,050            661             635        6,449      3,476
04       9,614            4,048             293        1.090            681              655       6,767      3,805
2005     10,107             4,292             303        1,130            703             680        7,108      4.163
65,808
Long-term marginal cost at discount rate of 12% per year - YRf, 3.36/rn3
L   Total sales to metered customers.
/2  Adjustments + 10% expected physical contingencies
- 5% indirect taxes and taxes on profits
- customer contributions to system costs.
/3 Assumes shadow price for power YRLsO.19/kwh which is produetion cost for new supplies;
dependent on treatment process selected.
/4  Assumed to be 0.5% of assets in service.
/5  Assumes a"erage depreciation rate 3% per year.
/6  Treatment plant expansions.
March 17, 1975



ANNYE 15
TABLE 3
Page 4 of 4 pages
YEMEN ARAB REPUBLIC
A HODEIDA WATER SUPPLY AND SEWERAGE PROJECT
RATE OF RETURN ON WATER AND SEWERAGE PROGRAM
Fiscal        Benefits                                                                                 COSTS
Year         YRis '000                                                                             YEaJ' 000
Water                               Residual     Residual       Total
Water                                     Supply      Sewerage     Total        Value         Value      Residual
Water    Sewerage     Total        supply      Sewerage         Total      Operating   Operating   Operating       Water       Sewerage       Value
Revenues   Revenues   Revenues   Investments  Investments  Investments         Costs        Costs       Costs     End Period   End Period   End Period
1976         -          -           -          8,830            -           8,830          -                                     883          -             883
77         -          -           -         11,720        14,332         26,052         -            -           -           1,523        2,293         3,816
78         -          -           -          3,940        25,221         29,161          -           -           -             630        4,792         5,422
79         580      2,796       3,376          502        17,084         17,586         256          850       1,106            95        3,758         3,853
1980       1,178      3,693       4,871          370          1,000         1,370          337         949       1,286            81          220           301
81       1,650      4,401       6,051          396         1,060          1,456         411        1,003       1,414            99          265           364
82       2,252      5,154       7,406        1,318         1,123          2,441         481        1,071       1,552           369          314           683
83       2,676      5,940       8,616          387          1,191         1,578         552        1,119       1,671           120          369           489
84       3,314      6,747       9,961          413          1,262         1,675         628        1,165       1,793           140          429           569
1985       3,782      7,599      11,831          440         1,338          1,778         706        1,190       1,896           163          495           658
86       4,380      8,496     12,876           708         7,067          7,775         794        1,337       2,131           283        2,827         3,110
87       4,982      9,399     14,341           556         1,503          2,059         880        1,385       2,265           239          646           885
88       5,598     10,323     15,921           229         1,593          1,822         966        1,428       2,394           105          733           838
89       6,260     11,313     17,573            64         1,689          1,753       1,046        1,495       2,541            31          828           859
1990       6,964     12,372      19,336        6,019         1,790          7,809       1,281        1,568       2,949         3,130          985         4,115
91       7,694     13,470      21,164          -           7,657          7,657       1,369        1,681       3,050           -          4,211         4,211
92       8,376     14,493      22,869          -           2,012          2,012       1,451        1,726       3,177           -          1,167         1,167
93       9,014     15,447      24,461          736          2,133         2,869       1,569        1,776       3,345           445        1,301         1,746
94       9,778     16,593      26,371          242         2,261          2,503       1,670        1,863       3,533           155        1,447         1,602
1995      10,362     17,469      27,831           64          2,397         2,461       1,742        1,950       3,692            43        1,606         1,649
96      11,076     18,540      29,616           64         9,144          9,208       1,827        2,077       3,904            45        6,401         6,446
97      11,786     19,605      31,391          757         2,693          3,450       1,932        2,131       4,063           553        1,966         2,519
98      12,480     20,646     33,126         1,345         2,854          4,199       2,051        2,180       4,231         1,022        2,169         3,191
99      13,156     21,660     34,416           -           3,026          3,026       2,133        2,272       4,405           -          2,391         2,391
2000      13,942     22,839      36,781          -            3,207         3,207       2,228        2,366       4,594           -          2,630         2,630
01      14,952     24,354      39,306          -          10,177         10,177       2,350        2,512       4,862           -          8,447         8,447
02      15,948     25,848     41,796           338          3,603         3,941       2,477        2,570       5,047           297        3,171         3,468
03      16,942     27,339      44,281           64         3,820          3,884       2,598        2,629       5,227            58        3,476         3,534
04      17,944     28,842     46,786            64         4,048          4,112       2,719        2,719       5,438            60        3,805         3,865
2005      18,930     30,321      49,251           64         4,292          4,356       2,838        2,816       5,654            62        4,163         4,225
77,936
Rate of Return - 10.9%
Sensitivity analysis:
If benefits overestimated 207, rate of return - 9.2%
costs underestimated 20%, rate of return - 8.7%
March 17, 1975



ANNEX 16
120
YEMEN ARAB REPUBLIC
110 |                                     HODEIDA WATER & SEWERAGE PROJECT
PROJECTION OF POPULATION, WATER PRODUCTION
AND WATER AND SEWER CONNECTIONS
100 
90 -#
5.
80-
I  I  I  ,#+  I  I    I       I       I       I       I        I       I ~~~~~~~~~~~1 I  I 0
704                                                                                                                      Of
0 
197        1976   197 17             99 18           91      92 180 94 18#98                          97 18           99 19
u0
50-
40~~~~~~~4
<     2 -4 
40 -                      00~~~~a3  -
1--   30~~'4                                   -
10- ~ ~  ~     ~    ~     ~    ~      
1975   1976   1977    1978    1979   1980   1981    1982   1983   1984   1985   1986    1987   1988    1989   1990
10/F
50
1975   1976    1977   1978    1979   1980    1981    1982    1983   1984    1985    1986    1987    1988   1989   1990
I I Taken from italconsult Report - Hodeida Water Supply, First Stage Program, Volume 1 Rome October 1974
Wenld 13-k-97tt8R)






YEMEN ARAB REPUBLIC
A AUDI A RABI A                            HODEIDA  WATER SUPPLY AND SEWERAGE
Location Map
IT   -              -       Ro~~~~~Pved  `ri,,ary  Roads
Unpoved  Gravel Primory  Roads
AR  .--~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~i ~~~Prim-ry  Roads Under Construcho.n
t(Rrf6&cA  ,~~~~~~o~vvr~~~ ~  ,                                            ______  ~~~Other  Roods
-       Notional Capital
0       Cities, To,n,s and Villages
2                                                         ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~Wadis
%<n0 ) tiS ........da.... 8.h   ) /  -                -   /+- Contours in Meters
~~~~  ~~~~~~~  / ~~~~~~~~~International Airoorts
_- \     -. --   Inlernatinoal Boundaries
0      20      40      60       E0      00
Ab                                                                                 KI~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~LOMETERS
0  25)          00          ~~~~~~~60
r' -       ~           ~'                       \,S                                                                        _  _ _    _  _ _    _ _  _    _ _  _
E~~~~~~~~ TO HI 0PIEA  
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~  0~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~0
Al K
ETIOI                 /                                                           Gd/IF           OF    A DFN
,//
/4' F.j r-.d                                                                                                     _a
j  @rtf  S  XL  !;t :  'L i j_ nfir  '  d0 






I BR D- 1155s
YEM EN ARAB RERPUBLIC
HODEIDA WATER SUPPLY AND SEWERAGE PROJECT
Water Supply Component
Existing System  and First Stage Mains
STAGE I NEW SYS.TEM                                                          EXISTING  SYSTEM
12 -20" MAN INES WVITH EXCEPTION OF SANA'A ROAD ALL MAINS ARE 30,.-1ID)      0    ELEVATED STEM. RESERVOIR AND PUNG STATION
SECONDARY LINES (200- -]  MA N LINES
MDAUIV PROJECT AREA 3O0NDARIES                                                      DI*TRIT ON D LI ES
*    URLEIC TAPS WO1RKING)
IT-                                                                                                                                                  OLD~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~* 01   PUBLIC  TAPS
V0                                                                                                         i   \ ;0 g ,, XA/kROf T X \ -  -- CITY BOUNDARIES
LIT IN III                                                                          -           'T                                                                           7           >1
f                                                                   A4i \ PonTCT AND  T,'                                               <-                                                                   \
is~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~e
A   00 N  L~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~N                            R
7
7                  2
C,~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~,
-A-+ 5=-5
<C                                       DJA-            iIAAR,D, SSAS
l;    0    ;    |    ;   0   0   0   i   ;  ;  <;  0  h  i 0 0 tS 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 | { E wH A A <_ 4~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~7                                                      A~C  NISSAA  ~ S NR>     PA






IR-11516
YEME-N    ARAB   REPUBLIC                                                                                               INTERCEPTING SEWER                    ~-
MAIN SEWER BIRA4~ 
HODEID~A  WATAER SUPYAND SEEAEPROJECT                                                                                                       El PUMP NG STATIONS                                        ,J
BASIN BOUNDARIES                                
Sewerage    Component                                                                ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~BUS N NUMBERS  TIDI .SUUU
Sewerage  Component                                                              -- - ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ ~~~~~CITY LIMITS IN 2080 
- --- ---- ---~~~/                                       ,--
AMRID~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~--
w                                                                      A                                                                  -A.- \~~~~K
II   I                                                                                                                                             -                .~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~1    r
~~~~~~~T. ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~   ~    ~    ~ ~ ~ 2
SOOT  OF  F~  IL~2                                                                                                                        \ U   BNi ic,
8 ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~~ \AR
-A~~~~~~~~~~~ 
M~~~~~~~~~~
S  ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~  ~     ~      ~     ~     ~     ~     A   ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~                    -          I~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~1~~~~~~~~~~  U ~ ~ ~ ~ ~~ 1   h



