DOCUMENT OF INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
Not For Public Use
Report NoP -1643a-YAR
REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION
OF THE
PRESIDENT
TO THE
EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS
ON A
PROPOSED CREDIT
TO THE
YEMEN ARAB REPUBLIC
FOR A
HODEIDA WATER SUPPLY AND SEWERAGE PROJECT
June 5, 1975
This report was prepared for official use only by the Bank Group. It may not be published,
quoted or cited without Bank Group authorization. The Bank Group does not accept
responsibility for the accuracy or completeness of the report.



CURREWCY EQUIVALENTS
US$1          = YR 4.501/
YR 1          - US$0.22
YR 1,000      2 US$222
YR 1,O00,000  2 US$222,222
FISCAL YEAR
July 1 to June 30
/ No par value for the Yemen rial has yet been declared to the IMF. All
exchange transactions are effected at the Central Bank rate which is
based on the free market rate.



INTERNATIONAL DEVELOP'TENT ASSOCIATION
REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION OF THiE PRESIDENT
TO THE EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS ON A
PROPOSED CREDIT TO rhlE YEMEN ARAB REPUBLIC
FOR A HODEIDA WATER SUPPLY AND SEWERAGE PROJECT
1.        I submit the following report and recommendation on a proposed de--
velopment credit to the Yemen Arab Republic (YAR), for the equivalent of
US$8.1 million on standard IDA terms to help finance a Water Supply and
Sewerage Project in Hodeida. The Arab Fund will participate in the financing
of the project with a loan of US$20.2 million at an interest rate of 4 percent
per annum, for a period of 20 years, including 5 years' grace. Of the pro-
ceeds of the Credit, US$4.4 million would be onlent to the National Water and
Sewerage (NWSA) at an effective interest rate of 6 percent per annum for 20
years, including 5 years' grace; while US$3.5 million would be passed on to
NWSA as an equity contribution. The remaining US$0.2 million of the IDA
Credit would be retained by the Government to finance the preparation of
an urban Development Plan for Hodeida.
PART I - THE ECONOMY
2.        A report entitled "Economic Development in the Yemen Arab Republic"
(R73-161), dated June 18, 1973, was distributed to the Executive Directors on
June 28, 1973. An economic mission visited YAR in September 1974 and its
findings are reflected in this report. A country data sheet is attached in
Annex I.
3.        The Republic was established in 1962, replacing the feudal rule of
the Imamate, under which Yemen had remained almost completely isolated from
the rest of the world. Lack of internal transport and communication facil-
ities has contributed to the continuing isolation of many parts of the countrv.
Since 1962, Yemen has suffered from a long civil war (1962-70) and a prolonged
drought which resulted in the recurrence of widespread famine and near famine
conditions. There were also repeated frontier clashes with the People's
Democratic Republic of Yemen.
4.        Political integration has been hindered by tribal differences.     The
end of the civil war left the tribal sheikhs in a stronger and more independent
position than before. This fragmentation of power, combined with the inade-
quacy of institutions and lack of trained cadres at the central government
level, has for many years hindered the government's ability to formulate
national economic objectives and carry out a working program of economic
development. Although attempts have been made to reduce political differ-
ences throughi the formulation of coalition governments, tribal differences
remain a major factor affecting political stability.
5.        Despite these problems, considerable progress has been made since
early 1970 in introducing basic elements of modern administration. With sig-
nificant technical assistance provided by the IMF, the Bank and the Kuwait
Fund, Yemen established a Central Bank in 1971, a Central Budget Bureau and



a Central Planning Organization in 1972.   For 1973/74 tn-e Government estab-
lished its first formal hudget.   Moreover, a first Three-Year Development
Program, covering the period of 1973/74-1975/76 was drafted, which defined
the general long-term development strategy for YAR as well as medium-term
development policies for the public sector. The project list contained in
the Program is confined to public sector projects.
Development Objectives and Constraints
6.        The long-term goals for economic development as expressed in the
Three-Year Program emphasize (a) the development of agriculture to achieve
self-sufficiency in food; (b) the expansion of the transport and communica-
tions infrastructure to improve economic and social integration; (c) educa-
tion and manpower development to secure the needs of Yemen's future develop-
ment efforts; and (d) government institution-building at the national as well
as at local levels.   For the Progranm period, public sector development expend-
iture of about YR 936 million (approx. US$208 million) is envisaged; of this,
31 percent has been allocated to transport and communications, 21 percent to
education and manpower development, 15 percent to agriculture, and 10 percent
each to industry and water supply.
7.        Due to widespread shortage of administrative and technical skills
and the scarcity of domestic development finance, the Development Program
rests almost entirely on foreign technical and capital assistance. About
75 percent of the project financing is expected to come from foreign sources.
However, since the planned contributions from the Government budget (19 per-
cent) are themselves mostly financed by external sources, the foreign share
in total financing is much greater.
8.        Yemen is among the ten least developed countries in the world.
Over 80 percent of its estimated 6.3 million people are engaged in subsis-
tence agriculture.   Literacy is exceptionally low, estimated at about 10 per-
cent of the population. However, Yemen's population has some outstanding
traditional skills, especially in land cultivat'ion practices and in house
construction.   Although there are only about half a million Yemenis living
in urban areas, a pattern of urban migration is beginning to develop as is
migration abroad, notably to Saudi Arabia.    Yemen's cities still lack basic
public services. Neither the capital, Sana'a, nor t-ne port city, Hodeidah,
has municipal water supply systems, and electric power supply is inadequate
and unreliable.   While progress has been made in building a basic road net-
work and other transport facilities, Yemen remains extrerely under-developed
in virtually every other form o-. economic and socIal infrastructure, and in
its institutional and manpower base.
9.        Another basic constraint to development is the country's narrow
resource base. In agriculture, which accounts for about two-thirds of GDP
and for virtually all of the meagre exports (notably cotton, coffee, and
hides and skins), development is seriously co-strained by physical iimita-
tions, particularly the earratic nature of rainfall and the uncertainty of
groundwater supplies.   Food grains (sorghum, mIillet, barley and wheat) for
local consumption are the principal crops; only miodest quantities of cash
crops (cotton, coffee, aat) are produced.   Agriculture is predominantly de-
voted to rainfall-dependent grain production, and as a result of the prolonged
drought conditions5 It has been meetlng a decreasing share of domestic needs.



-3
Thus, food imports, in part provided through emerging relief operations, grew
dramatically from US$23 million in 1970 to almost US$64 million in 1973,
constituting about half of total recorded imports.
10.       Yemen has little known mineral resources.    Only rock salt has been
exploited so far. Unlike most countries of the Arabian Peninsula, Yemen has
no known oil resources, but exploration is currently under way. Due to the
scarcity of natural resources, but also because of the small domestic market,
industry was virtually non-existent until the late 1970's. Since then a
number of medium-sized, import-substitution plants have been established,
mostly with bilateral assistance. They include a textile mill, a cement
factory, a cigarette factory and other plants producing light consumer manu-
factures and construction materials. Their overall production, however, still
represents less than 6 percent of GDP.
Recent Developments
11.       Economic developments in recent years have remained overshadowed
by the drought-inflicted poor performance of the agricultural sector. De-
spite the rapid expansion, from extremely low levels, of private and public
services and of industrial activities, GDP at constant prices probably grew
at less than 4 percent a year during 1970-1973, as agriculture remained stag-
nant. The growth of non-agricultural activities was facilitated by sizeable
inflows of capital and skills from abroad provided by both displaced and re-
turning Yemenis (mainly from Ethiopia) and large injections of foreign aid in
support of current and capital expenditure. Moreover, urban growth has been
supported by large private remittances from possibly over half a million
Yemenis working abroad; the workers' remittances were estimated at approxi-
mately US$100 million in 1973.
12.       The large inflow of remittances from Yemenis abroad and the foreign
cash loans and grants (1973/74: US$28 million) for budgetary expenditure,
which were partly used to finance current expenditure, contributed to rising
foreign assets and to an increasing inflationary pressure on domestic re-
sources. Consumer prices in YAR are estimated to have increased by over 30
percent in 1973 (over 40 percent in Sana'a), and by probably 25 percent in
1974. Higher prices for imported commodities also contributed to domestic
price increases. With respect to the recent sharp rises in international
oil prices it appears, however, that YAR has, for the time being, been only
moderately affected, as other oil-rich Arab States extended to Yemen special
price and supply arrangements, including the delivery of petroleum products
free of charge.
13.       Yemen's budgetary situation is extremely weak and vulnerable because
of the small tax base and the increasing dependency on foreign aid in financing
even current expenditure. Current revenues, based largely on customs duties,
amounted to only 73 percent of current expenditure in 1972/73 and to 85 per-
cent in 1973/74. The current deficit was reduced to YR 50 million in 1973/74
(from YR 73 million in the previous year), but mainly as a result of substan-
tial salary increases following the change in government in mid-1974, the
current budgetary deficit for 1974/75 is estimated to increase to YR 81 mil-
lion, equivalent to one-fifth of budgeted current expenditure. Foreign



-4-
budgetary support (mainly from Saudi Arabia) was equivalent to about one-third
of current expenditure in 1973/74 (22 percent in 1972/73), while development
expenditure continued to be financed almost entirely from foreign aid. For-
eign project and commodity aid averaged about YR 80 million (US$18 million)
during 1971/72-1973/74. Given the meager revenue base of YAR and the con-
tinuing price increases, the YAR Government is in a very difficult position
to contribute sufficient funds for its development expenditures. Efforts
are being made by the Government to improve its financial situation. How-
ever, additional financial support from bilateral and multilateral lenders
is required to provide the necessary funds including financing of a large
proportion of local currency expenditures, to ensure timely implementation
of priority development projects. In recognition of this need external
donors including the Association have always made provision for local cost
financing for projects in YAR.
Reserves and External Debt
14.       The gross foreign exchange reserves of the Central Bank increased
substantially in recent years, reaching about US$153 million as of June 30,
1974. Of this amount, only US$83 million represented free reserves, the
balance being mainly blocked accounts with the Central Bank of Egypt. The
free reserves were equivalent to about six months of estimated imports of
goods at the 1973 level. On March 31, 1975, total gross reserves were
approximately US$222 million.
15.       The external public debt outstanding on June 30, 1974 was e -:imated
at US$339 million, of which US$138 million was undisbursed. The major credi-
tors were: USSR, the People's Republic of China, the Federal Republic of
Germany, Saudi Arabia, the Kuwait Fund and more recently, the Association.
Debt contracted with IDA accounted for US$48.2 million or about 14 percent
of the total reported debt. The USSR, and the People's Republic of China
have provided interest-free loans. Loans from Germany and the Kuwait Fund
have been at interest rates between 1.0 to 2.5 percent per year; other lenders
of relatively small significance in YAR's debt structure, have charged 4-6
percent per annum. The debt service for 1974 was estimated at US$12 million,
equivalent to about 10 percent of total exports of goods and services, includ-
ing workers' remittances in 1973/74. The available data indicate a sharply
rising trend in debt servicing obligations, estimated to reach US$20 million
in 1975 and US$23 million in 1976. Yemen has a very limited debt servicing
capacity. Since it is a least-developed country with an already high debt
burden, but offers opportunities for productive economic investment, Yemen
should be granted assistance in as concessionary a form as possible.
PART II - BANK GROUP OPERATIONS
16.       The proposed credit would be the eighth to YAR, bringing total IDA
commitments to US$65.3 million. This includes the proposed IDA credit of
US$9 million for a Second Highway Project, which has been submitted to the
Executive Directors for consideration on June 17, 1975. Annex II contains
a summary statement of IDA credits and Bank grants and notes on the execution
of on-going projects, as of April 30, 1975.



-5-
17.       The major focus of Bank Group activity has been to develop the
essential prerequisites for development: the basic institutions, skills and
physical infrastructure, and to begin lending in the dominant productive
sector--agriculture. In 1971, the Bank made a grant of US$200,000 to help
finance, jointly with the Kuwait Fund for Economic D .t-elopment, a team of
planning and economic advisors; in September 1973 a second Bank grant of
US$200,000 to make possible the continuation and expansion of the planning
team services, was approved. The Government has recently asked the Bank
and the Kuwait Fund for Economic Development to extend this technical assis-
tance and to expand it into the field of public administration. This re-
quest is being considered and a mission visited Yemen in early March to
review the public administration system in the country. The Bank is also
providing technical assistance for institution building to the Ministry of
Agriculture through the presence of four advisors, financed by UNDP with
the Bank as Executing Agency.
18.       In June 1972, IDA extended a Credit of US$7.7 million equivalent
for a first Highway Project. The project has helped create a national Highway
Authority, provided equipment for road maintenance and feeder road construc-
tion, and financed feasibility studies and detailed designs of important high-
way links. An important secondary road from Taiz to Turba will also be con-
structed under the project. In May 1973, the Association made a US$10.9 mil-
lion Credit for the Tihama Agricultural Development Project which will help
finance the development of surface and groundwater irrigation works at Wadi
Zabid in the Tihama (coastal) region, the establishment of a Tihama Develop-
ment Authority and institutions for agricultural credit, extension and re-
search, training and a major soils and groundwater survey of the Wadi Mawr
region. The project is proceeding satisfactorily. The Kuwait Fund is fi-
nancing $6.0 million of project costs. A US$11.0 million Credit for an Edu-
cation Project was approved in July 1973. The project is an integrated pro-
gram of assistance with the UNDP (UNESCO, FAO, ILO), Federal Republic of
Germany and United Arab Emirates, and will help meet the most immediate
needs of the educational system. It will concentrate on improving and ex-
panding teacher training and secondary school education and establish the
country's first vocational and agricultural training institutions and non-
formal basic education centers. A US$2.3 million Credit for an Industrial
Estate Project was approved in January 29, 1974. This project is designed to
help stimulate investment in modern small-scale industry and provide a model
and pattern for future industrial development. On the same date a US$6.25
million Credit for the Sana'a Water Supply Project was approved. This project
will provide Sana'a with its first adequate public water supply system. It
will also help in creating a competent national organization to administer
the country's water and sewerage systems. A US$10.0 million Credit for the
Southern Uplands Rural Development Project was approved on May 6, 1975.
19.       Future Bank Group activity will concentrate on reinforcing the in-
stitutional progress made in the essential sectors of transportation, agri-
culture and public utilities; and continue to help devise an appropriate
development strategy and investment program including special project iden-
tification and preparation work. Port development, education and agricul-
tural credit projects are still in the planning stage. The Bank Group's



- 6 -
lending strategy recognizes that Yemen is among the poorest of the 25
least-developed countries and thus requires special assistance, which
justifies IDA financing of a high percentage of project costs, including
local expenditures.
PART III - WATER SUPPLY AND SEWERAGE SECTOR
Water Resources
20.       YAR relies solely on rainfall and groundwater for its water supply
as there are no permanent sources of surface water. Some of the old river
beds have heavy flows during the summer rains, but none contains running
water throughout the year. Although there are springs in and around Sana'a
and Taiz, they do not yield sufficient water to supply these cities. In the
highlands the alkalinity and hardness of the groundwater are fairly high (250
to 450 mg/l), while in the coastal zone the salt content is high (2,000 to
3,000 mg/l). Although in the main urban centers there are limited piped water
supply systems, most people, especially in rural areas, obtain water either
from shallow, mostly hand-dug wells or from water vendors (who obtain supplies
either from public taps or from wells). The existing water supply facilities
are inadequate, water shortages are widespread and most wells, particularly
hand-dug wells, are contaminated. There is continual lowering of the water
table, in many places, due to limited recharge and increasing extraction for
both agricultural and domestic uses, particularly in the Sana'a area.
21.       Hydrological studies have been undertaken for the main cities of
Sana'a, Taiz and Hodeida and potential groundwater sources to meet their
long-term requirements have been located. There is very limited hydro-
logical data available for the rest of the country. However, recent coun-
try-wide drilling experiments indicate that water supplies for most of the
rural communities can be assured by deep boreholes reaching cretaceous
sandstones some 200-300 m below the surface.
Sewerage
22.       There are no municipal sewerage systems yet in operation in YAR.
Only a very few institutions and housing developments have wastewater systems.
Sector Organization
23.       The Ministry of Public Works (MPW) is responsible for planning and
executing all Government projects in the sector. It has two main sections
dealing with water--Municipal and Rural Affairs, and Rural Water Supply.
The latter, established in 1972, is responsible for all rural water supply
schemes and for coordinating external assistance for such schemes. Such
piped water supply systems as exist in the main towns are operated by local
authorities, cooperatives and private enterprises.



-7-
National Water and Sewerage Authority (NWSA)
24.       NWSA was created by the Government in November 1973 in order to
provide for the urgently needed development of the water and sewerage sec-
tor in urban areas. It is financially and organizationally autonomous, and
operates on commercial basis. The Government intends that NWSA should take
over in the future the operation of water and sewerage systems in each
town, although the actual takeover of each municipality must be authorized
by Government decree. The Sana'a system was transferred to NWSA in November
1974. The Authority was authorized to take over the Hodeida water system on
April 30, 1975 and it was agreed that by January 1, 1976, the responsibility
of operations and maintenance of this system would be transferred to NWSA
(Section 4.04, draft Development Credit Agreement). The Taiz system will
not be transferred until about 1977, in order to give NWSA time to expand
its organization and to train staff.
25.       The legislation for NWSA's operations is satisfactory and provides
the authority with the powers and responsibilities needed for effective per-
formance. Control of NWSA is vested in a Board of seven members consisting
of the Minister of Public Works as Chairman, the Deputy Minister of Public
Works as Vice Chairman, the Deputy Minister of Treasury, the Director General
of NWSA, the head of Municipal Affairs, two members representing the local
government and the private sector (currently a banker and a sanitary engi-
neer). The Board is responsible to the Council of Ministers, whose approval
is required for establishing and changing water and sewerage rates and other
charges. Borrowing from sources other than the Government is subject to ap-
proval by the Council and the Consultative Assembly.
26.       For the financial year beginning July 1, 1975, the Government has
agreed that funds will be made available to NWSA to supplement staff salaries
so as to make them competitive with private industry. As soon as NWSA's rev-
enues allow for direct payments of salaries and wages, its payroll will no
longer be met from the Government's budget, and NWSA will be in a position to
determine its own salary scales. NWSA will thus be able to recruit suitable
Yemenis who now receive higher salaries in other countries of the Middle East.
This would be a less expensive and more efficient solution than relying on
the limited national labor market together with extended foreign training.
Sector Program
27.       Feasibility studies now nearing completion for water supply and
sewerage in the three main towns, Sana'a, Hodeida and Taiz, indicate that
investment needs through 1982 may reach US$74.1 million. The Government
gives top priority to the Sana'a water supply project (under IDA Credit 464)
because of the critical water shortage which exists in the capital city.
Almost equal importance is attached to the Hodeida water supply and sewerage
project because of the highly insanitary conditions prevalent in the port
city.



-8-
28.       A development program under the authority of MPW is now well under
way to provide water to rural communities all over the country. WHO is carry-
ing out studies on the ground water table. UNICEF and bilateral agencies are
also providing assistance for the development of water supply in rural areas.
A grant of US$3.0 million from Abu Dhabi was used to acquire drilling equip-
ment. This equipment is now being used by USAID to carry out a village water
supply program which also includes training for well drillers and related tech-
nicians. Saudi Arabia recently agreed to provide US$48.0 million for 36 rural
water supply systems expected to serve about 120 villages. Given the Govern-
ment's severe budget constraints, progress with development of planned water
supply and sewerage systems will continue to depend very largely on the sup-
port given by external agencies.
Existing Water Supply and Sewerage in Hodeida
29.       Hodeida, the principal port of YAR, is located on the shore of the
Red Sea. It is the third largest city in YAR with a population presently
estimated at about 54,000. Hodeida has a public water supply system served
from two well fields, al-Hali and Baydda. It is operated by the Port Authority
of Hodeida, and was not designed as a city water supply; it is rather the un-
planned adaptation and extension of a system originally intended to supply
the needs of the harbor. Some 30 percent of the inhabitants are served in-
termittently through house connections, as are some public and commercial
buildings. Many more are supplied from public taps, while a few purchase
their water from water vendors. Some use is also made of (generally polluted)
brackish groundwater extracted from individual private wells. The main de-
ficiencies of the present water supply system are (a) poor bacteriological
quality and high salinity; (b) limited coverage, lack of capacity and deter-
ioration of the distribution lines; (c) insufficiency of supply, most apparent
during the simmer months; and (d) lack of an adequately staffed organization
to run the system.
30.       In order to prevent further deterioration of the service to those
already connected, and to ensure adequate supplies for the port, it was agreed
that NWSA will not connect any new customers until adequate sources of supply
from new wellfields are added to the system (Section 3.03, draft Project Agree-
ment).
31.       No sewerage system exists in Hodeida at present.   Sewage is disposed
in pit latrines, cesspools, soakage pits and, in certain cases, through septic
tanks. In low-lying areas of the city, with a high ground water table and
impermeable soils, these systems have resulted in offensive pools of stagnant
sewage within inhabited areas. The situation results in the transmission of
a number of illnesses and infections, including typhoid, paratyphoid, bacillary
dysentery, cholera, parasitic worms, infectious hepatitis and hookworm. The
introduction of increased supplies of water without proper means of disposal
would only aggravate the situation.



-9-
Previous IDA Lending in the Water Supply Sector
32.       An IDA Credit (464-YAR) of US$6.25 million for the Sana'a Water
Supply Project became effective on July 15, 1974. This credit was to cover
all of the foreign exchange costs and part of the local costs of a project
to supply the capital city, Sana'a, with its first public water supply sys-
tem. Although delays by the consultant in preparing tender documents have
set back the project by about six months, it is still expected that the
works will be completed on schedule by mid-1977. Tenders amounting to
US$10.3 million have now been received covering most of the works and the
Government has undertaken to provide an additional amount of US$3.5 million
as an equity investment in NWSA, to cover the rise in cost due to inflation.
Credit 545-YAR for the Southern Uplands Rural Development Project, approved
by the Executive Directors on May 6, 1975, includes about US$1.8 million to
help finance village water supply schemes within the project area.
PART IV - THE PROJECT
33.       The proposed project represents the main stage of works recommended
under a Water Supply and Sewerage Master Plan prepared by consultants,
Italcons,ilt, as part of a UNDP-preinvestment study executed by WHO. The
project was appraised in January-February 1975. Negotiations were held
in Washington from May 19 to 20, 1975. The Yemen delegation was headed by
Mr. Al-Kurshumi, Minister of Public Works, and included Messrs. Abu-Talib,
Hamadani, Kassim, Galandar and Al-Kibssi.
Project Description
34.       The project's water supply component will provide water through
house connections to 75 percent of the population of Hodeida until 1985 and
provide a safe, reliable supply through public taps to the remainder of the
population. The sewerage component will provide for the collection and
treatment of sewerage for those connected to the water supply system.
Trunk water mains and the principal collector sewers will have hydraulic
capacities which should be adequate to serve the population of Hodeida
until about the year 2000. Other components of the project include: (a)
preparation of a development plan for Hodeida and (b) assistance to NWSA
through purchase of maintenance equipment, vehicles and office equipment,
as well as for technical assistance in administration and operations, and
for training. The project is summarized in Annex III and described in de-
tail in the Appraisal Report, entitled "Appraisal of a Hodeida Water Supply
and Sewerage Project, Yemen Arab Republic" (773-YAR), dated June 3, 1975,
which is being distributed separately to the Executive Directors. Maps
showing the project location and the proposed water supply and sewerage
systems are attached.



- 10 -
35.       The sewage treatment process and final disposal method to be used
have not vet been finally selected.   The possibilities being studied by the
consultants include ocean disposal through a long outfall without treatment,
conventional complete treatment producing water suitable for reuse for all
purposes, and treatment in stabilization ponds followed by reuse for irriga-
tion. It was agreed with the Government, that IDA would be consulted on the
choice of the treatment process and method of final disposal and the final
choice should be acceptable to IDA (Section 2.03, draft Project Agreement).
Project Cost and Financing
36.       The project cost net of taxes but including physical and price con-
tingencies, is estimated at US$31.2 million with a foreign exchange component
of US$19.6 million, or 63 percent of -otal cost. The proposed IDA Credit of
US$8.1 million and the proposed loan from the Arab Fund of US$20.2 million
would cover 100 percent of the foreign exchange costs and about 75 percent of
the local costs, or 91 percent of the total cost of the project. The Gov-
ernment will provide the balance of US$2.9 million. The IDA Credit would be
used to help finance the water supply and preparation of the Hodeida develop-
ment plan components of the project and to assist in the development of NWSA;
it would finance US$6.9 million of foreign and US$1.2 million of local costs.
The justification for financing local costs are mentioned earlier (see
paragraph 4). The Arab Fund loan would help finance the sewerage component.
The signing of the Loan Agreement between the Government and the Arab Fund
would be a condition of effectiveness of the proposed Credit (Section 6.01(c),
draft Development Credit Agreement).
Onlending Arrangements
37.       The Government would be the borrower of both the IDA credit and
the Arab Fund loan.  From the credit, about US$0.2 million would be used by
the Government to finance preparation of the Hodeida development plan. The
remainder (US$7.9 million) of the Credit, together with the US$20.2 million
Arab Fund loan, would partly be onlent by the Government to NWSA (the sub-loan
and partly be transferred to NWSA as a contribution to its equity. It is pro-
posed that the sub-loan should be 56 percent of the total, that is, US$15.7
million, including US$4.4 million of the IDA credit.   The equity portion would
then be 44 percent, or US$12.4 million, including US$3.5 million of the credit
(Section 3.01(b), draft Development Credit Agreement). These proportions of
loan and equity would establish a reasonable and sound capital structure for
NWSA. The Government's supplementary contribution of US$2.9 million would also
be in the form of equity; this would bring the total contribution to equity to
US$15.3 million, which is 49 percent of project costs (excluding the Hodeida
development plan component).
38.       There would be one Financing Agremeent between NWSA and the Govern-
ment to cover the sub-loan. The sub-loan would be for a period of twenty years
including 5 years' grace and would carry an interest rate of 6 percent per
annum. Interest on the sub-loan will be capitalized during the construction
period. The execution of the Financing Agreement between the Governnment and
NWSA on terms and conditions satisfactory to IDA w'll be a cond-i:fon of effec-
tiveness of the Credit (Section 6.01(b), draft Development Credit Agreement).



Project Execution
Responsibility
39.       The NWSA would be responsible for the execution of the project.
NWSA's Chief Engineer would be responsible for the overall control of this
project as well as for the Sana'a Water Supply Project. He would be assisted
by a resident Yemeni engineer on each project and a team of Yemeni inspectors.
As project preparation is already underway, it is desirable that the Yemeni
engineers who will serve as resident engineers on the Sana'a and Hodeida proj-
ects be recruited as soon as possible in order to take advantage of the train-
ing offered by working with the consultants. It was agreed with NWSA, that
these engineers will be recruited within three months of the date of effect-
iveness of the Credit (Section 3.04, draft Project Agreement).
40.       A well-qualified expatriate sanitary engineer has already been
recruited as technical advisor by NWSA in accordance with the existing agree-
ments. Provision has been made in the cost estimates for further technical
assistance which may be required to provide guidance to NWSA on hiring,
training, personnel administration, operations and standard engineering
practices, as well as the costs of training not provided by the UNDP or
bilateral agencies.
41.       Final designs and bid documents for the water supply and sewerage
components will be prepared by consultants selected from a short list of firms
acceptable to IDA, and in accordance with agreed terms of reference. It was
agreed that, consultants acceptable to IDA will be retained to prepare the
final design, to supervise the construction of the works, for hydrogeological
studies (Section 2.02, draft Project Agreement), and for the preparation of
the Hodeida Urban development plan (Section 3.02(a), draft Development Credit
Agreement).
Training
42.       Training of personnel at all levels will be a long-term need for
NWSA. The tender documents for the Sana'a Water Supply Project (Credit 464-
YAR) included provisions for training NWSA personnel by suppliers, and the
engineering consultant's contract also provides for training. NWSA's per-
sonnel requirements will be met as far as possible by hiring skilled workers,
as described in para. 26. The extent of the training program needed will
depend on success in hiring experienced personnel, and on the training needs
of the staff of both the water supply systems in Sana'a and Hodeida, whose
qualifications and training requirements are not yet known in full. An ac-
ceptable basic short-term program for NWSA's personnel training has been sub-
mitted to IDA, and UNDP has agreed to finance all training needs called for
under this program. An official request for this training, including the
names of the candidates for whom the training is requested, was submitted
to UNDP in April, 1975. An additional training program will have to be
established after the quality of newly recruited staff is known.



- 12 -
Aquifer Protection
43.       Groundwater potential in the Hodeida area has been evaluated at
around 60 million cubic meters per year of water of varying quality. This is
large when compared with the city water requirements which will reach 10 mil-
lion cubic meters in the year 2000. However, considering the present stage
of groundwater usage with a total extraction of about 30 million cubic meters
per year, mainly for agricultural uses, it is important that the performance
of the aquifer be followed carefully and that future extractions for purposes
other than public drinking water supplies be controlled to ensure that drinking
water supplies remain available. The situation in the area selected for the
well field is even more critical because the future demands represent a larger
percentage of the aquifer capacity in this more limited area. In order to
follow the aquifer behavior and to obtain a more reliable estimate of its cap-
acity, it is essential that a program be established for the continuing col-
lection of related data and that the aquifer capacity be reassessed from time
to time. Provision has been made in the project estimates for technical as-
sistance of a hydrogeologist to define the data collection program and to
carry out a reassessment of groundwater resources when sufficient data is
available. It was agreed with MNSA, that this expert will be retained by
NWSA within six months of the effectiveness of the Credit and that NWSA will
maintain the data collection program which is to be established (Sections 2.02
and 3.05, draft Project Agreement).
44.       The selected well field area must be protected against uncontrolled
development of groundwater resources by private individuals and measures must
be taken to prevent pollution. Legislation providing such protection has been
adopted for the aquifer which supplies Sana'a, and is enforced by NWSA. It
was agreed that the Government shall, within six months of effectiveness, take
the necessary measures to vest in the Authority the responsibility for ground
water development and pollution control in the Hodeida aquifier area (Section
4.02, draft Development Credit Agreement).
Hodeida Urban Development Plan
45.       It became evident during project preparation that there is no long-
range planning for the development of Hodeida. Expansion of the city takes
place haphazardly with "squatter"' type growth. The WH0 interim report on
Hodeida sewerage recommends that a development plan be prepared for the city.
At the Government's request provision has been made in the project for the
technical assistance required to prepare such a plan. It was agreed with the
Government, that the expert(s) to undertake this study will be retained within
six months of effectiveness of the Credit and that necessary measures to ensure
implementation of the adopted plan will be taken within two years of the date
of effectiveness, following consultation with IDA (Section 3.02, draft Develop-
ment Credit Agreement).



Construction Schedule
46.       Construction of the water supply system would begin about mid-1976;
the new works would be partially operative by the end of 1977 and would be
completed by the end of 1978. Construction of the sewerage works would begin
about the end of 1976; the system would be partially operative at the end of
1978 and construction would be completed by the end of 1979. In order to
measure the achievement of the technical, financial, administrative and train-
ing goals set for the proposed project, it was agreed with NWSA, that certain
key indicators be monitored and that the information collected be reported to
IDA on a quarterly basis (Section 3.06, draft Project Agreement).
Procurement
47.       All major contracts for the supply of equipment, pipes and civil
works would be awarded after international competitive bidding in accordance
with the World Bank "Guidelines for Procurement". A margin of preference for
local equipment manufacturers of 15 percent or customs duties, whichever is
lower, would be granted, but no preference was requested neither during ap-
praisal nor in the course of negotiations for local civil works contractors
since their bids for the Sana'a Water Project were considerably lower than
those of foreign contractors. Minor contracts for maintenance and supply of
equipment costing less than YRls 100,000 (US$22,200) and subject to an aggregate
of YRls 1 million (US$222,200) would be awarded on the basis of competitive bid-
ding advertised locally in accordance with NWSA procedures which are acceptable
to IDA. Tender documents for the supply of equipment and pipes whose value
exceeds YRLs 100,000 (US$22,200) and civil works whose value exceeds YRLs
500,000 (US$111,100) would be submitted to the Association for approval before
bids are requested. Tender documents for construction contracts would be com-
bined as far as possible in order to encourage international competition
(Schedule to draft Project Agreement). Where the construction schedules so
indicate, tenders for different contracts will be invited simultaneously.
Contracts related to the sewerage component of the project will be awarded
after international competitive bidding in accordance with the regulations
of the Arab Fund.
Disbursements
48.       The proposed IDA credit of US$8.1 million would be disbursed over
five years towards the cost of the water supply component, for assistance
to NWSA, and for the preparation of the Hodeida Urban Development Plan.
IDA funds would cover 100 percent of the c.i.f. cost of imported equipment
and pipe, 100 percent of the ex-factory cost of locally manufactured equip-
ment and pipe; 85 percent of the cost of locally procured imported equipment
and pipe (totalling US$2.93 million); 80 percent of the cost of civil works
(totalling US$1.67 million); 100 percent of the total cost of consultants
for design, supervision and technical assistance, and of training costs for
NWSA personnel (totalling US$0.94 million). and 100 percent of the total cost
of technical assistance for the preparation of the Hodeida Development Plan
(totalling US$0.20 million). US$2.36 million would be provided for physical
and price contingencies. It is recommended that payments made after April 1,



- 14 -
1975 for the cost of consultants, amounting to not more than US$100,000 be
financed retroactively under the IDA Credit. An estimated Schedule of Dis-
bursements is given in Annex III.
49.       The proposed loan from the Arab Fund, totalling US$20.2 million,
would be disbursed directly by the Arab Fund towards the cost of the sewerage
component upon receipt of justified requests from the Borrower, IDA and the
Arab Fund will keep each other informed of the status of disbursements under
the proposed credit and loan.
Tariffs
50.       A tariff study for Sana'a Water Supply, financed under Credit 464-YAR,
is well underway. It is desirable that the same consultants carry out a sim-
ilar study for Hodeida. Agreement has been reached that NWSA will engage con-
sultants to carry out tariff studies for HIodeida water and sewerage (Section
3.07, draft Project Agreement). The Governor of Hodeida has suggested that
the tariff applied be high enough from the very beginning to cover both water
and sewerage services. This would accustom citizens to the cost of the com-
bined services, thus minimizing reluctance to connect to the wastewater system
for financial reasons when this service is available (one to two years after
the water supply). It was agreed, that the Government will cause NWSA to im-
plement water supply and sewerage tariffs acceptable to IDA in Hodeida not
later than March 31, 1977 (Section 4.03, draft Project Agreement), and to take
the necessary measures by March 31, 1977, to require sewage connection by those
who are connected to the water supply system; and that the Hodeida Cooperative
will provide financial assistance to low-income customers to enable them to pay
the cost of connecting to the sewerage systems (Section 4.03, draft Development
Credit Agreement). It was also agreed, that NWSA will set appropriate tariffs
that would enable its operation in Sana'a and Hodeida to realize together a
positive rate of return in the year 1978, gradually increasing during the
years 1978 through 1983 so as to reach not less than 5 percent in 1984, and
not less than 7.5 percent in the year 1987 and thereafter on the Authority's
average net fixed assets in operations (Section 4.04, draft Project Agreement).
51.       Projected income statements of NWSA show net surpluses in all years
except 1980 and 1981 when interest begins to be charged fully against operations.
The projections do not include the Taiz water supply system, which may be taken
over in 1977, or for Sana'a sewerage; there would be abnormal surpluses in 1978
and 1979 related to the charging of sewerage tariffs in ilodeida before sewerage
is in services. The normal operating period when both components will be in
full service starts in 1980. Tariff increases of YRls 0.50/m3 for water in
Sana'a and Hodeida are forecast in 1981 to reflect the impact of inflation on
operating expenses. The operating ratio shows a reasonable level of 68 per-
cent average over the projected period with a declining trend from 1980 onward.
Environmental and Health .mpact
52.       The water component will bring about a significant improvement in
health and living conditions for the residents of Hodeida. Safe water of
much improved chemical quality will be distributed through an adequate dis-
tribution system continuously urnder pressure in place of the presenit polluted,



- Is -
highly saline water which is distributed on an intermittent basis. Water
from the new system will be available to the entire population of the city,
with 75 percent to be served through direct connections by 1985 and the re-
mainder served through easily accessible public taps. The sewerage component
will eliminate the insanitary conditions prevalent in the low-lying areas of
the city. It will also ensure that these conditions are not aggravated by the
additionaL -volne of water from the water supply, and that sinilar conditions
will not develop in other parts of the city. The institutional measure de-
signed to assist in the development of NWSA will help strengthen the author-
ity so that it can better contribute to improvements in the sector throughout
the country. The preparation of an urban development plan for Hodeida and
its subsequent implementation should contribute -towards the creation and
maintenance of an improved general environment, optimize future development
of the city and thus minimize the costs of the urban infrastructure.
53.       Of particular concern and interest is the relatively high level
of nitrates found in all of the groundwater in the region of Hodeida, as in
many other areas of the country. High levels of nitrates can be a possible
cause of methaemoglobinaemea in infants (the "blue baby" illness). WHO has
established a recommended maximum concentration of nitrates of 45 mg/I, a
maxitmum which has subsequently been adopted by most countries with drinking
water standards. Reported levels of nitrates in groundwater presently sup-
plied to Hodeida vary from 52 nwgfl to 540 vigfl with an average in the dis-
tribution system of about 100 mg/l. Similar levels are reported in Taiz.
In spite of these high nitrate levels there are no reports of  ethaemoglobin-
anemia from the hospitals in these two cities.  It was agreed that this ques-
tion will be explored in depth by the Government in cooperation with WHQ and
that the Government will submit the results of this study to IDA within two
years of effectiveness of the proposed Credit. Agreement has also been
reached that should it be shown that there is a danger to infants in iadeida
from this level of nitrates, arrangements will be made for the supply of the
small quantity of low-nitrate water needed for the infants in Hodeida (Section
4.01, draft Development Credit Agreement).
Economic Justification
54.       All components of the project are based on selection of leaSt cost
alternatives. The average tariffs for water supply and sewerage which will
be charged to metered customers are not only adequate to ensure the financial
stability of NWSA but are also close to the long-term marginal costs of pro-
viding services to these customers calculated at a discount rate of 12 per-
cent. Elements of both the water and sewerage systems to be constructed under
the project are expected to have sufficient capacity to serve the needs of the
population of Hodeida until about the year 2005, assuming other supporting
investments are made. These further investments were therefore included in
the cost stream, which was compared with benefits measured by the revenues
from water sales and sewerage services provided to connected customers. The
resulting rate of return on the program of water and sewerage works is 10.9
percent. This rate-would be higher if a value were assigned to the water which
will be supplied to the poorest segment of the population without charge through
the public taps and would also be slightly increased if the possible future
benefits of using treated sewage for irrigation were considered.



- 16 -
PART V - LEGAL INSTRUMENTS AND AUTHORITY
55.       The draft Development Credit Agreement between the Yemen Arab
Republic and the Association, the draft Project Agreement between the Asso-
ciation and NWSA, the Recommendation of the Committee provided for in Article
V, Section 1 (d) of the Articles of Agreement and the text of the resolution
approving the proposed development credit are being distributed to the Executive
Directors separately.
56.       Features of the Development Credit Agreement of special interest,
are referred to in paragraphs 35 to 38, 40 to 44, 50, 51 and 53 of this Report.
57.       Conditions of effectiveness provided in Section 6.01 of the Devel-
opment Credit Agreement include (a) the execution and delivery of the Financing
Agreement between the Government and NWSA and (b) the signing of the loan agree-
ment between the Arab Fund and the Government.
58.       I am satisfied that the proposed development credit would comply
with the ArtI-cles of Agreement of the Association.
PART VI - RECOMMENDATION
59.       I recommend that the Executive Directors approve the proposed de-
velopment credit.
Robert S. McNamara
President
Attachments
Washington, D.C.
June 5, 1975



ANNEX I
Page 1 of 3
COUNTSY DATA - YEK4EN ARAB RaUBLIC
AREA                           POPULATION                       DENSITY
Roughly 190,000 sq  km         About 6.3 million (1974 est.)    Roughly 30 per sq   km
Rate of gr owth:  2.3 %
(1960-70)
POPULATION CHARACTERISTICS                              HEALTH
Crude birth rate : 49 per 1,000 (est.)                  Population per physician: 26,000
Infant mortality : 160 per 1,000 live births (est.)              (1974)
Life expectancy   : About 40-45 years (est.)            Population per hospital
bed (1974)        : 1,650
Widespread endemic and epidemic
diseases, particularly water-borne
diseases (bilharzia, worm diseases
NUTRdITION                           EDUCATION
Widespread malnutrition and          Literacy rate                : roughly 10 percent
protein deficiency, especially     Primary school enrollment    : 182,000 (1973/74)
among children                     Secondary school enrollment : 13,000 (1973/7T)
GNP PER CAPITA IN 1972 : $901/
OUTPUT AND LABOR FORCE (1973 est.)      GDP in US$        GDP       Percent of
Million       Percent     Labor Force
Agriculture                            488           68           8o-85
Industry                                47            6          About 1
Services                               187           26          14-19
TOTAL                      722          100           100
GOVERNMENT FINANCE (YR aillion)    1970/71   1971/72   1972/73    1973/74   197V7$ _/
Current revenue                       98        151       199        274       339
Current expenditure                  171        228        272       324       419
Current balance         3/           -73        -77        -73       139       3ti
Development expenditure-              83         56         57       139       344
Overall balance                     -1"        -133       -130      - r       -27
Domestic financing                    37        -38        13        -32       n.a.
External Financing                   119        171       117        250       n.a.
Commodity and project loans          (83)       (56)       (57)     (126)     (n.a.)
Cash loans                           (36)       (59)       ( 1)     ( 15)     (n.a.)
Cash grants                         (n.a.)      (56)       (59)     (109)     (n.a.)
Discrepancy                                      -          -         29        -
1/  World Bank Atlas, 1974
2/ Budget estimate
3/  Equivalent to foreign project and commodity aid



AiNNEX I
Page 2 of 3
MONEY AND CREDIT (YR Million, end of period)
1971      1972      1973       June 1973      June l97`4
Money supply                 276.9      402.3     531.8         471.3          612.0
Quasi money                   35.7       80.6     105.1         113.6          117.5
Credit to private sector      70.0      119.8     169.5        168.6           230.1
Net claims on Government     110.1      115.9     135.2         116.2           8L.2
BALANCE OF PAYMETS (IJS$ Million)
1970      1971      1972       1973      July 1973/
June 1974v
Dxports                         7.0        7.7       7.6       8.9         13.7
Imports                      -106.1      -86.5    -113.2     -156.0      -193.1
Balance of trade              -99.1      -7T.     -1053      -148.       -1?9-
Services and workers'
remittances (net)           54.0       56.4      89.5     109.1        130.1
Commodity and cash grants      21.2        6.8       20.8      23.4        30.7
Balance in current account    -23.9      -1       5    .7                 -1.i7
Non-monetary capital 1/        35.0       35.4      24.8       31.7        44.9
Increase in reserves           12.0       19.8      29.5      17.0         26.3
of which with Central
Bank of Yemen               (7.L)     (17-3)    (22.2)     (16.9)      (33-7)
Total Reserves (March 31, 1975)          US$222 Million
MERCHAIMWSE EXPORTS (recorded for 1969-73)-
Average US.-         Percent
Mlillion
Co ,ton                                   1.3                 30
Coffee                                    1.3                 30
Hides and scins                           0.6
Qat                                       I.)4                 9
Othe-rs                                   0.8                 17
TOCTAlf 4.)L                                           100
EXf aiNAL D    jC3T,June 30, 1974                       US$ Million
xcternal public debt outstanding                            3.38.8
of which : disbursed                                 200.7
Debt service payments 1974                                   12.2
Ratio of debt service to 1973/74 exports
of goods and services, including
remittances                                         8 percent
1,  Includes SDR allocations and errors and omissions
2/ Only an estimated 50-60 percent of total export is recorde.d



ANIIX I
Page 3 of 3
RATE OF EXCHANGI; /         IBRD/IDA L      2NIING/
'(as of April 30, 1975)
Through February 1973                                      US$ Million
IBTD        IDA
Us,$1 = YR 5
YR 1 = US$D.20         Outstanding and disbursed       -
Undisbursed                    _        33.9
Outstanding including
Since February.1973           undisbursed         -                  38.2
US1 = YR 4.50                                        -
YR 1 = US$0.22
EMENA
June 5, 1975
1/ No par value for the Yemen rial has yet been declared to the IMF. All
exchange transactions are effected at the Central Bank rate which is
based on the free market rate.
2/ A Credit of US$10.0 million (Cr.545) for the Southern Uplands project,
was signed on May 13, 1975. Another Credit of US$9.0 million for a
Second Highway Project has been submitted to the Executive Directors for
consideration on June 17, 1975.



ANNEX.II
Paee 1 of 4
THE STATUS OF BANK GROUP OPERATIONS IN THE YEMEN ARAB REPUBLIC
A.   Statement of IDA Credits
(As of April 30, 1975 - US$ Million)
Credit                                                Amount (less cancellations)
Number Year        Borrower          Purpose          IDA             Undisbursed
315    1972 Yemen Arab Republic    Highways           7.7                6.1
376    1973 Yemen Arab Republic    Tihama Agri-      10.9                8.5
culture
421    1973 Yemen Arab Republic    Education         11.0               10.9
464    1974 Yemen Arab Republic    Water Supply       6.3                6.1
465    1974  Yemen Arab Republic    Industrial        2.3                2.3
Estate
Total                                       38.2               33.9
Of which has been repaid
Total now held by IDA                       38.2
Total undisbursed                                              33.9
B.   Statement of IFC Investments
(As of April 30, 1975)
IFC has made no investments in YAR.
C.   Other Bank Group Activities
A Bank grant of US$200,000 equivalent was approved by the Executive
Directors in July 1971, to help finance, jointly with the Kuwait Fund for Arab
Economic Development, a team of planning and economic advisors. The team of
five advisors has helped establish the Central Planning Organization (CPO)
which is responsible for preparing a development program, devising general
economic policies, identifying and preparing investments projects, and co-
ordinating external aid. The CPO is perhaps the most dynamic and active
public sector organization in Yemen. The Executive Directors approved on
September 11, 1973 a Bank grant of US$200,000 equivalent to make possible the
Nyte: A Credit of US$10.0 million for the Southern Uplands Rural Development
Project was signed on May 13, 1975. Another Credit of US$9.0 million
for a Second Highway Project has been submitted to the Executive Direc-
tors for consideration on June 17, 1975.



ANNEX II
Page 2 of 4
continuation of the planning team. The Government has recently requested the
Kuwait Fund for Economic Development and the Bank to expand their joint on-
going technical assistance into the field of public administration. This
request is being considered and a mission visited Yemen in early March to
review the public administration system in the country.
D.   Projects in Execution 1/
Cr. No. 315-YAR - Highway; US$7.7 million Credit of June 26, 1972; Closing Date:
June 30, 1976.
The Yemen Government established a Highway Authority in November
1972, appointed as its Director a competent and experienced civil engineer
and appointed three engineering firms for consulting services: technical
assistance, feasibility studies and supervision of construction. The feasi-
bility studies have been completed, as well as the detailed engineering,
including bidding documents of the two selected roads. After satisfactorily
completing phase I technical assistance services (data collection, recommenda-
tion on reorganization and work program) the working relations between the
Highway Authority and the consultants gradually deteriorated and the contract
was terminated in July 1974, on mutual agreement. Negotiations for engagement
of new consultants are in progress. Construction of the Taiz-Turba road has
been delayed, because of the six bids received, four foreign bids were for
amounts more than double the appraisal estimate, and in excess of the construc-
tion costs current at the time of bidding, while two domestic bidders, offer-
ing acceptable prices, were found lacking required experience, staff and equip-
ment. All bids were rejected and the Government and Association agreed that
the road be constructed by the Highway Authority under supervision of the
consultants. The Highway Authority acquired necessary equipment under the
Government advance payment, and is employing foreign managerial and technical
staff to assist in this construction. The work started in March 1975, and
is scheduled to be completed in two years. The road maintenance and construc-
tion equipment, engineering equipment and spare parts have been ordered, and
delivery is expected to be completed in 1975.
Cr. No. 376-YAR - Tihama Agriculture; US$10.9 million Credit of May 2, 1973;
Closing Date: June 30, 1978.
The Development Credit was declared effective on September 4, 1973.
The Tihama Development Authority, responsible for project execution, was set
up and two advisors (technical and financial) were appointed by end of 1973.
1/   These notes are designed to inform the Executive Directors regarding the
progress of projects in execution, and in particular to report any
problems which are being encountered, and the action being taken to
remedy them. They should be read in this sense, and with the understand-
ing that they do not purport to present a balanced evaluation of strengths
and weaknesses in project executions.



ANNEX II
Page 3 of 4
Project consultants, appointed since April 1973, have completed designs of
four preliminary works contracts, of which three have already been awarded to
local contractors. Engineering designs and contract documents for the first
of the two main civil works contracts were recently completed, reviewed and
issued in May 1975 to international contractors; documents for the second are
due for issue by December 1975. The Agricultural Credit Fund was legally es-
tablished towards end of 1974. The Credit Manager and the Field Manager for
the ACF have been appointed and work is progressing satisfactorily. A cost
overrun of about US$17 million or 100 percent over the estimated cost at the
time of appraisal, is envisaged. A re-appraisal mission will be in the field
in July 1975.
CR. No. 421-YAR - Education Project; US$11 million Credit of July 19, 1973;
Closing Date: December 31, 1978.
The Development Credit was declared effective on April 10, 1974.
The Government has appointed the five expatriate members of the Project Unit,
which is performing satisfactorily. Several members of the UiDP financed
Task Force are also in the field. Procurement of equipment and books for the
nine existing schools is underway. The Consultant Architects for the project
have been appointed and sites for the project institutions have also been
selected. In April 1975 a Bank mission visited Sana'a to review the special
studies prepared by the Task Force on non-formal and secondary education.
CR. No. 464-YAR - Water Supply Project: US$6.25 million Credit of March
4, 1974; Closing Date: June 30, 1978.
The Development Credit was declared effective on July 15, 1974.
Tenders for the principal contracts were opened mid-January and are being
evaluated by the consultant and the National Water and Sewerage Authority
(NWSA). Award of contracts is expected to be made in May 1975. Good pro-
gress has been made in recruiting staff for the newly-established NWSA and
for operating the existing Sana'a water facilities. Project implementation
has been delayed by several months, following delays in preparation of final
design and tender documents. The Government has decided to meet the cost
overruns of about $3.5 million for this project from its own resources.
Cr. No. 465-YAR - Industrial Estate Project; US$2.3 million Credit of
March 4, t974; Closing Date: December 31, 1980.
The Development Credit was declared efiective on November 27, 1974.
The Advisor to the Director General has been appointed and is now in the field.
The Industrial Engineer has been also appointed and will arrive in Yemen in
June 1975. The project implementation is progressing satisfactorily. The
Director General has returned to Yemen after completion of a very useful
training program.  The consulting engineers are in the process of preparing
a detailed masterplan, the project desigrns and the tender documents. They
will also supervise the construction. The project is proceeding on schedule.



ANNEX II
Page 4 of 4
Cr. No. 545-YAR - Southern Uplands Rural Development Project; US$10.0 million
of May 13, 1975; Closing Date: March 31, 1982.
The Development Credit was approved on May 6, 1975 and signed on
May 13, 1975.
EMENA
June 5, 1975



ANNEX III
Page 1 of 4
YEMEN ARAB REPUBLIC
HODEIDA WATER SUPPLY AND SEWERAGE PROJECT
Development Credit and Project Summary
Borrower:                YEMEN ARAB REPUBLIC
Amount:                  US$8.1 million equivalent
Terms:                   Standard
Beneficiary:             National Water and Sewerage Authority (NWSA)
Ohlending Terms:         The Government would be the borrower of both the IDA
Credit and the Arab Fund Loan. Of the proceeds of
the Credit $4.4 million would be onlent to NWSA;
while $3.5 million would be transferred to NWSA as
equity. The remaining $0.2 million would be re-
tained by the Government for preparation of the
Hodeida urban development plan. Of the loan of about
$20.2 million from the Arab Fund for Economic and
Social Development, bearing interest rate of 4 per-
cent per annum for a period of 20 years including
5 years' grace, $11.3 million will be onlent and $8.9
million provided as equity. Onlending from both
the IDA Credit and the Arab Fund loan will be
covered by one Financing Agreement between the
Government and NWSA, at 6 percent per annum for 20
years with 5 years' grace.. Interest on the.subloan
will be.capitalized during the construction period.
Project Description:     The proposed project would comprise:
(a) a water supply component, which is expected to
meet the needs of the population of Hodeida
until 1985, would be composed of:
(i) a well field east of Baydda with an initial
capacity of 180 1/sec;
(ii)~ a 400 mm transmission line;
(iii) headworks (reservoir and pumping station);
(iv) main and secondary distribution;
(v) tertiary distribution;
(vi) additional house connections to be in-
stalled during the project period;
(vii) consulting engineering services for final
design and supervision of construction;



ANNEX ITI
Page 2 of 4
(b) assistance in the development of NWSA:
(i)  purchase of maintenance equipment and
vehicles;
(ii)  purchase of office equipment, furniture,
calculators and drafting equipment;
(iii) technical assistance rehiring, training,
personnel administration and standard en-
gineering practices;
(iv)  training of engineering, management and
operations personnel;
(c) preparation of a development plan for Hodeida;
and
(d) a sewerage component composed of:
(i)  principal collector sewer;
(ii)  collection systems in 12 sub-basins;
(iii) 11 pumping stations;
(iv)  house connections to be installed during
project period;
(v)  sewage treatment plant; and
(vi)  consulting engineering services for final.
design and supervision of construction.
Estimated Cost:                                         US$ '000
% of
Local    Foreign    Total    Total
A.   Water supply component       1,131    4,673      5,804    -18.6
B.   Development of NWSA            109      293        402      1.3
C.   Hodeida development plan       38        112       150      0.5
D.   Sewerage component          4,329      8,192    12,521     40.1
E.   Physical contingencies        747      1,601     2,348      7.5
F.   Expected price increases    5,291      4,714    10,005     32.0
Total                  1,1645    192585    31,230    100.0
Financing Plan:                                   US$ Millions
Local     Foreign    Total
IDA                               1.2        6.9       8.1
Arab Fund                         7.6       12.6      20.2
Government of YAR                2.9          -        2.9
Total                  11.7       19.5      31.2



ANNEX III
Page 3 of 4
Estimated IDA
Disbursements:                                                  US$ million
Cumulative
FY                            1976   1977   1978   1979     Total
0.53   2.94   3.09    1.54     8.10
Cumulative                    0.53   3.47   6.56   8.10      8.10
Procurement
Arrangements:            All major contracts for the supply of equipment,
pipes and civil works would be awarded after inter-
national competitive bidding in accordance with Bank
Group Guidelines for Procurement. A margin of pre-
ference for local equipment manufacturers of 15 per-
cent or customs duties, whichever is lower, would be
granted, but no preference was requested neither dur-
ing appraisal nor in the course of negotiations for
local civil works contractors since their bids for
the Sana'a Water Project were considerably lower
than those of foreign contractors. Minor contracts
for maintenance and supply of equipment costing less
than YRls 100,000 (US$22,200), subject to an aggre-
gate of YRls 1 million (US$222,200) would be awarded
on the basis of competitive bidding advertised local-
ly in accordance with NVWSA procedures which are ac-
ceptable to IDA. Tender documents for the supply of
equipment and pipes whose value exceeds YRls 100,000
(US$22,200) and civil works whose value exceeds YRls
500,000 (US$111,100) would be submitted to IDA for
approval before bids are requested. Tender documents
for construction contracts would be combined as far
as possible in order to encourage international com-
petition. Where the construction schedules so indi-
cate, tenders for different contracts will be invited
simultaneously. Contracts related to the sewerage
component of the project will be awarded after inter-
national competitive bidding in accordance with the
regulations of the Arab Fund.
Consultants:              About 320 man-months of consultancy services would
be provided under the project for final design, super-
vision of construction, hydroegeological studies and
for the preparation of the Hodeida Development Plan.
Rate of Return:           10.9 percent.



.ANNEX III
Page 4 of 4
Estimated Completion
Date:                The construction of the water supply and sewerage
systems would be completed by the end of 1978 and
1979, respectively.
Appraisal Report:         "Appraisal Report of a Hodeida Water Supply and
Sewerage Project, Yemen Arab Republic" (No. 773-YAR),
dated June 3, 1975.
EMENA
June 5, 1975



ESt"|^ .J ..X  , I NA               44A                                        4
YEMEN ARAB REPUBLIC
SAUDI  ARABIA         HODEIDA     WATER SUPPLY AND       SEWERAGE
Location Map
5 u o                              J-                         Poved  Primary  Roads
Unpoved  Grovel Primory  Roods
Primory  Roads Under  Construction
_____Other  Roods
National Capital
0   Cties, lowns and  Villages
~~~~1  ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~~~~~       ~~~Wadi,
SvodoIA aQ   w a i  2 (i-' -  Contours in Meters
International Airoorts
i lp )  -. --  International Boundaries
v  /  t   \  dKhL ,r        ,0  20  4X0   60  80  100
16A                                                                         KLMTR             16;
MiLES
LAZY%       A            ,      A_
Und.fined o-nd-rY
d.d ~ ~ ~ ~   ~    ~    ~    ~    ~   ~   ..
IIOIA         \ eo             0 J S   b*or
a  tG M   0 Dubab  8zS                    0   <0 150
A
MODE                                 PES D        I R    I O   Y E
Ovba~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~N
(~~~~A b
/ /                   G ULAF   OF   ADFN
/   F.rT. A l  .   .
44.                                       48,



-Il,iLre  ,, ---,-_   <,  , ,,,,a,>  _                                     YEMEN       ARAB    REPUBLIC
HODEIDA WATER SUPPLY AND SEWERAGE PROJECT
-                  S                                                               Water Supply Component
\- ODE-DA                                                                                         Existing  System   and First Stage Mains
,2iODEIDA        , 
STATE                            ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~STAGE I NEW SYSTEM                   EXISTING SYSTEM
t  \  i   _ > /   |   12      MAIN LINES (RIlH EXCEPTION OF SANA'A ROAD ALL MAINS ARE 300m -12"1  0  ELEVATED STEEL RESERVOIR AND PUMPING SIAIION
SECONDARY LINES i200  -).                           MAIN LIN ES
rt - - \ -- l  PROJECT AREA  TOUNDARIES                  DISTRIBUTION  LINES
$                    K                                    I                     PROJECT AREABOUNDARIES                              PUBLIC TAPS (WORKING)
0'                                                                                ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~OLD PUBTUC TAFS
(if r  ,,>AIRPORT                                                                                                                   CliY BOUNDARIES
/~~                 ~      ~~~~~~~~~~~~           ~       ~      ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ s----wi-  S  
TO ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~   ~   ~~~       AT
PIIIT oO pUEPINA STATION TOG
7/                       /~~~~~~~~~~~~ 
PORT OF                                                                                  .-          -'~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~RF0 
\,,,~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~E X' \ '                                            -<
(ILDiAETEP                    8          /  ET-IGPl-
MILE~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~E
V                                   fix   \         -i*'  \~~~~~~~~~~~~~LMEE



YEMEN AHRAB FREPUBLIC                                       INTERCEPTING SEWER
MAIN SEWERS         SOQD
HODEtIDAP  WATER SUPPLY AND SEWERAGE PROJECT0 PUMPING STATIONS
-BASIN BOUNDARIES
Sewerage Component                                         BSNUMESrETIOP-
PROJECT AREA BOUNDARIES 
-  --CITY  LIMITS IN  2080  1
-----------~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~-             7
PORT OF
HODEIDA  CS L~.PR
L A GOO 0N
.17~ ~ ~ ~ ~~~~~~~7
KILOMETERS



