CONFORMED COPY
CREDIT NUMBER 559 YAR
Development Credit
Agreement
(Hodeida Water Supply and Sewerage Project)
BETWEEN
YEMEN ARAB REPUBLIC
AND
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCiATION
DATED JUNE 20, 1975


﻿CONFORMED COPY
CREDIT NUMBER 559 YAR
Development Credit
Agreement
(Hodeida Water Supply and Sewerage Project)
BETWEEN
YEMEN ARAB REPUBLIC
AND
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
DATED JUNE 20, 1975


﻿DEVELOPMENT CREDIT AGREEMENT
AGREEMENT, dated June 20, 1975, between YEMEN ARAB REPUBLIC
(hereinafter called the Borrower) and INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT
ASSOCIATION (hereinafter called the Association).
WHEREAS (A) The Borrower has requested the Association to assist in the
financing of the Project described in Schedule 2 to this Agreement by extending
the Credit as hereinafter provided;
(B)   The Borrower intends to contract from the Arab Fund for Economic
and Social Development (hereinafter called the Arab Fund) a loan (hereinafter called
the Arab Fund Loan) in an amount equivalent to US$20,200,000 to assist in
financing Part D of the Project on the terms and conditions set forth in an
agreement (hereinafter called the Arab Fund Loan Agreement) to be entered into
between the Borrower and the Arab Fund;
(C)   Parts A, B and D of the Project will be carried out by National Water
and Sewerage Authority with the Borrower's assistance and, as part of such
assistance, the Borrower will make available to National Water and Sewerage
Authority part of the proceeds of the Credit as hereinafter provided;
(D)   Part C of the Project will be carried out by the Borrower; and
(E)   The Association is willing to make the Credit available upon the terms
and conditions set forth hereinafter and in a project agreement of even date
herewith between the Association and the National Water and Sewerage Authority;
NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:
ARTICLE I
General Conditions; Definitions
Section 1.01. The parties to this Agreement accept all the provisions of the
General Conditions Applicable to    Development Credit Agreements of the
Association, dated March 15, 1974, with the same force and effect as if they were
fully set forth herein (said General Conditions Applicable to Development Credit
Agreements of the Association being hereinafter called the General Conditions).


﻿4
Section 1.02. Wherever used in this Agreement, unless the context otherwise
requires, the several terms defined in the General Conditions have the respective
meanings therein set forth and the following additional terms have the following
meanings:
(a)   "Authority" means the National Water and Sewerage Authority
established under Law No. 13 of the year 1973, of the Borrower.
(b)   "Project Agreement" means the agreement between the Association
and the Authority of even date herewith, as the same may be amended from time
to time, and such term includes all schedules to the Project Agreement;
(c)   "Financing Agreement" means the agreement to be entered into
between the Borrower and the Authority pursuant to Section 3.01(b) of this
Agreement, as the same may be amended from time to time, and such term includes
all schedules to the Financing Agreement;
(d)   "Hodeida Development Plan" means the plan to be formulated by the
Borrower pursuant to the study referred to in Section 3.02(a) of this Agreement;
and
(e)   "YR" means Yemeni Rial in the currency of the Borrower.
(f)   "Hodeida Cooperative" means the Cooperative established under the
Borrower's Law No. 11 of the Year 1963.
ARTICLE II
The Credit
Section 2.01. The Association agrees to lend to the Borrower, on the terms
and conditions in the Development Credit Agreement set forth or referred to, an
amount in various currencies equivalent to eight million one hundred thousand
dollars ($8,100,000).
Section 2.02. The amount of the Credit may be withdrawn from the Credit
Account in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 1 to this Agreement, as
such Schedule may be amended from time to time, for expenditures made (or,
if the Association shall so agree, to be made) in respect of the reasonable cost
of goods and services required for Parts A, B and C of the Project and to be
financed out of the proceeds of the Credit.


﻿5
Section 2.03. Except as the Association shall otherwise agree, the goods,
works and services (other than consultants' services) for the Project to be financed
out of the proceeds of the Credit, shall be procured in accordance with the
provisions set forth or referred to in Section 2.04 of the Project Agreement.
Section 2.04. The Closing Date shall be December 31, 1980 or such later
date as the Association shall establish. The Association shall promptly notify the
Borrower and the Authority of such later date.
Section 2.05. The Borrower shall pay to the Association a service charge
at the rate of three-fourths of one per cent (3/4 of I %) per annum on the principal
amount of the Credit withdrawn and outstanding from time to time.
Section 2.06. Service charges shall be payable semi-annually on January 15
and July 15 in each year.
Section 2.07. The Borrower shall repay the principal amount of the Credit
in semi-annual installments payable on each January 15 and July 15 commencing
July 15, 1985 and ending January 15, 2025, each installment to and including
the installment payable on January 15, 1995 to be one-half of one per cent (1/2
of 1%) of such principal amount, and each installment thereafter to be one and
one-half per cent (1-1/2%) of such principal amount.
Section 2.08. The currency of the United States of America is hereby
specified for the purposes of Section 4.02 of the General Conditions.
ARTICLE III
Execution of the Project
Section 3.01. (a) Without any limitation or restriction upon any of its other
obligations under the Development Credit Agreement, the Borrower shall cause
the Authority to perform in accordance with the provisions of the Project
Agreement and the Financing Agreement all the obligations therein set forth, shall
take and cause to be taken all action, including the provision of funds, facilities,
services and other resources, necessary or appropriate to enable the Authority to
perform such obligations, and shall not take or permit to be taken any action
which would prevent or interfere with such performance.
(b)   The Borrower shall: (i) relend an amount equivalent to four million
four hundred thousand dollars ($4,400,000) out of the proceeds of the Credit


﻿6
to the Authority under a financing agreement to be entered into between the
Borrower and the Authority under terms and conditions which shall have been
approved by the Association including the principal terms set forth in Schedule
3 to this Agreement; and (ii) make available to the Authority, under said financing
agreement, as a cash contribution to its capital, an amount equivalent to three
million five hundred thousand dollars ($3,500,000) out of the proceeds of the
Credit for the purpose of carrying out the Project.
(c)   The Borrower shall exercise its rights under the Financing Agreement
in such manner as to protect the interests of the Borrower and the Association
and to accomplish the purposes of the Credit, and except as the Association shall
otherwise agree, the Borrower shall not assign, nor amend, abrogate or waive the
Financing Agreement or any provision thereof.
Section 3.02. (a) The Borrower shall, within six months after the Effective
Date, or such other date as shall be agreed with the Association, engage technical
experts to undertake a study for the preparation of a development plan for Hodeida,
and formulate the Hodeida Development Plan in consultation with the Association.
(b)   The Borrower shall, within two years after the Effective Date, or such
other date as shall be agreed with the Association, take necessary measures for
the implementation of the Hodeida Development Plan.
ARTICLE IV
Other Covenants
Section 4.01. The Borrower shall: (i) undertake a study of the nitrate
concentration in the drinking water in Hodeida in accordance with terms of
reference which shall have been approved by the Association; and (ii) within two
years after the Effective Date, or such other date as shall be agreed with the
Association, discuss with the Association the results of said study. In the event
that the findings of said study warrant supply of low nitrate water in Hodeida,
the Borrower shall cause the Authority to take necessary corrective measures.
Section 4.02. The Borrower shall, within six months from the Effective Date,
take necessary measures to vest in the Authority the responsibility for groundwater
development and pollution control in the Hodeida aquifier area.
Section 4.03. The Borrower shall, by March 31, 1977, or such other date
as the Association shall agree: (i) take necessary measures which would require,


﻿7
inter alia, that fronting sewers are connected to those customers who are connected
to the water supply system in Hodeida; and (ii) cause the Hodeida Cooperative
to furnish financial assistance to low income customers in Hodeida to enable them
to meet the cost of connecting to the sewerage system.
Section 4.04. The Borrower shall, not later than January 1, 1976 or such
other date as shall be agreed with the Association, transfer the responsibility of
operation and maintenance of the existing water supply system in Hodeida to the
Authority.
ARTICLE V
Remedies of the Association
Section 5.01. For the purposes of Section 6.02 of the General Conditions
the following additional events are specified pursuant to paragraph (h) thereof:
(a)   The Authority shall have failed to perform any covenant, agreement
or obligation of the Authority under the Project Agreement or under the Financing
Agreement.
(b)   Law  No. 13 of the year 1973 of the Borrower shall have been
amended, suspended, abrogated, repealed or waived in such a way as to materially
and adversely affect the ability of the Authority to carry out the covenants,
agreements and obligations set forth in the Project Agreement.
(c)   An extraordinary situation shall have arisen which shall make it
improbable that the Authority will be able to perform its obligations under the
Project Agreement.
(d)   (i)        Subject to subparagraph (ii) of this paragraph:
(A)   The right of the Borrower to withdraw the proceeds
of the Arab Fund Loan shall have been suspended,
cancelled or terminated in whole or in part,
pursuant to the terms of the Arab Fund Loan
Agreement; or
(B)   The Arab Fund Loan shall have become due and
payable prior to the agreed maturity thereof.


﻿8
(ii)        Subparagraph (i) of this paragraph shall not apply if the
Borrower establishes to the satisfaction of the Association
that: (A) such suspension, cancellation, termination or
prematuring is not caused by the failure of the Borrower
to perform any of its obligations under such agreement,
and (B) adequate funds for the Project are available to
the Borrower or the Authority from other sources on
terms and conditions consistent with the obligations of
the Borrower under this Agreement and of the Authority
under the Project Agreement.
Section 5.02. For the purposes of Section 7.01 of the General Conditions,
the following events are specified pursuant to paragraph (d) thereof:
(a)   the event specified in paragraph (a) of Section 5.01 of this Agreement
shall occur and shall continue for a period of 60 days after notice thereof shall
have been given by the Association to the Borrower and the Authority; and
(b)   the event specified in paragraph (b) and (d)(i)B of Section 5.01 of
this Agreement shall occur.
ARTICLE VI
Effective Date; Termination
Section 6.01. The following events are specified as additional conditions to
the effectiveness of the Development Credit Agreement within the meaning of
Section 12.01(b) of the General Conditions:
(a)   the execution and delivery of the Project Agreement on behalf of the
Authority have been duly authorized or ratified by all necessary corporate and
governmental action;
(b)   the execution and delivery of the Financing Agreement on behalf of
the Borrower and the Authority, respectively, have been duly authorized or ratified
by all necessary corporate and governmental action; and
(c)   the Arab Fund Loan Agreement has been signed by the Borrower and
the Arab Fund, respectively.
Section 6.02. The following are specified as additional matters, within the
meaning of Section 12.02(b) of the General Conditions, to be included in the
opinion or opinions to be furnished to the Association:


﻿9
(a)   That the Project Agreement has been duly authorized or ratified by,
and executed and delivered on behalf of, the Authority, and is legally binding
upon the Authority in accordance with its terms; and
(b)  That the Financing Agreement has been duly authorized or ratified
by, and executed and delivered on behalf of, the Borrower and the Authority,
and is legally binding upon the Borrower and the Authority in accordance with
its terms.
Section 6.03. The date October 17, 1975 is hereby specified for the purposes
of Section 12.04 of the General Conditions.
Section 6.04. The obligations of the Borrower under the provisions of
paragraph (b) of Section 5.02 of this Agreement shall cease and determine on
the date on which the Development Credit Agreement shall terminate or on a
date twenty years after the date of this Agreement, whichever shall be the earlier.
ARTICLE VII
Representative of the Borrower; Addresses
Section 7.01. The Minister of Development of the Borrower is designated
as representative of the Borrower for the purposes of Section 11.03 of the General
Conditions.
Section 7.02. The following addresses are specified for the purposes of
Section 11.01 of the General Conditions:
For the Borrower:
Central Planning Organization
P.O. Box 175
Sana'a
Yemen Arab Republic
Cable address:
CENPLAN
Sana'a
For the Association:
International Development Association
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America


﻿10
Cable address:
INDEVAS
Washington, D.C.
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their
representatives thereunto duly authorized, have caused this Agreement to be signed
in their respective names in the District of Columbia, United States of America,
as of the day and year first above written.
YEMEN ARAB REPUBLIC
By /s / Ahmad Zabarah
Authorized Representative
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
By /s I Willi A. Wapenhans
Acting Regional Vice President
Europe, Middle East and North Africa


﻿11
SCHEDULE I
Withdrawal of the Proceeds of the Credit
1.   The table below sets forth the Categories of items to be financed out of
the proceeds of the Credit, the allocation of the amounts of the Credit to each
Category and the percentage of expenditures for items so to be financed in each
Category:
Amount of the
Credit Allocated            % of
(Expressed in          Expenditures
Category                  Dollar Equivalent)      to be Financed
(1)  Equipment and                 2,930,000           100% of foreign
Materials                                         expenditures,
100% of local ex-
penditures (ex-
factory) or 85% of
locally procured
imported equipment
(2)   Civil Works                  1,670,000           80%
(3)   Consultants'                   940,000           100%
Services and
Training under Parts
A and B of the Proj-
ect
(4)   Consultants' Serv-             200,000           100%
ices under Part C
of the Project
(5)   Unallocated                  2,360,000
TOTAL        8,100,000


﻿12
2.    For the purposes of this Schedule:
(a)   the term  "foreign expenditures" means expenditures in the currency
of any country other than the Borrower and for goods or services supplied from
the territory of any country other than the Borrower; and
(b)   the term  "local expenditures"  means expenditures in the currency
of the Borrower and for goods or services supplied from the territory of the
Borrower.
3.    The disbursement percentages have been calculated in compliance with the
policy of the Association that no proceeds of the Credit shall be disbursed on
account of payments for taxes levied by, or in the territory of, the Borrower on
goods or services, or on the importation, manufacture, procurement or supply
thereof; to that end, if the amount of any such taxes levied on or in respect
of any item to be financed out of the proceeds of the Credit decreases or increases,
the Association may, by notice to the Borrower, increase or decrease the
disbursement percentage then applicable to such item as required to be consistent
with the aforementioned policy of the Association.
4.    Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph I above, no withdrawals shall
be made in respect of expenditures prior to the date of this Agreement, except
that withdrawals may be made in respect of Category (3) on account of
expenditures incurred after April 1, 1975 in an aggregate amount not exceeding
the equivalent of $100,000.
5.    Notwithstanding the allocation of an     amount of the Credit or the
disbursement percentages set forth in the table in paragraph 1 above, if the
Association has reasonably estimated that the amount of the Credit then allocated
to any Category will be insufficient to finance the agreed percentage of all
expenditures in that Category, the Association may, by notice to the Borrower:
(i) reallocate to such Category, to the extent required to meet the estimated
shortfall, proceeds of the Credit which are then allocated to another Category and
which in the opinion of the Association are not needed to meet other expenditures;
and (ii) if such reallocation cannot fully meet the estimated shortfall, reduce the
disbursement percentage then applicable to such expenditures in order that further
withdrawals under such Category may continue until all expenditures thereunder
shall have been made.
6.    If the Association shall have reasonably determined that the procurement
of any item in any Category is inconsistent with the procedures set forth or referred


﻿'Rw
13
to in this Agreement, no expenditures for such item shall be financed out of the
proceeds of the Credit and the Association may, without in any way restricting
or limiting any other right, power or remedy of the Association under the
Development Credit Agreement, by notice to the Borrower, cancel such amount
of the Credit as, in the Association's reasonable opinion, represents the amount
of such expenditures which would otherwise have been eligible for financing out
of the proceeds of the Credit.
0


﻿14
SCHEDULE 2
Description of the Project
The Project consists of the following parts:
Part A.     Development of a wellfield, about 4 km to the east of the existing
Bayda wellfield, with an initial capacity of 180 1/sec, including construction of
seven wells with associated pumping installations and electric power supply;
installation of a 10.6 km long transmission line between the wellfield and the
headworks; construction of headworks including regulation tanks, pumps, a
transformer station and other electrical works; and construction of a distribution
system to serve the area to be urbanized by 1978 around Hodeida, including house
connections.
Part B.     Acquisition and installation of equipment for the operation and
maintenance of water supply system included in Part A of the Project; acquisition
of vehicles for the maintenance of said water supply system, acquisition and
utilization of office furniture and equipment for the Authority; technical assistance
for hydrogeological studies of the aquifer supplying the Hodeida wells; and training
for the technical, financial and administrative staff of the Authority.
Part C.     Preparation of the Hodeida Development Plan.
Part D.     Construction in Hodeida (i) of a principal collector sewer and a
collection system in 12 sub-basins, including pumping station and house
connections; and (ii) of a sewage treatment plant; and provision of consultants'
services for design and supervision of construction of the aforesaid works.
The Project is expected to be completed by December 31, 1979.


﻿I
15
SCHEDULE 3
Principal Terms of Lending Under the
Financing Agreement
1.   The Authority shall pay interest at the rate of 6% per annum on the principal
amount of the loan outstanding from time to time.
2.   The principal amount of the loan shall be repaid by the Authority within
a period of twenty years (including a grace period of five years) reckoned from
the date of the first withdrawal.
3.    Principal and interest shall be payable by the Authority in the currency of
the Borrower, and the Authority shall assume all foreign exchange risks.


