CONFORMED COPY
CREDIT NUMBER 559 YAR
Project Agreement
(Hodeida Water Supply and Sewerage Project)
BETWEEN
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
AND
NATIONAL WATER AND SEWERAGE AUTHORITY
DATED JUNE 20, 1975


﻿PROJECT AGREEMENT
AGREEMENT, dated June 20, 1975, between INTERNATIONAL
DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION (hereinafter called the Association) and THE
NATIONAL WATER AND SEWERAGE AUTHORITY (hereinafter called the
Authority).
WHEREAS by the Development Credit Agreement of even date herewith
between the Yemen Arab Republic (hereinafter called the Borrower) and the
Association, the Association has agreed to make available to the Borrower an
amount in various currencies equivalent to eight million one hundred thousand
dollars ($8,100,000), on the terms and conditions set forth in the Development
Credit Agreement, but only on condition that the Authority agree to undertake
such obligations toward the Association as hereinafter set forth;
WHEREAS by a Financing Agreement to be entered into between the
Borrower and the Authority, an amount equivalent to four million four hundred
thousand dollars ($4,400,000) out of the proceeds of the Credit provided for under
the Development Credit Agreement will be made available to the Authority on
the terms and conditions therein set forth;
WHEREAS the Borrower has agreed to make available to the Authority as
a capital contribution, in addition to the portions of the proceeds of the Credit
to be relent to the Authority under the Financing Agreement, an amount equivalent
to three million five hundred thousand dollars ($3,500,000) out of the proceeds
of the Credit; and
WHEREAS the Authority, in consideration of the Association's entering into
the Development Credit Agreement with the Borrower, has agreed to undertake
the obligations hereinafter set forth;
NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:
ARTICLE I
Definitions
Section 1.01. Wherever used in this Agreement, unless the context shall
otherwise require, the several terms defined in the Development Credit Agreement
and in the General Conditions (as so defined) have the respective meanings therein
set forth.


﻿4
ARTICLE It
Execution of the Project
Section 2.01. The Authority shall carry out Parts A, B and D of the Project
described in Schedule 2 to the Development Credit Agreement with due diligence
and efficiency and in conformity with appropriate administrative, financial and
engineering practices.
Section 2.02. (a) In order to assist the Authority in the preparation of the
final design and the supervision of the construction of works under the Project,
the Authority shall employ engineering consultants whose qualifications, experience
and terms and conditions of employment shall be satisfactory to the Association.
(b) In order to assist the Authority in the carrying out of the
hydrogeological studies described under Part B of the Project, the Authority shall
employ, not later than six months after the Effective Date or such other date
as shall be agreed with the Association, a hydrogeologist whose qualifications,
experience and terms and conditions of employment shall be satisfactory to the
Association.
Section 2.03. In order to carry out Part D of the Project, the Authority
shall consult with the Association on the choice of sewerage treatment process
and method of final disposal, and shall select such process and such method as
shall be acceptable to the Association.
Section 2.04. Except as the Association shall otherwise agree, the goods,
works and services (other than consultants' services) for the Project to be financed
out of the proceeds of the Credit, shall be procured in accordance with the
provisions of the Schedule to this Agreement.
Section 2.05. (a) The Authority undertakes to insure, or make adequate
provision for the insurance of, the imported goods to be financed out of the
proceeds of the Credit made available to it by the Borrower against hazards incident
to the acquisition, transportation and delivery thereof to the place of use or
installation, and for such insurance any indemnity shall be payable in a currency
freely usable by the Authority to replace or repair such goods.
(b)   Except as the Association may otherwise agree, the Authority shall
cause all goods and services financed out of the proceeds of the Credit made
available to it by the Borrower to be used exclusively for the Project.


﻿5
Section 2.06. (a) The Authority shall furnish to the Association promptly
upon their preparation, the plans, specifications, reports, contract documents and
construction and procurement schedules for the Project, and any material
modifications thereof or additions thereto, in such detail as the Association shall
reasonably request.
(b)   The Authority: (i) shall maintain records adequate to record the
progress of Parts A, B and D of the Project (including the cost thereof) and to
identify the goods and services financed out of the proceeds of the Credit made
available to it by the Borrower, and to disclose the use thereof in the Project;
(ii) shall, without limitation upon the provisions of paragraph (c) of this Section,
enable the Association's representatives to visit the facilities and construction sites
included in the Project, and to examine the goods financed out of such proceeds
and any relevant records and documents; and (iii) shall furnish to the Association
all such information as the Association shall reasonably request concerning the
Project, the expenditure of the proceeds of the Credit so made available to it
and the goods and services financed out of such proceeds.
(c)   The Authority shall enable the Association's representatives to examine
all plants, installations, sites, works, buildings, property and equipment of the
Authority and any relevant records and documents.
Section 2.07. The Authority shall duly perform all its obligations under the
Financing Agreement. Except as the Association shall otherwise agree, the Authority
shall not take or concur in any action which would have the effect of amending,
abrogating, assigning or waiving the Financing Agreement or any provision thereof.
Section 2.08. (a) The Authority shall, at the request of the Association,
exchange views with the Association with regard to the progress of the Project,
the performance of its obligations under this Agreement and under the Financing
Agreement, and other matters relating to the purposes of the Credit.
(b)   The Authority shall promptly inform the Association of any condition
which interferes or threatens to interfere with, the progress of the Project, the
accomplishment of the purposes of the Credit, or the performance by the Authority
of its obligations under this Agreement and under the Financing Agreement.
ARTICLE Ill
Management and Operations
of the Authority
Section 3.01. The Authority shall at all times manage its affairs, maintain
its financial position, plan its future expansion and carry out its operations, all


﻿6
in accordance with sound administrative, financial and public utility practices and
to that end shall employ at all times qualified and experienced management and
staff.
Section 3.02. The Authority shall take out and maintain with responsible
insurers insurance against such risks and in such amounts as shall be consistent
with appropriate practice.
Section 3.03. The Authority shall not connect new customers to the existing
Hodeida water distribution system until adequate sources of water supply are added
thereto which shall be sufficient to serve such new customers.
Section 3.04. The Authority shall, not later than three months after the
Effective Date or such other date as shall be agreed with the Association, recruit
the staff engineers required for the supervision of the works to be carried out
under the Project.
Section 3.0'5. The Authority shall establish, with the assistance of the
hydrogeologist referred to in Section 2.02(b) of this Agreement, and thereafter
maintain, a program for the collection of data pertaining to climatic conditions
and groundwater quality and quantity.
Section 3.06. The Authority shall establish procedures in consultation with
the Association to gather data required to monitor the Project and shall furnish
such data to the Association on a quarterly basis.
Section 3.07. In order to carry out a tariff study for the water supply and
sewerage disposal services in Hodeida, the Authority shall employ consultants
acceptable to the Association on terms and conditions satisfactory to the
Association.
ARTICLE IV
Financial Covenants
Section 4.01. The Authority shall maintain records adequate to reflect in
accordance with consistently maintained appropriate accounting practices its
operations and financial condition.
Section 4.02. The Authority shall: (i) have its accounts and financial
statements (balance sheets, statements of income and expenses and related


﻿7
statements) for each fiscal year audited, in accordance with sound auditing
principles consistently applied, by independent auditors acceptable to the
Association; (ii) furnish to the Association as soon as available, but in any case
not later than six months after the end of each such year, (A) certified copies
of its financial statements for such year as so audited and (B) the report of such
audit by said auditors, of such scope and in such detail as the Association shall
have reasonably requested; and (iii) furnish to the Association such other
information concerning the accounts and financial statements of the Authority and
the audit thereof as the Association shall from time to time reasonably request.
Section 4.03. The Authority shil, by March 31, 1977, or such other date
as the Association shall agree, take necessary measures to set and maintain such
water supply and sewerage tariffs in Hodeida as shall be acceptable to the
Association.
Section 4.04. (a) The Authority shall set, maintain and periodically adjust
tariffs in respect of its water supply and sewerage operations in such manner as
shall be necessary to realize a positive rate of return in the year 1978, gradually
increasing during the years 1978 through 1983 so as to reach not less than 5/,
in 1984, and not less than 7-1/297 in the year 1987 and thereafter on the Authority's
average net fixed assets in operation.
For the purposes of this Section:
M           The required annual rate of return shall be calculated by using
as the denominator in respect of each fiscal year the average
of net fixed assets in service at the beginning and at the end
of each such year and as the numerator the Authority's operating
income from water supply and sewerage operations for that same
year.
00i)        The term   "net fixed assets" shall mean the gross value of such
assets in service less accumulated depreciation, all determined
in accordance with sound methods of valuation, revaluation and
depreciation acceptable to the Association.
(iii)       The term "operating income" shall mean the difference between:
(A)   gross revenues from water supply and sewerage plus other
recurring fees and charges associated with water supply
and sewerage; and


﻿8
(B)   the operating and administrative expenses, including
maintenance and repairs, depreciation of all fixed assets
in service and taxes but before interest and other charges
on debt.
(b)   The provisions of paragraph (a) above supercede those set forth in
Section 4.04 of the Project Agreement (Sana'a Water Supply Project) dated
March 4, 1974 between the Association and the Authority.
ARTICLE V
Effective Date; Termination;
Cancellation and Suspension
Section 5.01. This Agreement shall come into force and effect on the date
upon which the Development Credit Agreement becomes effective.
Section 5.02. (a) This Agreement and all obligations of the Association and
of the Authority thereunder shall terminate on the earlier of the following two
dates:
(i)         the date on which the Development Credit Agreement shall
terminate in accordance with its terms; or
(ii)        a date twenty years after the date of this Agreement.
(b)   If the Development Credit Agreement terminates in accordance with
its terms before the date specified in paragraph (a)(ii) of this Section, the
Association shall promptly notify the Authority of this event.
Section 5.03. All the provisions of this Agreement shall continue in full force
and effect notwithstanding any cancellation or suspension under the Development
Credit Agreement.
ARTICLE VI
Miscellaneous Provisions
Section 6.01. Any notice or request required or permitted to be given or
made under this Agreement and any agreement between the parties contemplated
by this Agreement shall be in writing. Such notice or request shall be deemed


﻿9
to have been duly given or made when it shall be delivered by hand or by mail,
telegram, cable, telex or radiogram to the party to which it is required or permitted
to be given or made at such party's address hereinafter specified or at such other
address as such party shall have designated by notice to the party giving such
notice or making such request. The addresses so specified are:
For the Association:
International Development Association
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America
Cable address:
INDEVAS
Washington, D.C.
For the Authority:
National Water and Sewerage Authority
Sana'a
Yemen Arab Republic
Cable address:
NAWAS
Sana'a
Section 6.02. Any action required or permitted to be taken, and any
documents required or permitted to be executed, under this Agreement on behalf
of the Authority may be taken or executed by the Director General of the
Authority or such other person or persons as the Director General shall designate
in writing.
Section 6.03. The Authority shall furnish to the Association sufficient
evidence of the authority and the authenticated specimen signature of the person
or persons who will, on behalf of the Authority, take any action or execute any
documents required or permitted to be taken or executed by the Authority pursuant
to any of the provisions of this Agreement.


﻿10
Section 6.04. This Agreement may be executed in several counterparts, each
of which shall be an original, and all collectively but one instrument.
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their
representatives thereunto duly authorized, have caused this Agreement to be signed
in their respective names in the District of Columbia, United States of America,
as of the day and year first above written.
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
By /s / Willi A. Wapenhans
Acting Regional Vice President
Europe, Middle East and North Africa
NATIONAL WATER AND SEWERAGE AUTHORITY
By /s / Ahmad Zabarah
Authorized Representative


﻿11
SCHEDULE
Procurement
A.    General Procedures
1.   Except as provided in Part A.2 hereof, contracts shall be let under procedures
consistent with those set forth in the "Guidelines for Procurement under World
Bank Loans and IDA Credits" published by the Bank in April 1972, as revised
in October 1972 (hereinafter called the Guidelines), on the basis of international
competitive bidding.
2.    Contracts for maintenance and supply of equipment costing less than
YR100,000 shall be let on the basis of competitive bidding advertised locally and
in accordance with usual procedures of the Authority, provided that the aggregate
of such contracts shall not exceed YRI,000,000.
B.    Evaluation and Comparison of Bics fbr Goods, Prefrence fbr Domestic
Manufacturers
1.    For the purpose of evaluation and comparison of bids for the supply of
goods: (i) bidders shall be required to state in their bid the c.i.f. (port of entry)
price for imported goods, or the ex-factory price for domestically-manufactured
goods; (ii) customs duties and other import taxes on imported goods, and sales
and similar taxes on domestically-supplied goods, shall be excluded; and (iii) the
cost to the Authority of inland freight and other expenditures incidental to the
delivery of goods to the place of their use or installation shall be included.
2.    Goods manufactured in the Yemen Arab Republic may be granted a margin
of preference in accordance with, and subject to, the following provisions:
(a)   All bidding documents for the procurement of goods shall clearly
indicate any preference which will be granted, the information required to establish
the eligibility of a bid for such preference and the following methods and stages
that will be followed in the evaluation and comparison of bids.
(b)   After evaluation, responsive bids will be classified in one of the
following three groups:
(1)   Group A: bids offering goods manufactured in the Yemen Arab
Republic if the bidder shall have established to the satisfaction
of the Authority and the Association that the manufacturing


﻿12
cost of such goods includes a value added in the Yemen Arab
Republic equal to at least 20% of the ex-factory bid price of
such goods.
(2) Group B: all other bids offering goods manufactured in the
Yemen Arab Republic.
(3)   Group C: bids offering any other goods.
(c)   All evaluated bids in each group shall be first compared among
themselves, excluding any customs duties and other import taxes on goods to be
imported and any sales or similar taxes on goods to be supplied domestically, to
determine the lowest evaluated bid of each group. Such lowest evaluated bids shall
then be compared with each other, and if, as a result of this comparison, a bid
from group A or group B is the lowest, it shall be selected for the award.
(d)   If, as a result of the comparison under paragraph (c) above, the lowest
bid is a bid from group C, all group C bids shall be further compared with the
lowest evaluated bid from group A after adding to the c.i.f. bid price of the
imported goods offered in each group C bid, for the purpose of this further
comparison only, an amount equal to (i) the amount of customs duties and other
import taxes which a non-exempt importer would have to pay for the importation
of the goods offered in such group C bid, or (ii) 15% of the c.i.f. bid price of
such goods if said customs duties and taxes exceed 1 5% of such price. If the group
A bia in such further comparison is the lowest, it shall be selected for the award;
if not, the bid from group C which as a result of the comparison Under paragraph
(c) is the lowest evaluated bid shall be selected.
C.    Reiievw of Procurement Decisions N. Association
1.    With respect to all contracts for the supply of equipment and pipes estimated
to cost the equivalent of YR100,000 or more and for civil works estimated to
cost the equivalent of YR500,000 or more:
(a)   Before bids are invited, the Authority shall furnish to the Association,
for its comments, the text of the invitations to bid and the specifications and
other bidding documents, together with a description of the advertising procedures
to be followed for the bidding, and shall make such Iodifications in the said
documents or procedures as the Association shall reasonably request. Any further
modification to the bidding documents shall require the Association's concurrence
before it is issued to the prospective bidders.


﻿13
(b)   After bids have been received and evaluated, the Authority shall, before
a final decision on the award is made, inform the Association of the name of
the bidder to which it intends to award the contract and the reasons for the
intended award and shall furnish to the Association, in sufficient time for its review,
a detailed report, by the consultants referred to in Section 2.02 of this Agreement,
on the evaluation and comparison of the bids received, together with the
recommendation for award of the said consultants and such other information as
the Association shall reasonably request. The Association shall, if it determines
that the intended award would be inconsistent with the Guidelines or this Schedule,
promptly inform   the Authority and state the reasons for such determination.
(c)   The terms and conditions of the contract shall not, without the
Association's concurrence, materially differ from those on which bids were asked
or prequalification invited.
(d)   Two conformed copies of the contract shall be furnished to the
Association promptly after its execution and prior to the submission to the
Association of the first application for withdrawal of funds from the Credit Account
in respect of such contract.
2.    With respect to each contract to be financed out of the proceeds of the
Credit and not governed by the preceding paragraph, the Authority shall furnish
to the Association, promptly after its execution and prior to the submission to
the Association of the first application for withdrawal of funds from the Credit
Account in respect of such contract, two conformed copies of such contract,
together with the analysis of bids, recommendations for award and such other
information as the Association shall reasonably request. The Association shall, if
it determines that the award of the contract was not consistent with the Guidelines
or this Schedule, promptly inform the Authority and state the reasons for such
determination.


