Document of
The World Bank
Report No: 17788-MAG
PROJECT APPRAISAL DOCUMENT
ONA
PROPOSED CREDIT
IN THE AMOUNT OF SDR 3.8 MILLION (US$5.0 MILLION EQuJIVALENT)
TO THE
REPUBLIC OF MADAGASCAR
FOR A
MINING SECTOR REFORM PROJECT
JUNE 2, 1998
Private Sector Finance (AFTP1)
Comoros, Madagascar, Mauritius, Seychelles, Djibouti (AFC08)
Africa Region (AFR)



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
(Exchange Rate Effective June 2, 1998)
Currency Unit = Malagasy Franc (FMG)
US$ 1.00 = FMG5442.63
FISCAL YEAR
January 1 - December 31
ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS
CAS         Country Assistance Strategy
DCPE        Document Cadre de Politique Economique (Policy Framework Paper)
DG          General Directorate of Mines
DCA         Development Credit Agreement
EIS         Environmental Information System
EIS         Environmental Impact Statement
GIS         Geographical Information System
ICR         Implementation Completion Report
MEM         Ministry of Energy and Mines
NGO         Non Governmental Organization
OMNIS       Office des Mines Nationales et des Industries Strategiques
PAD         Project Appraisal Document
PATESP      Private Sector Development and Capacity Building Project
PMIs        Public Mining Institutions
SIGM        Geological and Mining Information System
TA          Technical Assistance
UCP         Project Coordinating Unit
Vice President:   Mr Callisto Madavo
Country Director:   Mr Michael Sarris
Sector Manager:    Mr Thomas Allen
Task Team Leader:  Mr Paulo de Sa



REPUBLIC OF MADAGASCAR
MINING SECTOR REFORM PROJECT
CONTENTS                                                                         Page No.
A. Project Development Objective ................................................................2
1. Project development objective and key performance indicators ...............................                                                                           2
B. Strategic Context .................................................................3
1. Sector-related CAS goal supported by the project .....................................................                                                                 3
2. Main sector issues and Government strategy .............................................................                                                               5
3. Sector issues to be addressed by the project and strategic choices .............................                                                                       7
C. Project Description Summary .................................................................9
1. Project components .................................................................9
2. Key policy and institutional reforms supported by the project ..................................   10
3. Benefits and target population ................................................................                                                                       11
4. Institutional and implementation arrangements .........................................................   11
D. Project Rationale ................................................................                                                                                            12
1. Project alternatives considered and reasons for rejection ...........................................   12
2. Major related projects financed by the Bank and/or other development agencies .....  13
3. Lessons learned and reflected in proposed project design .........................................   13
4. Indications of borrower commitment and ownership .................................................   14
5. Value added of Bank support in this project .............................................................                                                            14
E. Summary Project Analyses ................................................................                                                                                    14
1. Economic ................................................................                                                                                            14
2. Financial ................................................................                                                                                            15
3. Technical ................................................................                                                                                           15
4. Institutional ................................................................                                                                                       15
5. Social ................................................................                                                                                              15
6. Environmental assessment ................................................................                                                                            16
7. Participatory approach ................................................................                                                                              16
F. Sustainability and Risks ................................................................                                                                                    16
1. Sustainability .............................................................                                                                                         16
2. Critical risks .............................................................                                                                                         17
3. Possible controversial aspects .............................................................                                                                         17



G. Main Loan Conditions .................................................................    18
1. Effectiveness conditions ..................                                                                         18
2. Other ............................................................                                                  18
H. Readiness for Implementation ................................................................                             18
I. Compliance with Bank Policies ................................................................                            19
Annexes
Annex I Project Design Summary .20
Annex 2. Detailed Project Description .22
Annex 3. Estimated Project Costs .27
Annex 4. Economic and Financial Assessment Summary .29
Annex 5. Financial Summary.                                                                                                 3 1
Annex 6. Procurement and Disbursement Arrangements .32
Table A - Project Costs by Procurement Arrangements .34
Table Al .- Consultant Selection Arrangements .35
Table B.- .Thresholds for Procurement Methods and Prior Review                                              36
Table C.-  Allocation of Loan Proceeds ........................................................              37
Annex 7.    Project Processing Budget and Schedule ........................................................                  38
Annex 8.    Documents in Project File ........................................................                               39
Annex 9.   Table 1- Statement of Loans and Credits .............................................                             40
Table 2- Madagascar Statement of IFC's .............................................                         41
Annex 10  Country at a Glance .............................................                                                  42
Additional Annex: Mining Sector Policy.Letter (May 28, 1998) ........................................                        44
Map



Project Appraisal Document               Page I                                 Mining Sector Reform
Country: Madagascar                                                       Learning and Innovation Loan
REPUBLIC OF MADAGASCAR
MINING SECTOR REFORM PROJECT
Project Appraisal Document
Africa Region
Comoros, Madagascar, Mauritius, Seychelles, Djibouti (AFC08)
Date: June 2, 1998                                   Task Team Leader: Paulo de Sa
Country Director: Michael Sarris                     Sector Manager: Thomas W. Allen
Project ID: MG-PE-56487  Sector: Mining              Program Objective Category: Private Sector Development
Lending Instrument: Learning and Innovation Loan     Program of Targeted Intervention:  [ ] Yes [X] No
Project Financing Data                  [  Loan    [X ] Credit       [] Guarantee    [  Other
[Specify]
For Loans/Credits/Others:
Amount (SDRm): 3.8 (US$5.Om equivalent)
Proposed terms: standard IDA             [X] Multicurrency      [ ]  Single currency, specify
Grace period (years): 10         []  Standard Variable  [ ] Fixed          []   LIBOR-based
Years to maturity: 40
Commitment charge: 0.0 - 0.5%
Service charge: 0.75%
Financing plan (US$m):
Source                              Local            Foreign           Total
Government                                                     0.35                               0.35
IDA                                                            1.40               3.60            5.00
Cooperation Francaise (parallel financing)                     -                  2.40            2.40
Total           1.75              5.00            7.75
Borrower: Republic of Madagascar
Guarantor: N/A
Responsible agency(ies): Ministry of Energy and Mines
Estimated disbursements (Bank FY/US$M):      1999       2000      2001
Annual      0.8        2.5        1.7
Cumulative      0.8        3.3        5.0
Retroactive financing of up to SDRO.2 million (US$0.25 million equivalent; about 5% of the Credit amount) for eligible
expenditures incurred after January 1, 1998.
Project implementation period: 3 years  Expected effectiveness date: 9/30/98    Expected closing date: 3/31/2002
OSD PAD Form: July 30,1997



Project Appraisal Document                   Page 2                      Mining Sector Reform
Country: Madagascar                                                Leaming and Innovation Loan
A: Project Development Objective
1. Project development objective and key performance indicators (see Annex 1):
The broad objective of the proposed project is to significantly increase investment and growth in
Madagascar's minin1g sector. More precisely, its Development Objective is to help the Government of
Madagascar address key needs (policy, institutional, environmental) in the mining sector, through a set of
prerequisite steps that will lay the ground for future private investment and whose implementation will
provide a training ground for Madagascar in exploiting, over the long term and in a developmentally
sound manner, the significant potential of its natural resources. The proposed project aims to: (a)
complete sector reforms ained at establishing an enabling environment to both promote foreign direct
investment in mining and integrate small-scale and artisanal activities into the formal economy, which
would ensure a real and sustainable contribution to economic growth; (b) build institutional capacity to
effectively enforce laws and regulations, administer mining titles, monitor sector developments, and make
geological information available to potential investors; (c) establish capacity in the country, by means of
pilot projects, to identify and address environmental as well as social impacts from mining; and (d)
identify and adopt appropriate mechanisms to facilitate the development of small-scale mines and to
improve the social, welfare, health and environmental conditions of artisanal miners.
The project has been designed to provide a solid learning ground for the country, the Bank, and investors
with respect to the minini1g sector but also for doing business in other sectors. Learning will relate to: the
process of negotiating contracts, including interface between public and private sectors and communities;
dealing with foreign investors, meeting investor needs; understanding cross-sectoral dynamics in the
context of regional development, and establishing effective inter-relationships with Environment
agencies; conducting baseline environmental studies and social assessments prior to introducing mining
operations in an area; and understanding better the issues involved in mainstreaming small-scale miners,
including those related to environimental and fiscal impact. Valuable lessons for other sectors, especially
tourism and fisheries, are also expected from the LIL. Mining sector experience could be especially
helpful in learning h1ow to administer the cadastre, with lessons for allocating beach sites and managing
fishing rights, and overall, hiow to facilitate investments.
Key indicators:
1) Encourage Private Investment in Mining:
(a)       Sustained average annual investments in mining would increase from US$10 million
currently to $85 million between 2000 and 2010, assuming no new major discoveries and realization
of one of the two large mining projects being considered. In the high-case scenario (good policies,
strong export demand), investment could reach US$200 million.
(b)       Sustained average annual minerals exports would increase from US$20 million (1996) to
about US$500 million in 2010
Principal output indicators:
- Cadastral backlog reduced by 80%, 12 months AE
- Cadastral management system operational 24 months AE
- OMNIS mining titles sold or returned to public domain 18 months AE
2) Increase fiscal revenues: The project will help strengthen tax assessment and collection procedures
for statutory royalties, license fees, income, dividend, and other direct and indirect taxes. The



Project Appraisal Document                   Page 3                     Mining Sector Reform
Country: Madagascar                                               Learning and Innovation Loan
objective is to increase fiscal revenues from mining from around US$2 million today to US$80
million by 2010.
3) Set the base for the creation of an Environmental and Social Management for Mining:
(a) Pilot baseline studies and environmental audits available 36 months AE
(b) Application of consultative processes at EoP
Principal output indicators:
- Environmental baseline data in selected pilot areas available 36 months AE
- Consultative procedures implemented at EoP
- Environmental monitoring system operational 36 months AE
4) Mainstream small-scale mining into the formal economy:
Increase reported production of gold and gemstones by small-scale miners from about $5 million in
1996 to $40 million by 2010.
5) Improve technical and environmental practices by small-scale miners:
Decrease by 50% the area covered by existing claims that have not reported activity or do not comply
with the law, 36 months AE.
6) Improve Geological and Mining Information System
Output indicators: Geological and Mining Information System (SIGM) operational and available to
potential investors, 24 months AE.
B: Strategic Context
1. Sector-related Country Assistance Strategy (CAS) goal supported by the project (see Annex 1):
CAS document number: 16249-MAG - Date of latest CAS discussion: February 18, 1997
Since 1996, the Government of Madagascar has been implementing a wide range of policy, economic and
sectoral reforms under its structural adjustment program. The 1997 Country Assistance Strategy (CAS)
emphasizes several themes to carry forward the reform program needed for poverty alleviation and
sustained growth. The proposed project supports the following CAS objectives:
(i)  Poverty Reduction and Human Capital Development: the project would improve the conditions to
develop private sector-led mining activities especially in regions where mining is one of the few feasible
options for economic activity, and help increase income-generating opportunities in the medium term,
either at the mine sites or as a spin-off effect within the region (see for example the QIT case in the Fort-
Dauphin area). The socio-economic program included in the project would help optimize the benefits
from mining activities to local communities over a long-term horizon.
(ii) Broad-based growth led by private, foreign investment: foreign-led private sector investment in
mining be instrumental in opening up the economy to investment and competition, effectively supporting
macroeconomic stability and structural reform. The project will contribute to unlocking the country's
good geological potential through enhanced access to foreign technology and financing, while promoting
the development of sound small-scale mining practices and their integration in the formal economy.
(iii) Strengthening of Public Sector in its new role and improving the performance and institutional
capacity of government to deliver key social, infrastructure and environmental services: the project will
allocate most of the resources for institutional development to public mining institutions, including
particularly the environmental protection agencies, as a basis for the sound and sustainable development
of the mining industry. This includes improved administration, rationalization of staff and divestiture of
remaining state provincial interests in mining. The project will help widen and deepen reform, and better



Project Appraisal Document                            Page 4                           Mining Sector Reform
Country: Madagascar                                                             Learning and Innovation Loan
link federal and provincial sector activities. In addition, it will help establish environmental safeguards in
selected pilot areas and support the sustainable development of the mining sector. Environmental baseline
studies would also help improve management of renewable natural resources.
The table below highlights the links between the project's development objectives, its learning aspects
and performance indicators:
Objectives     Component         Learning aspects           Indicators/Outputs          Monitoring and
evaluation
Develop and test Normalization  Develop and test capacities   - Increased formal sector share   - Midterm review
Integrated      of small-scale  and procedures to implement of small scale mining as   (MTR), Implementation
Approach to     mining         management of small scale   reflected by increased reported   Completion Report
mainstreaming                  mining activities in selected   production of gold/gemstones   (ICR) and continued
small-scale                    locations which will, in an   by small-scale miners     monitoring by an
miners, and                    integrated manner:        -- reduced area covered by    independant consultant.
Mining                         (i) provide technical advice,  claims that don't report activity   - Statistical data.
Directorate                    geological information and   and/or comply with law     - Follow-up studies
capacity to                    extension services to small   -- small scale miners actively    testing a better
provide                        scale miners;              using gemstone cutting facility   understanding of legal
extension                      (ii) monitor performance of   and lab services          framework by
services                       small scale miners and     - environmental/social       communities.
(through pilots                improve compliance with    assessments, surveys and audits  - Environmental audits
in selected                    environmental rules,      indicate reduced environmental  and social impact
areas)                         (iii) improve tax collection   harm and increased incomes for  surveys showing reduced
procedures regarding small-  communities from small-scale   damages on environment
scale mining              mining                        by small-scale miners.
(iv) develop and test commu- -- increased sector fees from  - Surveys on
nication campaign to support small scale mining and tax  unemployement rate in
participatory approaches to   collections in mining districts.   small-scale mining
implement reformed regula-  -- Promotional materials    regions (by comparison
tory framework including  prepared and distributed      with results from base
interface between community  - Surveys indicate improved  line studies).
/public/ private sectors  community understanding of
legal framework
Develop and test Environmentai Pilot work to develop and  - Environmental Monitoring.    - MTR, ICR and
methodologies   Information    test                       System operational.          continued monitoring by
and capacity to   System-EIS/   (i) methodologies for     - Baseline data and studies in    an independant
conduct         Sector         envt./social assessment of    selected areas.           consultant and by MEM
environmental/  Environmental  mining;                    - Environmental audits in     Environmental Unit.
social          Control and    (ii) capacities to assess,  selected areas.             - Statistical data.
assessment      Assessment    monitor and follow-up       - Procedures for EIS for small-   - Reports on social
(through pilots                environmental/             scale mines defined.         studies, environmental
in selected                    economic/social impact of    - Procedures for the systematic  audits and base line
areas)                         mining on communities; (iii)  application of consultative  information.
participatory approaches  processes defined and         - Communities impact
with communities regarding  implemented.                surveys.
impacts and spin-off benefits.                          - Systematic application
of consultative processes
Develop         Institutional    Develop State capacity to  - New sector institutional set-up  - Quaterly and annual
institutional   Reform and    implement its new role as    - Mining cadastre management  technical performance
capacity in     Capacity       sector regulator/promoter    system operational.        reviews, MTR and ICR.
preparation for  Building      (not operator) including   - No mining titles backlog and   - Statistical data.
forthcoming                    (i) coordinating environment no delays in the processing of    - Monitoring of the
large-scale                    monitoring /enforcement w/  applications.               Mining Cadastre
mining                         other gov. agencies and    - Cadastre management        registers by an
operations                     autonomous provinces;      experiences transferred to   independant consultant.
(ii) oversee small-scale mines another sector.          - Periodic reports from
integration w/ national   - Effective inter-agencies/  the Mining Cadastre.
economy;                  ministeries and centre /local



Project Appraisal Document                        Page 5                        Mining Sector Reform
Country: Madagascar                                                      Learning and Innovation Loan
Objectives    Component        Learning aspects        Indicators/Outputs        Monitoring and
evaluation
(iii) non-discretionary  coordination on environmental
granting of mining titles;    matters.
(iv) contracts negotiations    - Geological and Mining
with foreign investors  Information System operational.
- State and OMNIS mining titles
The sector governmental    relinquished.
institutions develop their    - Negotiation of at least one new
capacity to provide timely,   mining investment project
reliable and transparent  according to the new Investment
administrative services.  Agreement Model.
- Increased exploration
expenditures and mining
investments.
- Increased minerals exports and
inceased contribution of mining
to GDP and State budget
2. Main sector issues and Government strategy:
Sector Background. Madagascar is known to contain an extremely diverse suite of minerals, as it
represents a structural extension of the mineral provinces of Southein Africa. Nevertheless, the country's
geological potential can still be classified as vastly unknown due to the paucity of continued high-quality
exploration activity. Chromite and graphite are the most significant minerals produced in Madagascar. In
1975, Government nationalized all mineral resources, with the exception of graphite and mica. Mining
parastatals include chromite producer KRAOMA and two others that produce industrial minerals. Most
small-scale mining, focused on gold and gemstones, has taken place in the informal sector and production
has been smuggled out of the country. Some 1,500 persons are directly employed in the formal industrial
sector while as many as 50,000 to 100,000 derive at least a part of their income from small-scale mining.
Two recently discovered world-class deposits confirm Madagascar's mining potential and have attracted
the interest of two major mining companies: (a) QIT-Fer et Titane Inc. (QIT), a subsidiary of UK-based
Rio Tinto Corporation has conducted extensive studies on a proposed mining project for titanium mineral
sands in southern Madagascar since 1987. The capital cost (first phase, including for infrastructure) is
estimated at US$ 500 million. Total annual export revenues are estimated at US$80 million (and US$
150 million in the second phase), with direct permanent employment expected to reach 500. A Mining
Agreement was signed in 1997 and ratified by Parliament in February 1988. A comprehensive
social/environmental review process (including elaboration of a Regional Development Plan) will
precede mining works. (b) After conducting technical, financial and environmental studies, Phelps
Dodge started negotiations with Government in December 1997 for a mining agreement to develop
nickel-cobalt deposits at Moramanga. Estimated capital costs exceed US$ 500 million, which would
make it the largest ever private investment in Madagascar. Total annual export revenues are estimated at
US$ 300 million.
Given weak domestic savings and access to mining technology, only private foreign investment could
finance large-scale mining in Madagascar. However, foreign investments have yet to materialize because
of continued state intervention in the sector, cumbersome regulations, and the lack of incentives for
developing mining operations on an industrial scale. Serious institutional problems include overlapping
mandates and responsibilities, inadequate definition of functions, conflicts of interest, and political
interference in administrative and technical work. Private small-scale mining remains dynamic in
Madagascar, but the continued spread of informal activity and the concomitant tax evasion severely
undermine the technical and environmental performance of small mining companies.
Government Policy and Strategy. The Government's economic reform program calls inter alia for
liberalization of the mining sector through withdrawal of the State as an operator of mining assets, and the



Project Appraisal Document                     Page 6                       Mining Sector Reform
Country: Madagascar                                                   Learning and Innovation Loan
implementation of a strategy to encourage a private-sector led mining industry. The Government's medium-
term strategy for the sector as agreed with the Bank and IMF in the 1996-99 Policy Framework Paper (PFP)
/ DCPE (Document Cadre de Politique Economique) has the following elements: (i) definition and
enforcement of revised norms and regulations (Mining Code and Investment Regime); (ii) improvement of
the administration of mining rights (Cadastre); (iii) redefinition of the role and status of OMNIS (Office des
Mines Nationales et des Industries Strategiques); (iv) establishment of a database of reliable technical
information; (iv) promotion of small-scale mining through joint ventures with experienced partners; (v)
privatization of the parastatals of the sector; and (vi) administration at the local level of mining rights for
small concessions under a decentralized regime and promotion of participatory approach in local
communities. The 1998-2000 PFP, currently being drafted, also calls for the preparation and adoption of
application decrees of the proposed new Mining Code.
As a result of previous State intervention in the development of mineral resources in Madagascar, the
Government is still directly involved in mining projects and, through OMNIS, controls the most
promising mining rights. The complex structure of the mining concession management system (the
mining cadastre) and the weakness of Government institutions have resulted in a situation whereby
prospective areas are being tied up for many years without any productive work being performed. In
addition, the regulatory framework of the sector does not provide a favorable environment to attract new
investments: in the absence of clear rules, mining companies have found little security for their mining
rights and faced huge difficulties in doing business in the country. On the fiscal side, the overall tax
regime is complex and cumbersome and represents a strong handicap for the competitiveness of the
country's mining operations.
The Government is already taking steps aimed at attracting private investment to the sector. It has
recently decided to redefine its role in the promotion of minerals development in Madagascar,
renouncing future State participation in commercial activities and any request for mandatory participation
in new ventures. Proper mineral legislation and competitive tax regimes are under preparation, with
Bank's assistance, but will be of value in attracting investors only if administered in a professional and
transparent manner by an appropriate supervisory institution. The institutional structure in charge of the
sector remains inadequate and unfocussed, with a notable lack of inter-institutional cooperation and
frequent duplication of effort. After several years of budgetary reductions, Government institutions lack
the human and financial resources to enforce the law, especially in the context of decentralization. Many
of their critical sector support activities such as the licensing and administrations of mineral rights,
provision of technical assistance to small-scale miners, and monitoring and enforcement of
environmental, health and safety regulations have virtually ceased. No geological surveying work has
been done for a considerable time and there is a resulting lack of technical data available to investors.
Government institutions need to be restructured in order to use the most skilled people, and trained to
perform their new mandates.
Preparation for mining sector reform started under the Private Sector Development and Capacity Building
Project (PATESP). PATESP has helped the government to prepare a sector policy declaration, and is
funding the carrying out of an Institutional Audit (including the setting-up of the minerals Registry
System - Mining Cadastre) as well as the drafting of a new Mining Code. The present mining law is
focused on small-scale mining, leaving uncertain the treatment of large industrial investments. The draft
new Mining Code is designed to reduce the discretionary power of Government, increase transparency,
and provide adequate security to potential investors. Its main contribution will be thereby to attract two
or three major industrial investments into the sector, and to mainstream small-scale mining in the formal
economy, namely for gold and gemstones.
The mining sector policy and strategy is modem and follows international best practices, and has been
approved by the Government on May 28, 19981. This policy is in conformity with the current economic
I             The official endorsement by the Government and presentation to the World Bank of the Mining



Project Appraisal Document                     Page 7                       Mining Sector Reform
Country: Madagascar                                                   Learning and Innovation Loan
reform program and sends the right signals to investors, clearly defining the respective roles of the State
and of the private sector, including their rights and obligations. It includes inter alia the following
commitments: (i) reform of the legal and regulatory framework; (ii) reform of the public mining
institutions, restricting the role of the State to that of a regulator, including the release or transfer of state-
controlled mining rights not bound by valid former agreements with third parties; as well as the
establishment of a proper mining cadastre and strengthening of the mining environmental office; and (iii),
reform of the public gold agencies ("Filiere Or") into a sector promotion and information entity.
A transparent framework with well defined rules of the game will also reduce the overall suspicion
regarding foreign investment. The proposed Mining Sector Reform project will help the Government to
implement this strategy and will provide the necessary financial and technical resources for sector reform
3. Sector issues to be addressed by the project and strategic choices:
The main issues to be addressed by the proposed Project are: (i) creating an enabling environment for
private sector-led mining development; and (ii) improving and modernizing the capacity of Government
institutions to enforce the law, negotiate large mining projects with foreign investors and integrate small-
scale miners into the formal economy. The Project will help government: (i) adapt mining sector policy
to recent economic reforms emphasizing growth led by private (and foreign) investment, through the
design and implementation of a mining sector reform policy and strategy clearly defining the respective
roles, rights and obligations of the State and of the private sector; (ii) restructure Government institutions,
based on: a clear definition of objectives and scope of activity; redefinition of the mandates and statutes
of OMNIS to transform it into a sector promotion organization providing a good base of sound geological
information; consolidation of an environmental group within the Ministry to develop environmental
baseline information and ensure that mining operations are conducted in compliance with sound
environmental practices; and preparation and implementation of a program which provides adequate
human resources, financial and logistical means to guarantee proper and efficient execution of the
Government functions, including enforcement of law; (iii) establish proper computer-based cadastre and
mine-reporting systems as well as explicit criteria and non-discretionary procedures for the granting and
foreclosing of mining rights; (iv) provide for the compilation, treatment, and updating of geological
information, and its integration into a computerized database to be made readily available to potential
investors. In addition, pilot projects will be financed in order to: (v) develop baseline environmental data,
implement adequate procedures and guidelines for the preparation of environmental impact studies in
mining, conduct environmental audits in selected areas, define sector specific environmental regulations
and standards, including the procedures for the rehabilitation of the area after mine closure, develop
health and safety provisions, and enhance the Ministry of Mines monitoring capacity; and (vi) support an
integrated management and technical assistance program that could achieve a "win-win" situation of
enhancing technical yields, reducing the current serious adverse impact on the environment, and
substantially increasing tax revenues.
Pilots will likely include three for environmental assessment and two for social impact assessment
(projects to be selected during appraisal). The reform agenda is quite comprehensive and ambitious,
considering the current state of the sector in Madagascar, especially in terms of the informality of most
small-scale mining operations and the disorganization of Public Mining Institutions (PMIs). Foreign
direct investment is essential to unlock the sector's potential, and two large foreign investments (which
would represent the two largest private investments ever in the country) are at an advanced stage of
preparation. Mining could thus be a pioneer sector for further foreign investment in the country, and
lessons learned during the negotiating of contracts and in the process of creating an enabling environment
for foreign investment could be later put into use for other sectors such as tourism and fisheries. Because
foreign investment will not materialize unless PMls are able to efficiently administer and manage the
Sector Policy Letter represent a condition for presentation of the project loan documents to the Board.



Project Appraisal Document                     Page 8                       Mining Sector Reform
Country: Madagascar                                                   Learning and Innovation Loan
sector, a strategic decision was taken to use an integrated approach to sector reform and develop pilot
projects in selected areas to test Government commitment and PMI capacity to implement it. These pilot
projects -- to do environmental baseline studies and audits, provide integrated technical assistance to
small-scale miners, and assess social impact of mining projects and participatory approaches -- will assist
Government and the Bank in defining with more precision future needs for the sector.



Project Appraisal Document                       Page 9                        Mining Sector Refonn
Country: Madagascar                                                     Learning and Innovation Loan
C: Project Description Summary
1. Project components (see Annex 2for a detailed description and Annex 3for a detailed cost
breakdown):
Component                 Categoiy       Cost Incl.    % of      Bank-        % of
Contingencies   Total   financing    Bank-
(US$M)                (US$M)   financing
A. - Policy Implementation
A. I - Normalization of Small-Scale  Institution-         3.10      40.0        0.95       19.0
Mining: support an integrated       building,
management and technical assistance    Physical
program in selected areas to enhance
technical yields, reduce the current
serious adverse impact on the
environment, and increase tax
revenues; support the Mining
Directorate to design and deliver
technical advice, geology information,
and extension services to small-scale
miners; strengthen the minerals
laboratory, and support the creation of
a cutting center.
A.2 - Environmental Information     Institution-          0.95       12.3       0.95       19.0
System/ Sector Environmental Control  building,
and Assessment: (i) carry out       Physical
environmental baseline studies over
selected mining and potential mining
districts; (ii) strengthen the capacity of
the Mining Environmental
Management Unit for the monitoring
and enforcement of environmental
regulations, and the setting up of
procedures for the processing of
Environmental Impact Statements in
mining; (iii) carry out socio-economic
baseline studies over selected mining
districts as a basis for development of
methodology and capacity to assess and
monitor social, cultural and economic
impacts of mining on local
communities, and develop consultation
and participatory procedures; and (iv)
develop a Environmental Information
and Management System (EIMS). It
includes: training of staff in
environmental and socio-economic
management related to mining;
provision of infrastructure, field and
data processing (hardware and
software) equipment
A.3 - Institutional Reform and Capacity  Institution-     3.00      38.7        2.50       50.0
Building:                           building,
(i) Reform and strengthen the public  Physical
mining agencies, based on the



Project Appraisal Document                      Page 10                       Mining Sector Reform
Country: Madagascar                                                     Learning and Innovation Loan
institutional model developed under the
PATESP. This includes: organization
and staffing of key administrative units,
setting-up of efficient work procedures;
training of staff, provision of adequate
office and field equipment; and
rehabilitation of facilities.
(ii) communication campaign
(following passage of code expected in
9/98),both to promote wide
understanding and acceptance of
reforms (including among entrenched
interests) and to attract external
investors to the country's mining
sector; promotion material; seminars;
and legal advice.
(iii) Mining Cadastre and Registry
System: establish proper computer
based cadastre and registering
procedures, and clear up the backlog of
pending concession applications.
(iv) Geological and Mining
Information System: development of a
data base, providing for the
compilation, catalogation, treatment,
and updating of geological information.
This includes: purchase of information,
provision of hardware and software,
connection to Internet; creation of a
data room; training of staff.
B. Project Coordination. A Project  Project              0.70        9.0       0.60       12.0
Coordinating Unit (PCU) will be    Management
responsible for the implementation of
the project and will be strengthened
accordingly. The PCU will monitor,
supervise and provide management
control for all components and for the
overall Project. The PCU will manage
procurement, including all contracting
for works and purchases, and the hiring
of consultants, the contractual
relationship with the Bank and the
project's overall administration and
accounting.
Total          7.75     100         5.00      100
2. Key policy and institutional reforms supported by the project:
Policy reform. The Project will help the government (i) create an enabling environment for an
economically, socially and environmentally sound development of the sector; and (ii) strengthen its
capacity as a regulator - in a transparent and non-discretionary manner - of mining activities.
Institutional reform. The new role of the public mining institutions (PMIs) is being defined in detail under
the Private Sector Development and Capacity Building Project (PATESP), including the respective role



Project Appraisal Document                   Page 11                     Mining Sector Reform
Country: Madagascar                                                Learning and Innovation Loan
of the public and the private sectors as well as inter-institutional relationships and mandates. The
institutional reform will be implemented in the context of this project.
3. Benefits and target population:
Benefits:
The following benefits are expected:
(i) induced by the project: (a) Increased foreign and local direct investment in mining projects and
increased export revenues; (b) development of capacity in private services to the mining industry, such as
exploration and drilling services, environmental impact studies, laboratories, mining construction works
and earth removal, maintenance and others; (c) development of infrastructure related to mining and with a
regional development impact (e.g. roads, energy); (d) increased income-generating opportunities in areas
with high unemployment, increased education opportunities and reduced migration outflow; (e)
contribution to the decentralization and to a better regional distribution of productive activities; and (f)
sustainable development and fair distribution of benefits for local communities located around mining;
and,
(ii) as a direct result of the project: (a) establishment of a modern, consistent and homogeneous mining
legal and regulatory framework; (b) better understanding of how govemment, private sector, communities
and donors can work together, especially in the context of a large industrial project, dealing with foreign
investors, and the contract negotiations process; (c) improved efficiency in public mining institutions (e.g.
faster and non-discretionary administration of mining rights) and improved understanding of issues
involved in managing such rights, and improved enforcement capacity of environmental, health and
safety regulations; (d) improved security of tenure for mining rights through non-discretionary
procedures and accurate geological location of concessions; (e) improved knowledge of existing
environmental and socio-economic conditions, as a basis for improved management and participation of
local communities; (f) protection of the environment from potential damage caused by mining and a
better grasp of how to design future environmental protection measures in the sector; (g), generation of
baseline regional information that can be used by all sectors (e.g. water resources); and (h) greater
participation in the formal economy by small-scale miners in the targeted areas, with attendant lessons on
how to develop similar programs nationwide.
Target Populations and Sectors:
- Private foreign and local mining investors;
- National and provincial mining authorities; and
- Local communities in mining districts.
- Small-scale miners
4. Institutional and implementation arrangements:
Project implementation period: The Project would be implemented over a period of 3 years. The Project
completion date would be September 30, 2001 and the Credit closing date would be March 31, 2002.
Executing agency: The Ministry of Energy and Mines (MEM) would be responsible for the
implementation of the project.
Implementing agency: The General Directorate of Mines (DG/MEM), through an officially designated
coordinator, will be responsible for the overall implementation of the project. MEM's line units will be
established and/or strengthened to include a Mining Cadastre and Registry unit, an Environmental Affairs



Project Appraisal Document                   Page 12                      Mining Sector Reform
Country: Madagascar                                                Learning and Innovation Loan
Unitl and a Geological and Mining Information System (SIGM).
Project Administration: DG/MEM will maintain and strengthen a Project Coordination Unit (UCP) to (i)
coordinate project implementation, and (ii) manage (a) procurement - including all contracting for works
and purchases - and the hiring of consultants, (b) project monitoring, reporting and evaluation, (c) the
contractual relationship with the Bank, and (d) financial record keeping, the Special Account and
disbursements. The establishment of the UCP is an effectiveness condition.
Accounting, financial reporting and audits: The UCP will contract a private accounting firm to maintain
accounts and process payments. Terms of reference for the firm will be prepared by the Region's
Financial Management expert to ensure adequate attention to financial management issues, including
organizational setup, accounting procedures, internal controls and audit requirements. A summary
financial report would be included in the quarterly progress reports. Project Accounts, the Special
Account and all procurement, including Statements of Expenditure, would be audited annually by
independent auditors satisfactory to the Bank and appointed for three years. Audit reports would be
submitted to the Bank not later than six months after the end of each calendar year. The selection of
auditors represents an effectiveness condition.
Monitoring and Evaluation. Not later than 45 days after each quarter, the UCP will submit to the Bank
quarterly progress reports covering all project activities, including procurement, and a financial summary
report. A Mid-Term Review, 18 months after effectiveness, would provide detailed analysis of
implementation progress towards development objectives, including performance to date on selected
indicators.
D: Project Rationale
1. Project alternatives considered and reasons for rejection:
The project's emphasis is put on reforming the regulatory framework of the mining sector and enhancing
management capacity of public mining institutions to implement reforms. Options which have been
considered include: (a) inclusion of a mining component as a part of a structural adjustment operation,
and (b) implementation of a stand-alone operation on a larger scale after completion of the mining sector
reform activities ongoing under the PATESP.
Option (a) was rejected in part because of timing. Whereas the timing of a prospective SAC is tied to
several factors and therefore uncertain, the need for institutional strengthening to enforce the new Mining
Code is urgent. It was judged that progress in mining, where policy reform has been moving forward,
should not be restrained by slower developments in other sectors. In addition, a SAC, as an instrument to
include activities that go beyond policy reforms, was seen to provide limited flexibility; and it was
believed that, given government commitment, extending Bank assistance beyond policy areas was
warranted, to include sector modernization (e.g., administration of mining rights) and efforts to address
environmental and social concerns, which would generate synergy and contribute importantly to the
sector's overall development.
Rejection of Option (b) mostly reflects the emphasis placed on keeping the scope manageable to ensure
'getting it right' and to facilitate the crucial learning process. Specific considerations were: (i) the low-
level of capacity of sector public institutions in Madagascar to implement at a larger scale some of the
key activities in the proposed projects (environmental audits and baseline studies, that are to be conducted
at a pilot level only); progress made under these activities will be carefully monitored against benchmarks
I             The appointment of the higher level staff of the Environmental Affairs Unit is an effectiveness
condition.



Project Appraisal Document                   Page 13                     Mining Sector Reform
Country: Madagascar                                                Learning and Innovation Loan
to identify at an early stage any eventual difficulties; (ii) the innovative approach used for small-scale
mining, through integrated programs focusing on soft issues like organizational and legal aspects,
management techniques, environmental and social issues, rather than the classic approach focused on
technical matters and equipment supply; this approach is being tested in Bank financed projects in Latin
America, so far with encouraging results, but has not been applied yet in projects in Central and Southern
Africa; considering the role of small-scale mining in Madagascar, the conditions seem adequate to try this
innovative approach in selected areas of the country; and (iii) the fact that, in spite of the commitment to
reform - a critical factor - and political support shown by the new Government, Madagascar still needs to
reestablish the credibility of its economic policies and convince international investors of sustained
economic opening. It is expected that lessons learned in mining in terms of promoting and managing
private sector investments could be used in other sectors of the economy. In the mining sector,
Government's ability to make small-scale and artisanal miners comply with the law will be critical for the
materialization of foreign investment. It is expected however that if the implementation of the project
goes according to schedule, a follow-up operation would be considered focusing on the extension to the
entire country of the success stories achieved under the current LIL.
2. Major related projects financed by the Bank and/or other development agencies (completed, ongoing
and planned):
Sector issue                        Project                Latest Supervision (Form 590)
Ratings
(Bank-financed projects only)
Implementation Development
Progress (IP)    Objective (DO)
IDA-financed
Extend market liberalization to sectors  Private Sector Develop-  S               S
still under state control (mining,  ment and Capacity
agriculture, and infrastructure); prepare  Building Project
and implement a PE divestiture      (Cr.1555, ongoing)
program; implement a tax reform
program
Other development agencies
n/a
IP/DO Ratings: HS (Highly Satisfactory), S (Satisfactory), U (Unsatisfactory), HU (Highly
Unsatisfactory)
3. Lessons learned and reflected in the project design:
Lessons have been learned from the ongoing activities being carried out under the PATESP, as well as
from other countries where the Bank has financed similar mining technical assistance projects (e.g.
Bolivia, Ghana, Peru and Tanzania) and from a recent Bank review on mining sector reform in Latin
America (A Mining Strategy for Latin America and the Caribbean, 1996).
Experience in other countries indicates that improving the enabling environment increases the ability of a
country to attract and retain appropriate private investment. For instance, Ghana in the late 1980s
undertook significant reforms, supported by the Bank and other donors, to improve the enabling
environment for private sector investment in mining. The result has been a four fold increase in gold
production, a mining investment climate that is consistently ranked among the best in the world by
investors, and the privatization of state owned mining enterprises. Experience with establishing capacity
for environmental management in other countries, namely Latin America, indicates that the central



Project Appraisal Document                   Page 14                     Mining Sector Reform
Country: Madagascar                                                Learning and Innovation Loan
agency mandated with environmental responsibility needs to adopt an integrated approach and establish
close linkages with sectoral agencies in implementing environmental policies and regulations. While a
participatory approach needs to be adopted, especially to take into account the social dimensions of
mining, too little attention has been given to"softer" dimensions of the issue, like organizational matters,
training to comply with legal requirements and for greater use of the banking sector, etc. Experience in
Madagascar with technical assistance as, for instance, the Private Sector Development and Capacity
Building Project, suggests that emphasis on beneficiary participation in project preparation, intensive
supervision, organization and coordination at the field level are critical for timely and effective
implementation. Ownership and political commitment to project objectives are key to ensuring strong
local leadership, availability of counterpart funds, and clear delineation of ministerial authority and
responsibilities.
4. Indications of borrower commitment and ownership:
Commitment of the Borrower is shown by the impressive effort put into the preparation of a new Mining
Code (with Bank's assistance, through the PATESP), and on agreed changes in institutional arrangements
for the sector, namely on the future role of OMNIS which will be renouncing all commercial activity in
mining. At the same time, the ratification of the QIT mining investment agreement after 5 years of
negotiation reveals progress in Government commitment to increased opening to foreign investment.
Ownership: the Borrower took initiative in requesting the preparation of a stand-alone operation for
mining. Government ownership is indicated by the seriousness of its participation in the preparation of
the project so far, including the creation of a task force and the realization of several workshops dealing
with in-depth analysis of sector reforms to be supported by the project.
5. Value added of Bank support in this project.
The Bank has been the main provider of assistance to mining sector reform in African and Latin
American countries during the last decade and in this capacity has contributed to the present mining
"boom" in both continents. Since 1997, Madagascar is making good use of the Bank's experience in
sector reform, particularly with respect to sector policy and modernization of its institutional and legal
frameworks. Given its experience and established presence in the country, the Bank will be instrumental
in the success of the reform, particularly through policy and technical assistance.
E: Summary Project Analysis (Detailed assessments are in the project file, see Annex 8)
1. Economic (supported by Annex 4):
[ ] Cost-Benefit Analysis: NPV=US$   million; ERR=  % []Cost Effectiveness Analysis:
[X] Other (Comparison of economic indicators)
The Project is a Technical Assistance operation and, as such, does not lend itself easily to quantitative
investment analysis. However, a number of economic indicators can be projected and compared.
According to Bank estimates, the value of currently reported mining production is about $35 million or
about I percent of Madagascar's GNP of US$3.058 billion (1996). Madagascar's total exports in 1996
were about US$ 600 million, of which $20 million (3 percent) corresponded to minerals exports. Most of
the foreseeable expansion is in metallic minerals and gemstones, and the majority of this production will
be exported and generate foreign exchange. Mining investments data is not available, but they are
estimated to average $10 million a year. To test the robustness of the possible contribution of mining to
the economy, two scenarios (low and high case) have been constructed (based on an evaluation prepared
in 1997 by the Bank for the Country Economic Memorandum). These projections are based on projects



Project Appraisal Document                   Page 15                     Mining Sector Reformn
Country: Madagascar                                                Learning and Innovation Loan
currently in an advanced stage of development (QIT - Fort Dauphin and Phelps Dodge - Moramanga) as
well as assumptions about smuggled production. The results of this analysis, projected to the year2010
are:
Scenario         Gross Production  Gross Export Value   Average Annual Investment
Value(US$ million)   (US$ million)
Current                35                 20                    10
Low                   450                 400              85 (2000-10)
High                  700                 600              200 (2000-10)
2. Financial (see Annex 5): NPV= n/a    ;FRR= n/a
Fiscal impact. The fiscal reform will aim at introducing a fiscal regime for mining consistent with what is
considered international good practice. Unfortunately, the investment agreement for the first large-scale
project provides for rather generous tax exemptions and fiscal holidays. The impact of the project on
fiscal revenue can be estimated to be in the range of US$30 to 80 million per year, depending on the
scenario.
3. Technical:
The project will establish an enabling institutional and regulatory environment to help attract and sustain
mining investment. Expert technical assistance will help the Government to avoid mistakes in dealing
with private companies which could result in forgone revenues. The project will help strengthen tax
assessment and collection procedures for statutory royalties, license fees, income, dividend, and other
direct and indirect taxes. The project will also help put into place environmental regulations, procedures,
and monitoring capacity to minimize damage to the environment from mining operations. The project
provides training and extension services to support the development of small scale mining as well as to
help improve social, health, safety and environmental conditions in the artisanal mining community.
4. Institutional:
a. Executing agencies: The experience and implementation capacity of the sector agency is limited.
However, on the basis of the experience gained up to now with the PATESP, there would not be any
major capacity problems in terms of human resources to implement the planned reform and technical
programs. Key factors for success will be to develop the awareness about the need and benefits of the
reform as well as ownership with respect to the programs. To ensure awareness and ownership, a detailed
assessment and concientization campaign will be carried out at project inception by the institutional
coordinating unit.
b. Project management: The Project's Coordinating Unit (UCP) will be an extension of the management
team created to coordinate the mining activities under the PATESP, which is performing in a satisfactory
manner. UCP will be strengthened in terms of personnel, to respond to the increased volume of work.
UCP will manage procurement and supervision of works and consulting services.
5. Social:
Traditionally, assessment of the economic impact of a mining project has been at the level of the national
economy, in terms of fiscal revenues, export earnings, GDP, gross capital investment, value added, and
other parameters. These impacts can be measured using well-developed statistical and other techniques.
However, the socio-cultural impacts of mining on local communities are receiving growing attention, and
the parameters, methodologies, and techniques used to assess these impacts are only now being
developed, in contrast to macro-economic impact assessment. Fundamentally, social assessments involve
identifying for each group of stakeholders the balance of positive and negative impacts, devising numeric
or other objective indicators, and recommending measures to maximize positive outcomes and attenuate



Project Appraisal Document                    Page 16                     Mining Sector Reform
Country: Madagascar                                                 Learning and Innovation Loan
negative effects. Experience has shown that consultation and involvement of local communities in these
assessments is critical and forms the basis for subsequent action programs. Substantial investment in
mining exploration is expected in Madagascar as a result of the project, and two large projects are in early
stages of development (QIT at Fort-Dauphin and Phelps Dodge at Moramanga), which will result in
socio-economic impacts on the local community. However, assessment of the impacts and involvement
of the local community in the consultation process is still at an early stage, due principally to lack of
familiarity at the provincial level with the techniques and practices of social assessment as well as an
inadequate institutional and regulatory framework to provide for such assessments. A Subcomponent of
the Project has been designed and aims to address these issues (see Annex 2).
6. Environmental assessment.- Environmental Category    [ ] A          []B           [X] C
The project is a technical assistance operation that will not involve direct investment in mining activities.
It is, therefore, classified as category "C". The project is expected to have a positive impact on the
environment by building capacity in the country for environmental management at the national level and
within the mining sector. A comprehensive Sector Environmental Assessment (SEA) will be carried out
as part of the project, including the: (i) review of the present status of the environmental legal, regulatory
and institutional frameworks; (ii) evolution of the mining sector, including a description of most of the
mining projects in operation or under development; (iii) potential physical and socio-economic impacts of
sector activities on the environment and on the communities, including indigenous populations; (iv)
preparation of environmental baseline studies, to assess natural, social and sector background data in
selected areas of each of the participating Provinces; (v) preparation of pilot socio-economic baseline
studies aiming at the definition and implementation of consultation procedures, training requirements and
programs, ad hioc institutional strengthening and other related measures (see annex 2).
7. Participatory approach
a. Primary beneficiaries and other affected groups: the basic preparatory legislative and regulatory work
addressing mining activities has been carried out in consultation and coordination with industry branch
organizations, trade associations, and NGOs. This approach, including media coverage informing the
public, will continue with the proposed project.
b. Other key stakeholders: other stakeholders have been involved in and/or informed about the
preparation of the Project, and coordination has been ensured. They include, i.a. Provincial and Municipal
Governments in mining areas, universities, and related extra- sectoral public agencies (for example water,
energy and transport agencies).
F: Sustainability and Risks
1. Sustainability
Madagascar has excellent geological potential as is evidenced by the interest major international mining
companies are showing in the country. However, the Government will encounter difficulty in sustaining
this interest and in ensurinig the maximum contribution to economic development unless the major
reforms which have already begun are completed and deepened. Sustainability will be enhanced through
the project's strong emphasis on institution building, training, human capital development and
environmental awareness in the public as well as private sectors. Foreign consultants will be expected to
work closely with local public and private sector counterparts and required to transfer knowledge,
technical skills, and know-how. If proper regulations and enforcement mechanisms as well as a
competitive environment are put into place, minerals exploration and development of mines will become
self-sustaining to provide a continual revenue stream and other economic benefits to the country.



Project Appraisal Document                         Page 17                        Mining Sector Reform
Country: Madagascar                                                        Learning and Innovation Loan
2. Critical Risks (reflecting assumptions in the fourth column of Annex 1):
Risk                        Risk Rating        Risk Minimization Measure
Annex I, cell "from Outputs to Objective"
la. Government continued commitment to sector         M         la. Government's program for mining
reform                                                          sector reforn is on schedule and was
lb. Government commitment to overall reform                     confirmed and reinforced during
(investment will not materialize unless overall                 negotiations for Bank's next Adjustment
macro/business climate shows sustained                          Operation. Key Performance Indicators are
imarolbusiness climate shows sustained                          part of legal covenants pertaining to SAC
improvement                                                     operations.
I b. Sustain policy dialogue in context of
1998-00 PFP, future SAC/ESAF (IMF)
2. Condensed timing to build-up capacity to manage    M         Technical assistance will be phased and
cadastral data by Mining Cadastre Office and Provincial         prioritized so as not to overburden the
off-shoots                                                      relevant government departments and
the international consultants engaged
will work alongside local counterparts.
Annex 1, cell "from Components to Outputs"
1. Continued staff ownership regarding project        M         Proven strong advisory capacity by
objectives                                                      consultants to guide and support the
development of managerial and
administrative capacities. Participative
processes to implement the institutional
reform and introduce new work
methods.
2. Staff stability                                    M         Provision of necessary staff, resources
and conditions to effectively implement
-the reform to be defined by
Institutional Audit carried out under
PATESP.
3. Political interference                             M         Project implementation guidelines
included in the General Agreement aim
at minimizing political interference
4. Performance by contracted firms and consultants    M         Selection, supervision and monitoring
functions have been carefully designed,
on the basis of positive experience from
PATESP.
Overall Risk Rating        M
Risk Rating - H (High Risk), S (Substantial Risk), M (Modest Risk), N (Negligible or Low Risk)
3. Possible Controversial Aspects:
The designed Project is mainly dealing with generally accepted institutional reforms and the
establishment of technical methodologies. However, it might get indirectly involved - through the
activities of implementing agencies participating in the Project and fulfilling their functions - in
controversial issues such as the evaluation of potential environmental damages or social impacts by
mining operations. Because very little official information exists on small-scale mining in Madagascar,
the publication of information from the environmental and social baseline studies could eventually have
controversial aspects. The emphasis put on the development of transparent and reliable procedures,
including public consultation and information, should minimize the effect of such controversies.



Project Appraisal Document                   Page 18                     Mining Sector Reform
Country: Madagascar                                                Learning and Innovation Loan
G: Main Loan Conditions
1. Conditions of presentation to the RVP
- Presentation to the Bank of the Mining Sector Policy Letter.
2. Effectiveness Conditions:
-  The Project Implementation Manual has been duly approved by the Association, and adopted by the
Borrower.
-  The Borrower has selected the auditors referred to in Article IV of the Development Credit
Agreement (DCA), in accordance with Section II of Schedule 3 to the DCA.
-  The Project Account has been duly opened, and the amount of the initial depositl referred to in
Section 3.04 (b) (i) of the DCA has been paid therein.
-  The higher level staff of the Environmental Affairs unit referred to in paragraph 2 (a) of Schedule 4
to the DCA have been duly apppointed.
-  UCP has been established and the Project Coordinator and procurement expert referred to in
paragraph I (c) of Schedule 4 to the DCA have been duly recruited in accordance with Section II of
Schedule 3 to the DCA.
-  The Borrower has made satisfactory progress in the implementation of its action plan to renounce
mining rights adopted pursuant to the Annex to the Mining Sector Policy Letter
3. Other:
Implementation covenants:
- Standard conditions.
Financial covenants:
- Standard conditions.
H. Readiness for Implementation
[  The engineering design documents for the first year's activities are complete and ready for the start of
project implementation. [X] Not applicable.
[X] The procurement documents for the first year's activities are complete and ready for the start of
project implementation.
[X] The Project Implementation Plan has been appraised and found to be realistic and of satisfactory
quality.
[] The following items are lacking and are discussed under loan conditions (Section G):
'Section 3.04 (b) (i) of the DCA states: "the Borrower shall make an initial deposit of $60,000 into the Project
Account;.."



Project Appraisal Document                    Page 19                     Mining Sector ReforTn
Country: Madagascar                                                 Learning and Innovation Loan
I. Compliance with Bank Policies
[X] This project complies with all applicable Bank policies.
[ ] [The following exceptions to Bank policies are recommended for approval: n/a. The project
complies with all other applicable Bank policies.]
Task Team Leader: Paulo de Sa
Sector Manage ho         Allen
Country Director: Michael Sarris



Project Appraisal Document                                    Page 20                               Mining Sector Reform
Country: Madagascar                                                                         Learning and Innovation Loan
Annex 1
Project Design Summary
Madagascar: Mining Sector Reform Project
Narrative Summary             Key Performance Indicators   Monitoring and Evaluation   Critical Assumptions
Sector-related CAS Goal:                                                                           (Goal to Bank Mission)
I. Enhance social development,     - Increased GDPs per capita in    - Midterm  evaluation,        - Continued neutral
including poverty reduction and    mining areas.                     Implementation Completion     macroeconomic and
human capital development          - Reduced rate of unemployment    Report (ICR) and continued     sectoral policy environment
related to the development of mining  monitoring; statistical data
operations.
2. Broad-based growth led by private,  - Negotiation of at least one mining
foreign investment                 agreement with foreign investor.
3. Improve the performance and     - No backlog of unprocessed
institutional capacity of govemment to concession applications or EIS
deliver key social, infrastructure and   - Systematic application of
environmental services             consultative processes
Project Development Objective:                                                                      (Objective to Goal)
I. Encourage Private Investment in    - Average annual investments in  - ICR and continued monitoring   - Stable, long-term
Mining                             mining increase from $10m now to   by DG/MME.                    politically neutral
SS5 m betwn 2000-10               - ICR and statistical data.   macroeconomic and
- Average annual minerals exports    - Baseline and monitoring  sectoral policy environment
would increase from S20m (1996) to reports, midterm evaluation, ICR - Reasonably stable world
S500 m (2010)                     and continued monitoring by   minerals market
2. Mainstreaming small-scale mining  - Increase reported production of  DG's Environmental Group.   conditions/prices
into formal economy                gold/gemstones by small-scale                                   - Environmental control
miners from 55m now to S40 m 2010                               procedures are enforceable
- Reduce by 50% area covered by                                 and community
existing claims that have not reported                          consultative processes are
activity or do not comply with law,                             applicable.
36 months AE
3. Increase Fiscal Revenues        - Fiscal revenues from mining would
grow from S2mil now to S80 million
by 2010.
4. Develop Environmental and Social  - Define procedures for EIS for
Management for Mining              small-scale mining.
- Systematic application of
consultative processes
- SIGM in place 24 months AE
5. Improve Geological and Mlining
Information System (SIGM)
Outputs:                                                                                           (Outputs to Objective)
1. Govemment institutions in capacity  - Environmental monitoring system    - Quarterly and annual technical  - Continued comnmitment to
to provide timely, reliable and    operational 36 months AE. - Baseline performance reviews, ICR    reform
transparent administrative services to  data in selected areas available 36  - Baseline studies reports, ICR    - Timing to build-up
the sector.                        months AE.                        - Mining Cadastre logbooks.    Mining Cadastre Office and
2. Establishment of a modem. updated  - OMNIS mining titles sold or  - Mining Cadastre data base,   Provincial off-shoots'
and accurate Mining Cadastre.      retumed to public domain 18 months  technical monitoring, quarterly   capacity to manage
3. Improved social awareness.      AE                                and annual technical performance cadastral data according to
conditions for consultative processes   - Cadastral backlog reduced by 80%, review,                schedule.
and community participation in the  12 months AE.                    - Pilot baseline studies reports.
development of mining projects.    - Cadastral management system     - Annual social assessment
operational 24 months AE.         reports, ICR.
- Pilot baseline studies available 36
months AE.                    .__ _



Project Appraisal Document                                    Page 21                               Mining Sector Reform
Country: Madagascar                                                                         Learning and Innovation Loan
Narrative Summary             Key Performance Indicators   Monitoring and Evaluation   Critical Assumptions
- Consultative procedures
implemented at end of project
Project Components/Sub-components: Inputs: (budget for each component)                             (Components to Outputs)
(see Annex 2 for project description)
A. Policy Implementation           A. Policy Implementation:
US$7.05 million
A. I - Normalization of Small-Scale    A. I Normalization of Small-Scale  A. I Contracts, procurement  A. 1: - Staff continued
Mininz:                            Mining: US$3.1 million.           records, monitoring reports,  environmental-social
A. 1. I Integrated management and                                    technical and training         awareness related to mining
T.A. program to enhance technical                                    performance evaluation reports.   - Staff stability
yields, environmental performance,                                                                  - Continued project
and increase tax revenues.                                                                          ownership
A.2.2. Mining Directorate program of                                                                - No political interference
extension services to small-scale                                                                   - Satisfactory performance
miners.                                                                                            by contracted consultants.
A.2.3 Strengthening of minerals
laboratory.
A.2.4 Cutting center.
A.2 Environmental Information      A.2 Environmental Information     A.2 Contracts, procurement     A-2: - Line staff continued
Svstem-EIS/' Sector Environmental    System-EIS: USS0.95 million     records, monitoring reports,  environmental/social
Control and Assessment                                               technical and training         awareness related to mining
A.2. I Environmental baseline studies:                               performance evaluation reports.   - Staff stability
pilot baseline studies.                                                                            - Continued project
A.2.2 Environmental Management                                                                     ownership
Capacity Building: training and                                                                    - No political interference
institutional strengthening.                                                                       - Satisfactory performance
A.2.3 Socio-economic impact of                                                                     by contracted consultants.
mining: pilot studies, development of
consultative procedures and
assessment criteria, training and
institutional strengthening
A.2.4 Implementation of the EIS;
upgrading of facilities.
A.3 Institutional Reform and Capacity  A.3 Institutional Reform and  A.3 Institutional model        A.3: - Continued
Buildine                           Capacity Building: US$3.0 million    (organizational charts, staffing,   commitment to reform
A.3.1 Implementation of the new                                      implementation schedule),      - Continued project
institutional model: organization,                                   contracts and procurement     ownership
staffing, financial resources and work                               records, monitoring reports.  - No political interference
methodology; equipment and works:
upgrading of facilities.
A.3.2 Policy dialogue and consensus
building: communication campaign,
seminars and roundtables.
A.3.3 Mining Cadastre and Registry
System: equipment. upgrading of
facilities: implementation of the
Cadastral Mvlanagement System.
A.3.4 Geological and Mining
Information System: upgrading of the
information system: upgrading of
facilities: training; repatriation of
documentation and data.
B. Project Coordination,           B. Project Coordination: US$0.7    B. Quarterly and annual reports,  B.: - Staff stability
Monitoring and Evaluation          million                           contracts and procurement     - No political interference
- Hire and supervise staff                                           records, financial reports and
- Manage procurement                                                 audits.
- Contract accounting and auditing
- Prepare quarterly and annual reports
and annual operation plans
- Monitor progress and evaluate rslts.



Project Appraisal Document                   Page 22                     Mining Sector Reform
Country: Madagascar                                               Learning and Innovation Loan
Annex 2
Mining Sector Reform Project
Project Description
Project Component A: Policy Implementation - US$7.05 million (91.0% of project total costs)
Project Subcomponent A.1: Normalization of Small Scale and Artisanal Mining - US$3.1 million
(40.0% of total Project costs). Artisanal and small-scale mining activities represent an important source of
direct and indirect income for a relatively large rural population. However, such activities usually
generate a number of technical, legal, environmental and socio-economic problems. From a regional
perspective, the medium term socio-economic balance could be negative, and costs greater than benefits,
in terms for example of use of a non-renewable resource, environmental impacts, health conditions or of
diversification of economic activities when the deposits are exhausted. Experience in other countries
shows that these problems have to be addressed by multi-faceted assistance programs aimed at promoting
the development of small-scale and artisanal mining on a technically, environmentally and socially sound
basis, and providing for the sustainability of these activities. The Subcomponent will: (i) support an
integrated management and technical assistance program to enhance technical yields, reduce the current
serious adverse impact on the environment, and increase tax revenues; (ii) support the Mining Directorate
to design and deliver technical advice, geology information, and extension services to small-scale miners;
(iii) strengthen the minerals laboratory; and (iv) support the creation of a cutting center. The
Subcomponent includes four Programs:
A. 1.]: Integrated Management Program - US$1.1 million (about 14.2% of total Project costs). The
Program is intended to improve the general awareness of small-scale and artisanal miners on ways to
improve their technical and environmental performance and the overall impacts of their activity on the
local communities. The program would be multi-disciplinary in its approach and includes the following
training (on-the-job and workshops) and assistance activities: (i) small-scale enterprise organization,
management and accounting, including the provision of assistance to encourage small-scale miners to
form cooperatives and in the identification of suitable, well organized private companies which would be
interested in joint-venture operations with present workers and owners; (ii) legal and fiscal matters related
to mining and provision of assistance to legalize informal operations; (iii) technical assistance: mining
methodology, geology, metallurgy (mineral processing), infrastructure, simple mining economics and
environmental safeguards; (iv) design and implement an environmental sensitization and awareness
campaign targeted at artisanal miners; (v) investigate and identify health hazards originating directly or
indirectly from mining and promote remediation measures; (vi) promote the implementation of projects
aiming at the diversification of economic activities, through the development of an information and
assistance network.
A.1.2: Extension Services to small-scale miners by the Mining Directorate - US$1.50 million (about
19.3% of total Project costs,Cooperation Francaise parallel financing). This Program is aimed at
improving the Mining Directorate's ability to monitor small-scale mining and artisanal activities on the
field, and to provide incentives to their legalization design and delivery of technical advice, geology
information, and extension services to small scale miners. In close cooperation with the small-scale



Project Appraisal Document                   Page 23                     Mining Sector Reform
Country: Madagascar                                                Learning and Innovation Loan
mining industry, the Program would: (i) design workable solutions and implement demonstration projects
to improve mining safety and mitigation of environmental damages; and (ii) promote the identification,
development and dissemination of small scale mining equipment through private sector delivery
mechanisms.
A.1.3: Strengthening of the Minerals Laboratory - US$0.30 million (about 3.9% of total Project costs,
Cooperation Francaise parallelfinancing). This Program is specifically directed at the reinforcement of
MEM's technical laboratory in order to strengthen its ability to provide services for the private sector.
A.1 .4: Creation of a Cutting Center - US$0.20 million (about 2.6% of total Project costs, Cooperation
Francaise parallel financing). This program will focus on the support to the creation of an artisanal
cutting center for gemstones to be managed by the private sector.
Project Subcomponent A.2: Environmental Information System/Sector Environmental Control and
Assessment - US$0.95 million (12.3% of total Project costs). The general objective of this
Subcomponent is to set up a preventive environmental protection system for mining activities. This
system should bring together the mining administration agency with other public and private environment
entities. The Subcomponent will: (i) carry out environmental baseline studies over selected mining and
potential mining districts; (ii) strengthen the capacity of the Environmental Affairs Unit at the MEM for
the monitoring and enforcement of environmental regulations, and the setting up of procedures for the
processing of Environmental Impact Statements in mining; (iii) carry out socio-economic baseline studies
over selected mining districts as a basis for development of methodology and capacity to assess and
monitor social, cultural and economic impacts of mining on local communities, and develop consultation
and participatory procedures; and (iv) develop a Environmental Information and Management System
(EMS). It includes: training of staff in environmental and socio-economic management related to mining;
provision of infrastructure, field and data processing (hardware and software) equipment. The
Subcomponent includes four Programs:
A.2. 1: Environmiental Baseline Studies - US$0.25 million (about 3.2% of total Project costs). Baseline
studies are carried out to obtain comprehensive information regarding the existing natural and social
conditions of a given area. This Program will: (i) provide the specific information and data for the
formulation, establishment and adaptation of realistic environmental norms and standards, and to support
decision-making regarding the location of infrastructure, mining and processing facilities; (ii) develop
multidsiciplinary research methodologies to be applied in environmental analysis; and (iii) strengthen the
research capacity and human resources in environmental issues related to mining activities. The program
will finance environmental baseline studies for pilot areas and will prepare a schedule of priority areas
which will be determined by the location of protected areas and potential mining operations. Work will
make selective use of existing data from available sources, through field and source compilation,
revision, update, and comprehensive interpretation of such data. Such work will include, i.a., (i) the study
and determination of water resources: watershed areas, rain statistics, resource modeling, and water
sampling and analysis (results will also be documented in and be compatible with Geographical
Information System (GIS) being strengthened in the SIGM); (ii) evaluation of the areas' environmental
vulnerability; and (iii), determination of mining impacts regarding existing or past operations. Close
cooperation with the National Environmental Agency (ONE) is expected. Provisions include the
financing of international and local consultancy services contracts.
A.5.2: Strengthening of the Environmental Affairs Unit at the MEM - US$0.25 million (about 3.2% of
total Project costs). This Program aims at strengthening the capacity of the emerging Environmental
Affairs Unit at the MEM as a federal coordinating unit responsible for the development of an adequate
and consistent nation-wide environmental regulatory and monitoring framework, as well as to deal with



Project Appraisal Document                     Page 24                       Mining Sector Reforn
Country: Madagascar                                                   Learning and Innovation Loan
the supervision of the base line and socio-economic studies to be carried out under the Project. Provisions
include the financing of international and local consultants, administrative support, training and minor
purchases of equipment (office equipment, hardware and software).
A.2.3. Training and Institutional Strengthening in Assessment of Socio-Economic Impacts of Mining
Investments - US$0.18 nillion (about 2.3% of total Project costs). Substantial investment in minerals
exploration is expected in Madagascar as a result of the Project, while at least two large projects (QIT in
the Fort-Dauphin area and Phelps Dodge in Moramanga) are in the process of development. Development
of these projects has focused attention on the likely socio-economic impacts on the local community.
However, the process of assessing these impacts and involving the local community in the consultation
process is in its beginning. This is due principally to lack of familiarity at the provincial level with the
techniques and practices of social assessment as well as an inadequate institutional and regulatory
framework to provide for such assessments. This component aims to remedy these deficiencies. Pilot
baseline studies will be conducted in selected provinces to; i) identify the likely social, cultural, macro
and micro economic, financial, fiscal, and other impacts of mining; ii) identify principal groups of local
and regional stakeholders in the project; iii) devise statistical and other performance indicators to
objectively assess the costs and benefits of the impacts for each stakeholder; iv) evaluate and assess the
key questions and issues to be addressed; and v) make concrete recommendations and devise an action
plan for subsequent activities. The baseline studies in the selected areas will serve as templates for
subsequent work in other areas. Part of the concrete output of the studies will be recommendations and
proposals pertaining to consultation procedures, training requirements and programs, institutional
strengthening, and monitorinig and feedback of performance of the operations. A series of training
programs and seminars will be conducted nationally and provincially, for public and private sector
participants. This training will focus on consultation procedures and continual monitoring and evaluation
of socio-economic impacts using numeric and other performance indicators.
A2.4: Environmental Information System - US$0.27 million (about 3.5% of total Project costs). This
Program is specifically directed at the implementation of a unified Environmental Information and
Management System, an inter-related set of data bases to help administer licensing procedures as well as
compile and process base line and monitoring data . Three Subprograms are included: (i) works and
equipment which will upgrade office and field facilities (rehabilitation works, purchase of vehicles and
office and field equipment); and (ii) consultant services to design the system and (iii) provide training.
Project Subcomponent A.3: Institutional Reform/Capacity Building - US$3.0 million (38.7% of total
Project costs). The broad institutional framework reform will be designed in the context of an institutional
audit being carried out Linder PATESP, and as part of the policy to reduce the role of the State and to
adapt public mining agencies to better-defined functions, eliminating most of their past widespread
overlapping of functions and modernizing their capacity to administer the sector. The respective role of
such agencies and of the private sector and their inter-relationships will be identified. As a result, a
detailed institutional model and implementation plan will be designed and implemented under the
proposed Project. Four programs are included:
A. 3. 1: Implementation and Adjustment of the New Institutional Model Program - US$1. 11 million (14.3%
of total Project costs). This program aims at specifically adjusting the overall institutional model defined
under the PATESP and implementing it. The model will be adjusted through a Participative process
(workshops and seminars) and implemented through on-the-job training. Work will include the detailed
and ad hoc design of the institutional model, including organization, staffing, budget and identification of
long-term finanicial sources for core responsibilities; the setting up and implementation of efficient work
procedures; and on-the-job training of staff in policy, legal and management matters. Work includes also
a detailed inventory of the infrastructure needs (facilities and equipment). Provisions include the
financing of international and local consultants, of incremental recurrent costs related to travels and to



Project Appraisal Document                     Page 25                      Mining Sector Reformn
Country: Madagascar                                                  Learning and Innovation Loan
training, of office rehabilitation, of purchase of basic core office equipment, of vehicles and of legal and
technical literature, and of publication of information and legal and administrative procedures.
A. 3.2: Policy Dialogue and Consensus Building on the reform agenda - US$0.20 million (2.6% of total
Project costs). This program aims at the organization of a communication campaign to build ownership
of mining reform and a number of seminars and roundtables on this topic to broaden the participation of
key stakeholders.
A. 3.3: Mining Cadastre and Registry System - US$0.83 million (10. 7% of total Project costs). A priority
objective of the Government's mining sector policy is to establish a well-informed, uniform  and
interactive cadastral system. Based on the audit carried out under PATESP, the proposed Project will
finance the transformation of the physical registries of the Mining Directorate into a proper mining
cadastre. The cadastre will provide reliable information about the precise location of mining rights in the
territory. The procedures required in order to apply the cadastre process will be transparent, public, of
general application and non-discretionary. In addition, the cadastre will cover both the mining rights
requested and granted after it becomes effective, and already existing ones as well as the ones that have
been simply requested. Hence the cadastral procedure will have stages, instances and resources to allow
owners of acquired mining riglhts to adequately defend their rights in accordance with the provisions of
the Mining Code. Older rights which are not inserted into the new cadastre must be legally canceled in
order for the information resulting from the cadastre to be correct and useful in practice. The two
scheduled subprograms include (i) the purchase of modern hardware and software, topogeodetic
instruments (including GPS instruments), vehicles and the provision and furnishing of adequate field and
office facilities for the cadastre and registry functions; and (ii), the implementation of the computerized
Mining Cadastre System; on-the-job and external training will be included under this subcomponent.
A. 3.4: Minerals Information System - US$0.87 million (11.2 % of total Project costs, partial parallel
financing by the Cooperation Francaise). An essential tool in the development of private sector mining
and the correct administration of the sector is rapid and efficient access to accurate information. An
integrated information data bank - the Geological and Mining Information System (SIGM) - is currently
being developed with the assistance of the French Cooperation. The Subcomponent aims to strengthen
the information management unit; systematize the collection and interpretation of sector information into
a data base, making use of state of the art technology to gather, store and provide the information to
interested parties in a timely fashion; and repatriate relevant geological information on Madagascar
available overseas. It includes: provision of hardware and software, installation of the LAN and
connection to Internet, purchase of information and training of staff in information, data bases and
network management. This program includes four activites:
-  SIGM Upgrade. The Program will be coordinated and implemented by a specially designed task force
of specialists located within the General Direction. Provisions will include the financing of
international and local consultants, as well as of communications fees.
-  Works and Equipment. Equipment to be procured includes, i.a., hardware and software specifically
dedicated to the SIGM functions, communications devices and accessories. Software requirements
include programs in administrative system and database management, processing, communications
and editing. In addition, subscriptions to various local and provincial electronic databases, and
Internet will be funded. Some rehabilitation work, in particular network cabling and connections, up-
grading of electrical supply and computer security in government offices will be provided.
- Training. A training program focused on the implementation and use of the SIGM will be carried out.



Project Appraisal Document                  Page 26                    Mining Sector Reform
Country: Madagascar                                              Learning and Innovation Loan
- Repatriation of documentation and data. This Program is aimed at collecting and updating geological
information on Madagascar available in foreign countries. The Project will finance incremental
recurrent costs and the purchase of documents.
Project Component B: Project Coordinating Unit (UCP) - US$0.7 million (9.0% of total Project
costs). The Project was prepared with the strongly committed support of the coordinating team of
PATESP's mining component which will be strengthened and continue to operate throughout
implementation of the Mining Sector Reform Learning and Innovation Loan. The UCP will link with
MEM's line agencies, OMNIS and ONE and, during implementation, will monitor, supervise and provide
management control, by Components, Subcomponents and Programs and for the Project as a whole. The
UCP will be strengthened accordingly and will manage procurement - including all contracting works and
purchases - and the hiring of consultants, the contractual relationship with the Bank and the Project's
overall administration and accounting - which includes managing the Project's Loan Account and its
other funding. UCP staff will attend Bank procurement seminars. An accounting firm will be retained
with UCP funds to carry out the main accounting tasks during Project implementation. The UCP will be
responsible for preparing and submitting to the Bank quarterly reports dealing with Project
implementation, and for contracting under Terms of Reference acceptable to the Bank, the yearly audits
of the Project including the timely submission of such audit reports to the Bank. The Project will finance
the contracting within the existing UCP of a General Coordinator, an assistant in charge of monitoring
and control, project and administrative support. Funding is also provided for the unit's operational costs,
as well as some minor additional office equipment.



Project Appraisal Document                       Page 27                       Mining Sector Reform
Country: Madagascar                                                     Learning and Innovation Loan
Annex 3
Mining Sector Reform Project
Estimated Project Costs
Project Component                                             Local          Foreign          Total
-----------------------US $ thousand------------------
A. Policy Implementation:
A.1 Normalization of Small-scale Mining                        190          2810         3000
Consultant Services                                    50           400          450
Equipment and Consumables                              60           340          400
Training                                               80            70          150
Consultant Services                                                *900          *900
nEquipment and Consumables                                         *500          *500
Training                                                           *100         *100
SC         -1              MP I  0                                  5             5
Consultant Servi.ces                                   40           20          2700
|    InstitutEqoipment and Consumables                                      *250          *250
W: t 11d4dj   t 
Consultant Services                                     .           *50           *50
Equipment and Consumables                                          *150          *150
| A.2 Environmental Information System /Sector                   160           790           950
|Environmental Control and Assessment
Consultant Services                                    10           240          250
Consultant Services                                                 120           130
Training                                               60            60          120
Consultant Services                                    30            90          120
Training                                              I10            50           60
Consultant Services                                    40           230         2700
A.3 Institutional Reform / Capacity Building                   860          2140         3000
Consultant Services                                   100           200          300
Training                                              I20            60          180
Contract Works                                        300                        300
Equipment and Consumables                              40           280          320
Consultant Services                                    80            70          150
Equipment and Consumables                                            50           50



Project Appraisal Document                      Page 28                      Mining Sector Reform
Country: Madagascar                                                   Learning and Innovation Loan
Consultant Services                                   60          670          730
Training                                             80            20          100
* Consultant Services (parallelfinancing)                        *400         *400
Contract Works                                        50                        50
Equipment and Consumables                             20           50            70
Training                                              10           20           30
Documentation                                                     320          320
B. Project Coordination Unit                                    650            50          700
Equipment and Consumables                             90           10          100
Incremental recurrent Costs                         290                        290
Consultant Services                                  160                       160
Training                                                           50           50
Total Baseline Cost                                            1750         5800          7550
Contingencies and unallocated                                                200          200
Total Project Cost                                             1750         6000          7750



Project Appraisal Document                  Page 29                     Mining Sector Reform
Country: Madagascar                                               Learning and Innovation Loan
Annex 4
Mining Sector Reform Project
Economic and Financial Assessment Summary
The gross value of minerals production currently reported in Madagascar is about US$35
million (1996) and represents about I percent of Madagascar's GNP of US$3.058 billion (1996). Of the
total value of production, about 70 percent is represented by three minerals (chromite, graphite, and
mica). There are two projects in an advanced feasibility study stage (QIT, in the Fort-Dauphin region, and
Phelps Dodge, near Moramanga) which could be in operation - all financed and operated by the private
sector - over the next five years. In addition, an increasing number of foreign companies have established
or are considering to develop exploration programs in the country which could result in the discovery of a
new major deposit.
Madagascar's total exports in 1996 were about US$ 600 million, of which 3 percent
corresponded to minerals exports (equivalent to US$20 million). Most of the foreseeable expansion is in
metallic minerals and gemstones areas, and the majority of this production will be exported and generate
foreign exchange. Average annual investments in mining do not make object of regular statistics in
Madagascar, but they can be estimated to be about the US$ 10 million. Other economic benefits of
mining include the development of support industries (manufacture of mining equipment, provision of
consulting services, development of capital and commercial markets), transfer of technology and
management know-how, and limited direct job creation. These benefits have not been quantified.
To test the robustness of the possible contributions of mining to the economy, two
scenarios (low and high case) have been constructed based on an evaluation prepared in 1997 by the
Bank for the Country Economic Memorandum. These projections are based on projects currently in an
advanced planning stage as well as assumptions about smuggled production. The results of this analysis,
projected to the year 2010, are as follows.
Table A.5 - 1: Madagascar Mineral Production and Export Projections by 2010
(US$ million)
Scenario      Gross Production   Gross Export Value    Average Annual
Value                                  Investment
Current           35 -                 20                    10
Low 2000           40                  25--25
Low2010            450                 400             2000-2010: 85
High2000           50                  3 0
High 2010          700                 600             2000-2010 : 200
Low Case Scenario. No new major deposit is discovered and one of the two large mining
projects under consideration fails to materialize. In addition to the integration of small-scale mining
activities in the formal economy, one new medium sized gold project and two new small-medium sized
gemstones mines are opened by 2005.



Project Appraisal Document                  Page 30                    Mining Sector Reform
Country: Madagascar                                              Learning and Innovation Loan
High Case Scenario. Given the right policy environment to encourage investment and
vigorous external markets for Madagascar's mineral products, the high case scenario is plausible.
However, the development of a third large scale project is only indicative. Between 1998 and 2010, QIT,
Phelps Dodge, two new medium-sized gold mines, and two medium-sized gemstone mines would be
opened.
Key Assumptions:
1. QIT- Total investment: $500 million (2002-2005), including mine and related infrastructure; Annual
Exports: $80 million (2005-2015), and $150 million thereafter.
2. Phelps Dodge- Total investment: $500 million (2001-2004); Annual Exports: $350 million.
3. Gold- Current reported production: virtually none. Low Case Scenario: Average annual investment:
$10 million (2000-2010); Annual Exports: $ 5 million in 2005, and $ 10 million by 2010; High Case
Scenario: Average annual investment: $20 million (2000-2010); Annual Exports: $ 10 million in 2005, $
25 million by 2010.
4. Gemstones - Average annual investment: $ 20 million (2000-2010); Low Case Scenario: Average
annual investment: $ 15 million (2000-2010); Annual Exports: $ 15 million in 2005, and $ 25 million by
2010; High Case Scenario: Average annual investment: $ 40 million (2000-2010); Annual Exports: $ 25
million in 2005, and $ 50 million by 2010.



Project Appraisal Document                        Page 31                        Mining Sector Reform
Country: Madagascar                                                       Learning and Innovation Loan
Annex 5
Mining Sector Reform Project
Financial Summary
Years Ending December 31
(US$ thousands; 1998 base year)
Implementation Period                      Operational Period
1998    1999    2000              Total
Project Costs
Investment Costs          1100    3000    3350               7450
Recurrent Costs             60      150       90              300
Total                  1160    3150    3440               7750
Financing Sources (% of total
project costs)
IDA                         94.8    55.6    62.5               64.5
Parallel-financiers                  38.1     34.9             31.0
Government                   5.2      6.3      2.6              4.5
Total                   100.0   100.0   100.0              100.0
Main assumptions:



Project Appraisal Document                  Page 32                    Mining Sector Reform
Country: Madagascar                                              Learning and Innovation Loan
Annex 6
Mining Sector Reform Project
Procurement and Disbursement Arrangements
Procurement
A.           General
Goods and works financed by IDA will be procured in accordance with IDA Guidelines
for Procurement under IBRD and IDA Credits dated January 1995 and revised in January 1996, August
1996 and September 1997. Consultancy services financed by IDA will be procured in accordance with
IDA Guidelines for the Selection of Consultants by World Bank Borrowers dated January 1997 and
revised in September 1997. The Project Coordination Unit of the Ministry of Energy and Mines, the
executing agency for the project will be responsible for procurement. This agency will be reinforced to
ensure that it is adequately staffed to manage the procurement arrangements. At negotiations, assurances
will be obtained from Government that the following procurement arrangements will apply for the
implementation of the project. In addition, a General Procurement Notice (GPN) is to be transmitted to
IDA for publication in the United Nations Development Business to advertise for major consulting
assignments and goods contracts. This notice is to be updated every year during the execution of the
project uintil all the contracts have been procured. No ICB works contracts are expected to be procured.
Procurement methods and prior review arrangements are indicated in Tables A and B of this Annex.
B.           Civil Works and Goods
Civil Works. Civil works to be carried out under the project consist of the rehabilitation
of small office and buildings. In view of the small cost of each contract, the works contracts each costing
between US$30,000 and US$100,000 for an aggregate amount of US$200,000 will be procured under
National Competitive Bidding (NCB) procedures and those costing less than US$30,000 for an aggregate
amount of US$150,000 will be procured on the basis of three quotations from eligible contractors.
Goods. Goods consisting of vehicles, instrumentation, field and office equipment will be
procured under International Competitive Bidding (ICB). Furniture as well as smaller quantities of office
equipment costing US$30,000 or more but less than US$100,000 for an aggregate amount USS200,000
will be procured under NCB procedures. Other smaller items of office equipment, furniture, training
materials, and office supplies and documentation purchase costing less than US$30,000 per contract for
an aggregate of US$430,000 will be procured on the basis of national or international shopping
procedures (minimum of 3 quotations from eligible suppliers).
Prior Review Arrangements. Goods and works contracts costing more than US$100,000
per contract will be subject to prior review by IDA. All other contracts will be subjected to post review.
C.           Consultancy Services and Training
Recruitment offirms. Consultancy services for studies, technical assistance and training
requiring the recruitment of firms will be procured in accordance with Bank Guidelines. Most of these
services will be recruited on the basis of the Quality and Cost based Method (QCBS). Exceptions to the
QCBS method will include the use of (i) the Least Cost Selection Method (LCS) for the contracting of
financial audits (aggregate amount US$150,000) and (ii) the Selection Based on Consultants'



Project Appraisal Document                   Page 33                     Mining Sector Reform
Country: Madagascar                                                Learning and Innovation Loan
Qualifications (CQ) for contracting of assistance in the technical supervision of larger contracts under the
A.1, A.2 and A.3 (c) subcomponents of the Project (aggregate amount US$230,000). For contracts based
on a shortlist of consultants estimated to cost US$ 50,000 or less per contract, the shortlist may consist
entirely of national consultants if a minimum of three qualified ones are available.
Recruitment of Individuals. Individuals will be recruited in cases where a firm is not
needed. Such individuals will be selected and recruited on the basis of qualification and experience in
accordance with Bank Guidelines.
Prior Review Arrangements. All procurement documents for consulting contracts with
firms for amounts exceeding US$100,000 per contract selected on the basis of a shortlist and any
contract involving individual consultants exceeding US$50,000 per contract will be subject to prior
review by IDA. In addition, for consultant contracts with firms exceeding US$200,000 per contract, the
technical evaluation report will be also be required by IDA for prior review. All other contracts will be
subjected to post-review.
Disbursement
Allocation of credit proceeds (Table C): The credit would be disbursed over a period of
36 months (the Project completion date would be September 30, 2001 and the Credit closing date is
March 31, 2002) , as follows: (i) 100 percent for consultancies, audits and training; (ii) 80 percent for
contract works; (iii) 100 percent of foreign and 80 percent of local expenditures for goods; (iv) 80 percent
for incremental recurrent costs. Disbursement of Credit proceeds would be made against four categories
(base costs): (i) consulting contracts (US$3.1 million); (ii) contract works (US$0.3 million); (iii) goods
and documentation (US$1.2 million); (iv) incremental recurrent costs (US$ 0.3 million). Unallocated
contingency allowances amount to about 5 percent of total project base which is deemed to be sufficient
considering the life period of the Project.
Retroactive Financing. Eligible expenditures incurred after January 1, 1998 would be
retroactively finaniced up to a maximum equivalent of SDRO.2 million (US$0.25 million equivalent; about
5% of the Credit value).
Use of statements of expenses (SOEs). Disbursements will be made against Statement of
Expenses (SOEs) for contracts and goods not requiring the Bank's prior review. Therefore disbursements
for all contracts for: goods and civil works of less than US$100,000; consulting services, by firms and
individuals of less than US$100,000 and US$50,000 respectively; and all incremental recurrent expenses
and training, would be made on the basis of SOEs and certified by the UCP.
Special Account. Payments from the Credit proceeds would be administered by the UCP from a
Special Account. The Special Account would be maintained in a commercial bank selected by the
Borrower and acceptable to the World Bank. The authorized allocation, sufficient for about four months
of financeable expenditures, would be US$0.7 million; however, the initial allocation would be limited to
US$0.5 million until the aggregate amount of withdrawals from the Loan Account plus the total amount
of all outstanding special commitments entered into the Bank shall be equal to or exceed SDRO.8 million.
The Special Account would be managed by the UCP which would be responsible for preparing
disbursement requests. These requests would be submitted monthly or when the Special Account has
been drawn down by a third of the initial deposit, whichever occurs first. Replenishment of the Special
Account would follow Bank procedures. Disbursements will be made under the authorized signature from
a designated representative of the Borrower. The Special Account would be audited annually by
independent auditors acceptable to the Bank.



Project Appraisal Document                    Page 34                      Mining Sector Reform
Country: Madagascar                                                  Learning and Innovation Loan
Annex 6
Table A: Project Costs by Procurement Arrangements1
(in US$ thousands equivalent)
Expenditure Category                      Procurement Method                 Total Cost
(including
contingencies)
ICB       NCB        Other       N.B.F
1. Works                                    200        150                       350
(IDA)                                    (160)     (120)                      (280)
2, Consultancy services,                              3390       15001          4890
training and audits
(IDA)                                             (3210)                    (3210)
3. Goods                          690       200        430        9001          2220
(IDA)                         (690)      (170)     (420)                     (1280)
4. Operative costs                                     290                       290
(IDA)                                               (230)                     (230)
Total                          690        400      4260       24001           7750
(690)     (330)    (3980)                     (5000)
I Financed by the French Cooperation
Figures in parenthesis are the amounts to be financed by the Bank loan/IDA credit
'For details on presentation of Procurement Methods refer to ODI 1.02, "Procurement Arrangements for Investment
Operations." Details on Consultant Services can be shown more easily in the Table Al format (additional to Table
A, where applicable).



Project Appraisal Document                   Page 35                     Mining Sector Reforn
Country: Madagascar                                                Learning and Innovation Loan
Annex 6
Table Al: Consultant Selection Arrangements (optional)
(in US$million equivalent)
Selection Method                        Total Cost
Consultant Services                                                                    (including
Expenditure Category                                                                    contingen
cies)
QCBS    QBS        SFB      LCS      CQ      Other   N.B.F.
A. Firns                       2730                        150      230               1500       4610
B. Individuals                                                               280                  280
Total    2730                         150     230       280    1500        4890
Note: QCBS = Quality- and Cost-B3ased Selection
QBS =  Quality-based Selection
SFB =  Selection under a Fixed Budget
LCS = Least-Cost Selection
CQ  = Selection Based on Consultants' Qualifications
Other = Selection of individual consultants (per Section V of Consultants
Guidelines), Commercial Practices, etc.
N.B.F. = Not Bank-financed.
Figures in parenthesis are the amounts to be financed by the Bank loan.



Project Appraisal Document                    Page 36                      Mining Sector Reformn
Country: Madagascar                                                 Learning and Innovation Loan
Annex 6
Table B: Thresholds for Procurement Methods and Prior Reviewl
Expenditure        Contract Value        Procurement         Contracts Subject to
Category           (Threslhold)           Method              Prior Review /
Estimated Total Value
Subject to Prior
Review
US $ thousands                              US $ millions
1. Civil works
30-100        NCB                          None
<30       Price quotations             None
(shopping)
2. Consultants' services, training and audits
Firms                          > 100                             All; amount 1.3
< 100                                   None
Individuals                     > 50                             All; amount 0.5
<50                                    None
Audits                                                           All; amount 0.15
2. Goods
> 100      ICB                    All; amount 0.8
30 - 100      NCB                          None
<30       Shopping                     None
Total value of contracts subject to prior review:       2.75
'Thresholds generally differ by country and project. Consult OD 11.04 "Review of Procurement Documentation"
and contact the Regional Procurement Adviser for guidance.



Project Appraisal Document                    Page 37                      Mining Sector Reform
Country: Madagascar                                                 Learning and Innovation Loan
Annex 6
Table C: Allocation of Credit Proceeds
Expenditure Category                Amount in SDR    Financing Percentage
1. Civil works                                     210,000                 80 %
2. Consultants' services, training and audits     2,350,000                100 %
3. Goods                                            910,000                100% F
80% L
4. Operating costs                                  180,000                 80%
5. Unallocated                                      150,000
Total      3,800,000



Project Appraisal Document                  Page 38                    Mining Sector Reform
Country: Madagascar                                              Learning and Innovation Loan
Annex 7
Mining Sector Reform Project
Project Processing Budget and Schedule
A. Project Budget (US$000)                      Planned               Actual
(At final PCD stage)
B. Project Schedule                             Planned               Actual
(At final PCD stage)
Time taken to prepare the project (months)
First Bank mission (identification)            9/12/1997            9/12/1997
Appraisal mission departure                    04/18/1998           4/18/1998
Negotiations                                   04/27/1998           04/30/1998
Planned Date of Effectiveness                  07/31/1998            / /1998
Prepared by: General Directorate of the Ministry of Energy and Mines
Preparation assistance: PPF from the Private Sector Development and Capacity Building Project
(PATESP)
Bank staff who worked on the project included:
Name                                    Specialty
Paulo de Sa                           Task Team Leader
Gotthard Walser                            Environment
Raj Soopramanien                               Legal
Bertrand Ah-Sue                            Procurement
David Freese                             Disbursement
Claude Ginet (Consultant)                      Mining T.A.
Manorama Gotur                           Operations Analyst



Project Appraisal Document                     Page 39                      Mining Sector Reformn
Country: Madagascar                                                   Learning and Innovation Loan
Annex 8
Mining Sector Reform Project
Documents in the Project File*
A. Project Implementation Plan
B. Bank Staff Assessments
White Cover Paper on Mining Sector Issues
C. Other
PATESP Memorandum of the President, Aide-memoires, BTOs
PFP Matrix
SAC Memorandum of the President
Mining Investment Agreement (following approval by Parliament)
*Including electronic files.



Annex 9
Table I -Statement of Loans and Credits
Status of Bank Group Operations in Madagascar
IBRD Loans and IDA Credits in the Operations Portfolio
Difference Between
expected
Original Amount in US$ Millions                   Ind actual
Loan or   Fiscal                                          /                                         _                             _        disbursements a/
Project ID    Credit       Year               Borrower                        Purpose
No.                                                                                IBRD        IDA     Cancellations  Undisbursed         Orig   Frm Rev'd
Number of Closed Loans/credits: 70
Active Loans
MG-PE-1564    IDA30250       1998   GOVERNMENT                        RURAL WATER SEC.PILO               0.00       17 .30           0.00         17.02        0.00       0.00
MG-PE-1537    IDAN0090       1997   REPUBLIC OF MADAGASCAR            ENVIRON. II                        0.00      30.00             0.00         26.01        -.84       0.00
MG-PE-1555    IDA29560       1997   GOVERNMENT                        PRIV SECT DEV & C.B.               0.00      23.80             0.00         21.53       -1.71       0.00
MG-PE-40019   IDA29110      1997   GOVERNMENT                         CAPACITY BUILDING                  0.00      13.83             0.00          9.29        1.11       0.00
MG-PE-48697   IDA29680       1997   GOVERNMENT OF MADAGASCAR          URBAN INFRASTRUCTURE               0.00      35.00             0.00         33.02          .89      0.00
MG-PE-1533    IDA28440      1996   GOVT OF MADAGASCAR  SCAR           ENERGY SECTOR DEV PR               0.00      46.00             0.00         39.44        3.69       0.00
MG-PE-35669   IDA27780       1996   GOVT MADAGAS/FOND D'INTER         SOCIAL FUND 2                      0.00      40.00             0.00         18.24       -3.38       0.00
MG-PE-1522    IDA26440      1995   GOVT. OF MADAGASCAR                IRRIGATION II                      0.00      21.20             0.00         15.24        4.20       0.00
MG-PE-1563    IDA27290       1995   GOVERNMENT                        AG.EXTENSION PROJECT               0.00      25.20             0.00         14.73        3.24       0.00
MG-PE-1558    IDA25380      1994   GOVERNMENT                         PET SEC REFORM                     0.00      51.90            13.26         34.44       42.05       0.00                (Q
MG-PE-1583    IDA25910       1994   MTP/MUT                           URBAN WORKS PILOT                  0.00      18.30             0.00           .01       -1.68       0.00                m
MG-PE-1550    IDA24970       1993   GOVT OF MADAGASCAR                FINANCIAL INSTITUTIO               0.00        6.30            0.00          3.21        2.74       0.00
MG-PE-1553    IDA24740       1993   GOVERNMENT                        FOOD SECURITY & NUTR               0.00      21.30             0.00          3.84        2.35       0.00                -
MG-PE-1552    IDA23820       1992   GOVERNMENT                        VOC. EDUCATION                     0.00      22.80             0.00          6.73        4.83       -.20
MG-PE-1520    IDA22510      1991   GOVERNMENT                         NAT HEALTH SECTOR                  0.00      31.00             0.00          8.55        7.02       0.00
MG-PE-1549    IDA22430       1991   GOVERNMENT                        LIVESTOCK                          0.00      19.80             0.00          5.79        5.30       0.00
MG-PE-1512    IDA21170       1990   GOV.OF MADAGASCAR                 TANA PLAIN DEV                     0.00      30.50             0.00         19.42       18.17       0.00
MG-PE-1515    IDA20940       1990   GOVT.                             EDUC SECT REINF                    0.00      39.00              .64           .94       -2.92      -4.81
MG-PE-1540    IDA21040      1990   GOVT.                              FIN SECTOR/APEX                    0.00      48.00             0.00         14.74       11.33       0.00
MG-PE-1546    IDA20420      1989                                      AGRIC RES                          0.00      24.00            12.31          2.16       13.40       1.01
Total                                                                                                    0.00     565.23           26.21         294.35      109.79      -4.00
Active Loans         Closed Loans            Total
Total Disbursed (IBRD and IDA):                 241.01            1,061.15            1,302.16
of which has been repaid:                   0.00               95.86               95.86
Total now held by IBRD and IDA:                 539.02              913.15            1,452.17
Amount sold                      :                0.00                6.86                 6.86
Of which repaid              :                 0.00                6.86                6.86
Total Undisbursed                :              294.35                  .57             294.92
a. Intended disbursements to date minus actual disbursements to date as projected at appraisal.
b. Rating of 1-4: see OD 13.05. Annex D2. Preparation of Implementation Summary (Form 590). Following the FY94 Annual Review of Portfolio performance (ARPP), a letter
based system will be used (HS = highly Satisfactory, S - satisfactory, U - unsatisfactory, HU - highly unsatisfactory): see proposed Improvements in Project and
Portfolio Performance Rating Methodology (SecM94-901), August 23, 1994.
Note:
Disbursement data is updated at the end of the first week of the month.



Project Appraisal Document                     Page 41                      Mining Sector Reform
Country: Madagascar                                                  Learning and Innovation Loan
Annex 9
Table 2 - Madagascar - Statement of IFC's
Committed and Disbursed Portfolio
As of 30-Apr-98
(In US Dollar Millions)
Committed                       Disbursed
IFC                             IFC
FY Approval         Company         Loan   Equit  Quasi  Partic   Loan   Equit  Quasi  Partic
y                               y
1983/89         Nossi-Be                1.47    .24    0.00    0.00     1.47    .24    0.00     0.00
1985/89         COTONA                   .31    0.00    0.00   0.00     .31    0.00    0.00     0.00
1990/91         AEF FIARO               0.00    .47    0.00    0.00     0.00    .47    0.00     0.00
1991            BNI                     0.00   2.61    0.00    0.00    0.00    2.61    0.00     0.00
1992/93/95      AQUALMA                 5.04    .61    0.00    0.00     5.04    .61    0.00    0.00
1995            AEF Karibotel           .30    0.00    0.00    0.00     .30    0.00    0.00     0.00
1996            AEF Indosuma             .90    0.00    0.00   0.00    0.00    0.00    0.00     0.00
1997            AEF GHM                 1.04    0.00    0.00   0.00     1.04    0.00    0.00    0.00
Total Portfolio:             9.06    3.93    0.00    0.00    8.16    3.93    0.00    0.00
Approvals Pending Commitment
Loan   Equit  Quasi  Partic
1997            AEF JUS                  .96   (Y.00   0.00    0.00
1998            BANQUE SBM              0.00    .75    0.00    0.00
Total Pending Commitment:    .96    .75    0.00      0.00



Project Appraisal Document                                    Page 42                               Mining Sector Reform
Country: Madagascar                                                                        Leamning and Innovation Loan
Annex 10
...     S.................. ....... .. .... .. .......... ........   .. ... ... ...   . ..... ...... .. . . . 6_    .    .............. .. ....... .__.-........... ..... _ .. .._ . ... .... . .__
Madagascar at a glance                                                                      8/28S7
Sub-
POVERTY and SOCIAL                                             Saharan      Low-
Madagascar    Africa  Income           Development diamond-
Population mid-1996 [millions)                            14.1       600    3.229
GNP per capita 1996 (US$)                                 240        490      500                  Life expectancy
GNP 1996 (billions US$1                                   3.4        294     1,601
Average annual growth. 1990-96
Population (%)                                             3.1       2.7       1.7      GNP                                Gross
Labor force I%J                                            3.1       2.6       1.7      per                              pross
Most recent estimate (latestyearavailablesince S98W)                                   capita                         enrollmen
Poverty: headcountindex (% of populatdonJ
Urban population /% of totalpopula don)                    27         31       29
Life expectancy at birth (years)                           52         52       63
Infantmortality (per 1,000live births)                     89         92       69                Access to safe water
Child malnutrition (% of children under 5)                 32
Access to safe water (% of population)                     32         47       53
Illiteracy /% of population age t5e)                       20         43       34
Gross primary enrollment (% ofschool-agepopulation)        73         72      a05dagascar
Male                                                     75         78       112          ----Lovincome group
Female                                                   72         65       98
KEY ECONOMIC RATIOS and LONG-TERM TRENDS
1975     1985       1995      1996
E conom ic ratios-
GDP (billions US$)                               2.3      2.9        3.2       4.1
Gross domestic investmentGDP                     8.1      8.5        08                         Openness of economy
Exports of goods and services,GDP               15.9      11.6      23.3      18.2
Gross domestc savings,GDP                        3.1      1.3        2.7       4.0
Gross national savings)GDP                       5.0      0.2        0.4       3.1                        r
Currentaccountbalance,GDP                       -2.4     -8.7       -9.9      -5.8
Interestpayments,GDP                             1.3      1.4        0.7       1.4      Savings e   --        --    Investmen
Total debtGDP                                   39.7      88.1      134.5
Total debtserviceJexports                       19.6     42.5        9.2
Presentvalue of debtGADP                         0.0      0.0       99.7
Presentvalue of debtfexports                     0.0      0.0      420.9                            Indebtedness
1975-85  1986-96      1995       1996  1997.05
(average annual gprow7                                                                           Madwagascar
GDP                                   -0.3       0.9      1.8        2.0                   -Madagascar
GNP per capita                        -3.3      -1.9      -1.4       0.4                   --- owicomegroup
Exports of goods and services         -5.0       5.8      3.2        9.7
STRUCTURE of the ECONOMY
(% of GDP)                                     1975     1985       1995      1996      Growth rates of output and InveatmentI
Agriculture                                     34.0      35.1      33.8      34.7      60
Indusiry                                        15.8     13.3       13.5      13.1      *o
Manufacturing                                           11.5       12.5     12.3      20
Services                                        50.1      51.5      52.7      52.1     .9                    3
-40    \/
Private consumpton                              86.1     89.0       90.6      896      -o
General governmentconsumption                   10.8      9.8        6.6       6.4
Imports of goods and services                   20.9      18.9       31.4     24.2    |                GDI    GDP
1975-85  1986-96       1995      1996
(average annual growthl                                                                Growth rates of exports and Imports 1%l
Agriculture                                      0.8      2.2        2.7       3.8      40
Industry                                        -2.7      0.6        1.3       0.8
Manufacturing                                            1.5       18.3      1.7      20
Services                                        -0.4      0.9         1.4      1.2
Private consumption                             -0.5      0.5         1.4     -0.3
General governmentconsumption                    2.8      -1.7       2.2      -3.6               t
Gross domestic investment                       -2.0       0.1       0.8       5.5      20 
Imports of goods and services                   -4.1      2.7         1.1     -1.9                    Expom    -     ports
Gross national product                          -0.7       1.2       1.6       3.5
Note: 1996 data are preliminary estimates.
The diamonds showfour key indicators in the county (in bold) compared with its income-group average. If data are missing, the diamond will
be incomplete.



Project Appraisal Document                                     Page 43                               Mining Sector Reform
Country: Madagascar                                                                          Learning and Innovation Loan
Madagascar
PRICES and GOVERNMENT FINANCE
1975     1985       1995     1996
Domestieprices                                                                       Inflation (%)
(% change)                                                                          60
Consumer prices                                 8.3     10.6      49.0      19.8
Implicit GDP deflator                           4.7     10.4      46.8      21.1
Government finance                                                                   20
(% of GOP)                                                                            0
Current revenue                                         13.3        8.6      9.0             01    02    93   94   90   96
Current budget balance                                   2.1      -2.5      -1.1
Overall surplus/deficit                                 -3.9       -6.1     -47               -GDP del.   CPI
TRADE
1975     1985      1995      1996
(millions US$)                                                                       Export and Import levels (mill. USS)
Total exports (fob)                                     291        502      513    a8o
Coffee                                         ..      103        93        69
Food Z35                                                          1          7     So
Manufactures                                   ..       37       132       161
Total imports (cif)                                     466        739      740      40       A
Food                                                    so 6      67        46
Fuel and energy                                ..       85        81        97     200
Capital goods                                  ..       98       141       174        L
Export price index (1987=100)                            94        105       92           go  91  92  03  94   0   96
Import prce index (1987=100)                      ,      86        122      121
Terms of trade (1987= 100)                              110         86       76                  EiExports   etmports
BALANCE of PAYMENTS
1975     1985      1995      1996
(millions US$)                                                                       Current account balance to GDP ratio (%)
Exports of goods and services                  382      350        748      797
Imports of goods and services                  480      569        987    1,002           00 +1   92   0        43   9    90 05
Resource balance                               -98      -219      -241     -205
Net income                                     -17      -129      -167     -155                9 1
Net current transfers                           60       98         92      120                           _ 
Current account balance,
before official capital transfers            -56      -260       -316     -240    -10
Financing items (net)                           24      234        376      375
Changes in net reserves                         31       16        -60      -134     -15
Memo:
Reserves including gold (mill. US$)             ..
Conversion rate (loca/US$)                   214.3    662.5   4,265.6  4,061.3
EXTERNAL DEBT and RESOURCE FLOWS
(millions US$)                                                                     [ Composliton of total debt, 1995 (mill. USS)
Total debt outstanding and disbursed           906    2,518      4,302
IBRD                                          24       28         12        7                   G    A
IDA                                           54      316      1,110    1,147              F  538  12           B
Total debt service                              76      150         70                       77         [        1110
IBRD                                           1        3          5        5                ,
IDA                                            0        3         15       17
Composition of net resource flows                                                                            --     C
Official grants                               34        0          0        ..                                    73
Official creditors                           128      128         61       38
Private creditors                             -1        5         -6                                           D .  D
Foreign direct investment                      5        0         10                         E                564
Portfolio equity                               0        0          0                        1928
World Bank program
Commitments                                    6       73         65       60      A - IBRD                     E - Bileral
Disbursements                                 27       58         76       78      8 - IDA    D - Other muttilateral  F - Private
Principal repayments                           0        2         11       13      C - IMF                      G - Short-term
Net flows                                     27       56         65       85
Interest payments                              1        4          9        9
Net transfers                                 26       52         56       55
Development Economics                                                                                                  8128/97



Project Appraisal Document                    Page 44                     Mining Sector Reform
Country: Madagascar                                                Learning and Innovation Loan
Additional Annex
Mining Sector Policy Letter
May 28, 1998
REPUBLIQUE DE MADAGASCAR
Tanindrazana - Fahafahana - Fandrosoana
MINISTERE DE L'ENERGIE
ET DES MINES
DECLARATION DE POLITIQUE MINIERE
Madagascar, du fait de son contexte geologique presente un potentiel minier analogue a ceux des pays qui
connaissent un essor de l'activite miniere. Mais les regimes miniers qui se sont succedes depuis les
debuts d'exploitation jusqu'a nos jours, n'ont pas connu de succes quant a la contribution du secteur
concerne au developpement economique du pays.
Aussi, les enseignements du passe ainsi que l'evolution des conditions economiques et techniques
mondiales ont-ils incite le Gouvernement malgache a redefinir sa politique minibre. Cette redefinition est
issue de I'analyse du contexte socio-economique, des problemes specifiques au secteur et de
l'identification des principes qui permettent d'orienter ladite politique.
I.- HISTORIQUE.
1.1. Evolution du secteur minier.
Madagascar n'est pas un pays de tradition miniere. Cependant, des le 15ime siecle, on lui a deja reconnu
une activite extractive portant sur l'or, les pierres precieuses et les pierres fines. Cette activite a connu
]'expansion au cours de la periode coloniale et s'est etendue aux substances a vocation industrielle
(graphite, phlogopite, minerais radioactifs, mineraux de pegmatite, quartz...).
Actuellement, quatre grandes substances dominent les exploitations du secteur: le quartz, le graphite, la
chromite et le mica.
1.2. Administration du Secteur Minier.
1.2.1. Cadre juridigue.
Le secteur minier a e  regi successivement par la loi du 31 Juillet 1896, les ordonnances n 60-090 du 05
Septembre 1960 puis n 62-103 du Ier Octobre 1962, les lois n 90-017 du 20 Juillet 1990 puis n 95-016
du 09 Aouit 1995, cette derniere 6tant actuellement en vigueur.
Parallelement a ces regimes successifs, d'autres textes legislatifs et reglementaires ont des incidences
directes ou indirectes sur les activites du secteur, notamment ceux relatifs aux legislations fiscale,
douaniere et environnementale.



Project Appraisal Document                       Page 45                       Mining Sector Reform
Country: Madagascar                                                     Learning and Innovation Loan
1.2.2. Cadre institutionnel.
Le cadre institutionnel du secteur minier a connu une evolution notable, allant d'un simple bureau au sein
du Ministere de I'Economie, passant par un service ou une direction au sein de divers ddpartements,
jusqu'A devenir un Ministere en 1985. Le Ministere de l'Energie et des Mines (MEM) actuel comporte
des directions implantees dans les Provinces respectives, qui ont le pouvoir d'octroyer des permis, ainsi
que des Delegations dans certains Fivondronampokontany.
En outre, d'autres institutions et organismes interviennent A des titres specifiques et a des degres divers
dans le secteur minier: les Collectivites Territoriales Decentralisdes, le Comite National des Mines,
l'Office des Mines Nationales et des Industries Strategiques (OMNIS) et l'Office National de
l'Environnement (ONE).
Le Ministere de l'Energie et des Mines est charge de P'elaboration et la mise en ceuvre de la politique
miniere, de la gestion, du suivi et du contr6le des activites minieres. Les instances intervenantes y sont la
Direction des Mines et de la Geologie, les Directions Inter-Regionales, le Service des Affaires
Environnementales, le Comptoir de l'Or et la Brigade Miniere.
Les Collectivites Territoriales Decentralisdes ont dans le secteur, l'attribution de delivrer les autorisations
d'orpaillage et de collecte de l'or et de contr6ler les activitds minieres dans leur circonscription
administrative respective.
Le Comite National des Mines est un organe paritaire de dialogue, de concertation entre I'Administration
centrale et les Collectivites Territoriales Decentralisees, les operateurs et leurs organisations
decentralisees. Ses emanations au niveau des provinces sont les Comites Regionaux des Mines.
L'OMNIS est un etablissement public cree par ordonnance en 1976. Actuellement, il est titulaire des
titres miniers octroyes par decrets presidentiels ou delivres par le MEM, il effectue les etudes geologiques
de base et a procede A la valorisation des zones qui lui sont devolues.
L'ONE est un organe responsable entre autres, de 1'evaluation des dtudes d'impact environnemental des
projets. Par ailleurs, en collaboration avec le Service des Affaires Environnerrentales, il est charge
d'elaborer les textes d'application de la Mise en Compatibilite des Investissements avec I'Environnement
(MECIE) pour l'harmonisation avec le Code minier.
1.3. Cadre economigue.
Les activites minieres sont soumises d'une part, au paiement des obligations propres au secteur et, d'autre
part, A la fiscalite commune A toute entreprise.
Au cours de l'annee 1996, I'Etat malgache a publie des textes legislatifs et reglementaires visant A
garantir les investissements A Madagascar et A instaurer la liberalisation des changes.
Par ailleurs, depuis le 18 Septembre 1996, Madagascar a adhere A l'Article VIII des Statuts du FMI.
Ces diffdrentes mesures ont pour effet:
- pour les investissements:
* liberte d'investir A Madagascar, sans conditions d'agrement ou d'autorisation
d' investissement,



Project Appraisal Document                      Page 46                      Mining Sector Reform
Country: Madagascar                                                    Learning and Innovation Loan
- pour les transferts vers l'Etranger de benefices, de
revenus et de capitaux:
* production d'une simple d6claration de transfert aupres des intermediaires agrees (banques
locales) en ce qui concerne les dividendes, les benefices, les salaires, les revenus des biens
meubles et immeubles, les droits de licence, les royalties et redevances,
* soumission A autorisation prealable du Ministere charge des Finances pour les operations en
capital comme les produits de cession d'actions ou de parts sociales, de cession de fonds de
commerce, de liquidation, de ventes de biens ainsi que les avances en compte courant
d'associes et les emprunts,
- pour la r6trocession des devises provenant des recettes d'exportation:
* delai d'obligation de retroceder porte A 120 jours,
* possibilite de garder une partie des recettes dans un compte en devises ouvert dans une
banque locale.
II.- SITUATION ACTUELLE.
Suite A I'analyse de ces differentes composantes, le Gouvernement a degage des problemes embrassant
plusieurs domaines.
2.1. ProblImes fondamentaux.
Ils sont constitues par:
* l'insuffisance des donnees geologiques de base sur Madagascar;
* I'insuffisance des moyens humains et materiels pour encadrer le secteur;
* l'insuffisance des infrastructures routieres, portuaires, energetiques et ferroviaires;
* la faible participation du secteur au PNB du pays (n'ajamais depasse les 3%);
- la non fiabilite des informations sur la production miniere;
* des ristournes percues directement sur la production par les collectivites locales, conformement aux
dispositions de la loi n 94-007 du 26 Avril 1995 regissant ces collectivites: elles constituent une
double taxation avec les redevances minieres;
* I'absence de textes d'application au decret MECIE, devant preciser les normes et les proceddures
adaptees au secteur.
2.2. ProblImes relatifs au regime actuel d'octroi et de gestion des permis miniers.
On releve A ce titre:
* un manque d'information sur les demandes enregistrees concernant les carres disponibles;
* des procedures d'octroi de permis qui s'averent lourdes;
* un foisonnement de petites mines couvrant 85% des permis institues, mais n'offrant que 5% des
recettes fiscales minieres. II est A noter que quatre grandes substances (quartz, graphite, chromite,
mica) assurent les 95% restantes;
*  70% des permis d'exploitation existants sont pour l'or et les pierres fines et, en outre, un regime
d'orpaillage ne favorisant pas la promotion des grands investissements et le developpement des autres
substances minieres;
2.3. Problemes lies aux techniques d'exploitation et de valorisation.
Ils consistent:



Project Appraisal Document                     Page 47                     Mining Sector Reform
Country: Madagascar                                                  Learning and Innovation Loan
e en une absence d'exploitation et une speculation sur les carres accordes aux permissionnaires;
* au manique de professionnalisme des exploitants artisanaux, avec utilisation de techniques ne
permettant pas de valoriser de fa,on optimale les ressources minerales disponibles et ceci, avec le
risque de degradation de l'environnement.
2.4. Problemes sociaux.
On releve:
* Ia proliferation du secteur informel dans l'activite miniere, y compris des spoliations;
* des problemes relationnels entre les proprietaires des sols et les permissionnaires.
2.5. Problemes de commercialisation.
lus se traduisent par:
* des contraintes reglementaires pesant sur les operateurs en matiere de commercialisation de l'or;
* la pr6dominance du secteur informel dans la commercialisation notamment de l'or, des pierres
pr6cieuses et des pierres fines.
III.- LES PRINCIPES DE LA POLITIQUE MINIERE.
Dans le DCPE 1996-1999 adopte en Septembre 1996, <d le Gouvernement Malgache s'est prononce
clairement en faveur d'un systeme d'economie de marche caracterise par la mise en place d'un
environnement socio-economique favorable au developpement du secteur prive, A la recherche de
l'investissement etranger, au desengagement de l'Etat du secteur productif et A une lutte plus efficace
contre la pauvrete. >>
11 s'agit d'une option fondamentale qui se r6percutera sur le developpement du secteur economique en
general et du secteur minier en particulier.
Compte tenu du diagnostic effectue, le Gouvernement definit une nouvelle politique miniere axee sur les
grands principes enonces ci-apres:
3.1. L'Etat Malgache est convaincu que le potentiel minier de Madagascar constitue un moteur capable
d'entrainer le developpement de l'economie du pays en harmonie avec la dimension environnementale.
3.2. L'Etat Malgache est conscient du besoin d'ameliorer la competitivite des conditions de mise en valeur
du potentiel minier malgache sur le plan international.
3.3. La mise en valeur des ressources minieres de Madagascar se fera dans les conditions fixees par la loi.
3.4. L'Etat etablira les conditions pour inciter la mise en valeur des ressources minieres par le secteur prive,
d'une maniere efficace, stable, harmonieuse et rentable. A cet effet, les operateurs prives seront
consultes en tant que de besoin.
3.5. L'Etat se ddsengagera de toutes operations en concurrence avec le secteur prive dans le domaine minier,
et mettra en place des services d'appui et de contr6le des activites de ce secteur.
3.6. L'Etat mettra en place les conditions et les services d'appui en vue d'aider les orpailleurs et les artisans



Project Appraisal Document                        Page 48                        Mining Sector Reform
Country: Madagascar                                                       Learning and Innovation Loan
miniers A s'integrer dans le circuit formel issu de la reforme du secteur. Particulierement, le Comptoir de
l'or sera transforme en Agence de l'or qui sera un organe de regulation et de promotion de la filiere Or.
3.7. L'Etat mettra en place un systeme d'octroi de droits miniers performant, transparent, non
discriminatoire et base d'une maniere generale sur le principe de <<premier venu, premier servi >.
En outre, il garantira de fa,on objective et equitable le maintien des droits des titulaires qui honorent les
obligations prevues dans le code minier A cet effet.
3.8. Dans les conditions fixees par la loi, le transfert de droits miniers sera libre sous reserve de son
inscription au registre de cadastre minier qui aura le caractere de document ouvert A la consultation du
public.
3.9. L'Etat elaborera les textes specifiques qui definiront les obligations relatives a la protection de
l'environnemnent pour le secteur minier et assurera le suivi et le contr6le correspondants.
3.10. Le Code minier favorisera la libre commercialisation de la production miniere du titulaire de droit
minier d'exploitation au prix du marche.
3.1 1. L'Etat mettra en place toutes mesures appropriees qui seront suffisamment competitives et stables pour
promouvoir et consolider A long terme les investissements dans le secteur.
3.12. L'Etat s'engage A mnettre en place, A renforcer et A entretenir, aussi bien au niveau central que
provincial, les structures institutionnelles necessaires pour la bonne administration et la planification de
l'activite miniere, en particulier les services suivants:
*  le cadastre minier
*  le contr6le et le suivi de la production et du respect des obligations de securite, sanitaires et
autres relatives a P'activite miniere
-  la recherche geologique
-  le contr6le et le suivi du respect des obligations environnementales.
Ce principe sera assorti de la formation du personnel.
3.13. L'Etat s'engage A garantir la securite des investissements, notamment pour 6viter les spoliations des
permissionnaires.
IV.- OBJECTIFS DE LA POLITIQUE MINIERE.
Conformement aux principes precites, le Gouvemement se fixe comme objectif l'accroissement des resultats
du secteur par la promotion des activites de grandes mines sans pour autant delaisser les mines artisanales
dont l'orpaillage qui est une activite d'appoint pour beaucoup de paysans malgaches. Cet objectif principal
peut se decomposer en sous objectifs ci-apres:
4.1. Augmenter la contribution du secteur minier:
- A l'economie nationale, des mesures incitatives seront prises pour encourager les investissements dans le
secteur;
- aux exportations et aux recettes nationales en devises: cela suppose une production inteme tournee vers
l'exportation et
- aux recettes de l'Administration miniere, le systeme etablira des droits faciles A apprehender et A
contr6ler et qui, par ailleurs, evitent la speculation sur les perimetres (systeme de redevance superficiaire
comportant des procedures de rendu).



Project Appraisal Document                      Page 49                       Mining Sector Refortn
Country: Madagascar                                                     Learning and Innovation Loan
4.2. Promouvoir le d6veloppement de I'infrastructure regionale pour faciliter autant que possible l'acces
aux zones minieres et la circulation des produits.
4.3. Ouvrir le secteur a l'investissement prive national et international: I'Etat ne prendra pas directement
part au capital des soci6tes minieres.
4.4. Accelerer le processus de desengagement de l'Etat des operations de recherche commerciale, de
production et de commercialisation : I'Etat se limitera a des operations de recherche a finalite de service
public et evitera toute situation pouvant mettre en cause sa neutralitd.
4.5. Promouvoir l'investissement prive dans l'exploration et l'exploitation minieres avec des techniques
appropriees en creant des conditions favorables a I'appel des capitaux.
4.6. Ameliorer l'efficacite des aspects environnementaux des activites existantes : la protection de
l'environnement peut engager d'enormes depenses si bien qu'elle ne peut pas toujours etre assuree par
l'exploitant minier artisanal, I'Etat encouragera la mise en oeuvre de demarches participatives ou le
partenariat.
4.7. Liberaliser la commercialisation des produits miniers : les. substances ne doivent faire l'objet de
restriction ou de monopole au profit de l'Etat pour sa commercialisation.
4.8. Promouvoir la qualite des produits miniers pour une credibilite du label malgache.
4.9. Mettre en place une structure de gestion des droits miniers transparente, objective et efficace dot6e
d'un compte de commerce.
4.10. Considerer l'or comme toute autre substance miniere. Toutefois, l'orpaillage fera l'objet de
dispositions particulieres en vue de sa professionnalisation progressive.
Le Gouvernement Malgache considere que la politique miniere ci-dessus formulee repond a l'attente du
pays dans la contribution du secteur a son developpement. II demande l'adhesion de tout un chacun.



Project Appraisal Document                       Page 50                       Mining Sector Reform
Country: Madagascar                                                      Learning and Innovation Loan
Annexe
i la Declaration de Politique Miniere
PLAN D'ACTION
Pour mettre en oeuvre sa nouvelle politique miniere, le Gouvernement s'engage a executer un programme
d'actions comportant quatre (4) volets.
1. Reforme de la Legislation et de la Reglementation du secteur
Le Gouvernement revisera le Code minier et ses textes d'application en se referant aux objectifs de politique
miniere fixes, cette revision s'attachera essentiellement a:
* r6affirmer la propriete de I'Etat sur le sous-sol et les substances minieres qu'il contient;
* assurer pour tout investisseur national ou international, l'acces a l'exploration etlou l'exploitation des
ressources minerales dans des conditions clairement definies;
- definir clairement les r6les respectifs de l'Etat et des investisseurs prives dans la promotion du secteur;
*  garantir par le systeme de cadastre lajouissance des titres miniers par les permissionnaires;
* expliciter les exigences et ]es proc6dures pour obtenir, conserver, ceder et rdsilier les titres miniers;
* pr6voir des dispositions qui seront:
. favorables a l'egalite de traitement entre les investisseurs nationaux ou internationaux;
. assez competitives pour attirer les grands investissements prives;
e et appropriees pour limiter les speculations sur les titres miniers.
* preciser les recours possibles aupres des juridictions competentes ainsi que les procedures y afferentes;
* prendre des dispositions specifiques au secteur minier, afin de garantir l'equilibre entre la protection
environnementale et le developpement du secteur.
2. Reforme des structures publiques d'encadrement du secteur minier
La mise en oeuvre des reformes a apporter au secteur necessitera les actions suivantes, que le Gouvernement
s'engage a entreprendre:
- La reorganisation du Minist&e charge du secteur notamment par la mise en place d'un Cadastre Minier
informatise et le renforcement de certains services concernes;
- La liberation de tout permis de recherche miniere ou Zone de Recherche et Prospection au nom de l'Etat
ou de l'OMNLS ne faisant pas l'objet d'un arrangement contractuel avec des tiers;
- La cession/transfert de tout permis de recherche miniere ou Zone de Recherche et Prospection au nom de
I'Etat ou de l'OMNIS faisant l'objet d'arrangements contractuels avec des tiers, sauf dans les cas ofi ces
engagements contractuels se sont fait sous la forme de Conventions d'Etablissement;
3. RWorganisation de la filiere Or
Les actions a entreprendre a ce niveau porteront essentiellement sur la refonte des differents decrets
regissant le Comptoir de l'Or et la creation de I'Agence de l'Or qui tiendra desormais le role d'organe de
promotion et de regulation, et servira:



Project Appraisal Document                        Page 51                       Mining Sector Reform
Country: Madagascar                                                       Learning and Innovation Loan
*  de support et d'assistance pour les operateurs dans les differentes procedures administratives et
techniques: recherche, exploitation, circulation, transformation et commercialisation sur le plan national
et international;
* d'organe d'information et d'interface entre les operateurs.
Cette Agence de l'Or tiendra un systeme d'information visant a la creation eventuelle d'une Bourse de l'Or
A Madagascar.
Les actions devront egalemnent couvrir:
* le recensement des differentes zones ou l'orpaillage existe, en vue de leur localisation pour faciliter le
traitement des problemes que cette activite peut engendrer;
* le recensement des orpailleurs en vue de les organiser suivant les dispositions du nouveau Code;
* la sensibilisation des orpailleurs et la vulgarisation des textes.
4. Information, Education et Communication sur la reforme
[I s'agira d'une etape pour preparer et entretenir l'opinion de tous les Institutions et organismes, des
operateurs miniers et de la population a comprendre les nouvelles dispositions legislatives et reglementaires.



MAP SECTION



IBRD 22395R
44'                                         460                                          AB,At$2-    -500 S
MADAGASCAR                                                                                                        /1                                               I
RELIEF                                                    AGRICULTURE and UVESTOCK                             00
A- of -rdiioolnoot fernsg
E,'rpe-ets                                                   coffee,      d-nillo, e-belsoer)               SO10b
_ _     ocniorpbomenoto e                                                                                                                                             ' rmr   i  lS0iK f i    Z    
A-14                                                                            _p-onfioerod  Etnd`it,tc;rSnc "'>i ""      -,   5                                                 0 
Routeenbonetof                           IN~~~~~~~~~~WDUiTRfE5 l                 -160, -,l/ g'' I...        .      J     f- .  
A    pt mbeorf-codtnerroodsr                                     Zone pfroductrcentr dof collu!~5 r e- d'mbcport
936        aOdroit d'AMtAtd.                                           trdtcolf   cO.rIie    0M )o                                                          o~
TRANSPORT                                                     Zoo d'Ce  oonds  ecrgo-if
14      ______  WeII-coditio-d -oad                                                                                                                                                                     140
Route err st 6Wo                                        INDUSTRIES                                 4~~ 
Pooroble or ilI-coodil,-oed ods                                  -o        c                          sob'                4                                  Bor / ono
Rot A- 'Bo -  oFefiovle so oroois                                    ooc   dostries                 .                                                             Iy>f;
-16 -Sff Tngff~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ceotro irrdorlriel urbole                                         <           ~MoIooo    Boolcoro>  16
C.-Oj orof1 air             .Ct Besk am                     ( odotr esdinet-es)                                          Ar -                   i
RdCoron  oBriden *oooeoo         ;                                Agro-n lodusroosaren                                                         f7    ffSars
= 18 P ,h, Woterco                                                                                  w                                                                          I!a
tie fni.fe                                                  ACt-odsdopo                                                                                   o -
f~~~~~~~~~~~Vi  r-,E.                                                                    EsIkl ge-ravmdonqe. @tiMinnq  - inif
15000
-ICC      Horbor rrofflc riho--od to-s)
20 -l-fflo pooircere  o       d to )
-~--0                                                                       IM.0
MINING                              -                                     rbooT   o
Gil epl-ri- /s                      Besole-py
Zooedero-h-erchp6troflkr
Au      Gold, 0,M                                              '       A~r                Fe
CI     Crbon, Cobo-o
Cr     Chr-rn, CAro,-
Cu      Coppe.   CW irr e
Fe      Io, Per                                         -------.- ly
G      G Grph e, Gopo  5         0
Mi      Mi-0, Mico
NI      NiKel, Nicke                0r100 
10~ ~ ~  -P; Pho-p:;tf,Itkocpfrote    o'                                                                                                                                                         54
UA o .ron prn  .roic                                                                           . \.
TI     Treir,Til.e                                                             B
Ka      Kooln, K,olt o\
K^LOMgER5 0   50  lOo  15o      ss610ha    hff; <> *   Amboromtat                  =5                                              On.ean ;If  16s^  Iv
Mu      Morble, Mrbte 
. ZS' 42Copito 0   50      lO0 e48                                                                                                                              toe
P-I                                                     .InIdian                                                                                                            be iv
'B  ~  ~      ~          Procooet.  bosdooe
-505      t,lebiAo                                Os
-100 ~     ~         ~        ~         oHs                                                                          Ocean
b.hi                           - 10-00fr   h    c c eoe crcco d rs                         2
22'    ~ ~ ~ ~  ~    ~ ~ ~ ~ tskooo'5--l                                                                                                                The Wdeoorrris ff-ssed odAr
so  ~~~~~~~~~Wrd Boo Thos,-cy )f r th           ocro-t
Soborolre  ' -o'                                              erofongsoe                              sob.  d  -e lapel, -Mo.s of ootcfoTh.
O'                                        .~~~~~~~~~~~~~y~o o -'ed--neeoc oceoc
240~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~5
0~~~~~
Fe                                                          olpsr                                                                                   cor
24'                                                                                                                A.~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~0AhGll
KILMETRS    00 00        50                 oloo                                                 1                                                                                  rsAnsrccIC
I                   Mr ~~0       Acbonb 
Tnonrbe         sr                                                                             0~~~~~~~~A   RI 
450  MILES 5  50            105                                            440                                          4B0~Ka G 
A.p-ihy ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~SOeabn 99



