Report No. PID9444
Project Name                     Madagascar-Mining Sector Reform Learning...
and Innovation Loan
Region                           Africa
Sector                           Mining
Project ID                       MGPE56487
Borrower                         Republic of Madagascar
Implementing Agency              General Directorate for Mining
Ampandrianomby
Antananarivo, Madagascar
Tel: +261.20.22.403.19
Fax: +261.20.22.325.54
Date this PID prepared           March 20, 1998
Projected appraisal date         April 20, 1998
Projected Board date/
Vice-President Approval          June 1998
1.      Country and Sector Background. Since 1996, the Government of Madagascar
has been implementing a wide range of policy, economic and sectoral reforms
under its structural adjustment program. The Government's economic reform
program presented in the DCPE (Document Cadre de Politique Economique, 1996-
1999) calls inter alia for the liberalization of the mining sector through the
withdrawal of the State as an operator of mining assets and the implementation
of a strategy to encourage a private-sector led mining industry. A recent Bank
Mining Sector Review showed sector performance (about 3t of GDP and 2t of
total exports) is far below the country's potential. As a result of previous
State intervention in the development of mineral resources in Madagascar, the
Government is directly involved in mining projects and, through OMNIS,
controls the most promising mining rights. The complex structure of the
mining concession management system (the mining cadastre) and the weakness of
Government institutions have resulted in a situation whereby other
prospective areas are being tied up for many years without any productive
work being performed. Government is already in the process of taking new
initiatives aimed at creating an enabling institutional and regulatory
framework to attract private investment to the sector. It has recently
decided to redefine its role in the promotion of minerals development in
Madagascar, renouncing to future State participation in commercial activities
and any request for mandatory participation in new ventures. Proper mineral
legislation and competitive tax regimes are under preparation, with Bank's
assistance, but they will be only of value in attracting investors if they
are administered in a professional and transparent manner by an appropriate
supervisory institution. The institutional structure in charge of the sector
remains inadequate and unfocussed, with a notable lack of inter-institutional
cooperation and frequent duplications of effort. Given a conducive
environment, Madagascar's mineral resources could be developed in an
efficient, sustainable and environmentally sound manner contributing to
foreign exchange earnings, tax revenues and employment. Potential long term
export revenues by the year 2010 could be in the US$ 400-700 million range.
Mining's potential contribution to GDP could reach 15t by 2010, while
potential long term export revenues could represent 25t of total exports.



2.      Project Objectives. The objective of the proposed project is to develop
and support, through institutional development T.A., the governments' policy,
regulatory and institutional reforms which encourage the expansion of private
investment in mining in an environmentally sound way. Specific programs aim
at: (a) establishing an enabling environment to both promote private
investment in mining and ensuring real and sustainable contribution to
economic growth; (b) providing institutional capacity building to effectively
administer regulations and to monitor sector developments; (c) establishing
capacity in the country for environmental and information management, and
develop the understanding of and the capacity to address social impacts from
mining; and (d) identifying and adopting appropriate mechanisms to facilitate
the development of small scale mines and to improve the social, welfare,
health and environmental conditions of artisanal miners.
3.      Project Description. The Project has two components. (i) A Policy
Implementation Component, providing consultancies to support the completion
of the sector's regulatory reform and the strengthening of the administrative
capacity and installations of the sector agencies, including their cadastral
and registry systems, a minerals data bank, and the mechanisms to monitor and
enforce environmental and social management related to mining activities. It
would also finance relevant skill transfer, training and divestiture efforts;
the project would also support efforts to integrate small-scale and artizanal
mining into the formal economy and to improve their technical, environmental
and social performance; (ii) A Project Coordinating Unit (UCP) to oversee
Project implementation. The Project finances consulting services and contract
works, computer equipment and software, field and office equipment and
vehicles, training, incremental recurrent costs and the necessary upgrading
of facilities.
4.      Project costs and financing. Total costs of the Project is estimated at
US$7.75 million equivalent, of which 69% is foreign exchange. A Bank credit
of US$5.0 million is contemplated, with expected parallel financing from the
French Cooperation and Government contribution to finance local costs.
5.      Implementation Arrangements. The Project would be implemented over a
period of 24 months. The Project completion date would be July 31, 2000 and
the Loan closing date would be December 30, 2000. The General Directorate of
Mines (DG/MME) would be responsible for the implementation of the project. DG
will establish a Project Coordination Unit (UCP) to coordinate project
implementation, and manage (a) procurement - including all contracting for
works and purchases - and the hiring of consultants, (b) project monitoring,
reporting and evaluation, (c) the contractual relationship with the Bank, and
(d) financial record keeping, the Special Account and disbursements.
6.      Madagascar has excellent geological potential as is evidenced by the
interest major international mining companies are showing in the country.
However, the Government will encounter difficulty in sustaining this interest
and in ensuring the maximum contribution to economic development unless the
major reforms which have already begun are completed and deepened.
Sustainability will be enhanced through the project's strong emphasis on
institution building, training, human capital development and environmental
awareness in the public as well as private sectors. Foreign consultants will
be expected to work closely with local public and private sector counterparts
and required to transfer knowledge, technical skills, and know-how. If
proper regulations and enforcement mechanisms as well as a competitive
-2 -



environment are put into place, minerals exploration and development of mines
will become self-sustaining to provide a continual revenue stream and other
economic benefits to the country.
7.      Lessons learned from past operations in the country/sector.    Lessons
have been learned from the ongoing activities being carried out under the
Private Sector Development and Capacity Building Project (PATESP), as well as
from other countries where the Bank has financed similar mining technical
assistance projects (e.g. Bolivia, Ghana, Peru and Tanzania) and from a
recent Bank review on mining sector reform in Latin America (A Mining
Strategy for Latin America and the Caribbean, 1996). Experience in other
countries indicates that improving the enabling environment increases the
ability of the country to attract and retain appropriate private investment.
For instance, Ghana in the late 1980s undertook significant reforms,
supported by the Bank and other donors, to improve the enabling environment
for private sector investment in mining. The result has been a four fold
increase in gold production, a mining investment climate that is consistently
ranked among the best in the world by investors, and the privatization of
state owned mining enterprises. Experience in Madagascar with technical
assistance as, for instance, the PATESP, suggests that emphasis on
beneficiary participation in project preparation, intensive supervision,
organization and coordination at the field level are critical for timely and
effective implementation. Ownership and political commitment to project
objectives are key to ensuring strong local leadership, availability of
counterpart funds, and clear delineation of ministerial authority and
responsibilities.
8.      Poverty Category. N/A
9.      Environmental Aspects. The project is expected to have a positive impact
on the environment by building capacity in the country for environmental
management at the national level and within the mining sector. A
comprehensive Sector Environmental Assessment (SEA) will be carried out as
part of the project, including the: (i) review of the present status of the
environmental legal, regulatory and institutional frameworks; (ii) evolution
of the mining sector, including a description of most of the mining projects
in operation or under development; (iii) potential physical and socio-
economic impacts of sector activities on the environment and on the
communities, including indigenous populations; (iv) preparation of
environmental baseline studies, to assess natural, social and sector
background data in selected areas of each of the participating Provinces; (v)
preparation of pilot socio-economic baseline studies aiming at the definition
and implementation of consultation procedures, training requirements and
programs, ad hoc institutional strengthening and other related measures.
10.     Program Objectives Category. Private sector Development. Foreign-led
private sector investment into mining could play an instrumental role in
opening the country's economy to investment and competition, effectively
supporting the on-going macroeconomic stability and structural reforms. The
project will contribute to unlock the country's good geological potential
through an enhanced access to foreign technology and financing, while
promoting the development of sound small-scale mining practices and their
integration in the formal economy.
11.     Project Benefits. (i) induced by the project: (a) Increased foreign and
- 3 -



local direct investment in mining projects and increased export revenues; (b)
development of private service capacity to the mining industry, such as
exploration and drilling services, environmental impact studies,
laboratories, mining construction works and earth removal, maintenance and
others; (c) development of infrastructure related to mining and with a
regional development impact (e.g. roads, energy); (d) increased income-
generating opportunities in areas with high unemployment, increased education
opportunities and reduced migration outflow; (e) contribution to the
decentralization and to a better regional distribution of productive
activities; and (f), sustainable development and fair benefits for local
communities located around mining; and (ii) as a direct result of the
project, i.a.:(a) establishment of a modern, consistent and homogeneous
mining legal and regulatory framework; (b) improved efficiency public mining
institutions (e.g. faster and non-discretionary administration of mining
rights) and improved enforcement capacity of environmental, health and safety
regulations; (c) improved security of tenure for mining rights through
accurate geographical location of concessions; (d) improved knowledge of
existing environmental and socio-economic conditions, as a basis for improved
management and participation of local communities; (e) protection of the
environment from potential damages caused by mining; and (f), generation of
baseline information that can be used by all sectors (e.g. water resources).
12.     Project Risks. The overall risk of the Project is estimated to be
moderate. The main identified risks and their minimization measures included
in Project design are: (i) Government's continued commitment to reform:
Government's program for mining sector reform is on schedule and was
confirmed and reinforced during negotiations for Bank's next Adjustment
Operation. Key Performance Indicators are part of legal covenants pertaining
to SAC operations; (ii) condensed timing to build-up to build-up capacity to
manage cadastral data by Mining Cadastre Office and Provincial off-shoots: in
order to avoid excessive concentration, technical assistance will be phased
and prioritized so as not to overburden the relevant government departments
and the international consultants engaged will work alongside local
counterparts; and (iii) continued staff ownership regarding project
objectives: this risk will be mitigated by proven strong advisory capacity by
consultants to guide and support the development of managerial and
administrative capacities, combined with a participative processes to
implement the institutional reform and introduce new work methods.
11.     Contact Point.
The InfoShop
The World Bank
1818 H Street, NW
Washington, D.C. 20433
Telephone: (202) 458-5454
Fax: (202) 522-1500
This PID processed by the InfoShop during the week ending August 25, 2000
- 4 -



