                                        Document of
                                     The World Bank




                                                             Report No: 26161

                        IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
                                        (IDA-31110)

                                            ON A

                                           CREDIT

                           IN THE AMOUNT OF 5 US$ MILLION

                                           TO THE

                                REPUBLIC OF MADAGASCAR

                                           FOR A

                            MINING SECTOR REFORM PROJECT




                                        June 17, 2003




Oil, Gas, Mining and Chemicals Deparetment (COCPD)
Madagascar, Comoros, Mauritius and Seychelles (AFC08)
Africa Regional Office

                              CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS

                         (Exchange Rate Effective May 20, 2003)

                                Currency Unit = Malagasy Franc (FMG)
                                   FMG 1000 = US$ 0.1675
                                        US$ 1 = 6427.80 FMG

                                      FISCAL YEAR
                                January 1     December 31

                         ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS
ASM     Artisanal and Small-scale Mining
BAM     Mining Administration Bureau
BCCMM   Madagascar Mining Cadastre Bureau
CAS     Country Assistance Strategy
CDD     Community Driven Development
CNM     National Committee on Mines
DCPE    Document Cadre de Politique Economique
DCA     Development Credit Agreement
DG      General Director of Mines
DGEM    General Directorate of Energy and Mines
DMG     Mines and Geology Directorate
DIR     Regional Directorate
EA      Environmental Assessment
EIS     Environmental Impact Statement
EMP     Environmental Management Plan
GIS     Geographical Information System
ICB     International Competitive Bidding
ICR     Implementation Completion Report
IDA     International Development Agency
LIL     Learning and Innovation Loan
MEM     Ministry of Energy and Mines
MRGP    Mineral Resources Governance Project
MSRP    Mining Sector Reform Project
NCB     National competitive Bidding
NGO     Non Governmental Organization
PAD     Project Appraisal Document
PRSP    Poverty Reduction Strategy Paper
SAC     Structural Adjustment Credit
SEA     Sectoral Environmental Assessment
TA      Technical Assistance
UPCM    Mining Project Implementation Unit
ZAES    Special Economic Activity Zone


                               Vice President:   Mr. Callisto Madavo
                  Country Manager/Director:      Mr. Hafez Ghanem
                   Sector Manager/Director:      Mr. Peter van der Veen
         Task Team Leader/Task Manager:          Mr. Paulo de Sa

                                          MADAGASCAR
                             MINING SECTOR REFORM PROJECT


                                            CONTENTS




                                                                                 Page No.
   1. Project Data                                                                    1
   2. Principal Performance Ratings                                                   1
   3. Assessment of Development Objective and Design, and of Quality at Entry         2
   4. Achievement of Objective and Outputs                                            5
   5. Major Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcome                              9
   6. Sustainability                                                                10
   7. Bank and Borrower Performance                                                 11
   8. Lessons Learned                                                               12
   9. Partner Comments                                                              13
   10. Additional Information                                                       15
   Annex 1. Key Performance Indicators/Log Frame Matrix                             16
   Annex 2. Project Costs and Financing                                             17
   Annex 3. Economic Costs and Benefits                                             19
   Annex 4. Bank Inputs                                                             21
   Annex 5. Ratings for Achievement of Objectives/Outputs of Components             22
   Annex 6. Ratings of Bank and Borrower Performance                                23
   Annex 7. List of Supporting Documents                                            24
MAP IBRD 22395R

Project ID: P056487                                                      Project Name: MINING SECTOR REFORM
                                                                         PROJECT
Team Leader: Paulo De Sa                                                 TL Unit: COCPD
ICR Type: Core ICR                                                       Report Date: June 17, 2003


1. Project Data

                   Name: MINING SECTOR REFORM PROJECT                             L/C/TF Number: IDA-31110
   Country/Department: MADAGASCAR                                                          Region: Africa Regional Office

        Sector/subsector: Mining and other extractive (79%); Central government
                            administration (21%)
                  Theme: Regulation and competition policy (P); Other environment and
                            natural resources management (P); Small and medium enterprise
                            support (S); Environmental policies and institutions (S)

KEY DATES
                                                                               Original               Revised/Actual
         PCD:    12/10/1997                                        Effective: 10/28/1998              01/25/1999
   Appraisal:    04/01/1998                                            MTR: 05/05/2000                05/05/2000
    Approval:    06/30/1998                                         Closing: 03/31/2002               12/31/2002

    Borrower/Implementing Agency:          REPUBLIC OF MADAGASCAR/MINISTRY OF ENERGY AND MINES
                      Other Partners:

STAFF                      Current                                             At Appraisal
Vice President:            Callisto E. Madavo                                  Callisto E. Madavo
Country Director:          Hafez M. H. Ghanem                                  Michael N. Sarris
Sector Manager:            Peter A. van der Veen                               Thomas Allen
Team Leader at ICR:        Paulo De Sa                                         Paulo De Sa
ICR Primary Author(s): Claude Ginet


2. Principal Performance Ratings

(HS=Highly Satisfactory, S=Satisfactory, U=Unsatisfactory, HL=Highly Likely, L=Likely, UN=Unlikely, HUN=Highly
Unlikely, HU=Highly Unsatisfactory, H=High, SU=Substantial, M=Modest, N=Negligible)

                          Outcome:S

                     Sustainability:L

Institutional Development Impact:SU

               Bank Performance:S

           Borrower Performance:S


                                                      QAG (if available)              ICR
                                  Quality at Entry:                                   S
                     Project at Risk at Any Time: No

3. Assessment of Development Objective and Design, and of Quality at Entry

3.1 Original Objective:
The overall objective of the project was to increase investment and growth in Madagascar's mining sector,
through the implementation of reforms and actions that will lay the ground for future private investment
and exploitation, over the long term and in an environmentally sound manner, of the significant potential of
its natural resources. The specific objectives comprised : (a) complete sector reforms aimed at establishing
an enabling environment to both promote foreign direct investment in mining and integrate small-scale and
artisanal mining activities into the formal economy, which would ensure a real and sustainable contribution
to economic growth; (b) building institutional capacity to effectively enforce laws and regulations,
administer mining titles, monitor sector developments, and make geological information available to
potential investors; (c) establishment of capacity in the country, by means of pilot projects, to identify and
address environmental and social impacts from mining; and (d) identification and adoption of appropriate
mechanisms to facilitate the development of small-scale mines and to improve the social, welfare, health
and environmental conditions of artisanal miners.

The objectives of the project continue to be realistic and relevant for the country. They continue to match
the mining policy of the Government for the development of the country's mineral resources, as stated in
1997 during project preparation. The project contributed to improving governance in the mining sector - an
objective still endorsed by the Government, which is core to the folow-up Mineral Resources Governace
Project (MRGP). Substantial results have been accomplished, leading the Government to redefine its role in
the development and promotion of the minerals industry in Madagascar, withdrawing from future
operational and commercial activities and not requesting mandatory participation in new mining ventures.
This objective still belongs to the top priorities of the present Government (refer to the MRGP Project
Appraisal Document, report No 25777, April 17, 2003).

The first specific objective was relevant considering that since 1996 the Government has been
implementing a wide range of policy, economic and sectoral reforms under its structural adjustment
program. The Government's economic reform program presented in the DCPE (Document Cadre de
Politique Economique, 1996-1999) calls for, inter alia, liberalization of the mining sector through the
withdrawal of the State as an operator of mining assets and the implementation of a strategy to encourage
private sector participation in the mining industry. The implementation of the reform program required a
comprehensive sector reform aimed at establishing an enabling environment to both promote foreign direct
investment in mining and integrate small-scale and artisanal activities into the formal economy. The project
activities enabled the Government to modernize the legal and regulatory framework and ensure that
Madagascar was open to private investments in mining.

The relevance of the second specific objective was underscored by the incipient institutional capacity of the
sector for which the project ensured considerable progress regarding the mining title registry and
environmental management of mining activities. Institutional development continues to be relevant, and the
Government intends to pursue effort in this field, in accordance with the institutional reform designed under
the project.

Environmental concerns are a continuous concern for the Government and for civil society, as Madagascar
is world famous for its biodiversity. The fact that only environmentally sustainable activities should be
carried out on national territory imposes strong pressures on environmental management and control,
justifying the specific objective of establishing environmental management capacity in the country by
means of pilot projects to identify and address environmental and social impacts resulting from mining
activities.



                                                     - 2 -

As in most developing African countries, small scale mining provides economic resources to a wide range
of the poor and rural population. In spite of the adverse social and environmental impacts of small scale
mining, this activity represents an important social and economical component of poverty reduction.
Innovative ways for the formalization of small scale and artisanal mining activities and mitigation of its
environmental and social adverse impacts were designed and tested with support from the project,
especially with regards to the fight against smuggling of gemstones. Their implementation is now part of
the Government's top priorities.

The project was consistent with the Country Assistance Strategy, as presented to the Board in November
1997. The project also has strong links with the World Bank's Interim Country Assistance Strategy
(I-CAS), which was published on October 23, 2002 to provide the planned Bank response to the post-crisis
environment in Madagascar. The newly approved Mineral Resources Governance Project continues to
support the I-CAS. The I-CAS encourages good governance and poverty reduction in the country, and
both projects have made clear efforts to uphold these objectives.

The project directly supported the Government's economic reform program presented in the DCPE
(Document Cadre de Politique Economique, 1996-1999), developed with the assitance of the World Bank,
which stressed the need to facilitate and attract private investment by making Madagascar internationally
competitive. The project made a significant contribution to the divulgation, implementation and
enforcement of the new Mining Law approved in 1999 which was the corner stone for the sector
development, particularly in terms of governance in providing mining rights, restricting discretionary
powers, strengthening environmental management for mining, and creating equal opportunities for national
and international investors. The Bank's involvement in the project enhanced the Government's ability to
administer and enforce the Law, help restructure sector institutions and bring international experience to the
implementation of its new mining program, especially in matters of environmental concern.

In this sense, the project was responsive to the needs of the Borrower. The project was designed to
strengthen the mining administration for the implementation of the Government policy specifically
regarding the control and formalization of small scale and artisanal mining activities, as well as the
mitigation of the social and environmental impacts of these activities.

The project was designed as a Learning and Innovation Loan (LIL) because of the complexity of the issues
being addressed and the risk that Government committment would gradually disappear during its
implementation. It was demanding and complex for both Government and sector mininstry because of the
magnitude of sector reforms, the development of new capacities, in particular concerning the transparent
granting of mining permits and environmental management, and the innovative and learning aspects of the
planned activities in reference to the reduction of gemstones smuggling and the integration of informal
small scale mining activities into the national economy.

For the Ministry of Energy and Mines (MEM) in particular, the project was demanding and complex
because of the institution's lack of capacity and required skills at project start, and because the project
involved a complete change in the role of public mining institutions for the implementation of the mining
policy and the withdrawal of the State as an operator of mining assets.

3.2 Revised Objective:
There was no formal revision of the original project objectives, as stated in the MOP and the Loan
Agreement.




                                                     - 3 -

3.3 Original Components:
The project included two components that were balanced and geared to achieving project objectives and
implementation.


             Component                    Project Costs (US$ million)              Costs %          Rating
                                           Appraisal           Actual       Appraisa Actual
                                       /(co-financing) /(co-financing)            l
A - Policy Implementation                    7.05              4.34              91        84         S
     A.1 Normalization of                3.00 /(2.00)       0.91 /(0.00)         40        18         S
     Small-scale Mining
     A.2 Environmental                       0.95              0.90              12        18         S
     Management
     A.3 Institutional Reform            3.00 /(0.40)       2.53 /(0.00)         39        48         S
B - Project Coordination                     0.70              0.81               9        19         S
Total Project                                7.75              5.15             100       100         S
Table 1. Summary of project components and their respective costs. The difference between expected and
actual project costs corresponds to the non effectiveness of parallel financing, lowering the total project
financing to US$ 5.15 million instead of the expected US$7.75 million.

A. - Policy Implementation

A. I - Normalization of Small-Scale Mining: (i) support an integrated management and technical assistance
program in selected areas to enhance the technical yield, reduce the existing adverse impact on the
environment, and increase tax revenues; (ii) support the Mining Directorate to design and deliver technical
advice, geological information, and extension services to small-scale miners; and (iii) strengthen the
minerals laboratory, and support the creation of a cutting center (with parallel financing).

A.2 - Environmental System/ Sector Environmental Control and Assessment: (i) carry out environmental
baseline studies over selected mining and potential mining districts; (ii) strengthen the capacity of the
Mining Environmental Management Unit for the monitoring and enforcement of environmental regulations,
and the setting up of procedures for the processing of Environmental Impact Statements in mining; (iii)
carry out socio-economic baseline studies over selected mining districts as a basis for development of
methodology and capacity to assess and monitor social, cultural and economic impacts of mining on local
communities, and develop consultation and participatory procedures; and (iv) develop an Environmental
Information and Management System (EIMS), which includes: training of staff in environmental and
socio-economic management related to mining; provision of infrastructure, field and data processing
(hardware and software) equipment.

A.3 - Institutional Reform and Capacity Building: (i) Reform and strengthen the public mining agencies,
based on the institutional audit developed during project preparation; this included : organization and
staffing of key administrative units, setting-up of efficient work procedures; training of staff, provision of
adequate office and field equipment; and rehabilitation of facilities; (ii) Communication campaign
(following approval of the new Mining Code in 1999), both to promote wide understanding and acceptance
of reforms (including among entrenched interests) and to attract external investors to the country's mining
sector; this included : preparation of promotion material, seminars, and legal advice; (iii) Mining Cadastre
and Registry System: to establish proper computer-based cadastre and registering procedures, and clear up
the backlog of pending concession applications; and (iv) Geological and Mining Information System:
development of a database, providing for the compilation, cataloguing, treatment, and update of geological
information; this included : purchase of information, provision of the necessary hardware and software,




                                                    - 4 -

Internet connection; creation of a data room, staff training (with parallel financing).

B. Project Coordination. A Project Coordinating Unit (PCU) has been responsible for the implementation
of the project. The PCU monitored, supervised and provided management control for all components and
for the Project as a whole. The PCU managed procurement, including all contracting for works and goods,
selection and hiring of consultants, the contractual relationship with the Bank and project administration
and accounting.

3.4 Revised Components:
None of the components was formally revised. However, some of the components were scaled down
because of the failure of co-financing arrangements. The sub-components affected by this scaling down
were: A.I Normalization of Small-Scale Mining, extension services to small-scale miners; strengthen the
minerals laboratory, and support the creation of a cutting center and A.3 Institutional Reform and Capacity
Building: Geological and Mining Information System. The corresponding activities could not be carried
out.


3.5 Quality at Entry:
The project objectives were consistent with the CAS and the borrower's needs. The project appropriately
took into consideration the Bank's Safeguard Policies, and met the critical needs of the mining sector.
Lessons learned from the preparatory work conducted under the previous Private Sector Development and
Capacity Building Project (PATESP), and the major risk factors that could affect project implementation
were considered and incorporated into project design.

Nonetheless, it is apparent that insufficient attention was given to securing parallel funding from French
Cooperation. Failure to secure this funding resulted in non-execution of the activities planned under
parallel funding, but it did not affect the project's overall development objectives. Because the project was
prepared in a very short period of time, not enough attention was paid before effectiveness to procurement
management capacity issues. This resulted in a disbursement lag of about six months in the first stages of
project implementation. Project design underestimated the potential spreading, magnitude and impact of the
rushes on precious stones that started and affected the sector a few months after effectiveness. Finally, long
term political risks were underestimated. A political crisis paralyzed the country during the first half of
2002 and resulted in the blockage of the project for several months, leading to the extension by six months
of the closing date. The lag in implementation partially affected the completion of the environmental
activities, and had a partial adverse impact on the final outcomes of the project.


4. Achievement of Objective and Outputs

4.1 Outcome/achievement of objective:
The project achieved significant results in terms of its learning objectives. Legal and institutional
frameworks were reformed according to international best practice, taking into consideration Madagascar
specificities. Both frameworks positively compare with the frameworks in other countries in terms of sector
management capacity and investment environment. Learning results have been incorporated into the
project throughout its implementation. The project has provided a valuable learning ground for the
government, the Bank and for the investors.

Legal framework and enabling environment for private investments: A series of laws and corresponding
regulations providing a sustainable and competitive framework for the development of the mining sector,
were prepared with the support of the project, including a modern Mining Law in December 1999, and its
regulations in April 2000. A special regime providing a stable and competitive framework for the
development of large industrial mining projects was established under the Law on Large-scale Investments,



                                                       - 5 -

approved in October 2002. The reformed legal framework removed the state from operations of mining
assets and encouraged the implementation of private-sector led mining industry. With respect to
environmental management, inter-ministerial regulations providing clear rules and definitions of
responsibilities, as well as an improved integration between the mining and environmental administrations
have been approved in October 2000.

The institutional framework has been reformed and an independent and economically sustainable Mining
Cadastre has been established on May 15, 2000 with the elimitation of the backlog of pending applications
and the cancellation of all permits held by the State or in the individual name of OMNIS, a state-owned
exploration organization. Permits held by the private sector that were no longer valid were also cancelled.
The project created regional cadastre offices that facilitated the granting of permits to small scale miners in
remote areas. Despite the political crisis in 2002, the Mining Cadastre was able to keep operating without
major delays. The institutional reform also allowed the definition of a new institutional organization for the
public mining administration. Improved enforcement of the new regulations has been achieved through a
consensus between the administration and the private sector, made effective by the creation of the National
Council of Mines and Provincial Councils of Mines, partner institutions that disccuss and agree on major
sector reforms.

Significant progress has been achieved in establishing the capacity in the country to address environmental
as well as social impacts from mining through the realization of pilot environmental studies and the creation
of a mining environmental unit at the Mining Directorate, as well as the development of procedures for
Environmental Impact Assessments (EIAs) within the mining sector. The Mining Environmental Unit is
now fully operational and equipped with a computerized environmental management and information
system.

Improved management of small scale mining activities and precious stone rushes have been accomplished
through carrying out pilot assistance projects and the creation of special reserved areas (ZAES) and local
mining offices in small scale mining areas, as part of a support mechanism to contain the impacts of rushes
on gemstones.

Though all specific project objectives were achieved, continued efforts beyond project closure should be
fulfilled and strengthened. The anticipated increase of mining production, fiscal revenues and
diversification were not achieved by 2002 largely due to external factors, such as the low market price of
mining commodities and the severe political crisis, both of which influenced the last year of project
implementation. The project team was able to raise its awareness of mining activities in the country and
has been able to learn about particular aspects of small scale mining activities throughout project
implementation.


4.2 Outputs by components:




                                                     - 6 -

A. - Policy Implementation

The major outputs of policy implementation are reflected in the reform of the legal and regulatory
framework with the Declaration of Mining Policy, Decree 98­394, issued on May 28 1998, the preparation
and enactment of the new Mining Law (Law 99 ­022 of August 19th 1999), the regulation of the Mining
Law (Decree 2000 ­ 170 of March 25th 2000), the Ministerial Decree 12032/2000 of November 6th 2000
regulating environmental impacts on mining investments, the Special Law for Large Mining Investments
providing fiscal benefits for large scale investments (Law 02-31 of August 8th, 2002) and by laws, as well
as the organization of the National Council of Mines (Conseil National et Comités Provinciaux des Mines)
by the Decree n° 2002/1005 of September 9th 2002. The reforms of the legal and regulatory framework
made a substantial contribution to opening the mining sector to private investments and ensuring the
withdrawal of the state as an operator of mining assets. During the period of project implementation
average annual investments in the mining sector were of US$ 30 million. Exports of mineral products have
been multiplied by two, from about US$ 18 million in 1999 to about US$ 36 million in 2002 (this level had
already been achieved in 2000, but was reduced because of the political crisis). The specific contribution of
mining to fiscal revenues remains nevertheless modest, with annual average contributions of US$ 2 million
from mining royalties and US$ 0.5 from Mining Cadastre fees.

A. I - Normalization of Small-Scale Mining: The project paid significant attention to small-scale mining in
Madagascar, which represents an important source of revenues for the rural populations, while posing
major environmental and social adverse problems within the mining sector.

The activities carried out provided an actualized diagnostic of the small-scale and artisanal mining
activities that allowed a better understanding of the related problems which are of great importance for the
implementation of the Government's new mining policy. This diagnostic provided the bases for the long
term planning of the improvement of managerial, technical and environmental performance of small-scale
miners to reduce contamination and calibrate extension of services to this sector. Although small-scale and
artisanal mining activities were known, the lack of concrete information before the project hindered the
actions toward their improvement. The diagnostic allowed the improvement of the perception of small-scale
and artisanal mining issues by the Government and the design of the relevant mining policy.
Recommendations from the diagnostic led to the definition and design of an integrated management plan for
small-scale and artisanal mining that forms an important tool for the implementation of the mining policy.
The integrated management plan has been tested through the execution of three pilot projects improving the
legalization and productivity of small-scale artisanal mining as well as commercialization of the products.
The major output of the subcomponent is the design of a local management policy of small-scale mining
activities around the establishment of special reserved areas (ZAES). This innovative concept has proven to
be effective for the prevention and management of small scale mining rushes, though its implementation
under the project presented some shortcomings. An adjusted framework (BAM, Bureaus of Mining
Administration) has been created and will be implemented as part of the execution of the new mining
project (Mineral Resources Governance Project). The experience stemming out from the implementation of
the referred subcomponent fulfilled the learning objectives of the LIL regarding small-scale and artisanal
mining and significantly improved the understanding and management of these activities and support the
Mining Directorate to design and deliver technical advice, geology information, and extension services to
small-scale miners. A beneficiary survey conducted as part of project evaluation with a sample of 100
small scale mining operations concluded that 80% had formalized their activities during project
implementation (between 2000 and 2001), 33% of which with direct assistance from project activities. A
pilot project conducted in the Ankazobe region under the project led to the increase of mining permits in the
area from 16 to 206 and to the formalization of 37 mining operators.

Planned activities to strengthen the minerals laboratory, and support the creation of a cutting center could
not be carried out due to the withdrawal of parallel financing, which was supposed to finance them.


                                                     - 7 -

However, such activities are still relevant and will be covered to some extent within the new Mineral
Resources Governance Project.

A.2 - Environmental Information System/ Sector Environmental Control and Assessment: Pilot
environmental and socio-economic baseline studies have been carried out over selected mining areas. The
studies significantly increase knowledge of environmental conditions within Madagascar's mining sector,
which help to design adapted methodologies for environmental evaluation and follow-up of mining
activities' environmental and social impacts. Collected environmental and social baseline data and
associated training establish the ground to build up local capacity to assess and monitor social, cultural and
economic impacts of mining on local communities, and develop consultation and participatory procedures.
This data are now available within the Environmental Information and Management System (EIMS)
developed by the project, which significantly upgraded the institutional capacity to monitor environmental
and social impacts within the mining sector. Baseline data form a reference to monitor impacts of mining
activities. The establishment of standards protocols and procedures for environmental evaluation represent
a major output of the subcomponent that strengthens the national capacity to carry out environmental and
social studies in the future. With project support, the mining sector was a pioneer in the effective
implementation of the country's Environmental charter and the Decree on the use of environmental impact
assessments. A fully operative, well-trained environmental mining is a direct outcome of the
sub-component.

A.3 - Institutional Reform and Capacity Building:

a)       The institutional reform allowed the implementation of the institutional model developed under the
PATESP leading to definition of a new institutional organization for the public mining administration.

b)       Communication campaigns carried out by the project promoted both understanding and acceptance
of reforms, specifically concerning the application of the new Mining Law. They assisted small scale
miners in obtaining mining permits in order to legalize their operations.

c)       The establishment of a modern and transparent Mining Cadastre and Registry System are, based
on proper computerized cadastre and registering procedures, the project's major accomplishment. The
Mining Cadastre operates on a decentralized basis through its regional offices and has produced positive
feedback from mining operators. The Mining Cadastre contributed effectively to the elimination of a
backlog of mining titles applications, reduced from 288 at project start to zero at project end. In addition,
the Cadastre cancelled the titles that were no longer valid. Moreover, the Mining Cadastre Unit achieved
financial sustainability during project execution. In spite of the political crisis during the first six months of
2002, the Mining Cadastre was able to keep operating without major delays, demonstrating the robustness
of its institutional organization. However, the slowdown of mining activities following the crisis endangered
the financial sustainability of the unit on a short term basis. Lessons learned from the set up of the Cadastre
are now applied to the forestry sector.

d)       Strengthening of the Geological and Mining Information System were not carried out due to an
unexpected reduction in planned parallel funding. The relevance of this activity has been supported by the
Government at project end, and will be implemented during the Mineral Resources Governance Project.


4.3 Net Present Value/Economic rate of return:
Normal net present value or economic rate of return are not appropriate measures for this technical
assistance program under a LIL scheme, and no projections had been established at project design.
However, a tentative assessment has been prepared for this report (see Annex 3) and will be followed up
during the implementation of the MRGP.

4.4 Financial rate of return:



                                                       - 8 -

Not applicable

4.5 Institutional development impact:
The project's institutional development impact was substantial mainly on the central administration of the
mining sector. The mandates, responsibilities and functions of the different public mining institutions
(PMIs) in charge of sector management have been modernized and clearly defined (including within the
Mining Law and regulations). Their design now corresponds to the role of a modern State as a regulator of
the mining activity and their implementation will be carried out under the follow up project.

These developments embraced international best practice and were designed to fit the specificities of the
Malagasy mining sector in terms of functions, size, and various capacities.

The institutional developments which have already strongly and positively impacted the entire mining sector
were the establishment of a modern and transparent Mining Cadastre, responsible for the administration of
mining rights; and the creation of the Environmental Mining Unit, responsible for the evaluation of EIAs,
administration of environmental permits and monitoring of environmental performance.

Formal and on the job training coupled with the exposure to international practices significantly contributed
to raising the capacity of sector personnel to fulfill its functions, contributing to fulfilling the project's
learning objective.


5. Major Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcome

5.1 Factors outside the control of government or implementing agency:
Steep decline of commodity prices at project start in 1998, which made investment in mining activities in
Madagascar less attractive to major mining companies, was a major factor affecting project
implementation. This situation affected the large scale mining operations in the pipeline (specifically the
Phelps Dodge nickel-cobalt deposit at Moramanga and Rio Tinto Corporation titanium mineral sands in
southern Madagascar). These projects were supposed to increase mining exports revenues to over US$800
million and to motivate other major companies to invest in Madagascar. These adverse conditions seriously
affected the projected economic impacts of the project and the overall promotion of foreign private
investments and explain the low achievement of the financial project indicators.

The impact of the rushes on gemstones affecting the sector during project implementation led to a change in
the orientation of the activities implemented under the small scale mining component, away from
integration of mining in the traditional activities of local communities, and more into supporting emergency
measures being set up by the Government to minimize the environmental and social impacts of the rushes.
Although this led sometimes to the implementation of unplanned activities, it clearly contributed to the
understanting of the causes and consequences of those rushes and provided valuable tools to Government
and the project on how to deal with this sort of emergency situations.

Parallel funding from French Cooperation, which did not come through adversly affected project
implementation. The head of French Cooperation changed during project implementation and used the
funding for a substitute activity in an emergency situation. As a result, implementation of the project was
negatively affected. Several planned activities were dropped, and, as a consequence project implementation
objectives with respect to extension services to ASM, laboratory and gemstones cutting facilities could not
be met. This did not affect however the project development objectives. These components will be included
in the following Mineral Resources Governance project, approved by the WB Board on May 13, 2003.

5.2 Factors generally subject to government control:
The severe national political and economic crisis during the presidential election crisis from December
2001 to mid-2002 paralyzed the country, and, consequently, the project. Proper project implementation



                                                       - 9 -

resumed in September 2002. This situation negatively affected foreign and domestic investments in the
mining sector and led to the extension of the project's closing date by six months to allow for the
completion of certain activities, notably in the environmental area. Governance and transparency were
improved at the government level, but still need to be extended, strengthened and deepened, particularly on
site.

5.3 Factors generally subject to implementing agency control:
Throughout project duration, the Ministry of Energy and Mines (MEM), the agencies responding to MEM,
and the environmental authorities were committed to the sector reform objectives and performed well.

5.4 Costs and financing:
The total cost of the project executed at closure amounted to US$5.15 million (refer to Table 1). This is
about US$2.6 million (-34 %) less than the US$7.75 million estimated in the MOP and US$0.20 million
(-3%) less than the IDA and Government contributions as originally scheduled. This outcome reflects the
good performance of the project with respect to the Government and IDA funding, as the cost difference is
principally due to the non-disbursement of the scheduled parallel funding (US$2.4 million equivalent) as a
result of the withdrawal of the French Cooperation commitment at project effectiveness for undisclosed
reasons. Disbursement of the loan amounted to US$4.77 million or approximately 95% of the credit
proceeds and the contributions of the Government to the project amounted to US$0.38 million, exceeding
the amount estimated in the MOP (US$0.35 million).

The availability of, or delays in obtaining counterpart funds have not been a problem during most the
project life, with the exception of the period during the political and economic crisis of 2002.


6. Sustainability

6.1 Rationale for sustainability rating:
The overall sustainability of the project outcomes is rated Likely because (i) the legal and most of the
regulatory framework is in place, and (ii) the cornerstone institution for sector management, the Mining
Cadastre, has already demonstrated, both at the national and provincial levels, its full sustainability by
operating without financial support from the project through the political and economic crisis which deeply
affected the country in 2002. Fees from the Mining Cadastre are being used to fund other Mining
Directorate units (most notably the environmental unit) and arrangements have now being concluded for the
transfer of 30% of the fees to the local communities where the permits are granted. This will strengthen
ownership by the communities and assist in building capacity for the sustainable management of mineral
resources.

However, the Government would still encounter potential obstacles in reactivating and sustaining the
interest of investors, foreign and local, and in ensuring the maximum contribution to economic
development, unless the major governance issues are addressed and the reforms to decentralize mineral
resources management already under way are deepened and completed. If transparent management, proper
enforcement mechanisms as well as a competitive environment are fully implemented at the national and
provincial levels, mineral exploration and development will become self-sustaining to provide a continual
revenue stream and other economic benefits to the country and communities.

As a consequence, the Mineral Resources Governance Project (MRGP), a follow-up IDA project, has been
requested and designed by the Government, and approved by the World Bank Board, to further develop and
strengthen the likelihood of sustainability of the institutions and enforcement mechanisms to reduce the
smuggling of gemstones and precious metals out of the country. The improved understanding of the mining
sector environment achieved during the implementation of the Mining Sector Reform Project prepared the
ground for the MRGP. The MRGP would assist the Government of Madagascar in key areas of the mining


                                                     - 10 -

sector - policy, institutional, environmental and social management, increasing value added to artisanal
mining -- through a set of actions that would optimize the conditions for private investment. Sector
sustainability will be enhanced through the MRGP's strong emphasis on civil society/communities
participation and development capacity building, institutional strengthening, governance mechanisms
improvement, as well as environmental and social awareness in the public and private sectors. This would
be achieved through the establishment of more formal links with other projects currently supported by the
Bank in Madagascar in the areas of governance, private sector development, rural development and
environment.

With respect to artisanal mining, mechanisms have been developed and baseline knowledge improved under
the project. Although this sector and its contribution to improved economy in rural areas cannot yet be
claimed as sustainable or environmentally sound, experiences gathered under the present project and to be
implemented under the coming MRGP would aim to improve the sustainability, mainly through the use of
community driven development processes and stakeholders participation in mining areas.


6.2 Transition arrangement to regular operations:
Part of the project activities were already integrated into the regular operation of sector management,
specifically the administration of mining rights, which has minimized the need for special transition
arrangements regarding this particular entity. However, the project was designed as a learning process and
the Mining Cadastre's successful experience needs to be expanded to other sectoral institutions, as
envisaged under the new MRGP project, and including functions such as environmental permitting and
monitoring, provision of sector information and sector monitoring and promotion.

Regarding artisanal mining, building capacity at the community level would ensure better integration and
sustainability of this type of economic activity in rural areas (see section 6.1).


7. Bank and Borrower Performance

Bank
7.1 Lending:
The Bank's performance in the identification, preparation and appraisal of the project was satisfactory. The
selection of a LIL credit instrument was particularly adequate to the country's situation. It allowed the
project to test the conditions of sector reform implementations within a politically and institutionally
complex framework, while addressing some of the key issues related to such reform (mining rights
administration, environmental management and small-scale minining) and completing the set up of a
modern legal framework.

7.2 Supervision:
The Bank supervision performance was satisfactory. During the scope of project implementation (four
years) there were eight supervision missions. The supervision budget, considering the size of this credit
(US$5 million), was adequate, but did not provide enough room to offset the short period of time spent on
project preparation nor to cope adequately with the complexity of the issues, like for instance the need to
carry out multi-disciplinary team missions. However, this was partially addressed through intense liaison
with the Country Office and by the contracting, under the credit, of independent supervisors, particularly
with respect to mining rights administration and environmental management.

The Bank took a firm and proactive role in the supervision of the project. Aide Memoires and PSRs were
regularly prepared and transmitted. The PSRs realistically rated the performance of the project in terms of
achievement of development and implementation objectives.             Whenever delays under control of the
implementation agency occurred, the Bank was able to define concrete steps for putting the project back on



                                                     - 11 -

track.   The project staff also showed flexibility and initiative in assisting the government and the
implementing agency to respond to challenging or changing conditions, more particularly with respect to (i)
the full set-up of a modern legal framework, (ii) the informal artisanal and small-scale precious stones
mining rush which suddenly developped after project effectiveness, and (iii) the severe 2002 political crisis,
when Bank and Project staff made proog of flexibility, resilience, and innovation. Bank staff worked
closely with the Government and the implementing agencies and had good working relationships with them.

7.3 Overall Bank performance:
Overall, the Bank performance was satisfactory during project preparation, appraisal and implementation.

Borrower
7.4 Preparation:
The Borrower's performance during preparation was satisfactory. The Borrower displayed an adequate
level of commitment to the objectives of the project and properly addressed all major aspects of project
design from the technical, legal and institutional points of view.

7.5 Government implementation performance:
The Government performance during implementation was satisfactory, except during the period of political
crisis. Government has shown its commitment to sector reforms during the entire implementation period,
albeit the delays registered in the approval of the new laws and regulations. It also reacted promptly to
mitigate the negative impacts of the rushes on gemstones, although sometimes with mixed results. In spite
of the work accomplished substantial improvements can still be achieved in terms of governance in the
sector.

7.6 Implementing Agency:
The Implementing Agency performance during implementation was satisfactory. It has shown an
extraordinary degree of commitment and professionalism, especially during the political crises when it set
up an emergency plan that prevented project activities from being interrupted. Although not familiar with
bank procedures in the beginning of project implementation, the Unit became fully conversant with
procurement and disbursement issues and never registered a major problem during implementation.

7.7 Overall Borrower performance:
Considering the achievements of the project in spite of the severe political crisis which prevailed during
2002 and the challenging changes in the sector situation during the implementation period (most important,
the occurence of a precious stones mining rush), the overall Borrower's performance is evaluated as
moderately satisfactory.

8. Lessons Learned

The main lessons learned, upon which the Mineral Resources Governance follow-up project has been
designed, include:

l Although Government is committed to policy reform and to improvements in the legal and regulatory
    framework, enforcement of the new regulations can be hindered by governance issues and institutional
    shortcomings. Improvement of the state's ability to regulate public policy so as to create a positive
    environment for the development of a more dynamic mining sector, which would allow the affected
    communities to benefit directly from a surge in activities, is a crucial aspect of the project.

l Emphasis on beneficiary participation in project preparation, implementation and monitoring are
    critical for timely and effective implementation. Given the limited availability of highly skilled staff,
    ownership and political commitment to project objectives are key to ensuring strong local leadership,


                                                     - 12 -

    and clear delineation of ministerial authority and responsibilities. This is particularly valid regarding
    environmental management and, particularly, to increase and optimize the contribution of artisanal
    mining activities to improved livelihood at the communities level.

l Lack of detailed baseline information and adequate institutional capacity make improving governance
    in the small-scale mining area through technical assistance a particularly difficult task. Experience with
    capacity building and public sector reform under the MSRP and economic and sector work conducted
    under the project show that learning through the implementation of pilot projects is crucial to achieve
    results on the ground. In addition, giving the generalized level of poverty and the shortfalls in
    institutional capacity, the public administration alone can not deliver efficiently the services required by
    the small scale miners. Public/private partnerships are particularly adapted to the situation of
    Madagascar. The counterpart, at the policy level, of this strategic choice, is that policy implementation
    has to stress incentives to private economic activity rather than indiscriminate economic repression.

l Improving the enabling environment increases the ability of a country to attract and retain appropriate
    private investment. The last 25 years have seen significant changes in the international mining industry,
    in large measure because of the liberalization of economic and mining policies of previously restrictive
    governments in mining countries. These reforms have had three broad objectives, to improve sector
    performance and growth and the contribution of mining to the national economies, to ensure the
    sustainability of the mining industries in the developing countries, and to ensure that the host countries
    and local populations get a fair share from the benefits of growth of the sector.

l World Bank involvement in the reform process of successful mining countries shows that, for this to
    happen, the enactment of the necessary legal, fiscal and environmental policies and the establishment of
    strong mining institutions to implement and administer them have proven to be the keys to success.
    This includes: (i) a background of sensible economic policies and a coherent general legal framework;
    (ii) a mining law providing security of tenure, clarity and transparency and access to land (including
    the release of reserved areas held up by the State and full transferability of concessions to remove all
    barriers to the entry of investors) , and an investment framework providing access to foreign exchange
    and a stable and equitable fiscal regime; (iii) public mining institutions that apply properly the sector
    policies; (iv) a sensible environmental management system; and (v) clear incentives and mechanisms to
    associate the local communities to the management of mineral resources and to make them benefit of
    the revenues arising from the mining activity. Several of these issues have been adressed under the
    MSRP project. However the reform needs to be broadened and deepened.


9. Partner Comments

(a) Borrower/implementing agency:
In summary, the main objectives of the project - to support the Malagasy Government programme to set up
a favourable climate for the promotion of private investments for the development of mining activities -
were globally attained. With respect to the development of artisanal mining, the main issues and actions to
address them were identified during the sector diagnostic as well as the assessment of its main negative and
positive points. Durable solutions were tested through three pilot sites in the context of the small scale
mining integrated management component which allowed the Project to contribute effectively to :
    ·    local poverty alleviation through the promotion and the development of small scale mining ;
    ·    introduction of good governance through the normalisation of illegal and informal mining activities;
    ·    development of economic environment by the transparent dissemination of information and the new
    legal and regulatory framework conducting to an awakening of the public's conscience on the value of
    the country's mineral resources.

With regards to the environmental component, audits have been accomplished in regions of intense mining


                                                     - 13 -

activities. Integrated environmental impact assessments and socio-economical studies of mining
exploitations have been conducted and are now mandatory by law.

For the best administration of the procedures and security of storage of the technical data produced, an
environmental management and information system has been developed and is now being strengthened. As
a result of raining and awareness conducted under the components "Assistance Technique aux Petits
Exploitants Miniers" and "Cellule Environnementale" a reflex for the environmental preservation has been
created.

Data collection and training on environmental assessment have been accomplished. In this respect, the
collaboration between the Project and the environmental administration is highly commended because no
mining activity can be developed without an approved environmental commitment.

Major legal and regulatory reforms were achieved with Project support, namely :
    ·    new mining politic declaration;
    ·    mining code and regulations;
    ·    environmental regulations for the mining sector;
    ·    special regime for large mining investments.

The functionality of institutional model, as seen by the establishment of the Mining Cadastre Office led to
positive changes in the sector. It has allowed:
    ·    to eliminate the previously existing backlog of mining permits applications;
    ·    to improve the management of the relative procedures of the permits;
    ·    to increase fiscal revenues (mining administration fees, royalties).

Training has been developed to strengthen the capacity building and professional skills of the mining
administration staff.

The ability to effectively enforce the principle of « first come, first served », is a clear sign of the good
performance of the Mining Cadastre Office. All these actions have been implemented under the effective
coordination of the Project Implementation Unit.

The difficulties encountered during the period of project implementation have had the positive side effect of
developing a new attitude for solving of the problems, which led to the learning of the following lessons:
    ·    The consultation and the participation of all the stakeholders in a development program are the
    guarantee of its successful implementation and ownership;
    ·    For best results, the synergy between the project activities and the mining administration is
    essential, as well as careful planning of sub projects;
    ·    For all institutional reforms, sustainability issues must be taken into consideration during design
    and implementation;
    ·    The promotion of private investment must be accompanied by a rigorous fiscal policy and carefully
    designed incentives.

To ensure the sustainability of the results, an appropriated strategy must be designed and implemented,
specially to ensure the autonomy of all institutions and allow them to build on past achievements.

The success of this learning and innovation project is the result of the active participation of all
stakeholders from the preparation to the concretization.
For an improved contribution of mining sector to the economical development Madagascar, in conformity
with the country's potential, the Malagasy Government will have to set up an improved plan for the
management of its mineral resources, with governance and transparency as core principles. This huge
mission can not be realised without the technical and financing participation of international donors,



                                                       - 14 -

especially the World Bank.

(b) Cofinanciers:
Not applicable

(c) Other partners (NGOs/private sector):
Not applicable

10. Additional Information

N/A




                                             - 15 -

Annex 1. Key Performance Indicators/Log Frame Matrix

Outcome / Impact Indicators:
                                                                               1
                Indicator/Matrix                          Projected in last PSR                   Actual/Latest Estimate
1) Encourage private Investment in Mining :    US$ 25 million (as of November 2002)     US$ 30 million in 2002
annual average investments to increase from
$10 million currently to $ 85 million by 2010.
2) Increase fiscal revenues: annual average    US$ 2 million (as of November 2002)      US$ 2 million in 2002
revenues to increase from around $ 2 million
currently to $ 80 million by 2010.
3) Set the base for the creation of an         2 baseline studies                       2 baseline studies
Environmental and Social Management for
Mining : conduct at least 2 baseline studies
during the life of the project.
4) Mainstream small-scale mining into the      US$ 20 million in November 2002          US$ 20 million in 2002
formal economy : increase reported
production of gold and gemstones from SSM
from $5 million today to $40 million by 2010.
5) Improve technical and environmental         95% of the claims reported some sort of  95% of the claims reported some sort of
practices by small-scale miners : decrease     activity                                 activity
by 50% area covered by existing claims that
do not report production/do not comply with
the law.


Output Indicators:
                                                                               1
                Indicator/Matrix                          Projected in last PSR                   Actual/Latest Estimate




1End of project




                                                                 - 16 -

Annex 2. Project Costs and Financing

Project Cost by Component (in US$ million equivalent)
                                                          Appraisal     Actual/Latest  Percentage of
                                                          Estimate       Estimate        Appraisal
                       Component                          US$ million   US$ million
A - Policy Implementation
 A.1 Normalization of Small-scale Mining                     3.00             0.91              30
 A.2 Environmental Information System/Secto                  0.95             0.90              95
Environmental Control and Assessment
 A.3 Institutional Reform and Capacity Building              3.00             2.53              85
B - Project Coordination                                     0.60             0.81             135

Total Baseline Cost                                          7.55             5.15
 Physical Contingencies                                      0.10
 Price Contingencies                                         0.10
                         Total Project Costs                 7.75             5.15
                   Total Financing Required                  7.75             5.15


Project Costs by Procurement Arrangements (Appraisal Estimate) (US$ million equivalent)
                                                                    1
                                               Procurement Method
    Expenditure Category           ICB             NCB                2        N.B.F.     Total Cost
                                                               Other
1. Works                           0.00             0.20         0.15          0.00         0.35
                                  (0.00)           (0.16)      (0.12)          (0.00)       (0.28)
2. Goods                           0.69             0.20         0.43          0.90         2.22
                                  (0.69)           (0.17)      (0.42)          (0.00)       (1.28)
3. Services                        0.00             0.00         3.39          1.50         4.89
                                  (0.00)           (0.00)      (3.21)          (0.00)       (3.21)
4. Operative Costs                 0.00             0.00         0.29          0.00         0.29
                                  (0.00)           (0.00)      (0.23)          (0.00)       (0.23)
   Total                           0.69             0.40         4.26          2.40         7.75
                                  (0.69)           (0.33)      (3.98)          (0.00)       (5.00)


Project Costs by Procurement Arrangements (Actual/Latest Estimate) (US$ million equivalent)
                                                                    1
                                               Procurement Method
    Expenditure Category           ICB             NCB                2      N.B.F.      Total Cost
                                                               Other
1. Works                           0.00            0.15         0.10           0.00        0.25
                                  (0.00)          (0.12)       (0.08)         (0.00)       (0.20)
2. Goods                           0.00            0.43         0.08           0.00        0.51
                                  (0.00)          (0.29)       (0.06)         (0.00)       (0.35)
3. Services                        0.00            0.00         3.83           0.00        3.83
                                  (0.00)          (0.00)       (3.82)         (0.00)       (3.82)
4. Operative Costs                 0.00            0.00         0.56           0.00        0.56
                                  (0.00)          (0.00)       (0.40)         (0.00)       (0.40)


                                                - 17 -

       Total                               0.00               0.58              4.57             0.00              5.15
                                          (0.00)             (0.41)            (4.36)            (0.00)           (4.77)

    1/Figures in parenthesis are the amounts to be financed by the Bank Loan. All costs include contingencies.

    2/Includes civil works and goods to be procured through national shopping, consulting services, services of contracted staff
      of the project management office, training, technical assistance services, and incremental operating costs related to (i)
      managing the project, and (ii) re-lending project funds to local government units.



Project Financing by Component (in US$ million equivalent)
                                                                                                      Percentage of Appraisal
       Component                   Appraisal Estimate                  Actual/Latest Estimate
                               Bank        Govt.        CoF.         Bank         Govt.      CoF.       Bank     Govt.     CoF.
A - Policy Implementation
A.1 Normalization of           0.95         0.05         2.00        0.88         0.03                  92.6      60.0      0.0
Small-scale Mining
A.2 Environmental              0.95         0.00                     0.90         0.00                  94.7      0.0
Information
System/Control and
Assessment
A.3 Institutional              2.45         0.17         0.40        2.37         0.16                  96.7      94.1      0.0
Reform/Capacity Building
B - Project Coordination       0.55         0.13                     0.62         0.19                  112.7    146.2
Unit




                                                          - 18 -

Annex 3. Economic Costs and Benefits

The economic analysis presents the possible impacts of the project on Madagascar's economy occurring
after the start of operations - 1997. The possible impacts the project has on the country's economy are
evaluated by measuring an increase in actual and reported exports of gemstones, gold, and other minerals,
as well as foreign investment in the mining sector occurring after 1997.

The initial economic projections presented in the Project Appraisal Document had to be adjusted to
accommodate the negative effects of the political stalemate, which affected Madagascar in the first six
months of 2002. The revised figures project lower exports of gemstones until 2005 to give the country time
for economic recovery. Also, the possible production rate resulting from QMM's potential investment is
decreased. The overall projections show a thirteen-year project life - from 1997 until 2010.

Table I PAD low and high case projections scenarios

PAD       Project  Exports Lowcase                      Exports High Case
          Costs    Gold    GemstonesOther QMM  PD TOTAL Gold    GemstonesOther   QMM   PD    TOTAL
     1997                0       8     12             20      0         8     12     0      0     20
     1998                0       8     12             20      0         8     12                  20
     1999      -0.8      0      10     12             22      0        10     12                  22
     2000        -1      0      13     12             25      0        15     15                  30
     2001      -1.5      0      13     12             25      0        15     15                  30
     2002      -1.4      0      13     12             25      0        15     20                  35
     2003                0      13     12             25      5        18     20                  43
     2004                0      13     17             30      5        20     25                  50
     2005                5      15     20   50        90     10        25     30   85           150
     2006                5      15     25   85       130     10        30     50   85     150   325
     2007                5      15     50   85       155     15        35     70   85     150   355
     2008                5      15     75   85       180     15        35   100    85     200   435
     2009                5      15    100   85       205     20        40   120    85     200   465
     2010               10      25    115   150      400     25        50   125    150    250   600
TOTAL          -4.7


Table II Adjusted low and high case projections

REVISED Project     Exports Lowcase                        Exports HighCase
          Costs     Gold    GemstonesOther QMM PD   TOTAL Gold     GemstonesOther QMM PD      TOTAL
      1997                0        8     12              20      0        8     12     0     0     20
      1998                0        7     11              18      0        7     11                 18
      1999      -0.8      0       16     10              26      0       16     10                 26
      2000        -1      0       23     14              37      0       23     14                 37
      2001      -1.5      0        8      8              16      0        8      8                 16
      2002      -1.4      0       10     10              20      0       10     10                 20
      2003                0       12     12              24      0       14     12                 26
      2004                0       13     13              26      0       17     15                 32
      2005                5       15     15              35      5       20     17                 42
      2006                5       15     17              37      5       25     20                 50
      2007                5       15     20    35        75     10       30     25    50          115
      2008                5       20     25    50      100      10       35     30    85    50    210
      2009                5       20     30    85      140      20       40     40    85    50    235
      2010               10       25     40    85      160      25       50     50    85    90    300


The net benefits to the country's economy direclty linked to the project result from an increase in exports
due to efficient functioning of the minerals sector and increased foreign investment.        Increased and
improved government control over the minerals sector results in higher reporting of mining production




                                                   - 19 -

exports, especially gems and gold. The revised low case and the high case scenarios project QMM to begin
its production by 2007, with the lower case scenario limiting exports to USD$35 million during the first
year, while the high case projects exports of USD$50 million in the first year already. The projections for
Phelps Dodge are not included in the low case scenario due to low probability of this investment, but are
added into the high case scenario. The possible nickel exports reach USD$50 million in the first year,
2008. Minerals exports are included in the benefits calculations.

Based on these assumptions, and the cost of capital of 12%, project life limited to 13 years, the Net Present
Value of the project is $126,81 million for the low case, and $252,49 million for the high case scenario.
The Internal Rate of Return is 90% for the low case, and 109% for the high case scenario.

If no new mine development is assumed, the rate of return is reduced to 98% for the high case scenario and
78% for the low case scenario. The Net Present Value calculated is $107.27million for the high case
scenario and $56.54million for the low case scenario. The benefits of the project in this case are reduced to
the higher exports of gems and gold, with no potential exports of nickel taking place.

The increased investment will occur if the Government's capacity to create an improved regulatory
framework to attract the private parties to the country's minerals sector.




                                                    - 20 -

Annex 4. Bank Inputs

(a) Missions:
Stage of Project Cycle                  No. of Persons and Specialty                Performance Rating
                                      (e.g. 2 Economists, 1 FMS, etc.)         Implementation Development
                    Month/Year  Count           Specialty                        Progress       Objective

 Identification/Preparation
               09/12/1997                1     Task Team Leader (1)

 Appraisal/Negotiation
               04/18/1998                4     Task Team Leader (1),
                                               Environmental Specialist (1),
                                               Lawyer (1), Procurement
                                               Specialist (1)

 Supervision
               09/15/1998                 1    Task Team Leader (1)                 S               S
               08/28/1999                 1    Environmental Specialist (1)         S               S
               10/15/1999                 1    Task Team Leader (1)                 S               S
               02/03/2000                 1    Task Team Leader (1)                 S               S
               08/06/2000                 1    Task Team Leader (1)                 S               S
               07/13/2001                 1    Task Team Leader (1)                 S               S
               11/08/2001                 1    Task Team Leader (1)                 S               S
               10/08/2002                 1    Task Team Leader (1)                 S               S

 ICR
               11/25/2002                3     Task Team Leader (1),                S               S
                                               Environmental Specialist
                                               (1), Operations Analyst (1)



(b) Staff:

       Stage of Project Cycle                   Actual/Latest Estimate
                                    No. Staff weeks                  US$ ('000)
  Identification/Preparation                   6                             25
  Appraisal/Negotiation                        8                             39
  Supervision                                 51                            246
  ICR                                          9                             54
  Total                                       74                            364




                                               - 21 -

Annex 5. Ratings for Achievement of Objectives/Outputs of Components

(H=High, SU=Substantial, M=Modest, N=Negligible, NA=Not Applicable)
                                                    Rating
   Macro policies                                      H      SU    M  N  NA
   Sector Policies                                     H      SU    M  N  NA
   Physical                                            H      SU    M  N  NA
   Financial                                           H      SU    M  N  NA
   Institutional Development                           H      SU    M  N  NA
   Environmental                                       H      SU    M  N  NA

Social
            Poverty Reduction                          H      SU    M  N  NA
            Gender                                     H      SU    M  N  NA
            Other (Please specify)                     H      SU    M  N  NA
   Private sector development                          H      SU    M  N  NA
   Public sector management                            H      SU    M  N  NA
   Other (Please specify)                              H      SU    M  N  NA




                                                    - 22 -

Annex 6. Ratings of Bank and Borrower Performance

(HS=Highly Satisfactory, S=Satisfactory, U=Unsatisfactory, HU=Highly Unsatisfactory)

6.1 Bank performance                                        Rating

   Lending                                                    HS     S       U      HU
   Supervision                                                HS     S       U      HU
   Overall                                                    HS     S       U      HU

6.2 Borrower performance                                    Rating

   Preparation                                                HS     S       U      HU
   Government implementation performance                      HS     S       U      HU
   Implementation agency performance                          HS     S       U      HU
   Overall                                                    HS     S       U      HU




                                                    - 23 -

Annex 7. List of Supporting Documents

Borrower's evaluation report (December 2002)
Project Appraisal Document - Mineral Resources Governance Project (Mai 2003)
Set of new sectoral laws and regulations.
Consultants reports on mining rights administration, environmental management and artisanal mining
Aide Memoires, BTOs and PSRs




                                                  - 24 -

- 25 -

