Page  1
CONFORMED COPY
CREDIT NUMBER 3111-MAG
Development Credit Agreement
(Mining Sector Reform Project)
between
REPUBLIC OF MADAGASCAR
and
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
Dated July 30, 1998
CREDIT NUMBER 3111-MAG
DEVELOPMENT CREDIT AGREEMENT
AGREEMENT, dated July 30, 1998, between the REPUBLIC OF MADAGASCAR (the 
Borrower) and the INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION (the Association).
WHEREAS: (A) the Borrower, having satisfied itself as to the feasibility 
and priority of the Project described in Schedule 2 to this Agreement, has 
requested the Association to assist in the financing of the Project;
(B)
the Borrower has issued a mining sector policy statement, dated May 
29, 1998, describing a program of actions, objectives and policies designed to 
promote sustainable development of its mining sector (the Program), and 
declaring the Borrower's commitment to the execution of the Program;
(C)
the Borrower intends to contract from French Republic (France) a 
loan (the French Loan) and/or a grant (the French Grant) in an aggregate amount 
equivalent to $2,400,000 to assist in financing part of the Project on the terms 
and conditions set forth in a loan agreement (the French Loan Agreement) and/or 
a grant agreement (the French Grant Agreement), as the case may be, to be 
entered into between the Borrower and France; and
Page  2
WHEREAS the Association has agreed, on the basis, inter alia, of the 
foregoing, to extend the Credit to the Borrower upon the terms and conditions 
set forth in this Agreement;
NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:
ARTICLE I
General Conditions; Definitions
Section 1.01. The "General Conditions Applicable to Development Credit 
Agreements" of the Association, dated January 1, 1985, as amended through 
December 2, 1997 (the General Conditions), constitute an integral part of this 
Agreement.
Section 1.02. Unless the context otherwise requires, the several terms 
defined in the General Conditions and in the Preamble to this Agreement have the 
respective meanings therein set forth and the following additional terms have 
the following meanings:
(a)
“DG/MEM” means Direction Générale de l’Energie et des Mines, the 
General Directorate of Energy and Mining of MEM;
(b)
“Franc Malagasy” or “FMG” means the currency of the Borrower;
(c)
"MEM" means Ministère de l’Energie et des Mines, the Borrower’s 
Ministry of Energy and Mines;
(d)
"Project Account" means the account referred to in Section 3.04 (a) 
of this Agreement;
(e)
“Project Implementation Manual” means the Project Implementation 
Manual adopted by the Borrower pursuant to Section 6.01 (a) of this Agreement, 
and referred to in paragraph 3 (a) of Schedule 4 hereto, as the same may be 
amended from time to time, and such term includes any schedules to the Project 
Implementation Manual;
(f)
"Special Account" means the account referred to in Section 2.02 (b) 
of this Agreement; and
(g)
“UCP” means Unité de Coordination du Projet, the Project 
Implementation Unit referred to in paragraph 1 (b) of Schedule 4 to this 
Agreement, and established by the Borrower pursuant to Section 6.01 (e) of this 
Agreement.
ARTICLE II
The Credit
Section 2.01. The Association agrees to lend to the Borrower, on the terms 
and conditions set forth or referred to in the Development Credit Agreement, an 
amount in various currencies equivalent to three million eight hundred thousand 
Special Drawing Rights (SDR 3,800,000).
Section 2.02. (a) The amount of the Credit may be withdrawn from the 
Credit Account in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 1 to this Agreement 
for expenditures made (or, if the Association shall so agree, to be made) in 
respect of the reasonable cost of goods and services required for the Project 
described in Schedule 2 to this Agreement and to be financed out of the proceeds 
of the Credit.
Page  3
(b)
The Borrower may, for the purposes of the Project, open and 
maintain in Dollars a special deposit account in a commercial bank on terms and 
conditions satisfactory to the Association including appropriate protection 
against set-off, seizure and attachment.  Deposits into, and payments out of, 
the Special Account shall be made in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 
5 to this Agreement.
Section 2.03. The Closing Date shall be March 31, 2002, or such later date 
as the Association shall establish.  The Association shall promptly notify the 
Borrower of such later date.
Section 2.04. (a) The Borrower shall pay to the Association a commitment 
charge on the principal amount of the Credit not withdrawn from time to time at 
a rate to be set by the Association as of June 30 of each year, but not to 
exceed the rate of one-half of one percent (1/2 of 1%) per annum.
(b)
The commitment charge shall accrue: (i) from the date sixty days 
after the date of this Agreement (the accrual date) to the respective dates on 
which amounts shall be withdrawn by the Borrower from the Credit Account or 
canceled; and (ii) at the rate set as of the June 30 immediately preceding the 
accrual date and at such other rates as may be set from time to time thereafter 
pursuant to paragraph (a) above. The rate set as of June 30 in each year shall 
be applied from the next date in that year specified in Section 2.06 of this 
Agreement.
(c)
The commitment charge shall be paid: (i) at such places as the 
Association shall reasonably request; (ii) without restrictions of any kind 
imposed by, or in the territory of, the Borrower; and (iii) in the currency 
specified in this Agreement for the purposes of Section 4.02 of the General 
Conditions or in such other eligible currency or currencies as may from time to 
time be designated or selected pursuant to the provisions of that Section.
Section 2.05. The Borrower shall pay to the Association a service charge 
at the rate of three-fourths of one percent (3/4 of 1%) per annum on the 
principal amount of the Credit withdrawn and outstanding from time to time.
Section 2.06. Commitment charges and service charges shall be payable 
semiannually on May 1 and November 1 in each year.
Section 2.07. (a) Subject to paragraphs (b), (c) and (d) below, the 
Borrower shall repay the principal amount of the Credit in semi-annual 
installments payable on each May 1 and November 1, commencing November 1, 2008, 
and ending May 1, 2038.  Each installment to and including the installment 
payable on May 1, 2018, shall be one percent (1%) of such principal amount, and 
each installment thereafter shall be two percent (2%) of such principal amount.
(b)
Whenever: (i) the Borrower's per capita gross national product 
(GNP), as determined by the Association, shall have exceeded for three 
consecutive years  the level established annually by the Association for 
determining eligibility to access the Association's resources; and (ii) the Bank 
shall consider the Borrower creditworthy for Bank lending, the Association may, 
subsequent to the review and approval thereof by the Executive Directors of the 
Association and after due consideration by them of the development of the 
Borrower's economy, modify the repayment of installments under paragraph (a) 
above by: (A) requiring the Borrower to repay twice the amount of each such 
installment not yet due until the principal amount of the Credit shall have been 
repaid; and (B) requiring the Borrower to commence repayment of the principal 
amount of the Credit as of the first semiannual payment date referred to in 
paragraph (a) above falling six months or more after the date on which the 
Association notifies the Borrower that the events set out in this paragraph (b) 
have occurred, provided, however, that there shall be a grace period of a 
minimum of five years on such repayment of principal.
Page  4
(c)
If so requested by the Borrower, the Association may revise the 
modification referred to in paragraph (b) above to include, in lieu of some or 
all of the increase in the amounts of such installments, the payment of interest 
at an annual rate agreed with the Association on the principal amount of the 
Credit withdrawn and outstanding from time to time, provided that, in the 
judgement of the Association, such revision shall not change the grant element 
obtained under the above-mentioned repayment modification.
(d)
If, at any time after a modification of terms pursuant to paragraph 
(b) above, the Association determines that the Borrower's economic condition has 
deteriorated significantly, the Association may, if so requested by the 
Borrower, further modify the terms of repayment to conform to the schedule of 
installments as provided in paragraph (a) above.
Section 2.08. The currency of the United States of America is hereby 
specified for the purposes of Section 4.02 of the General Conditions.
ARTICLE III
Execution of the Project
Section 3.01. (a) The Borrower declares its commitment to the objectives 
of the Project as set forth in Schedule 2 to this Agreement and, to this end, 
shall carry out the Project through MEM with due diligence and efficiency, and 
in conformity with appropriate administrative, financial, engineering and 
technical practices, and with due regard to ecological and environmental 
factors, and shall provide, promptly as needed, the funds, facilities, services 
and other resources required for the Project.
(b) 
Without limitation upon the provisions of paragraph (a) of this 
Section and, except as the Borrower and the Association shall otherwise agree, 
the Borrower shall carry out the Project through MEM, all in accordance with the 
Implementation Program set forth in Schedule 4 to this Agreement.
Section 3.02. Except as the Association shall otherwise agree, procurement 
of the goods, works, and consultants' services required for the Project and to 
be financed out of the proceeds of the Credit shall be governed by the 
provisions of Schedule 3 to this Agreement.
Section 3.03. For the purposes of Section 9.07 of the General Conditions 
and without limitation thereto, the Borrower shall:
(a)
prepare, on the basis of guidelines acceptable to the Association 
and furnish to the Association not later than six (6) months after the Closing 
Date or such later date as may be agreed for this purpose between the Borrower 
and the Association, a plan for the future operation of the Project; and
(b)
afford the Association a reasonable opportunity to exchange views 
with the Borrower on said plan.
Section 3.04.  (a)  Without limitation upon its obligations under Section 
3.01 of this Agreement, the Borrower shall open, in a commercial bank, and on 
terms and conditions satisfactory to the Association, a Project Account in 
Francs Malagasy, to be operated and maintained by UCP, into which the Borrower 
shall deposit from time to time its local counterpart contribution to the cost 
of the Project.
(b)
The Borrower shall:
(i)
make an initial deposit of an amount equivalent to $60,000 
Page  5
into the Project Account; and 
(ii)
thereafter, on each January 1 and July 1, during the 
implementation period of the Project, deposit into the 
Project Account an amount equal to the amount of the initial 
deposit referred to in sub-paragraph (i) of this paragraph, 
or such other amount as shall have been agreed between the 
Borrower and the Association. 
(c)
Funds deposited into the Project Account shall be applied solely 
for the purposes of defraying the cost of expenditures incurred for the 
execution of the Project, and not otherwise financed out of the proceeds of the 
Credit.
ARTICLE IV
Financial Covenants
Section 4.01.  (a)  The Borrower shall establish and maintain a financial 
management system, including records and accounts, and prepare financial 
statements in a format acceptable to the Association, adequate to reflect the 
operations, resources and expenditures for and in connection with the carrying 
out of the Project.
(b)
The Borrower shall:
(i)
have the records, accounts and financial statements referred 
to in paragraph (a) of this Section, and the records and 
accounts for the Special Account for each fiscal year 
audited, in accordance with auditing standards acceptable to 
the Association consistently applied, by independent 
auditors acceptable to the Association;
(ii)
furnish to the Association as soon as available, but in any 
case not later than six months after the end of each such 
year, (A) certified copies of the financial statements 
referred to in paragraph (a) of this Section for such year 
as so audited, and (B) an opinion on such financial 
statements, records and accounts and a report of such audit 
by said auditors, of such scope and in such detail as the 
Association shall have reasonably requested; and 
(iii)
furnish to the Association such other information concerning 
such records and accounts and the audit thereof, and 
concerning said auditors, as the Association may from time 
to time reasonably request.
(c)
For all expenditures with respect to which withdrawals from the 
Credit Account were made on the basis of statements of expenditure, the Borrower 
shall:
(i)
maintain, or cause to be maintained, in accordance with 
paragraph (a) of this Section, records and separate accounts 
reflecting such expenditures;
(ii)
retain, until at least one year after the Association has 
received the audit report for the fiscal year in which the 
last withdrawal from the Credit Account was made, all 
records (contracts, orders, invoices, bills, receipts and 
other documents) evidencing such expenditures;
(iii)
enable the Association’s representatives to examine such 
records; and
(iv)
ensure that such records and accounts are included in the 
annual audit referred to in paragraph (b) of this Section, 
Page  6
and that the report of such audit contains a separate 
opinion by said auditors as to whether the statements of 
expenditure submitted during each fiscal year, together with 
the procedures and internal controls involved in their 
preparation, can be relied upon to support the related 
withdrawals.
ARTICLE V
Remedies of the Association
Section 5.01. Pursuant to Section 6.02 (l) of the General Conditions, the 
following additional events are specified:
(a)
a situation shall have arisen which shall make it improbable that 
the Program or a significant part thereof will be carried out.
(b)
(i)
subject to subparagraph (ii) of this paragraph:
(A)
the right of the Borrower to withdraw the proceeds of 
the French Loan or the French Grant shall have been 
suspended, cancelled or terminated in whole or in 
part, pursuant to the terms of the French Loan 
Agreement or the French Grant Agreement, or
(B)
the French Loan Agreement shall have become due and 
payable prior to the agreed maturity thereof;
 (ii)
subparagraph (i) of this paragraph shall not apply if the 
Borrower establishes to the satisfaction of the Association 
that: (A) such suspension, cancellation, termination or 
prematuring is not caused by the failure of the Borrower to 
perform any of its obligations under such agreement; and (B) 
adequate funds for the Project are available to the Borrower 
from other sources on terms and conditions consistent with 
the obligations of the Borrower under this Agreement.
Section 5.02.  Pursuant to Section 7.01 (h) of the General Conditions, the 
following additional event is specified: namely, that any event specified in 
paragraph (b) (i) (B) of Section 5.01 of this Agreement shall occur, subject to 
the proviso of paragraph (b) (ii) of that Section.
ARTICLE VI
Effective Date; Termination
Section 6.01. The following events are specified as additional conditions 
to the effectiveness of the Development Credit Agreement within the meaning of 
Section 12.01 (b) of the General Conditions:
(a)
the Project Implementation Manual has been duly approved by the 
Association, and adopted by the Borrower;
(b)
the Borrower has selected the auditors referred to in Article IV of 
this Agreement, in accordance with Section II of Schedule 3 to this Agreement;
(c)
the Project Account has been duly opened, and the amount of the 
initial deposit referred to in Section 3.04 (b) (i) of this Agreement has been 
paid therein
Page  7
(d)
the higher level staff of the Environmental Affairs Unit referred 
to in paragraph 2 (a) of Schedule 4 to this Agreement have been duly appointed;
(e)
UCP has been established, and the Project Coordinator and 
procurement expert referred to in paragraph 1 (c) of Schedule 4 to this 
Agreement have been duly recruited in accordance with Section II of Schedule 3 
to this Agreement; and 
(f)
the Borrower has made satisfactory progress in the implementation 
of its action plan to renounce mining rights adopted pursuant to the Annex to 
the Program.
Section 6.02. The date ninety (90) days after the date of this Agreement 
is hereby specified for the purposes of Section 12.04 of the General Conditions.
Section 6.03. The obligations of the Borrower under Article IV shall cease 
and determine on the date on which the Development Credit Agreement shall 
terminate or on the date fifteen years after the date of this Agreement, 
whichever shall be the earlier.
ARTICLE VII
Representative of the Borrower; Addresses
Section 7.01. The Minister of Finance of the Borrower is designated as 
representative of the Borrower for the purposes of Section 11.03 of the General 
Conditions.
Section 7.02. The following addresses are specified for the purposes of 
Section 11.01 of the General Conditions:
For the Borrower:
Ministry of Finance and Economy
Antananarivo 101
Madagascar
Cable address: 
Telex:
MINFIN
22489
Antananarivo
For the Association:
International Development Association
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America
Cable address: 
Telex:
INDEVAS
248423 (MCI) or
Washington, D.C.
 64145 (MCI)
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their duly 
authorized representatives, have caused this Agreement to be signed in their 
respective names in the District of Columbia, United States of America, as of 
the day and year first above written.
Page  8
REPUBLIC OF MADAGASCAR
By /s/ Biclair H. G. Andrianatoandro
Authorized Representative
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
By /s/ Callisto Madavo
Regional Vice President
Africa
SCHEDULE 1
Withdrawal of the Proceeds of the Credit 
1.
The table below sets forth the Categories of items to be financed out of 
the proceeds of the Credit, the allocation of the amounts of the Credit to each 
Category and the percentage of expenditures for items so to be financed in each 
Category:
Amount of the
Credit Allocated
   % of
(Expressed in
Expenditures
Category
SDR Equivalent)
to be Financed
(1)
Civil works
   210,000
80%
(2)
Consultants' services,
 2,350,000
100%
training and audits
(3)
Goods
   910,000
100% of foreign
expenditures and 80%
of local 
expenditures
(4)
Operating costs
   180,000
80%
(5)
Unallocated
   150,000
TOTAL
 3,800,000
2.
For the purposes of this Schedule:
(a)
the term "foreign expenditures" means expenditures in the currency 
of any country other than that of the Borrower for goods or services supplied 
from the territory of any country other than that of the Borrower;
(b)
the term "local expenditures" means expenditures in the currency of 
the Borrower or for goods or services supplied from the territory of the 
Borrower;
(c)
the term "operating costs" means the incremental operating costs 
incurred by UCP under the Project on account of (i) salaries and related social 
charges, travel costs and allowances of locally-recruited contractual support 
staff, (ii) hiring of vehicles and equipment, (iii) operation and maintenance of 
vehicles and equipment, (iv) banking charges, and (v) office rent, supplies, and 
communications, water and electricity charges.
3.
Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1 above, no withdrawals shall 
Page  9
be made in respect of payments made for expenditures prior to the date of this 
Agreement, except that withdrawals in an aggregate amount not exceeding the 
equivalent of SDR 200,000 may be made in respect of Category (2) set forth in 
the table in paragraph 1 of this Schedule on account of payments made for 
expenditures before that date but after January 1, 1998.
4.
The Association may require withdrawals from the Credit Account to be made 
on the basis of statements of expenditure for expenditures for goods, works and 
consultants' services (firms) under contracts not exceeding $100,000 equivalent, 
consultants' services (individuals) under contracts not exceeding $50,000 
equivalent, operating costs and training, under such terms and conditions as the 
Association shall specify by notice to the Borrower.
SCHEDULE 2
Description of the Project
The objective of the Project is to support the Borrower’s efforts to 
create an enabling environment for the promotion of private sector investments 
in mining development, increase fiscal revenues, and strengthen the 
environmental and social management of mining activities.
The Project consists of the following parts, subject to such modifications 
thereof as the Borrower and the Association may agree upon from time to time to 
achieve such objectives:
Part A:
Policy Implementation
1.
Normalization of small-scale and artisanal mining, through provision of 
technical advisory services, and acquisition of materials and equipment, to (a) 
support an integrated management and technical assistance program to enhance 
technical yields, reduce the current serious adverse impact on the environment, 
and increase tax revenues, (b) support DG/MEM to design and deliver technical 
advice, geology information and extension services to small-scale miners, (c) 
strengthen the minerals laboratory, and (d) support the creation of a cutting 
center.
2.
Establishment of a preventive environmental protection system for mining 
activities, through provision of technical advisory services, and acquisition of 
materials and equipment, to (a) develop an environmental information and 
management system, (b) define rules and procedures for the processing of 
environmental impact assessments in mining, (c) strengthen the capacity of MEM 
to monitor and enforce environmental regulations, (d) carry out environmental 
baseline studies in selected mining districts, (e) carry out socio-economic 
baseline studies in selected mining districts as a basis for development of 
methodology and capacity to assess and monitor social, cultural and economic 
impacts of mining on local communities, and (f) develop consultation and 
participatory procedures.
3.
Reform and strengthening of the institutional capacity of public mining 
agencies, through:
(a) 
provision of technical advisory services, and acquisition of 
materials and equipment, to review the organization and staffing of key 
administrative units, establish efficient work procedures, train staff, and 
provide them with adequate office facilities and equipment; and rehabilitation 
of offices;
(b)
provision of technical advisory services, and acquisition of 
materials and equipment, to organize communication campaigns to build ownership 
on mining sector reform, as well as seminars and roundtables to broaden the 
Page  10
participation of key stakeholders;
(c)
provision of technical advisory services, and acquisition of 
materials and equipment, to establish a computer-based mining cadastre and 
registry system and train staff; and
(d)
provision of technical advisory services, and acquisition of 
materials and equipment, to develop a minerals information database, strengthen 
the information management unit, systematize the collection and interpretation 
of information, make use of state-of-the-art technology to gather, store and 
provide information to interested parties, and retrieve geological information 
available overseas on Madagascar.
Part B:
Project Coordination
Establishment of UCP, through provision of technical advisory services, 
and acquisition of materials and equipment, to assist in the monitoring and 
supervision of the Project.
* * *
The Project is expected to be completed by September 30, 2001.
SCHEDULE 3
Procurement and Consultants' Services
Section I.
Procurement of Goods and Works
Part A:
General
Goods and works shall be procured in accordance with the provisions of 
Section I of the "Guidelines for Procurement under IBRD Loans and IDA Credits" 
published by the Bank in January 1995, and revised in January and August 1996, 
and September 1997 (the Guidelines), and the following provisions of this 
Section.
Part B:
International Competitive Bidding
1.
Except as otherwise provided in Part C of this Section, goods shall be 
procured under contracts awarded in accordance with the provisions of Section II 
of the Guidelines and paragraph 5 of Appendix 1 thereto.
2.
The following provisions shall apply to goods to be procured under 
contracts awarded in accordance with the provisions of paragraph 1 of this Part 
B.
(a)
Grouping of contracts
To the extent practicable, contracts for goods shall be grouped in bid 
packages estimated to cost $100,000 equivalent or more each.
(b)
Preference for domestically manufactured goods
The provisions of paragraphs 2.54 and 2.55 of the Guidelines and Appendix 
2 thereto shall apply to goods manufactured in the territory of the Borrower.
Page  11
Part C:
Other Procurement Procedures
1.
National Competitive Bidding
Goods estimated to cost less than $100,000 equivalent per contract, up to 
an aggregate amount not to exceed $170,000 equivalent, and works estimated to 
cost less than $100,000 equivalent per contract, up to an aggregate amount not 
to exceed $160,000 equivalent, may be procured under contracts awarded in 
accordance with the provisions of paragraphs 3.3 and 3.4 of the Guidelines.
2.
National Shopping
Goods estimated to cost less than $30,000 equivalent per contract, up to 
an aggregate amount not to exceed $420,000 equivalent, may be procured under 
contracts awarded on the basis of national shopping procedures in accordance 
with the provisions of paragraphs 3.5 and 3.6 of the Guidelines.
3.
Procurement of Small Works.
Works estimated to cost less than $30,000 equivalent per contract, up to 
an amount not to exceed $120,000 equivalent, may be procured under lump-sum, 
fixed-price contracts awarded on the basis of quotations obtained from three (3) 
qualified domestic contractors in response to a written invitation. The 
invitation shall include a detailed description of the works, including basic 
specifications, the required completion date, a basic form of agreement 
acceptable to the Association, and relevant drawings, where applicable. The 
award shall be made to the contractor who offers the lowest price quotation for 
the required work, and who has the experience and resources to complete the 
contract successfully.
Part D:
Review by the Association of Procurement Decisions
1.
Procurement Planning
Prior to the issuance of any invitations to bid for contracts, the 
proposed procurement plan for the Project shall be furnished to the Association 
for its review and approval, in accordance with the provisions of paragraph 1 of 
Appendix 1 to the Guidelines. Procurement of all goods and works shall be 
undertaken in accordance with such procurement plan as shall have been approved 
by the Association, and with the provisions of said paragraph 1.
2.
Prior Review
With respect to each contract estimated to cost the equivalent of $100,000 
or more, the procedures set forth in paragraphs 2 and 3 of Appendix 1 to the 
Guidelines shall apply.
3.
Post Review
With respect to each contract not governed by paragraph 2 of this Part, 
the procedures set forth in paragraph 4 of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines shall 
apply.
Section II.
Employment of Consultants
Part A:
General
Consultants’ services shall be procured in accordance with the provisions 
of the Introduction and Section IV of the "Guidelines: Selection and Employment 
Page  12
of Consultants by World Bank Borrowers" published by the Bank in January 1997, 
and revised in September 1997 (the Consultant Guidelines), and the following 
provisions of Section II of this Schedule.
Part B:
Quality- and Cost-based Selection
1.
Except as otherwise provided in Part C of this Section, consultants’ 
services shall be procured under contracts awarded in accordance with the 
provisions of Section II of the Consultant Guidelines, paragraph 3 of Appendix 1 
thereto, Appendix 2 thereto, and the provisions of paragraphs 3.13 through 3.18 
thereof applicable to quality- and cost-based selection of consultants.
2.
The following provisions shall apply to consultants services to be 
procured under contracts awarded in accordance with the provisions of the 
preceding paragraph.  The short list of consultants for services estimated to 
cost less than $50,000 equivalent per contract, may comprise entirely national 
consultants in accordance with the provisions of paragraph 2.7 of the Consultant 
Guidelines.
Part C:
Other Procedures for the Selection of Consultants
1.
Least-cost Selection.
Services for financial audits, up to an aggregate amount not to exceed 
$150,000 equivalent, may be procured under contracts awarded in accordance with 
the provisions of paragraphs 3.1 and 3.6 of the Consultant Guidelines.
2.
Selection Based on Consultants Qualifications.
Services required to assist in the technical supervision of contracts 
under Parts A.1, A.2 and A.3 (c) of the Project, estimated to cost less than 
$50,000 equivalent per contract, up to an aggregate amount not to exceed 
$230,000 equivalent, may be procured under contracts awarded in accordance with 
the provisions of paragraphs 3.1 and 3.7 of the Consultant Guidelines.
3.
Individual Consultants.
Services for tasks that meet the requirements set forth in paragraph 5.01 
of the Consultant Guidelines shall be procured under contracts awarded to 
individual consultants in accordance with the provisions of paragraphs 5.1 
through 5.3 of the Consultant Guidelines.
Part D:
Review by the Association of the Selection of Consultants
1.
Selection Planning
Prior to the issuance to consultants of any requests for proposals, the 
proposed plan for the selection of consultants under the Project shall be 
furnished to the Association for its review and approval, in accordance with the 
provisions of paragraph 1 of Appendix 1 to the Consultant Guidelines.  Selection 
of all consultants’ services shall be undertaken in accordance with such 
selection plan as shall have been approved by the Association, and with the 
provisions of said paragraph 1.
2.
Prior Review
(a)
With respect to each contract for the employment of consulting 
firms estimated to cost the equivalent of $200,000 or more, the procedures set 
forth in paragraphs 1, 2 (other than the third subparagraph of paragraph 2 (a)) 
Page  13
and 5 of Appendix 1 to the Consultant Guidelines shall apply.
(b)
With respect to each contract for the employment of consulting 
firms estimated to cost the equivalent of less than $200,000 but more than 
$100,000, the procedures set forth in paragraphs 1, 2 (other than the second 
subparagraph of paragraph 2(a)) and 5 of Appendix 1 to the Consultant Guidelines 
shall apply.
 (c)
With respect to each contract for the employment of individual 
consultants estimated to cost the equivalent of $50,000 or more, the 
qualifications, experience, terms of reference and terms of employment of the 
consultants shall be furnished to the Administrator for its prior review and 
approval. The contract shall be awarded only after said approval shall have been 
given.
3.
Post Review
With respect to each contract not governed by paragraph 2 of this Part, 
the procedures set forth in paragraph 4 of Appendix 1 to the Consultant 
Guidelines shall apply.
SCHEDULE 4
Implementation Program
1.
(a)
The Borrower shall designate DG/MEM to be responsible for overall 
supervision and general oversight of implementation of the Project.
(b)
The Borrower shall establish the Project Implementation Unit (UCP) 
to be responsible, subject to the overall supervision and oversight functions of 
DG/MEM, for the day-to-day management of the activities of the Project, 
including: (i) coordination of procurement and disbursement activities, and 
audits, and preparation of annual and quarterly progress reports, and work plans 
and training programs, under the Project; and (ii) monitoring of the achievement 
of objectives of the Project, and evaluation of the impact of the activities 
thereof. 
(c)
UCP shall be headed by a Project Coordinator, who shall be assisted 
by a higher level staff with expertise in procurement matters, and other higher 
level and support staff, as needed.
(d)
The Borrower shall ensure that the position of Project Coordinator, 
and other higher level positions of UCP referred to in subparagraph (c) of this 
paragraph, shall be kept filled at all times by appropriate officials, having 
qualifications, experience and terms of reference which shall have been 
communicated to, and deemed acceptable by, the Association.
2.
(a)
The Borrower shall establish a new unit of MEM to be known as the 
Mining Cadastre and Registry Unit, and strengthen the existing Geological and 
Environmental Affairs Units of MEM, and provide them with the staffing and other 
resources that they require under the Project, including, in the case of the 
Environmental Affairs Unit, the appointment of three higher level staff with 
expertise in earth sciences or mining-related economic analysis, all of whom 
shall have experience in environmental matters, and a support staff member. 
(b)
In the exercise of its functions under Parts A.2, A.3 (c) and A.3 
(d) of the Project, DG/MEM shall be assisted by the Environmental Affairs, 
Mining Cadastre and Registry and Geological Units, respectively.
3.
The Borrower shall: 
Page  14
(a)
prepare and transmit to the Association a Project Implementation 
Manual, acceptable to the Association, giving details of all procurement and 
disbursement arrangements, performance indicators and other administrative, 
financial and organizational arrangements, as shall have been agreed with the 
Association for purposes of the Project; and
(b)
carry out the Project in accordance with procedures set out in the 
Project Implementation Manual and, except as the Association shall otherwise 
agree, shall not amend or waive any provision thereof, if such amendment or 
waiver may, in the opinion of the Association, materially or adversely affect 
the implementation of the Project.
4.
The Borrower shall:
(a)
maintain policies and procedures adequate to enable it to monitor 
and evaluate on an ongoing basis, in accordance with performance indicators 
referred to in paragraph 3 (a) of this Schedule, the carrying out of the Project 
and the achievement of the objectives thereof;
(b)
not later than March 31, 2000, undertake, in conjunction with the 
Association, a midterm review of the Project, during which they shall exchange 
views generally on all matters relating to the progress of the Project and the 
performance by the Borrower of its obligations under this Agreement, including, 
(i)
the progress achieved by the Borrower in the implementation 
of the Project, having regard to the performance indicators 
referred to in paragraph 3 (a) of this Schedule,
 (ii)
a review of the proposed work plans and budget for the 
forthcoming fiscal year, and
(iii)
a review of the impact of the Project;
(c)
not later than one month prior to the midterm review, furnish to 
the Association, for its comments, a report, in such detail as the Association 
shall reasonably request, on the progress and status of the Project, and giving 
details, of the various matters to be discussed at such review; and
(d)
following the midterm review, undertake to act promptly and 
diligently in order to take or cause to be taken any corrective action deemed 
necessary to remedy any shortcoming noted in the implementation of the Project, 
or to implement or cause to be implemented such other measures as may have been 
agreed upon between the parties in furtherance of the objectives of the Project.
5.
(a) 
The Borrower shall, not later than October 31 of each year, submit 
to the Association, for review and approval, proposed work plans and budget for 
the forthcoming fiscal year, giving details of proposed budgetary allocations 
and disbursement estimates, proposed procurement activities, and such other 
particulars as the Association may require.
(b)
The Borrower shall submit to the Association, for review:
(i) 
annual and quarterly progress reports on the status of the 
Project, to be submitted not later than two months after the 
end of each fiscal year and  45 days after the end of each 
quarter, respectively; and
(ii)
reports as needed on the award of contracts under the 
Project.
Page  15
SCHEDULE 5
Special Account
1.
For the purposes of this Schedule:
(a)
the term "eligible Categories" means Categories (1) through (4) set 
forth in the table in paragraph 1 of Schedule 1 to this Agreement;
(b)
the term "eligible expenditures" means expenditures in respect of 
the reasonable cost of goods and services required for the Project and to be 
financed out of the proceeds of the Credit allocated from time to time to the 
eligible Categories in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 1 to this 
Agreement; and
(c)
the term "Authorized Allocation" means an amount equivalent to 
$700,000 to be withdrawn from the Credit Account and deposited into the Special 
Account pursuant to paragraph 3 (a) of this Schedule, provided, however, that 
unless the Association shall otherwise agree, the Authorized Allocation shall be 
limited to an amount equivalent to $500,000 until the aggregate amount of 
withdrawals from the Credit Account plus the total amount of all outstanding 
special commitments entered into by the Association, pursuant to Section 5.02 of 
the General Conditions, shall be equal to or exceed the equivalent of SDR 
800,000.
2.
Payments out of the Special Account shall be made exclusively for eligible 
expenditures in accordance with the provisions of this Schedule.
3.
After the Association has received evidence satisfactory to it that the 
Special Account has been duly opened, withdrawals of the Authorized Allocation 
and subsequent withdrawals to replenish the Special Account shall be made as 
follows:
(a)
For withdrawals of the Authorized Allocation, the Borrower shall 
furnish to the Association a request or requests for deposit into the Special 
Account of an amount or amounts which do not exceed the aggregate amount of the 
Authorized Allocation. On the basis of such request or requests, the Association 
shall, on behalf of the Borrower, withdraw from the Credit Account and deposit 
into the Special Account such amount or amounts as the Borrower shall have 
requested.
(b)
(i)
For replenishment of the Special Account, the Borrower shall 
furnish to the Association requests for deposits into the 
Special Account at such intervals as the Association shall 
specify.
(ii)
Prior to or at the time of each such request, the Borrower 
shall furnish to the Association the documents and other 
evidence required pursuant to paragraph 4 of this Schedule 
for the payment or payments in respect of which 
replenishment is requested. On the basis of each such 
request, the Association shall, on behalf of the Borrower, 
withdraw from the Credit Account and deposit into the 
Special Account such amount as the Borrower shall have 
requested and as shall have been shown by said documents and 
other evidence to have been paid out of the Special Account 
for eligible expenditures. All such deposits shall be 
withdrawn by the Association from the Credit Account under 
the respective eligible Categories, and in the respective 
equivalent amounts, as shall have been justified by said 
documents and other evidence.
4.
For each payment made by the Borrower out of the Special Account, the 
Page  16
Borrower shall, at such time as the Association shall reasonably request, 
furnish to the Association such documents and other evidence showing that such 
payment was made exclusively for eligible expenditures.
5.
Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 3 of this Schedule, the 
Association shall not be required to make further deposits into the Special 
Account:
(a)
if, at any time, the Association shall have determined that all 
further withdrawals should be made by the Borrower directly from the Credit 
Account in accordance with the provisions of Article V of the General Conditions 
and paragraph (a) of Section 2.02 of this Agreement;
(b)
if the Borrower shall have failed to furnish to the Association, 
within the period of time specified in Section 4.01 (b) (ii) of this Agreement, 
any of the audit reports required to be furnished to the Association pursuant to 
said Section in respect of the audit of the records and accounts for the Special 
Account;
(c)
if, at any time, the Association shall have notified the Borrower 
of its intention to suspend in whole or in part the right of the Borrower to 
make withdrawals from the Credit Account pursuant to the provisions of Section 
6.02 of the General Conditions; or
(d)
once the total unwithdrawn amount of the Credit allocated to the 
eligible Categories, minus the total amount of all outstanding special 
commitments entered into by the Association pursuant to Section 5.02 of the 
General Conditions with respect to the Project, shall equal the equivalent of 
twice the amount of the Authorized Allocation.  Thereafter, withdrawal from the 
Credit Account of the remaining unwithdrawn amount of the Credit allocated to 
the eligible Categories shall follow such procedures as the Association shall 
specify by notice to the Borrower.  Such further withdrawals shall be made only 
after and to the extent that the Association shall have been satisfied that all 
such amounts remaining on deposit in the Special Account as of the date of such 
notice will be utilized in making payments for eligible expenditures.
6.
(a)
If the Association shall have determined at any time that any 
payment out of the Special Account: (i) was made for an expenditure or in an 
amount not eligible pursuant to paragraph 2 of this Schedule; or (ii) was not 
justified by the evidence furnished to the Association, the Borrower shall, 
promptly upon notice from the Association (A) provide such additional evidence 
as the Association may request, or (B) deposit into the Special Account (or, if 
the Association shall so request, refund to the Association) an amount equal to 
the amount of such payment or the portion thereof not so eligible or justified. 
Unless the Association shall otherwise agree, no further deposit by the 
Association into the Special Account shall be made until the Borrower has 
provided such evidence or made such deposit or refund, as the case may be.
(b)
If the Association shall have determined at any time that any 
amount outstanding in the Special Account will not be required to cover further 
payments for eligible expenditures, the Borrower shall, promptly upon notice 
from the Association, refund to the Association such outstanding amount.
(c)
The Borrower may, upon notice to the Association, refund to the 
Association all or any portion of the funds on deposit in the Special Account.
(d)
Refunds to the Association made pursuant to paragraph 6 (a), (b) 
and (c) of this Schedule shall be credited to the Credit Account for subsequent 
withdrawal or for cancellation in accordance with the relevant provisions of 
this Agreement, including the General Conditions.
Page  17
