rs ~~~~~ e~
The World Bank
FOR OMCIL USE ONLY
RepoIt NoL 12494
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
PER'U
PRIMARY HEALTH PROJECT
(LOAN 2,11-PE)
NOVEMBER 17, 1993
MICROGRAPHICS
Report No:         12494
Type: PCR
Human Resources Division
Country Department I
Latin America and the Caribbean Regional Office
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performace of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



.,~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~
CURRENCY EOUIVALENTS
Currency Unit
US$                                 Intis (1982 - 1991)
US$                                 0.75 Intis (1982)
US$                     --          1.50 Intis (1983)
US$                                 4.40 Intis (1984)
US$                                 9.38 Intis (1985, January to June)
US$                                 14.0 Intis (1985, July to December)
US$                                 14.0 Intis (1986)
US$                                 20.0 Intis (1987)
WEIGHTS AND MEASURES
Metric System
FISCAL YEAR
January 1 to December 31
ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS
ANSSA       =    Andlisis del Sector Salud en el Peril
(Peru Health Sector Analysis)
COOPOP    =    Cooperaci6n Popular
(Popular Cooperation)
ENNSA       =    Encuesta Nacional de Nutrici6n y Salud
(National Nutrition and Health Survey)
IPSS        =    Insttuto Peruano de Segundad Social
Peruvian Social Security Institute
MAPS        =    Modulos de Atenci6n Primaria de Salud
(Primary Health Care Modules)
MEB         -    Muebles de Equipamiento Bdsico
(Basic Equipment Stands)
MEF         =    Ministry of Economy and Finance
MOH         -    Ministry of Health
MOSBAIS   -    Modulos de Saneamiento Bdsico y Atencion Integral a la
Salud
(Basic Sanitation and Integrated Health Attention
Modules)
PEAPS       -    Proyefto Especial de Atencion Primaria a la Salud
(Special Project for Primary Health Care)
PHC         =    Primary Health Care



FOR OFCIAL USE ONLY
THE WORLD BANK
Washington, D.C. 20433
U.SA
loM of Oiudw4esmI
oQmns EvatuaIgn
Nommber 17, 1993
MEMORANDUM TO THE EXEC=IDnE DIRECrORS AND THE PRESIMEN.
SUBJECF:   Project Completion Report on Peru
Pdmay Health Project (Loan 2211-PEE
Attached is the Project Completion Report on Peru - Prim  Health Project (Loan 2211 -PE)
prepared by the Latin Amenca and the Caribbean Regional Office. Part II was prepared by the
Borrower.
The project sought to introduce a comprehensive model for primary health care services
While it expanded health care infrastructure substantialy, the project failed to establish this health
care model for lack of adequate institutional and managerial capacity, and lack of counterpart
financing. During implementation, the Bank's acceptance of a major modification which futher
complicated execution, contributed to this unsatisfactory outcome. Even prier to the cessation of ,U
disbusements to Peru in 1987, disbursements for this project were very low. Tire project is rated as
unlikely to be sustained and as having negligible impact on institutional develojrekt.
'the PCR provides a fhank and full assessment of these events. A new basic health project is
being developed which takes a somewhat different approach. An audit is not planned.
Attachment
Ttd dcuethas a ressed disMbution and may be used by recpipents onty in the peow    of 
Io dtSr dumci d1 conbnX may not oMenwb be dsdosed w,    Wodd Bank . - Imd



PER:U                       FOR OMCIAL USE ONLY
EMIMARYHM SPRrJAN 2211-E
EYALUAMLON SUNnARX  ................................. ii
PART-1  P!rWect Review fr2mB4&J3 D=c1a
1. ProjectIdentitit  .........................                   ... I 
2. Background ..............................  I
3. Project Objectives and Description ......................  2
4. Project Desip  %nd Organization  ....................... 3
S. Ptqet Implementation ..................... *..... 8
6. Project Results ............................  11
7. ProjectSustnaility  ............................  14
8. Ban  Performance ...........................   14
9. Eborower Perfonnanc   .        ....................  16
10. Project RMeltonship .......................   17
11. ConsultingServics .......................  17
12. Proiect Documsentation and Data ............................ 17
13. LeisonsLearned ................................. 18
PART I: JPrgjec Review from Bonrower's PXc
1. Baclgrund .................................. 22
2. Experience in thie Execution of the Inital Project ................. - , 23
3. ReformuMton of thie Initid Project ......................... . 24
4. Project Objectives . ............................... 26
5. Project Componets and Targets ....., ....................... 26
6. Goals of thie Reformulad Project ........................... 27
7. Project RaWts an/o Achievements ........................... 29
8. Negative Aspoct of Project Development ......................... 30
9. ProjectSusWaiihty    ...  ....................  31
10. Bank-Borrower Relafionshitp ......................   32
11. ConclLtsions and Lessons Leanmed  ........................... 32
12. Summar   ............................... ........ ....34
PART m:Statistical Infornnaton
1. Esimated andActualCumuaive Dibursement  .... ....  36
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance
of their official duties. Its contents rnay not otherwise be disclosd without Wottd liank authofization.



2. Planned and Actual Allocation of Bank Financing     .......... 37
3. Staffinputs ... . ...... .... ..........   *.....  38
4. Use of Bank Misions ..........................  39
1Tables
1. Related Bai Las .............              ... .............. 40
2. Project Timetable           ...................                41
3. Loan Disbursements ....................... 42
4. Project Implementation ......       ..... .....a... na
5. Project Costs and Financing
A. ProjectCosts ........................... . 43
B. ProjectFinancing  ........................... 43
6. Project Results
A. DirectBenefits       ...................  4
B. Economic Impact ....................                  .. na
C. FinancImpact                   .....................    a
D. Studies  .........                   .. ......... . 45
7. Status of Key Covenmts . ....................... 46
&. Use of Bank Resources
A. Staff Inputs ............... . 47
B. Missons          ................    ....      .    ..... 48
C. Costs    ..............                           .. . n/a



,PERU
S)JCTCOMPLOMN EpR
BPMARY IEALTH PROE= aDLAN 221 -PE
PREFACEi
This is the Project Completion Report (PCR) for the Primary Health
Project in Peru, fo' which loan 2211-iPE in the amount of $33.5 million was
signed on March 28, 1983. Tbe loan became effective in May 1983 and was
closed on August 14, 1991, retoactive to May 1, 1991 (two years behind the
June 30, 1989 scheduled closing date), when $5.8 million equivalent had been
disbursed and the undisbursed balance of $27.8 milion was cancelled.
The PCR was prepared by the Human Resources Division of the Latin
America and the Caribbean Country Department I (Peface, Evaluation
Summary and Parts I and IIM). The Bank sent the Bonrower Parts I and m on
January 5, 1993. Because of the substntial time which had elapsed since the
ssnson and subsequent closing of the project, we expected the Government
to have difficulty in complying with ftis request. in January, the Bank and the
Government held a Joint workshop with key Ministy of Health personnel and
former project diectors to review Parts I and m. The Ministry used the
workshop proceedings as an input for Part II, which they forwarded to the Bak
on March 31, M993.
Prepastion of this PCR was strted during the Bank's supervon
misonS of 1988 and 1990, and is based, inter alla, on the Staff Appraisal
Reort; the Loan Agreement; supeion reports; annual audit reports;
coeSpondence between the Bank and the Borrower; and internal Bank
memoranda. Bank staff who prepared, appraised and suprised the project
reviewed the draft rport and their suggestions have been incporated in this
version.
i



PERU
gR-OIQ MPLREPQRI
PRIMARy HEALTH PROJECT (LOAN 221 l-PO
EYALUMlMO SUMARX
1.         The main objectives of the project, the expansion of primar3
health care services to 3.5 million people and significant reductions in mortality
and morbidity from preventable causes, were not achieved. The part of the
project which was given prionty in implementation was the construction of
additional pimary health care infrastructure.
imp] lfltadion Excde
2.          The project was signed in March 1983 and became effective in
May 1983. Implementation started quite slowly, and from the second through
th fourth year of execuon, the project consistently disbursed about 20 - 25%
of planned amountL This was due largely to Ministry of Health difficulties in
uring adequate countepart contributions and delays in establishing efficient
oprting procedures for implementation. n 1985, a new national govemnt
frs planned to cancel the project and then decided instead to broaden it to
include the trnpedo Andio, the poor mountainous Andean corridor which spans
the length of Peru. The   mmed project emphaszed the exansion of
heat service infIrastructure through the constrin of small health posts rather
than the development of a comprehensive health service model. The Bank was
initaly spporive of the new government's plans for reprogrmming. Work
to prepue and ratify an amendment of the legal agreement was stopped when
disbursements to Peru were halted in May 1987. Only 17% of the Bank loan
of $33.5 million was disbursed. The loan was closed effective May 1991.
3.          The loan was used to support civil works, purchase of vphicles,
medicines and materials and technical assistance and training. The i&ative
shares of disbursements varied considerably from planned allocations. The loan
agreement projected about equal support for civil works and procurement of
vehicles, medicines and matras (about 40% each) with the balance going
largey to sWport technical assistance and training(7%). In practice, two-thirds
of Bank financing supported civil works, 15% supported purchase of vehicles,
medicines and materials and 4% financed tec    assistance and training. (See



Graph 2.) The loan asssted the Government of Peru to exnd its primary
health care infrstructure substantially and to met emergency requirements for
replenishing medicine stocks. It failed to establish the omprehensive model for
health care it intended to introduce in order to bring about major
reductions in mortality and morbidity. It also failed to strengthen the Ministry
of Health's capacity to manage health care.
4.          The project built 11 health centers, 173 health posts and 4 staff
health center housing additions. In theory, this additional health service
infastuchtre could provide services to between 800,000 and 1.6 million people
(depending on the uban/rural mix). The project also provided 70 rura
communities (or 260,000 people) with basic health equipment and medicine.
T'hus the project potentally expanded coverage to between 1 and 2 million
beneficiaries.
5.          As planned, the project also introduced usel innovations which
could serve as models for other health activities. It developed six health
education manuals and methodologies for training- health workers. It also
developed and aired at least 40 radio spots on maternal health, nutrition,
breastfeeding, child diarrhea and immunization. The proect trained at least 177
fomal health workers and provided motivational  ls on health to at least 8400
community members. -It introduced modular consuction designs for health
posts which allowed for their later expansion into health centers. It supported
human resource development in prmary health care by developing clear job
descriptions for all members of the health care team.
Sustnb
6.          The project did not strengthen the Ministry of Health's capacity
to provide or oversee primary health car servies. While it was desnd  for
xecution by the exsting branches of the Ministry, their admnsrative and;
manageial capacity was very weak. In an effort to make project execution
more efficient, the Mmnistry reassigned responsibility for execution to an
autonomous agency separate from the normal Ministry stuctue in 1986. This
resulted in maginaliation from the normal workings of the Frmistry and
neigible impact on Ministry capacity.
Findings adle ns Leamned
7.          This experience provides valuable lessons for other projects ins
design, ozation and participation. It demonstraes the merits of keeping
m



project design simple, stardng with small changes and building on successful
implementation to introduce additional changes. It also demonstrates hie
importance ei appraising only'after the prject is fuly conceptualzed.
8.          Major innovations should be introduced on the basis of suOcess
on a small scale. For example, the design called for the recritment, taining
and placemert of paid health care workers, health auxiliaries, on a large scale
(4500) based on earlier smal scale experiences in the country. Before
introducing a new level of salaried health worker on a large scale, the project
could have exerimented on a pilot basis and expanded after careful assessment
of potential problems and the development of responses. Health projects which
build infrastructure and provide medical equipment should monitor counterpart
budget provisions to ensure their adequacy and should plan for upkeep and
mantenance requirements to ensure sustnability.
9.          The project did not follow a clear plan for p;asing the series of
interdependent activities which needed to be well coordinated and carefully
timed (building, equipping, medicine procurement, recrutment, traing,
community outreach). In implementation, this resulted in problems such as
medicine being procured and delivered to health centers and posts still under
construction, new health workers being recniited and trained for infrastu
that was not completed, etc.
10.        The project was planned for implementation by the  nisty of
Health without identifying and seelkng solutions to the aspects of the Ministry
which functioned poorly. Insufficient attention was paid to its adminive
and legal structures, and its negotiating abilities. First, in the context of tight
budgetary constraints, the Ministry of Health was unable to defend its requests
for counterpart funding to the Ministry of Economy and Finance. Second, the
Ministry's intrnal administrve structures made the mechanics of project
execution cumbersome. Third, the Ministry's legalisc approach to decision
maing promoted inacin over problem solving.
11.        This project yields useful lessons on o ion.  Project
implementation arrangements should be based on a reaisdc assessment of
Ministry of Health capacity. Key constraints should be addressed explicitly
during preparation. In this project, for example, reater attention to the
procedures of the Ministry's General Administra   Office and Legal Advisor's
Office might have enabled it to avoid delays in accounting and budgeting, and
might have ensured more rapid understanding of and compliance with Bank
procedures. An early assessment of Ministry capacity can lead to a conscious
choice to either. (a) strengthen Ministry maagement and administative
capacity; or (b) ensure that all project activities can be carrWied out without
reliance on the extng Mnisy srucres. The complexities of manang
iv



technical assistace activities suggest the usefulness of developing an umbrella
contact with an outside agency to manage the idencaion, recruitment and
supervision of consultants.
12.        The project also points out the importance of involving ky
players early on. ZPor example, greater Ministry of Finance support for the
project at an early stage might have facilitate - necssary counterpart fimding.
13.         Finally, this project suggests two additional lessons on stategy.
First, after two years of extremely weak performance, a new Govemment
proposed a major modification and expansion of tne project which the Bank
estimated would set implementation back considerably. Although Bank staff
working on the project recognized that this reproganming woud not address
the constraints which had led to weak perfonnance to date, the Bank expressed
willingness to consider this reprogramming. The Bank should be fim in
rejecting reprogramming of an already weak project which would further
complicate execution. n sinmilar cases, the Bank should recommend either: (a)
cancelation followed by preparation of a new project which explicitly addrs
the factors that contrbuted to weak perIormance of the earlier project; or (b)
scaling down of the project with the possibility of later modification only based
on successful implemeritation of the scaled down version.
14.         Second, when loan disbursements are suspended, the Bank should
arrange to review on at least an annual basis the merits of keeping the project
open, taking into consideration: (a) the commitment fees which will accrue
while the project is suspended in relation to the cost of preparing a new project
if the suspended one is cancelled; (b) the liklihood that the suspension will
continue; and (c) the project's prior implementation record. In this case,
disbursements were suspended on all loans to Peru in May 1987 becaue the
national government's declared policy of limiting debt payments to a fixed
proportn  of export earnings placed it in arrean  with the Bank. The natonal
government which would be in office until July 1990 was firm in this policy and
gave it a high political profile, suggesting it was unlikely to reverse it. It would
have made sense to cancel this loan earlier because: (a) the commitment fes
which would accrue over the suspension would be equal to the cost to the
government of preparing a new project; (b) this goverment would be in place
for three years following suspension; and (c) the implementation experience
prior to suspension bad not been uccessful.
v



PERU
I"ARY HEALTH LPROlEa
(LOAN 2211-PE)
2ABIJ: Pject evew from Bank's Perspect
1    Proect Identi
Name:             Primary Health Prject
Loan Number.      2211-PE
RVP Unit          LA1HR
Country:         Peru
Sector:           Health
Subsector:       Pimary Hth Care
2     Bnckgroimd
2.1         Badevye1gmz gbj.gdv: When this project was prepared,
the Government of Peru had just embarked on an initiative to introduce a new
model for primary health care with the objective of ensuring unversal access to
primary health care by the year 2000. Tius model was based on the Primary
Health Care Module-a defined package of resources to provide prmary health
care sevices to poputon groups according to their size, health rsks and
resources avae. This model was in sharp contrast to Peru's publi health
care system thogh the mid 1970s, which emphasized curative care and
concentratedinfructure and human rouc  in  u   centes, lagely in
hospits. In 1980, Peru adopted a Natona Plan for 1982-1985 which sought
to reduce mortaity and morbidity (the rate of death and illness) through
increased emphasis on primary health care and began to undertake major
modifications in the organizaton of the Ministry of Hieath to acbieve these
iovements.
2.2        FPlicy contet  The national government in place during
prepaation of this project sought to achieve eonomic efflciency, remove
restrictions on and promote the private sector and create a more equiable
sharing of delopment benefits.  It placed high priority on  eatng
loyment, lieraizing trade, promtng eports and fighting inflation.



Serious poverty problems and fiscal constrints which adversely affected social
sector spending contributed to the appeal of pmary healtfi care as an efficient,
low-cost model for health care delivery. The national government in place
during project implementation from 1985 on placed msjor emphasis on
redressing neglect of the trapecio Andino, Peru's Andean corridor.
2.3         Linkages a     aroject objecdves, sector objctive and mac
plicy: The project objective of expanding priury health care services to reach
3.5 million people underserved by existing health care services supported the
government's objective of promoting improved health care access and improved
health status for the entire population. It closely paralleled macro policy
objectives of sharing development benefits more equitably and using scarce
fiscal resources efficiently to deliver social services.
3     Lject ObWectives and Dcription
3.1         Pmiect gbjeives: The principal objective of this project was to
iese the availability of and access to prmary health care services for about
3.5 million people in four areas of Peru in order to reduce mortality and
morbidity. It aimed to reduce mortality from: (a) diarrheal diseases by 20-40%;
(b) respiratory diseases by 10-25 %; (c) vaccine preventable diseases by 50-70%;
and (d) complications of pregnancy by 20-50%. It also sought to reduce  the
frequency and swverity of morbidity (illness) from: (a) diarrheal diseases by 20-
50%; (b) respiratory infections by 30-50%; (c) vaccine preventable disae by
30-70%; and (d) sepsis and toxemia by 20-40%. It aimed to reduce the severity
Of malnutriion by 20-40% and to increase the number of family planning users
by 3-20%. The ranges in the targets reflected diffences in eistng lvels by
region and age group. As baseline information for these indicators was not
provided in the SAR and project documents do not indicate that they were
monitored over the life of the project, it is impossible to compare levels at the
beginning and end of the project. Baseline information was to have been
collected by the project, yet the ten different outcome objectives with four
different regional targets for each one were more complex than necessary to
measure project impact.
3.2         Compe:   The project had seven components:  (a)
organizaion and delivery of primary health care sevices; (b) health manpower
taining; (c) community health education and picipation; (d) monitorng,
supervion and evaluation; (e) maintenance of buildings, fiunitwe, equipment
and vehicles; (f) institutional development; and (g) project adminion
support.
3.3         Am: The project was designed for implementation in four
2



Health Regions including Lima. In the Health Region of La libertad, it was to
include Pacasmayo and Trujillo; in the Health Region of Centro Medio, Junin,
Tar, Jauja, Huancayo and Huancavelica; in Lima, Rimac and the Cercado de
Lima; and in Huanuco, Pucallpa. These were selected to represent the four
principal types of areas-the selva, sierra, coast and the capital city. This was
seen as crucial to testing the viabilty and adapting primary health care services
for different areas. From 1986 on, implementation was expanded to five other
Departments, Puno, Cusco, Apurimac, Cajamarca and Ancash, because of
increased government priority on the  dpecio Andino, a mountainous coridor
of poverty which spans the length of the country.
4       Wjaa Deign and Organizatin
4.1         eQntbaL foundation:  The National Primary Healti Care
Policy, which emerged from project preparation and was adopted by the
Ministry of Health in January 1982, pxovided the foundation for this project
The project was based on the development of moduks, packages of resources
(human, technological, physical and financial) needed to provide primary health
care to about 2,400 families (15,000 population) in scatted rurl setfings or
about 6,400 families (40,000 population) in clustered urban areas. The health
center was to be the base of each module, complemented by four to six health
posts, each staffed by a registered nurse or other health professional. Below the
health post, each module was also to include 120 to 150 rijehaes, or volunteer
health motivators, and 24 to 32 salaried health auxiliaries. The health care
approach of these modules emphasized: (a) community partipation in decision
making and resource allocation for services; (b) health professionals to perform
functons requiring clinical judgement and delegation to non-professionals of
safe and s        functions; (c) systematic home visiting by field nursing
auxiliaries; (d) use of symptoms and risk factors to screen individuals and
determine the appropriate health worker to provide care; and (e) coordination
with the development activities of other Ministies. Health auxilaries were to
make household visits every two months to every family in their jursdiction.
The basic features of the module are set forth in the table below. The elements
of this approach had been previously tested in pilot projects in Peru. This
project was to.be the first phase toward nationwide adoption.
3



Basic Feahres of Primay Health Care Module
Lev:1 Health Act                    .:      Urbaw                  Rural:
I       *~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ r~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~
_          _._                     _                    __saff.-   Ppi.:  Stff:   :
HeaO Cuat            - mdia   corsulation   27          6,400      22         2,400
- clinical lab        (5 Mds, 1    families;   (3 Mds,   fhmilies;
- x rays              dentist)    40,000      112 time    15,000
- ambulatory                      popi.       dentist)    popin.
professional care
- assessmnt of
popultion heal
and
nutrition stats
- resourc allocation
Hel'bNst             - short ten cae of    1            1,200      1          600
sick                registered   famiies;   regitered   families;
- groups for health   nure        7,500       nurse      3,750
education                        popin.                 popln.
- training of icharies
- oontinuing education
of auxiiaries
- quarterly review of
health atu and
Community Healt    - immunizations         1            200        1           100
Gmp                  - nutrtion monitong   Auiy         famili;   amliay    fmis;
- diarhea control    (now paid   1,250        (new paid  625
- deparasiltation     worker)     popln.      worker)    popln.
- ratme  of
comnon child Mness
- vion sreening for
shool oidren
- pro-nata screening
for risk
- low risk deliveries
- family Planning
infomuation
- hygie
Community HealIh                           1 Rijhary   40          1 rnjohasy   20
Unit                                       (volunter   families;   (volmteer  families;
motivator)   250       moivator   125
___________ .________        _I   pop2n.                  )          popLn.
4.2             Gosensus on Met ==ip  framework  The concept was
_nderst        by  the leadership  of the Ministry of Health  (MOH).   Health
personnel from  the four project regions particpated in the prpation process
and the cental Ministry team made swveral visits to these regions during
4



pIrparation.  Preparation was coordinat  with other major donors, yet
consensus did not eist on the use of salaried health axiliaies nor on the
approa  of periodic family health visits Bank staff felt that intensive outreach
was vital to achlevig quick and significant reductions in morbidity and
mortalit and tha only salaried workers realistically could be depended upon to
dedicate the time necesary to undertake this work. Bank staff also considered
that the project provided the Ministry an opportunity to test this model in four
areas to veify its effectiveness for wider expansion. Bank staff did not consider
disagrement among donors over approaches to be problematic because of the
experimental nature of the project.
4.3         Innovative elements of Lrject design: This project was the first
Bank project in Peru exclusively in the health sector; it was innovative in its
concepion. It sought to bring about a major transfonration in health sevices
through the introduction of a model to embody the national policy on primary
health care. It developed models for infrastructure for three different types of
geographic areas (coast, highlands and jungle), established a family-oriented
outreach approach to service delivery and developed job descriptions for
profesional and community health workers to clearly identify their respective
roies.  nas         designs for health posts were modular to allow easy
upgrading to health centers as needs changed.
4.4         Project scope and scale a Oateness: The project sought to
introduce innovations smulously on a number of different fronts-
infrastruce human rources, community outreach-and for a variety of
circumstances-the rural sierra, jungle, coast and the margnal areas of Lima.
Ihis varit  and complexity were too great for the administ   and
manuagent capacity in the Ministry, particularly because this was the
Ministr's first Bank financed project and the first effort to develop a
compreheive pdmary health care system. This meant that the Ministry was
leaning and adopting Bank procedu    for    ement, disbursement and
consultant contracting at the same time that it was supposed to be achieving
major substantive targets in project implementaton. In retospect, tie scope and
scale of the project were too large for extng circumstances. The Ministry of
Healdth had neither successful experience in the delivery of pnmary health care
services nor an established model.
4.5         The complexity of the model may be challenged in two respects:
(a) the model alW   for home viits to each family every two montis which
required hiring this large number of new personnel; and (b) the model did not
limit atention to priority target groups among the population (for example,
pregnant women and children under 3) in recogidton of the scarcity of human,
matefial and financial reources. The project also called for the creadon of a
new cadre of health workers-4,500 field nursing auiliaries-rather than the
S



reorientation and retraining of existing health workers. While this increased the
complexity of the project, the assessment of Bank staff at thfe time was that
retAining of existing health workers was not a viable option since the absolute
number of health workers was inadequate for the expansion of health service
coverage. The project design overestimated the management capacity within the
Ministry of Health. The SAR included mortality and morbidity indicators which
were not clearly defined and for which baseline data were not readily available.
4.6         Ouality of project peparation: The Bank provided substantial
mission support for project preparation (177 staff weeks through appraisal
including 106 staff days on 10 missions with experse in economics, health,
architeclure and education). Two aspects of the project were very well
developed at appraisal. The model for care specified clearly the infrastructure
and human resources at each level from the community to the health center. Job
descriptions were developed to define the rewspective responsibilities of each
health care worker. A number of other cntical aspects, some of which were
discused and agreed upon in principle with Ministry of Health counterparts,
were not defined by appraisa or explained in the staff appraisal report. These
included: (a) how communities would participate itl services; (b) how health
services would be organized and supervised within the modules; (c) how new
field health auxiliaies would be compensated; (d) how current MOH sing-
disproptionately urban based-would be shfifted to fit the new model of
services; and (e) how the MOH and the IPSS would coordinate to attain a more
rational pattern of service provision.
4.7         Following appraisal, further preparation work was undertaken in
one area, the development of health education manuals for different levels of
health care workers. This included adaptation of materials to the different
situatons of the coast, jungle and highlands and field testing. Liftle operational
planning was done in other areas between appraisal and loan effectiveness. The
PPF was never used to support operational planning because the local
counterpart contribution was not provided. Managerial problems within the
MOH also impeded progress in developing detailed operational plans.
4.8         Aopriateness  f project timing: In principle, the project
tming was very appropriate because it immediately followed and supported the
Government's formulation of a National Plan of Coordinated Health Actions
(PNACS) for 1982-85 with a strong emphasis on PHC. In practice, fiscal
constraints which arose after loan approval placed severe restictions on the
countepart funding. A change in the national government in 1985 led to a
major shift in the Ministry of Health's strategy for expanding primary health
care services. These events came after project preparation and could not
realitcally have been anticipated.
6



4.9         Definition of roles and responsibilities: The responsibility of the
MOH for project execution was clearly defined and understood, however the
Ministry's identified role taxed its capacity, which the Bank team acknowledged
to be weak. The project design called for the establishment of a small technical
unit to coordinate project implementation activities by line departments of the
Ministry. The relationship of this technical unit to existing Ministry divisions
was carefully defined. Final responsibility for project oversight was placed with
the Vice Minister to ensure the high level attention necessary for the project's
success. The responsibilities of the health system below the central Ministry
level were less clearly defined. Regional health authorities did not understand
their roles in the project initially.
4.10        Impact of defined responsibilities on implementation:  The
institutional arrangements for project implementation were carefully planned to
ensure the project's integration into the existing organizational structure of the
Ministry and the high level attention its success required. Yet existing
procedures and information systems made accountability for project
implementation weak. In 1986, without Bank participation or approval, the
Ministry of Health altered the implementation arrangements completely by
creating an autonomous body to execute the project. This not only created a
tremendous bureaucracy (with a staff of 363 and annual personnel expenditures
of $1 million in 1986), it also isolated and marginalized its execution from all
other Ministry of Health work. This jeopardized the sustainability of the change
the project was intended to bring about in the delivery of health services. It
also meant that any mechanisms which the project introduced to improve
efficiency had no impact on the Ministry's normal procedures.
4.11        Asc  of project design and orgaization which most affected
PrQoAec outcome: Despite the Ministry of Health's strong commitment to
primary health care and to the project, the project had limited success in
introducing a com?rehensive new health care model and improving health
conditions for a large number of Peruvians.
4.12        Design: The design called for the recruitnment, training and
placement of a new level of paid health care workers, health auxiliaries, on a
large scale (4500), and required that a series of interdependent activities be well
coordinated and carefully timed (building, equipping, medicine procurement,
recruitment, taining, community outreach). In practice, the Ministry's weak
management capacity resulted in problems such as medicine being procured and
delivered to health centers and posts still under construction, new health workers
being recruited and trained for infrastructure that was not completed, etc.
4.13        Organization: The project was planned for implementation by the
Ministry of Health without identifying and seeldng solutions to the aspects of the
7



Ministry which functioned -poorly. Insufficient attention was paid to its
administrative and legal structures, and to its ability to prewnt the project to the
Ministry of Economy and Finance. First, in the context of tight budgetary
constraints, the Ministry of Health proved incapable of defending and protecting
necessary counterpart funding. Second, the Ministry's internal administrative
structures made the mechanics of project execution cumbersome. Third, the
Ministry's legalistic approach to decision maldng promoted inaction over
problem solving.
5    Project Implementation
5.1         Critical variances from plans:  Critical variances occurred
between planned and actual project implementation in virtuly all components.
Some modifications were innovative and contributed positively to the project.
For example, packages of medicines were developed according to the level of
spialization of health establishments. Special -muebles de equipamiento
basico' (MEB-a combination examining table and medicine cabinet stocked with
basic health care equipment and materials) were designed for communities
where the construction of health posts was not feasible to provide community
health workers with the necessary requirements to carry out community health
activities. Modified versions of these MEB, called bodquines comnunes
(community pharmacies), are in widespread use in rural and marginal
commumnties now.
5.2         Other variances were detrimental to the project's success. Project
implementation can be seen in three phases: Phase I, from 1983 to 1985; Phase
IT, from the new government's proposal to reprogram the project in 1985 to
suspension of disbursements in 1987; and Phase m, from suspension of
disbursements in 1987 to cancellation of the loan in 1991. In Phase I, because
of the Ministry of Health's failure to secure adequate counterpart funds, project
execution was so slow in starting that by October 1984 the Bank was already
weighing the merits of suspending disbursements or scaling down the project
These options were bypassed in favor of waiting until April 1985 to see if
progress improved. This problem was resolved to a certain extent by
improvements in counterpart contributions for 1984 and the introduction of a
Special Program through December 1985 which increased the Bank's share for
civil works from 70% agreed to at appraisal to 90%. By 1984, one year after
effectiveness, the Special Account had not been opened. External auditors for
1983 and 1984 found the project recordkeeping system so inadequate that they
were unable to state an opinion as to the reasonableness of financial statements
and results due to the lack of journals, annexes, monitoring of cost of works,
and outstanding advances. The project did not maintain separate accounts.
Expenditures for other projects were charged against this project. The project
8



lacked a separate system of controls and kept neither project files nor inventory
control.
5.3        In Phase II, project execution was stopped completely in mid-
1985 amid the change in national government. After initially announcing its
desire to cancel the loan, the new govemment decided instead to reprogram the
project in late 1985 and presented an initial proposal to the Bank in December.
The reprogrammed project which the new government began to implement in
1986 shifted emphasis to the rapecio Andino and focused on the expansion of
health post infrastructure, rather than on the development of an integrated health
care model. Construction designs were modified to reduce costs. While these
modifications might have been positive if they made greater use of less
expensive labor and less use of more expensive materials, in practce the high
labor requirements of constructing with qiwncha and adobe combined with the
high overhead for supervizion by a new autonomous project agency led to higher
construction costs than originally anticipated.
5.4        The Ministry of Health established the autonomous agency
(PEAPS), which was formally instituted by Presidential Decree in May 1986,
to execute the project. PEAPS could sign legal agreements with public and
private agencies and had technical, administrative, economic and financial
autonomy from the MOH, but this structure was never fully ratified. The
Ministry of Health rever approved its organization chart; the Ministry of Labor
never provided necessary approval of its organizational manual; and PEAPS
never named its Board of Directors. The Bank was preparing to submit an
amendment to the loan agreement for Board approval of the reprogramming
when all Bank disbursements to Peru were suspended on May 5, 1987.
5.5        In phase m, project execution was severely hampered by the
suspension of Bank disbursements. Nonetheless, the Government demonsatd
its commitment to the project by continuing and even increasing its contribution
to the project Ifrom 1987 through 1990.
5.6         Possibility of avoiding these variances: The initial slowness of
project implementation might have been possible to avoid had the Bank sought
assurances of budgetary allocations to the project for the first year of
implementation as a condition of Board presentation or effectiveness. The major
vanances between the project as planned and as implemented which occurred
after the new government reprogrammed the project in 1986 could have been
avoided only had the Bank conveyed a clear message that it would not consider
a reprogramming proposal which would expand the scope of the project and
shift implementation into even more difficult areas. This would likely have led
to the cancellaton of the loan. Cancellation could have been justified by the
9



poor implementation record of the project in its two years of implementation.
Bank staff noted in September 1985 that the proposed reprogramming could
imply furnher delays in project completion when the project was already 2.5
years behind schedule.  Bank staff also noted, however, that the new
government was very enthusiastic about making a major push to expand primary
health care, the areas where the government wished to work were underserved,
the government had high level support for the project and assurances of
counterpart funds which had not existed before, and would not have been
interested to continue a scaled down version of the existing project.
5.7         Identification of project risks:  Project risks were correctly
identified as: (a) management wealmess of the Ministry of Health; and (b) the
need to successfully introduce a new health strategy. The seriousness of these
risks was underestimated. At appraisal, staff noted some meassures which would
protect against these risks: (a) the project's limitation to a relatively small
portion of the country; and (b) the conceptual simplicity of basic elements of the
scheme. In retrospect, management weaknesses of the Ministry of Health were
an important factor in poor performance. The introduction of a new health
strategy adapted to four radically different settings (coast, highlands, jungle,
vmarginal urban area) was more complex than anticipated and inhibited
implementation. The difficulty of supervising a complex project in four
substantially different types of areas widely dispersed throughout the country
could have been foreseen and could have led to a phased approach, beginning
with areas where implementation would be easier and expanding to more
challenging areas on the basis of experience from the first phase.
5.8         Impa  of un-foreen- factors on project implementation: A
significant deterioration of the security situation in several project areas affected
project supervision, protection of completed and equipped infrastructure and
staffing. One project engineer was murdered, two new health posts were taken
over by terrorists, one project vehicle burned, and construction of 11 incomplete
health posts abandoned due to terrorist activities. This could not reasonably
have been foreseen in 1982. Resistance of physicians and nurses to the
participation of non-formal health auxiliaries in the health system could have
been foreseen. A concerted strategy could have been developed to gain their
approval and support by demonstrating the advantages the project potentially
held for them (such as improved infrastructure to work in, improved supplies,
and additional opportunities for training and scholarships).
5.9         Actions and decisions which affected project implementation:
Many actions and decisions affected the project negatively. In phase I of
implementation, the decision by the Ministry of Economy and Finance to curtail
the public treasury contribution led to slow start up and limited achievements.
In phase II, the government's decision to reprogram led to a shift in emphasis
10



away from a comprehensive model for health care. The move from the selected
four project areas to the trapecio Andino led to more difficult implementation
and supervision and greater security risks. The 1986 decision to set up an
autonomous body (PEAPS), while intended to improve efficiency in project
procedures, jeopardized the sustainability of project impact. PEAPS grew to
have over 300 staff; its salary payments (at levels above those of the Ministry)
came to absorb 90% of the project budget after Bank suspension. The
mushrooming of this autonomous agency drew competent Ministry of Health
staff away from other Ministry functions, led to resentment on the part of
Ministry staff who were not as well paid, and led to reluctance on the part of
the Ministry of Finance to continue supporting the project after Bank
suspension. The project decision for COOPOP, a government agency which
promoted community participation in projects nationwide, to participate in
construction of health posts was intended to promote greater community
participation. In practice, COOPOP's involvement resulted in delays and high
construction costs. When the project agreement with COOPOP for construction
was rescinded, the autonomous agency's decision to undertake construction
direcdy also resulted in high construction costs because of the agency's high
overhead spread over a low volume of construction. On the other hand, a
project decision to have UNICEF provide supplies directly to the health center
was positive because it avoided logistical problems of distributing supplies to
dispersed centers.
5.10        Actions not taken which affected implementaffon: The actions not
taken by the MOH which most affected implementaton were: (a) not assigning
adequate counterpart funds for the PPF, which impeded detailed planning and
preparation prior to effectiveness; (b) not recruiting the technical assistance
which was provided for in the project; and (c) not developing a clear and stable
project management structure with adequate authority and technical expertise.
6     Poect Results
6.1         Achievement of Objectives: The project did not achieve its
objectives. Variances between planned and actual results can be explained
largely by the ambitious scope and scale in light of previously mentioned
constraints; the inability of the MOH to establish an effective project
management structure with continuing support from the ministry level; and
inadequate GOP financial resources and uncertainties and delays in their
provision.
6.2         Changes in Objectives: Although project objectives did not
change during implementation, the strategy was modified considerably in
implementation to place primary attenior. on expanding infrastructure. The
11



govremment elected in 1985 proposed to the Bank in 1986 that: (a) the project
area be expanded to include the trpecio Andino; (b) the number of modules be
increased from 131 to 250; (c) priority be given to new construction; and (d)
construction designs be modified to use low cost local materials. The MOH
created an autonomous management unit to execute the project.  The
reogrammed project sought to provide primaty care services to 6.7 million
people rather than 3.5 million as estimated at appraisal. Although Bank
missions were supportive of these proposed changes, no formal amendment was
made to the project loan agreement and disbursements were suspended before
the amendment was prepared and ratified. After the Bank's agreement in
principle in April 1986 and its expression of willingness to amend the legal
agreement in November 1986, the new strategy was adopted in practice by the
Peruvian government. The expansion led to more health posts being constructed
than orginaly planned and in more widely dispersed areas.
6.3         Explanation for variance between planned and actual results: The
project was planned to result in the systematic establishment of primary health
care modules which would serve 3.5 million beneficiaries. Instead of leading
to this systematic introduction of primary health care, it made some isolated
advances. It constructed some primary health care infrastrucure, introduced
new materials for health education, disseminated some health messages and led
to the recruitment and training of additional auxiliary health workers. The
variance is due to the early inability of the Ministry of Health to secure adtquate
national resources to complement the Bank loan, the later shift in Government
priorities toward expanding physicil infrastructure, and the persistent inability
to manage a series of activities which were conceptually simple but complex to
implement systematically.
6.4         Eect ImpUac: The project was not implemented as it was
designed and did not achieve its intended health impact. Nonetheless the
investments it supported did expand available primary health care infrastrt,
although in different areas and in different combinations of centers and posts
than originally planned. It built 11 new health centers, 173 new health posts
and 4 new health center staff housing additions. Using initial project estimates
of coverage and assuming adequate staffing and other inputs, these health
centers and posts could provide services to between 800,000 and 1.6 million
people (depending on the urban/rural mix). The project also provided 70 rral
communities (or about 260,000 people) with basic equipment and medicines.
Thus the project potentially expanded coverage by between 1 and 2 million
beneficiaries. The project developed the designs and technical plans for two
health equipment maintenance centers, although these were not built.
6.5         The project also provided medicine to 184 centers, 773 posts and
70 communities. Again using the original project coverage estimates, the
12



project supplied medicine to facilities capable of serving between 6 and 13
million beneficiaries. The project also provided 33 vehicles; their potential
impact on services was limited since most were used for supervision of
construction, one was destroyed by terrorists and one was stolen.
6.6         The project led to the development of manuals and methodology
for training health workers as planned. The six manuals developed were
"Education for Health: Ideas for its Development in Primary Health Care and
Basic Health Services" and training manuals for: (a) Volunteer Health
Promotors; (b) Field Auxiliary Nurses; (c) Health Post Nurses; and (d) Health
Module Physician Directors. The project also developed and aired at least 40
radio spot messages on maternal health, nutrition, breastfeeding, child diarrhea
and immunization. The project trained at least 177 formal health workers and
auxiliaries and provided motivational talks on health to at least 8400 community
members.
6.7         The project participated in the formulation of plans for the
ENNSA, the national survey on health and nutrition which was conducted in
1984. Terms of reference developed by the project for a health finance study
were incorporated into the 1985/86 health sector analysis supported by the U.S.
Agency for International Development (AID).
6.8        The project influenced health sector policies in several ways. It
supported and deepened the Government's nascent commitment to promote
primary health care. By monitoring and promoting Government compliance
with loan agreement covenants, it: (a) led to the introduction of salried
community health workers (the health auxiliary); (b) encouraged the integration
of the Ministry of Health and the Peruvian Social Security Institute health
services; (c) promoted incentives for personnel assigned to depressed zones; and
(d) encouraged decentralization of management and decision-maling in the
health sector. Sustained impact on policy is less clear since the Ministry has
backtracked on some of these policy initiatives since.
6.9         The project supported human resource development by developing
clear job descriptions for all the members of the primary health care team
(physicians, nurses and auxiliaries) and by developing, field testing and utilizing
training materials for them. It also promoted incentives to attract human
resources to the rural areas and primary health care. The project's capacity to
foster human resource development further through scholarships and technical
assistance was not fully exploited. Project managers may have seen scholarships
and technical assistance as costly items which would be easy to do without.
6.10        The project's impact on the physical environment is limited to the
apropriate placement of health care infrastructure through careful pre-
13



construction topographical studies. The project contributed to the technological
environment by developing the MEB, an appropriate technology for providing
community health care where health post construction was not a viable option.
It also demonstrated the feasibility of utilizing local construction materials and
techniques (quincha, adobe) and more labor intensive methods for health
infrastructure.
6.11        It is unlikely that the project had a significant impact on the social
environment by affecting poverty levels or income distribution. The project's
potential for strengthening the central Ministry or regional health institutions
was diluted by the creation of a separate autonomous executing agency during
implementation.
7      ectA $ustainability
7.1         Factors affecting outcome: Despite the project's success at
expanding infrastructure and providing medicine to primary health care centers
and posts, a functioning PHC system does not exist on a national level as an
outcome of the project. Two key issues call into question sustained impact,
namely the capability of the MOH to lead and direct the development of PHC
services; and the ability of the Government to provide adequate financial
resources for primary health care.
7.2         Ways to address risk factors: Project sustainability could have
been strengthened by emphasizing institutional development in the Ministry of
Health, executing the project through the normal Ministry channels as originally
designed, involving regional authoritics at an early stage, and introducing
innovations in separate phases and on a smaller scale.
8    Ba&nk hf=ance
8.1         Strengths and weaknesses of Bank performance: The main
strengths of the Bank's performance were: (a) substantial technical and planning
assistance to MOH officials responsible for planning and implementing the
project and (b) continuity of an experienced, professional and understanding
staff.
8.2         The main weaknesses of the Bank's performance were: (a) the
decision to appraise before crtical planning and decision making were
completed; (b) inadequate assessment of the complexity of the model and its
relationship to other donor-supported PHC work; (c) inadequate assessment of
the management weakmesses within the Ministry of Health and how they would
14



hamper implementation; (d) unclear messages to the Govemment about the
Bank's likely response to the reprogramming proposed in 1985/86; and (e)
excessive reluctance to cancel the project loan.
8.3        In general, the Bank performed well during the early stages of the
project cycle by providing substantial assistance to those preparing the project.
8.4         The Bank's performance during supervision was good through
1985, based on the number and composition of missions. Bank staff provided
frequent attention to the project, conveyed a supportive attitude and maintained
good reporting. Scoring of project progress and problewas was too lenient.
8.5        In 1986, the Bank's communication with the Government about
reprogramming was not as immediate and clear as it could have been. In an
April 1986 mission, Bank staff expressed a willingness to consider a
reprogramming proposal. This willingness was probably mistaken because
project implementation had been unsuccessful largely for structural problems
which the reprogramming would not address. The scale of the project was
already noted as too ambitious and the reprogramming would expand it fiuther.
Project records do not indicate that Bank staff explained to the Government
immediately that no expenditures incurred on the basis of the new model would
be recognized by the Bank until after Board approval. Project documents also
do not indicate that they explained immediately that the Bank would not accept
the inclusion of areas that Bank staff could not supervise directly. In November
1986, Bank staff advised Government counterps that Board approval of the
amendment would probably talce three months (i.e. February 1987), yet when
disbursements were suspended six months later in May 1987 no amendment had
been presented to the Board. After the 1987 suspension of disbursements, the
Bank's four year delay in cancelling the undisbursed balance of the loan was
axcessive and the Government incurred over $800,000 more in commitment fees
without ever regaining use of the loan.
8.6        Main lessons: The primary lessons are: (a) pay greater attention
to the appropriate project scale in relation to project, sector and country
conditions; (b) do not assume that the provision of TA is a panacea or that it
can substitute for informed decision maldng in critical areas by responsible
officials; (c) ensure that all essential components of a project are carefully
planned and reasonably assured of success before appraising; (d) involve and
draw on the expertise of parties whose approval and support is crucial to project
performance in the planning process at an early stage ( for example, legal
advisors, administrative officers, Ministry of Finance officials); and (e) even
when the design is simple conceptually, consider carefully how complex the
project will be to implement at all levels.
15



9    agrwe Piomance
9.1        Strenuths and weakses:   The main strengths of the
Govemment's performance were the strong interest at various levels of the
ministry in implementing a new health policy emphasizing primary health car
and the participation of many competent, committed persons in the project. The
main weaknesses were: (a) the inadequate planning and management capability
and inflexible and burdensome internal admninistrative controls; (b) weak
coordination among MOH units; (c) insufficient negotiating skills to ensure
countepart funding from the MEF; and (d) mid-course changes in approach.
9.2         Borrower staff worked conscientiously at the preparation stage but
lacked staff time and experience to do detailed planning for project
implementation. Subsequent to project preparation but before implementation,
the lack of local financing prevented MOH staff from carrying out tasks which
were to be accomplished under the PPF. The lack of a strong project
management group added to the difficulties. During project implementation, the
borrower had s.gnificant managerial, financial and legal problems, all of which
combined to seriously impede effective implementation.
9.3         Use of staff and consultant resouc.es: Except in the area of
training, the MOH did not recruit consultants to assist with the project,
particularly in management and budgeting. In the absence of a strong MOH
commitnent to improve in these areas, their recruitment would have had litde
impact on MOH policies and procedures.
9.4        Mail lgssons: Three main lessons can be drawn from this
experience for the borrower: (a) first, the MOH should do some detailed
preliminary planning and budget projections, and identify critical policy and
other decisions which must be made for tie project to be successful (for
example, funding for a substantial number of new positions, a realistc plan for
transferring urban based personnel to rural areas; the implications for the central
ministry and the feasibility of giving increased authority to regional and local
levels); (b) second, the Ministry should test new health service strategies in
limited areas in circumstances ensuring availability of all necessary resources
and draw heavily upon expenences of pnor pilot projects before introducing
them nationwide; (c) third, the MOH should assign its legal and administrative
staff to learn Bank procedures anld iron out any incompatibilities foreseen as
early as possible. This process should be supported by the central government
agencies responsible for defining government procurement and accounting
regulations.
16



10   ProWeA Relation-ship
10.1       Bank-BorrowerWeTlationship: Bank-MOH relationships generally
were good. Communications were frequent and collegial. Problems in project
implementation arose more from the situation of the health sector in general and
from the severe financial constraints facing the GOP than from direct project
actions. If the Bank had encouraged a closer relationship between the Ministry
of Health and the MU, local financing might have been forthcoming in a more
tiroely fashion.
10.2       Bank relaffonships with other parties: Bank staff and consultants
could have sought closer worldng relationships with other donor agencies
providing assistance in PHC. A consensus message from the donors might have
contributed more to strengthening the Ministry's managerial capacity and
organization.
10.3       Borrower's relationships with other parties: MOH relatbinships
with the MEF and the IPSS were not adequate to secure required local financing
and to reach early agreement on rationtion of health services between MOH
and IPSS. At the reprogramming exercise undertaken by the subsequent
government, the MOH initially was able to secure a very substantal increase in
financial resources for the health sector and to male progress on an agreement
with the IPSS.
11    Consuting Services
11.1       The Bank used consultants from project przparation on. The
MOH used consultant services in much lower volume than anticirated at
apraisal, and only in training. The substantial delays the Ministry experienced
in contracting consultants for management and budgeting suggest that either the
project directors were not convinced of the value of consultant serces, or the
arrangements for hiring consultants required administrative mechanisms not
easily avaiable within the MOH. To avoid the former, the Bank should address
the project implementing agency's concerns with consultants explicitly. To
resolve the latter, the Bank could encourage the Ministry to set up umbrella
arrangements for administering consultant services with experienced agencies
(for example, UNDP, PAHO, large consulting firms).
12    Project Documentation and Data
12.1        L&galagreement: The legal agreement was well prepared and
included covenants to address key issues for the project's success. It might have
17



been helpful to include a provision that the GOP commit a specified level of
financing for the first year of project implementation as a condition of
effectiveness. This would have supported the Ministry of Health's budget
request to the MEF.
12.2        Staff Appraisal Report: The SAR provided a usefil framework
for the Bank during project implementation. It is not clear that it served the
Borrower to the same extent. The SAR's presentation of health outcome
indicators was not as useful as it could have been for monitoring project
achievement. It included numerous health outcome indicators disaggregated by
age group, population subgroup (e.g. pregnant women) and region, each
expressed as a percent change from existing levels. Yet iio information was
included on baseline levels. Some of the targeted reductions would not be
possible to detect even with a good information system and universal udlization
of services. Other indicators would have been difficult to monitor because they
were not clearly defined (for example, what does a percentage reduction in the
severity of malnutrition mean?). In retrospect, targets could have been fewer,
more sensitive to change and capable of measurement in the timeframe of
project implementation.
12.3        Availability of data relevant to PCR: The SAR included a long
list of targets for each of the project's seven components (number of centers and
posts built, equipped and supplied, months of technical assistance, number of
community volunteers trained, etc.). Data on the achievement of these targets
were not all available. From project reports and supervision reports, it appears
that these indicators were not interpreted or monitored consistently during
project implementation. Project reports at different times appear to measure a
variety of different indicators and also to apply different intexpretations to the
same indicators. This makes it difficult, for example, to consolidate the annual
numbers for training and reach meaningful conclusions. This suggests ta it
would have been useful for the Bank and the Ministry to have developed and
consistently applied a format for monitoring project implementation complete
with definitions of key terms (such as criteia for considering someone
"trained", for example). This format could have been used to monitor progress
over time and could have formed the basis for semiannual Borrower project
reports to the Bank and for Bank supervision reports. This would have provided
a good picture of project implementation over time.
13    Lessons Lened
13.1        This project provides valuable lessons for other projects in design,
organization and participation. It demonstrates the merits of keeping project
design simple, starting with small changes and building on successful learning
18



to introduce additional changes, and appraising only when the project is fully
conceptualized.
13.2        Major innovations should be introduced on the basis of success
on a small scale. For example, the design called for the recruitment, training
and placement of a new level of paid health care workers, health auxiliaries, on
a large scale (4500). Before introducing a new level of salaried health worker
on a large scale, the project could have experimented on a pilot basis and
expanded after careful assessment of potential probh- ms and the development of
responses.
13.3        Health projects which build infrastructure and provide medical
equipment should include counterpart budget provisions and plans for their
upkeep and maintenance to ensure sustainability. While this project included
them as part of the recurrent expenditures needed for operation, the government
did not provide them.
13.4        Project design should inclth%ie plans for phasing interdependent
activities whose introduction needed to be well coordinated and carefully timed
(building, equipping, medicine procurement, recruitment, training, community
outreach). This project's failure to phase activities adequately resulted in
problems such as medicine being procured and delivered to health centers and
posts still under construction, new health workers being recruited and trained
for infrastructure that was not completed, etc.
13.5       Institutional strengthening is vital for project success.  This
project was planned for implementation by the Ministry of Health without
identifying and seeldng solutions to the roles of the Ministry which functioned
poorly. Insufficient attention was paid to its administrative and legal structures,
and its negotiating abilities. First, in the context of tight budgetary constraints,
the Ministry of Health proved incapable of defending and protecting necessary
counterpart funding. Second, the Ministry's internal administrative structures
made the mechanics of project execution cumbersome. Third, the Ministry's
legalistic approach to decision-making promoted inaction over problem solving.
13.6        Project implementation arrangements should be based on a
realistic assessment of Ministry of Health capacity. Key constraints should be
addressed explicitly during preparation. In this project, for example, greater
attention to the procedures of the Ministry's General Administration Office and
Legal Advisor's Office might have enabled the project to avoid delays in
accounting and budgeting, and might have ensured more rapid understanding of
and compliance with Bank procedures. An early assessment of Ministry
capacity can lead to a conscious choice to either: (a) strengthen Ministry
management and administrative capacity; or (b) ensure that all project activities
19



can be carried out without reliance on the existing Ministry structures. The
complexities of managing technical assistance activities suggest the usefulness
of developing an umbrella contract with an outside agency to manage the
identification, recruitment and supervision of consultants.
13.7       This project highlights the importance of the Bank orienting the
counterpart agency about Bank procedures for disbursement, procurement and
auditing. Through project supervision, the Bank should also monitor project
coordination units carefully to ensure that they operate as small, technical units
and collaborate closely with line departments.
13.8       The experience of this project also supports the approach of
involving key players early on. For example, greater Ministry of Finance
support for the project at an early stage might have facilitated necessary
counterpart funding. Regional and local authorities need to be involved at an
early stage to build commitment to the project and to broaden the project's
interest group.
13.9       Finally, this project suggests two additional lessons on strategy.
After two years of extremely weak performance, a new Government proposed
a major modification and expansion of the project which the Bank estimated
would set implementation back considerably. Although the Bank recognized that
this reprogramming would not address the constraints which had led to weak
Performance to date, the Bank expressed willingness to consider this
reprogramming. This willingness was due in part to the Bank's desire to use
this project as a means to maintain a positive country dialogue under difficult
circumstances. This experience suggests that project decisions which are not
supported by project considerations will do little to achieve broader country
relations aims. The Bank should be firm in rejecting reprogramming of an
already weak project which would further complicate execution. In similar
cases, the Bank should recommend either (a) cancellation followed by
preparation of a new project which explicitly addresses the factors that
contributed to weak performance of the earlier project, or (b) scaling down of
the project with the possibility of later modification only based on successful
implementation of the scaled down version.
13.10      When loan disbursements are suspended, the Bank should arrange
to review on at least an annual basis the merits of keeping the loan open, takdng
into consideration: (a) the commitment fees which the Government will incur
during suspension versus the costs to the Govemment of preparing a new
project; (b) the likelihood that the suspension will continue; and (c) the project's
prior implementation record. In this case, disbursements were suspended on all
loans to Peru in May 1987 because the national governmnent'q derlared poition
of limiting dcbt payments to a fixed proportion of export earnings placed it in
20



arears with the Bank. The national govemment had made this position a
central point in its international discourse, was therefore unlikely to back down
and would be in office until July 1990. Earlier anellation of this loan would
have made sense because: (a) the Government would spend more in commitment
fees to keep the project loan during suspension than it would cost to prepare a
new project; (b) this government would be in place for three years following
suspension; and (c) the implementation experience prior to suspension had not
been successful.
21



PERU
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
PRIMARY HEALTH PROJECT
(LOAN 2211-PE)
PART I: Project Review from Government's Perspective
1    Bakgrond
1.1         The Ministry of Health adopted the social goal of the Pan
American Health Organization-Health for All by the Year 2000-(Alma Ata-
USSR 1978 meeting) to tackle flaws in the health care system that left 25% of
the population totally deprived of health services. Health For All encompasses:
a) primary health care, the general integration of community-planned,
programmed, implemented and administered health, economic and social
development actions organized with the support and advice of the state and other
national and international organizations; b) holistic health care, the result of the
unified and informed implementation of outreach, protection and rehabilitation
actions targeted to benefit both individual family members and the community;
and c) universal access to health care, to permit better health status that would
enable most of the population to be socially and economically productive for fte
benefit of the individual and the society.
1.2         At the request of the Ministry of Health, a special World Bank
mission visited Peru on July 1980. The mission agreed to assist in the
preparation of a Primary Health Project that would be submitted to the World
Bank for financing. To this effect, a worldng group was established at the
Ministry (RM No. 0157-8WSA/MS, dated November 1, 1980). World Bank
staff visited Peru in January and June 1981. Together with members of the
National Commission for Primary Health Care, they worked to define the scope,
goals and size of the project. The draft project proposal was sent to the Bank
in September 1982. The Banlc in turn sent a three-week pre-appraisal mission
(October, November 1982) that defined the general guidelines for project
appraisal. The latter was prepared by a working group established on December
31, 1981 for that purpose. In February 1983, the project proposal was
approved by the leadership of the Ministry of Health and presented to the World
Bank. The Bank sent a six-member appraisal mission that prepared a Staff
Appraisal Report indicating that with slight modifications the project proposal
would be technically, administratively and financially feasible. On this basis,
the mission decided to recommend financial support from the Banl.



1.3        The Loan Agreement between the Republic of Peru and the IBRD
for the US$33.5 million operation was approved by the Government for signing
(DS No. 046-83-EFC) on February 25, 1983. The loan proceeds would finance
the implementation of the Primary Health Project and the Borrower would
provide counterpart funds of no less than US$22.5 million in accordance with
the provisions of article 3 of the Loan Agreement. The Loan Agreement was
signed on March 28, 1983, and became effective on May 20, 1983.
2     Experience in the Execution of the Initial Project
2.1         The main objective of tme project that was initiated in 1983 was
to satisfy the priority health needs of the rural and marginal urban populations
in selected areas' by developing essentially preventive outreach activities and
community-based health services. The strategy was based upon the Primary
Health Care Module, a package of human resources and physical facilities
designed to provide primary health care, medical and community-based health
services to the aforementioned populations. This was the first level of contact
between the individual, the family and the community, and the national health
system, and it became the first link in a permanent chain of health care.
2.2        Implementation was quite slow during the first three years which
demonstrated clearly the gap between the initial project plan and the actual
execution. This shortfall was mainly due to: (a) lack of administrative
capacity; (b) independent administration of the project components without
overall project management; (c) untimely remittance of funds due to the weak
iquidity position of the government; and (d) lack of trust in the effectiveness of
the project and its goals.  For these reasons, the achievement of the
programmed goals was behind schedule and only 6% of the approved amount
was financially implemented.
2.3         The change in the financial costs as a result of the inflationary
process that produced the negative liquidity position of the Treasury caused an
opportunity cost loss of unused financial resources and unfulfilled cost-benefit
that had an adverse impact on society.
2.4         The construction of the health facilities utilized conventional
techniques that did not take into consideration Peru's economic, social and
cultural realities and increased the cost of the project, at the expense of greater
coverage.
X Centro Medio, La Libertad, Lima and Ucayali.
23



2.5        With regard to equipment, only the imported clinical/medical
components were purchased (UNICEF) in accordance with the stipulations of
the corresponding contractual clauses. The locally-manufactured complementary
inputs (furniture, implements, linens) were not purchased.
2.6        With regard to human resources development, out of a total of
27,589 persons, only 1,416 were trained, including physicians, nurses,
auxiliaries, technicians, and outreach workers.
2.7         The medicines and materials component and the overall project
administration performed far below the proposed goal due to the lack of
coordination between the different components during the three-year
implementation phase.
3    Reformulation of the Initial Project
3.1        In 1985, on the basis of a new national health policy that
supported actions geared to achieving the highest level of health services for the
population, the new Government that had come into office on July 28, 1985,
decided to appoint a multidisciplinary team of professionals to undertake an
overal evaluation of the original Primary Health Project including the legal,
contractual, technical and accounting documents. The group concluded that the
original design of the project should be reformulated to make it fully compatible
with the national health policy.
3.2         The economic and social development policy of the government
in office at that time focused its attention on depressed areas and promoted a
more efficient and democratic public action. It was intended to gradually
abandon centralism and to promote the development of rural areas.
3.3         The emergency zones (trapecio andino) on which the national
development policy focused its attention, are areas with low income levels, poor
living conditions, low productivity, underutlized natural resources, a
predominantly communal and associative social structure, and high Andean areas
that hamper national unity.
3.4        With this in mind, the Peruvian Government decided to urgently
implement microregional development programs in the Departnents of Puno,
Cuzco, Apurimac, Ayacucho, Huancavelica, the highland provinces of
Arequipa, Moquegua and the Andean regions of Tacna in order to promote the
economic and social development of depressed areas. Its aim was to coordinate
public sector action that would include the Departmental Development
Corporations (CORDES).
24



3.5         The basic guidelines of Peru's health policy were set forth within
the framework of the national policy. The policy was devised to ensure
universal and permanent access to health care for the entire population, to close
the large and inequitable gap between health care for a selected minority and the
large and neglected segments of the population; and to rechannel the financial
and human resources devoted to health care in order to achieve a more equitable
distribution based upon the scope and nature of the health problems that afflict
the overall population. The main goals were to assign a larger share to the most
deprived and to promote the participation of the population as actors and
beneficiaries in all health activities so that the management, supervision and
control of the health system would be in the hands of the public.
3.6         The following were important elements of the health policy which
shaped the policy orientation of the reformulated Primary Health Project:
a.    Community mobilization and participation at all levels and at
different stages of the health system. The community must
participate in: the idendfication of health problems; the
establishment of priorities according to the scope, importance and
urgency of identified problems; the definition of ways to resolve
priority problems taldng inteo consideration the nature of the
problem, availability of resources, appropriate mix to attain goals
bearing in mind regional and local characteristics; the decision-
making process in regard to plans and programs liberalizing thie
planning system; and the administration of health services,
including monitoring, evaluation and social control of atl health
activities.
b.    Effective decentralization of health services delegating
responsibility and authority to the most peripheral local
facility. This decentralization must encompass programming,
implementation and evaluation of health activities and
administration of financial, human, physical and technological
resources.
c.   Intersectoral action in health. Health is a complex social
problem that surpasses the field of medicine and requires
multisectoral action. Therefore, all institutions and sectors must
join efforts to find solutions for priority health problems.
Intersectoral action must be based upon specific local action and
the participation of key sectors.
3.7         In that sense, the Primary Health Project was geared towards the
achievement of a better way of life for rural and marginal urban populations in
25



the most depressed areas. Its goals could have been achieved only by treating
the project as an important component of the economic and social development
process, since health and disease are complex biological, psychological, and
social phenomena that have a cause-and-effect relationship with political,
economic and cultural events.
4     Projec Qkj
4.1         A system of basic services was established within the model of
Universal Health Care in order to execute actions and activities mainly for
infrastructure development (construction, equipping and implementation of
health facilities) in local com"iunities targeted for universal development. From
the institutional standpoint, tle system included political and administrative
aspects, peripheral services, support hospitals and former Departmental Health
Units (UDES) and from the social point of view, political and social aspects,
family units, communities and microregions.
4.2         The main goal of the Primary Health Project was to provide
universal health care to the most deprived populations (rural areas of the
trapecio andino and marginal urban areas) by means of a system of basic
services (health centers and health posts), with the active participation of the
community and joint efforts with related sectors and institutions devoted to
integrated community development.
5     Project Components and Targets
5.1         In keeping with the health sector strategy, the project targeted the
most needy groups, specifically the rural and marginal urban populations. In
view of this, the original project was redefined and coverage was extended
nationwide to rural communities with more than 500 inhabitants that lacked
health services or to communities where expansion of existing infrastructure was
warranted by increased community size.
5.2         The project gave priority to the trapecio anino for its strategic
political situation (depressed area), to the microregions where services were
generally the weakest, and to the marginal urban areas that needed health
services due to their limited access to medical attention.
5.3         The five components of the project were: (a) construction of
health centers and posts; (b) equipping of health centers and posts; (c) training;
(d) medicines and materials; and (e) an administrative component. The main
objective of the construction component was to provide physical infrastrucure
26



for health services to the most needy rural and marginal urban communities.
This took into account the following principles: (a) to standardize primary health
services, consistent with decentralization; (b) to favor the use of labor and
resources from the areas where the establishments would be built thus creating
temporary job opportunities; (c) to design the prototype on the basis of
rationalized building and equipping, while reducing the purchase of equipment
with the use of built-in and installed furniture; and (d) to locate health facilities
to serve as outreach agents not only for health but also for other productive and
social sectors. The target was to build 419 health posts and 67 health centers.
Non-conventional building techniques included the use of quincha, adobe and
wood. The choice among these materials for each site depended on the
topographic and climate conditions, availability of raw material and human
resources trained in the use of the particular technique.
5.4         The equipping component aimed to provide medical, clinical,
hospital and office equipment for the health centers and health posts to be built;
and to equip other project-related facilities that lacked necessary equipment.
The targets for this component were the same health centers and posts as for the
construction component.  For this component the purchase of imported
equipment was foreseen (agreement with UNICEF), as well as complementary
locally-manufactured equipment.
5.5   The objective of the training component was to ensure effective
operation of health services in order to offer timely, effective and efficient
health care with active community participation. The training activities
included: workshops for community agents; refresher workshops for health
auxiliaries; and workshops for health center professionals. The preparation of
teaching material for each health facility was also foreseen.
5.6         The medicines and materials component was devised on the
basis of packages stocked with basic health care equipment and materals. Each
package would take care of 500 persons per year. Twelve packages a year were
programmed for the health posts and 24 for the health centers.
5.7         The administrtive component included supervision, evaluation
and administrative support activities.
6     Gols of the Reformulated Projct
6.1         The reformulated project had five goals. First, it sought to
provide Peru's most depressed rural and marginal urban areas with more
primary health services by expanding coverage. Second, it aimed to improve
the health status of the country's marginal population through holistic activities
27



in the planned health facilities, communities and families within the framework
of the new strategy for primary health care. Third, it aimed to use non-
conventional construction techniques and provide equipment capable of
satisfying the country's real health needs bearing in mind the ethnic and cultural
levels of the population. Fourth, it sought to increase the managerial and
implementation capacity of the project and provide for overall administration in
order to overcome earlier problems. Finally, it aimed to restructure the Primary
Health Care Modules (MAPS) and create the Basic Sanitation and Integrated
Health Attention Modules (MOSBAIS) as a project strategy. The MOSBAIS
were to be a dynamic force for integral community development and would
define duties and establish permanent coordination mechanisms within the
community. It was in the interest of the health sector, other sectors and
institutions to join and multiply efforts utilizing the community potential and
institutional resources to achieve an overall solution for health problems in the
localities aiming, at the swme time, to reach a self-sustainable community
development. The MOSBAIS were made up of four resources-the family, the
community health unit, the community health group and the basic equipment
stands (MEB).
6.2         On April 24, 1986, legal provisions were approved at the highest
level declaring the public need and preferential social interest of the Primary
Health Project. An autonomous executing unit PEAPS was established for the
planning, coordination, implementation, supervision and evaluation of the
project. It was also decided to grant emergency status to the project until its
completion.
6.3        Initially the Bank did not accept the changes proposed by the
project reformulation. It considered that: a) it was necessary to keep the pilot
plan for the five representative Departments of the different types of areas-the
coast, highlands and jungle; b) the trapecio andino was a center of terrorist
activities and would be difficult to supervise; and c) amendments would have to
be made to the Legal Agreement. Furthermore, the Bank did not agree with the
use of non-conventional construction techniques. The reformulated project
planned to use stabilized adobe, improved quincha and bricks depending on the
geographic location of the construction site.
6.4         At that time, Government project representatives responded to the
Bank's concerns with the justifications for the proposed reformulation. They
countered that pilot plans should be implemented in those areas in most urgent
need of health services. Regional diversity should not be construed as the
decisive factor in implementation. When health issues were at stake, the region-
-coast, highlands or jungle-was of secondary importance. The main issues
were: who was suffenng and who was not; who had access to services and who
did not; and who had been the most neglected by the State.
28



6.5         The Government team noted that as far as the trapecio andino
was concerned, while it was true that terrorist activities make it a dangerous
area, this evil had flourished due to conditions of extreme poverty and neglect.
Also, the project team would develop a reprogramming proposal for the Bank
to study. They further noted that construction techniques that used local and
technologically improved materials would create job opportunities and produce
benefits in the long run.
6.6         The Bank decided to support the reformulation based on these
considerations although it was still reluctant to support activities in the trapecio
andino. The Government reformulation proposal was submitted to the Bank in
1986 and was executed until May 1987 when the World Bank halted
disbursements.
6.7         This stage presents several lessons. First, the Integrated Health
Attention Module (MOSBAIS), originally a logical operation, turned into a
runaway construction race spurred by political interests and political meddling
that did not focus on the overall operation. Second, the lack of institutional
srengthening precluded a strong stance for project development. The Ministry
of Health had zero participation in health care activities related to the project.
Efforts to equip 125 health posts which would have allowed the completion of
16 MOSBAIS for future operation were sometimes frustrated by Ministry of
Health officials. There was concern about meeting infrastructure targets without
evaluating the effects on the targeted population. There was a lack of ongoing
evaluation and project dissemination; no definition or monitoring of key
indicators that would have allowed an ex post evaluation of the implementation
process and a lack of supervision and adequate monitoring. The scarce
economic resources did not permit manning and operating the health facilities
that were built.
7      roject Results and/or Achievements
7.1         The original projr-t achieved only 6% of its goals. When
comparing the original project anm Lhe reformulated project, progress between
1985 and 1987 was made in the following areas:
a.    Coverage reached approximately 2 million people.
b.    The construction of 11 health centers was completed by force
account and construction of the Ucayali health center was
finished.
c.    Twelve health centers were totally equipped.
29



d.    Construction of 155 new health posts was completed and
construction of 22 health posts initiated under the original project
was finished, i.e., a total of 177 health posts.
e.    Ninety new health posts and 22 from the original project were
equipped, i.e. a total of 112 equipped health posts.
f.    A total of 1.850 medicine packages were purchased for the health
centers and the health posts.
g.    Outreach and training activities were held in the Departments of
Lima, Junin, Huancavelica, La Libertad, Ancash, Cajamarca,
Cuzco, Puno and Apurimac. These activities included surveys,
presentations, seminars, educational plans, and prepartion of
teaching material.
h.    Q'iechua and Aymara rural communities that had not interacted
before were trained together on maternal health, breastfeeding,
nutrition, building techniques, etc.
L.    The initial modular growth concept was modified. It was decided
that the health post should not evolve into a health center. It
should remain as a community meeting center for teaching and
training activities of different nature.
j.    An investment project wac implemented consistent with the
national health policy. It responded to a national and sectoral
goal and, therefore, to the implementation of a government
policy that gave priority to health action in the Departments of
the trapecio andino, the microregions and marginal urban areas.
8     Negative Aspects of Project Development
8.1         The project did not fulfill its main goals due to economic and
bureaucratic difficulties; the coverage was approximately 2 million people; and
the latter was achieved by awakening awareness that health is not a handout but
rather something obtained through the efforts and cooperation of all people.
8.2         The wrong path was chosen when defining goals; rather than
seeklng the tangible goal of measurable results, efforts should have been devoted
to create awareness that everybody would have access tc rimary health care if
we work for it and educate people to stay healthy.
30



8.3        The first step should have been to train the units that would be
in charge of the administration and execution of the project; to create awareness
and promote dedication and ;o shift the perective of health s'xvices from
medical care and healing to promotion and prevention; in general, to change the
health care system and make it more universal.
8.4         The creation of an autonomous executing unit (PEAPS) to
enhance efficiency resulted in a bureaucracy that was used as a political
instrument. It defeated its own purposes and in 1986 had 371 employees and
an annual payroll of approximately US$1 million.
8.5        After the loan was cancelled, the government continued to support
the project with the desire of keeping a transient political presence in all areas
of execution without a clear picture of goal enhancement.
8.6        The construction of a health post is not feasible unless it is
understood that it requires equipment and technical personnel to operate it.
8.7         The project lacked continuity. There were five Ministers of
Health during the 1985-1990 Presidential period. The changes in project
management plus the interference of partisan politics and the lack of decisions
to make execution feasible hampered its sustainability.
8.8        In sum, integrated health care must be viewed as consistent
actions for outreach, protection, healing and rehabilitation, that have been
planned, programmed, implemented, and managed with the community and that
are geared to the overall development of the individual, the family, and the
community.
9    Project Sustainability
9.1        Project achievements through implementation have not resulted
in a system based upon the primary health care strategy in spite of the coverage
attained through the construction, ea 1ipping, and supply of medicines to the new
health posts and centers.
9.2        The 1985-1990 Government limited primary health care actions
to community participation leaving execution in the hands of nongovernmental
organizations, local govemments, universities and churches in some instances.
9.3         As of July 1990, the new Government started to take action in
order to implement the primary health care program. It established guidelines
in health sector policies and developed strategies to support these policies
31



through institutional strengthening, relocation of human resources and the
creation of Integrated Health Development Zones (ZONADIS). In order to
f0ifill the chief goal of primary health care, these elements would help prepare
.ae dialogue, and coordinate and harmonize the actions of all agents that
participate in the delivery of health services, utilizing the existing physical
infrastructure built with the project.
9.4         On the other hand, the Ministry of Health and the World Bank
have been joining efforts to strengthen primary health care through the
preparation of the new Basic Health and Nutrition Project.
10   Bank-Borrower Relationship
10.1       We agree with the World Bank that Bank-Borrower relationship
was good and that communication flowed easily. The problems that emerged
in implementation were caused by the disorganization in the Ministry of Health
during 1985-1990 and by the financial policy of the past government that
hampered a larger and timely flow of counterpart capital to achieve the proposed
goals.
1I   Conclusions and Lessons Learned
11.1       In public health it is not worthwhile to build, equip or take any
action in places without pressing needs. The attack must be staged in areas
where poverty and hunger are endemic.
11.2       Before acting it is essential to know the real environment.
11.3        Pilot plans work well only in areas with urgent needs and when
they can be replicated in other areas on the basis of their pathological patterns
and not geographic considerations.
11.4        An innovative project must be executed bearing in mind
contributing factors that may support its feasibility and the project's catalytic
effect to improve the standard of living of the population which in turn improves
health status.
11.5        Contrary to the Bank's assertion, the project did have a plan to
introduce and adjust interdependent phases (construction, equipping, medicines
and training).
11.6        The problem arises when political interests intervene in a
32



technically-designed project, intended to be executed by professionals. In
countries like ours, political interests can tun any technically and well-
conceived project into a series of inconsistencies, local interests, and pursuit of
personal gains that often result in failure. National interests many times become
of secondary importance and the target population endures the consequences of
deplorable behavior. What must be achieved and understood is that overall
political support is a key element for project development; political soundness
must ensure its priorty and continuity; and the effective and guaranteed relation
between political and financial aspects legitimize a project.  These are
considertions that the present Government is implementing.
11.7        Since there was no institutional strengthening, the project's
management capacity (through its administrative and legal systems) was
weakened; programming did not guarantee efficiency of action.
11.8       It is necessary to establish central mechanisms for the design and
initial implementation. These will support the new role of the Ministry of
Health as a policy-setting and supervisory body, will strengthen the
administration and the operational capacity of health services and will endorse
decentralization keeping close and permanent coordination with te central
governing body. The Government has been pursuing these actions by means of
the rationalization and structuring of the administrative bureaucratic apparatus
of the health sector.
11.9        The Ministry of Health was far behind in mechanisms, pr cedures
and technological and managerial developments. Therefore, it was practically
impossible to manage a project of this size without altering agreed timetables.
For example, Bank procedures were understood only after project management
staff travelled to Bank Headquarters for a week and learned how they worked.
11.10       Decentralized implementation should have been promoted to gain
the necessary flexibility at the local level. Regicnal and local authorities had an
odd perception of the project. Therefore, there was no sharing of decision-
making and little success in worldng with the community.
11.11       We agree with the Bank that this experience provides valuable
lessons for other projects in design, organization and participation.  It
demonstrates the merits of keeping project design simple, starting with small
changes and building on successful learning to introduce additional changes at
different stages.
11.12       Projects that include construction of infrastructure and the supply
of medical equipment should include budgetary allocations and maintenance
plans to ensure continuity.
33



11.13      We agree with the Bank insofar as additional lessons on strategy
are concerned and with the proposed recommendations: (a) cancellation followed
by preparation of a new project which explicitly addresses the factors that
contributed to weak performance of the earlier project; and (b) scaling down of
the project with the possibility of later modification only based on successful
implementation of the scaled-down version.
12    Summary
12.1        Public health projects must be implemented in extremely poor
areas that lack services and where urgent action is required to avoid a deep
erosion of the standard of living and outbreaks of disillusionment and violence.
12.2       If pilot projects are devised, they should take into account not
only geographic conditions but also ethnic and cultural characteristics that permit
replication.
12.3       There must be a way to find and put in place mechanisms to
avoid political interference from individual or groups that may alter political
decisions oriented to favor national interests.
12.4       It would be advisable for the Bank to include immediate
implementation provisions to avoid implementation disruptions; also, the loan
should include allotments providing for at least three years of project operation
to ensure continuity at the implementation stage.
34



PERU
PRQJLTh C         1MpEI  REPR
PRSMARY lIEALtIHPOIC
(LOAN 2211-PE)
ParT m: Sttifg  Information
Please see Graphs 1 through 4 and Tables I through 8 attached.
35



PERU - PRIMARY HEAiTH PROJECT (Loan 2211 -PE)
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
Graph 1. Estimated and Actual Cumulative Disbursements
Cumuldve Diaburmnenu ts (US000,00)
.36   l"*3222*2***f*i:::   F:::th"  '': 2:-i::: --:: :*:.:v- "  i  3 i
22.3s}r    b.i}:u:z::li3~ i.2-2fi} u ;; 2 *33fl.r 1: ..40j}z,j}}}}"}ii}  lIti. .
: ..::i::::::.srts::::::5..d:::::::23:..:s::::::::   ::2:::::i22 ..:_::
_1 2id U332t33ii.'jHiviti. 222 l ibi7inj.   ihiiJi
90               ""                         vrn.7 rat}...
Er i ld !si!riiiiiiNi--f-Aiii
227222 2.2....3222 i33r3:2". 222       22....22.iFii-i'L-!
120 L$mEises 5irlm   low    low  lim       1990  im@
,12222232W.22232 
0m    an Tab lea               ,. 
36



.PERU-PRIMARY HEALTH PROJECT (Loan 221 1-PE)
Project Completion Report
Graph 2. Planned and Actual Allocation of Bank Financing
Furniture/Fxbtures                Civil Works
45%                             63%
2%s
Technical Assi                 inial Deposit S/A
7R                            2% orlalI Deposit SIA
9%
'Refund of PPF
2%
Front End Fee       tumeM1Ures
civil Worics                     0%Tcn"c AssisUnce  15%
41%                                     4%
Planned Disbursements: US$33.5 million*    Actual Disbursements: US$5.8 Million
* Thea we pcents of US2.1 alloe. Loan tot Wo includes US$8.4 mNllion una.    37
d o Taale Sb.



PERU-PRIMARY HEALTH PROJECT (Loan 221 1-PE)
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
Graph 3. Staff Inputs
5tff bIput (S)
120                                                                                       .....
~~~**~~~~~~~~*~~~~   ~ ~~~...uh. ~ ~ ~ ~     .....
tX ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~.................   ....... l :ii  i...    
. b~~~~~~~~~~~M
.3:33j2133:3::3~~~~::q~~:f . 3 .13.323..........
stn31:3 s.3 :::::33:v.3::.Pr:: # : 1f                 .     
1"   ..  yx3      3 #n#3  l t ~~~~~~H ............ 33......      ....  ............................3333:i33
? *q41.2:             33333  133 3M33-3  H        3H2   3 333333333H 3  3  333
3423...31....   . ....3.....3
.33uY':n                                   ajji,i=3jajia.iajij jjitiPaiaiiiiaiiai..i.i niii . .. .......
:3.. 3*~~~~~~.-..3   3.3..3....3 . :*' . ~ ~ ~ ........
yY  Y  jz..-jjjizMi 3                    iXi-..... .  ....
;tiD D Z }i         3 D   .....:. . siii   ssiiiSS si .iiiiiziiiisi-.-iiir sSii.... .....
....3 .... V. . ..
40    .i                 !5:JIi. DD .4. a.                                                  .
.         3
l_--Ligi~~~~~~~fi.ifiNiWi.
iou0 ism ieee io  to   O  ieeiU 1                         066  iou iwo1 issi iout9
Based on Tab. S..
-                  ~~~38



66SeUDAfOO3 04   lp8loiddV    q8 elqejL uo poso
wotsruodnS                                                                                           iecjddv pi09                       nl4L
|uoilpelueweldwl joe(,Ojd 10 BuIuuIBeg WOJ; s4lUOVY
. - - -- I e r.. .....
.........  ....     .        .  e    ..... . i  :     
............. ... ....................~~~~. ......  ........ 555......  Mt
~~~~~~~~~~~~~.,. j.  . ....    .. ..5,  
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~................ r 
5-5 -Eg55fiis        iibi i............ ...............  r*t ii*5HtFHj  Hi;55   5  HH   n5     HH
j3jj  j3; i-  i3:iH:j3iij3ig5jj3ti3rjj   ji   3j5j3jiii 33ji33; 3i3i3..............3 ........33ii5r33iiiigHii3
.5H   5 5 i 5.555 j.;  tIi r . 555  i5. 55t; M     'TH5i   *      r     rI   H    *5   "   5 r ;-tr-*.-5rr   5.
wil jX 5-.i .ii-i-.i j5 5 ii 5 jii  5i 5 H5 5 if 55f5555HHi5;i;.i55 siH5b55iH55t555H5555s5H5r#5*:b5!55HHHi HH~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~.... ....
*',t,','gjj :... .:.,sj   jj   j                jgg                                                                                            i
5''. .......j.jj.....5
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~........                                                               _O                                               O
...............sA                                                  a   t osJ
suo!ss!" olUe9.+0 aSn  *b 4......... H
lSOd38 N01131dW0:) 1031^.............
(3d- L [ZZ ueol) 1031^0Ud H11v3H ASdYWIJdd-nsd3d~~~~~~..........



PERU
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
PRIMARY HEALTH PROJECT
(Loan 221 1-PE)
Table 1. Related Bank Loans
Loan Tide             purpos         Year of     Stau           Comments
949-PE                 To support 1972.     FY74   closed in 1982  Three year delay.
First Education Project    educational reform
1 283-PE               To support Housing   FY76   closed in 1983  Financed 5 health
Urban Sites and Services  Bank of Peru                             centers in Ums.
Development            _                                           Fully disbursed.
1693-PE                To provide broad     FY79   closed in 1980  Financed $2.7
First Program Loan     program support to                  .       million in drugs,
Govemment                                   vaccines and
insecticides.
-      Fully disbursed.
1812-PE                To support Integrated   FY80   closed in 1987   Financed 17
Puno Rural Development  tural development in                       health centers,
Project                Puno and Juriaca                            increased
hospital capacity
In Lampa and
trained health
promotors.
2465-PE                To improve primary   FY85   closed in 1991   Loan suspended
Primary Education Project  oducation                               in FY87; not
completed at
closing.
40



PERU
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
PRIMARY HEALTH PROJECT
(Loan 221 I-PE)
Tab 2. ProJel t Timeabl
DATE    __I
ITEm           PLANED      REVISED     ACTUAL
Idntificaton IEPS)         nla         n/a       4/3/90*
Prepaaon                 Jun-80      Nov-80   7180-5/81"
Appraisa Mission         Nov-80      Jan-81      3/8/82
Loan Negotatons            We nJs              10/20-24182
Boad Approval            Jun-ei      Oct-81     11/30/82
Loan Signau                n/a         n/a       3/28183
Loan Effectvens            n/s         nha       5120/83
Loan ClosIn              6130/89   6830189***    5/1191
Woan Completion         12/31188       n/a      n1a*--
mid piua" boost
00 as mn,wa*I bu.
At Spke ISa. PI. melo ddkad no fo fwd e"xe don.
*P-- _mu       l   t osm ems  at dw ol do_ln.
41



PERU
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
PRIMARY HE4ALTH PROJECT
* (Loan 221 1-PE)
Table 3. Cumulative Estimated and Actual Disbursements (US$'000)
1993  1e        -e -eee   eI97    198e 1e99    199 0             1991
AlaW UmdWmat                 600   4.700t 10.200  16.900  24.300  29.600  33,5i00  33.500 33,500
A_                    60~~~~~~0 1,100   2,00  3,90    slo     6.so    $l.    6.SX    5,800
Actind d  % of " sm S d61 .231               10f     23%     241     10%      17%     17%     17%
Date of Rtd Dlbarwmt- 6117W
42



PERU
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
PRIMARY HEALTH PROJECT
(Loan 221 1-PE)
Table 5. Project Costs aid Financing
0a. PROJECT COSTS
APPRAISAL ESTMTE           RES  E8TATE                    ACTUAL 
LOCAL  FORN               LOCAL   FORIN.         I r         FO_.
Em            COST  MEXCA       TOAL   COST  EXCH E TOTAL  COSTS    CNE   TOtAL
COSTS                          COSTS                      cam
~__  __  __  __ ________ ~8 M                          U P  
_~    - - -Jo -B -s
CmI Wo*s                 15_       Lo      17.08                                      en
Fumiae & E    _*rmt       3.13     7.20    10.43            rn/                        I/v
VOdNI           .0.09              0.86     0.95            Wla                       rn/
Dwusd ineMstadds         0.71      0.49     1.21            tw/a                       na
TaImicd AssIstne          0.00    .1.67     1.87            Iva                        ria
SasylP"er Olewnf. Tav    8.16-   0.17       8.35          .                            rn
Irw_ vaw At**e           O.8       0.00     Om              a                           i
Co      .nel           -  9.86     4.6     14.61             l                        .l
Fe..                     0.00      0.50     05              a                    .     "/a
.TOTAL                   37v      17.97    s5__                                                  19.91
Sb. PROJECT NC-
BAN          ACTUAL
SOURCE        PIANNE  ACTUAL  AS % OF
83RD:
Cmi Woe*                10.400    3844      36%
F    itEup
VeNl.    '              11.400     871       8%
Owugs Ns.IMaWwids:
Technl Asditae           1,800     248      14%
salaryiPa olemiF..          0        0
Ccntflngencl. n             0        0
Frot End Fee              485      485     100%
Iit Deposit S/A             0      500     10
Unalloated              8.405       0         0
et  1Ttl                22.00   14.17       63%
TOTAL       .            .000 19.914  -30%
43



PROJECT COMPLEMON REPORT
PRIMARY HEALTH PROJECr
(Lan 221141)
Table S. ProJect Reults
0a. Ofrect Denfts
TOW      Tota 
Ideate,                          Aspasid    by       %6 ofcm
_________                                             4-timat  S0 neonCe
A.~~~ ~ ~ -reekte                       ., .avr  E_ Sta Oar .e                                         .
Pegl bhave kpowed hAlt  a.SW.0                                     eVa            New bhtm. _eeshe    a1 I me. .
Pdwu bed* Me swEde, deb    o,                              11      e ,            Net       to detesd.
Ne.thGo_tereoestuuud                                        s0      11      18%
Reddle osnawe $euvw                                          o adO
Netmhi poe                                                 118    173      147% MIed. 152 not pograd otWody.
lSlthp  _oet ip                                            118     93       7%
Newstaff ho ge"ditgoi sos..,                                3       4       16%
EAds health woana  imdw tad  _upe                           so      12       18%
Elei hum Poets hod"            outd                         10      83      155%  Iade ?1 Mt p_wued.
Casespuo4eid  dIal                                           0    184
PCuts prouidod meodI                                         o    m
Comamanll  pweAide  od,m                                    0      70            (CORonwuawdds let
testid  heth eavstsupgadedb MON                             41      1a       15%
tetn huidi pets upgaded by M                                22       0       0%
voNusoVde fe seeds delww  ad uvldun                        132      33       15% VedhIcles    to omt.uuO. Spir
* wpa" ai _ow ebd prodd tw    en_d co"d                    Ye       a
Mant b_ntedneTA to deeop eadWl             r_               45                   AcadtvoreOlt  eet a. eAt endL
Mondle Adend TA to de woop awlouda and comas                I      oaV            Acdvt eooqnletod. mookmate, et swat.
;edi needed.eotoa favaed                      1260                 ale           Soft traInod m W ne sdas
ConMMMI&y heth mUses rrIned                I                O      a*            S     "oh"rde  mavonbo Met eea
M0S, mime. oUs prefoadenis rotalnad                      LS
Heid Poe head wm_"awdnad                                   140    177         2% gefte.
Held evara ingm"damullaIse                               4.500
Cww%ftyvel ta       and                                 10.000   8.430       42b otsma.
C Commwdty M ldb Iduade. & PedolpelS
PodIo sp_  peodeAoe sead dtblad                            400      40       10% Aoa  at 1le  40.
Mmwii on nen.fomed edue G crs. perepedes prdueed.            I       a     S00%  I asd Sana    pereosnv oataeq..
Mae. It TAto proet Iumvdveoem hW* sodWste                    3       0        0%
Me. net TA t pe-   Imt eveiw oem. hedtiides                  3       0        0%
0. _NhueeG. e"e h and 5&sV
W  P140 _eap         syse O  a redI                                 MWk                            a o 1  wb Wnt he_
M. h.lTA a. oldu PC 10 aeae ooaie& krot               h      1     aNo
Mo.  ta. TA ta endust FM se_e p oseass&wa                  142     ah
1eidt fingaft   end t r" owy *t*                             1       I      100% Iatdid In eat  Sterd Ahdy
a   Inl TA ta bpie1eh In. A  m  a                            3     s              TA pode outd pwe
Mae nag TA to be_I   thaft . fAoam meev    sd*        2      7     rim            TA proed outse projt
L. M..aumu   of &MVg Vur . EqubLm  _Vtd..
Mieteneno. centers oensteusted. hurMed  _id osipped          2       0        0% 0eag  prep ad          - p
ManAJi TA far desin of _odeasmone ase                        4       0        0o
r. bekdn   eeopre
Monh TA tf beyo  MON p_reauig & eadgeda                     36     am             Net potes ta detaing.
M _ant of Slhd_ads_   *toa                                  60      Vs            Not Famg a. detee we.
Mmeaga   t weelishep foe MON Emoote, end                     I     wes            Not Poasitos a. deea .
MwAnagwea  wodiahp foe regonal & arm dil weefs pes           I     oh             Net POsatle t determie.
esinara for hedIM offialw                                   30     als            Net p05mM  a.deteseins
Mane TA to etrng         project nfe                        1                     Net _b     to d



PERU
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
PRIMARY HEALTH PROJECT
(Loar 221 1-PE)
Table 6. ProJect Results
6D. Studles
Studes,            Purpose as DeOned at               Status              Impact of
I _________________              A ppraIsal         ________________I               Study
Health Financing and    study health financing and   TOR approved by Bank       not known
Cost Recovery           the possb'ites for         incorporated into Health
. ,-          increased cost recovery in   Sector Anatlsis supported
the helth system           by AID with MOH.
endorsement in 1985 and
1986. Results published in
Health Care in Peru edited
* . _._. ._ .,__'_-_-_ _-T__.._    _____________    .by  Dieter Zschock  (1988).    i
45



PERU
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
PRIMARY HEALTH PROJECT
(Loan 2211 -PE)
Table 7. Status of Key Covenants
Coenanot               Desailpilan            J.   lbjc                  Deadline for               Status
3.011(b)()   Borrower sld establish separate     bu4b.We              1984 budget         No separate operatino
opating budges for hopgts and PHC                                              budgets for hosptas and PHC
modules                                                                        modues e  inttuted.
3.01 Ib)li) Barrower       estblish nd mantain   budgetkn             1984 budget         Sepamo accounts for
separew accounts for hospiel end PNC                                           recording expendiaturs have
_________  rnlodule expsidture                   _                                         been establised.
3.01 (b))  Borrower shel mintain system for      Staff cowrenaadn                         No systen for rmuneating
remnerating field nrsWng auxdlids In                                          field nurses ever instued.
PHC mnoduhe establ_ d  In Minity
______  Resolution 68/82iSA of Mawh 26. 1982
3.01 (c)   Miistry of Hath shd enter into        hast      port       June 30, 1983       August 26. 1986 Presidental
agreerent with Pennan Social Soeurit                                           Resohuton mandated
Insiuft for use of hosptl faclties                                            funcional integrion of
Miirstry of Health and Sooil
Secudty Health Services. Not
fully Implemented.
3.020)     Borrower s    Idntify oonsultans to  p4*ct evakPo         December 30. 983   Inpact evekluaon nevr
oonduot Impact ovaluation and submit to                                        conducted.
Bank fotr teiwow
3.020      Borrower  a Inidf conutants to        health we ane7    June 30.1083           Health finac end c
conduct heal finc  nd cost rooovey    t                                        recovery study Inoporated
stuy ad submit to Bank for trview                                              nto  rger su   nd
conducted by AID on behalf
of Minitsy of Health. lank
appmved TOR.
3.06       Borrower shsd put into effeot Incentive  Staff coaaenee.n  Decembr 31. 1983   Profect did not provide
systen for PHC medic saff                                                     finaning or tencal
assistance to fulfil tis
conditon. Bonuse for ad
personnel working in
depressd area wr Intiated
in ets 1987.
3.08       Borrower shd gree with Bak on vearly   hwde eamotf   Jun 30. 19  and    Bank gae no obletion
it of innovatv ocasmnoty activIe     eciof&e               June   of each      doenoo to one package of 5
succsivo year       propod Innovatie ao ites
in October 1984.
46



PERU
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
PRIMARY HEALTH PROJECT
(Loan 221 1-PE)
Table 8. Use of Bank Resources
8a. Staff In uts (sw.)
.   Cumulatie          %% TOt
__tmC of Ptejmotdi      punebd Revised         Pinmu"   Cmul                 sative            Cam_ma
1980                         *8.5            9          9        2%
o98t                             47         s6         5        16%
11982                         1028         158       158        46%
1883       .18.6                          1"         17        5U%
Appr*as to laud Apprva
1963                              4          4        181       63%
Baud Apprvd is felvss
1883                              a          0        181       53%
1s"                            20.2         20       201        "I%
1                              20.9         41        122       65%
1985                           26.1         67       248        73%
19l8                           33.4        101        382       83%
1987                           29.1        130       311        91      " %b mnwt suspede519l.
1988                            73         137       319        93%
18                              6.5        144        324       95%
1990                            4.4        148       329        96%
19t                           11.4       1S        340       100% Loa Goned effet" w5I91.
1992                            1.1        160       341       100%
TOTAL                                                                      341      100%f
Intnky of staff hput .one sff we  per 917.000 dlbu ned.
47



PERU
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
PRIMARY HEALTH PROJECT
(Loan 221 1-P
8b. Use of Dank Mbsions
Not    s. . _beM.              ofrDo" inso_m  Dove             t         ane    T          o
o             t a         Y hn 8y_ l  R b   L   Podd    RbtInra                                        Prblenm
TIvua.bA,Palsd           3130          0           1      2      12         24      a, b
It3h                     7160          4                  2                 12        b
.(0      .    2t 7   1                 34         34        b           nis        sio
11130          2          0      2       6         10      a, b         nis        nil
U8t          *2         11      1       3          3       b           nia        si/
3181          2         13      2       6         12       a b         nla         nlo
We1           2         IS      3      12         36      a. b. a       nbi        Rli
10161          S         20      3      20         60     a.b. ael nh               nsl
1216           2         22      1       3          3       a           n/i         ila
1182          1         23      2       5         10      e. d         ash         nia
14 vaIbg aft3eard AW d    OM           5                  6      27        112  2a, b. a. d.  *    h         nb s
42      2                93         a            23          1    S          9     a             nia   nh s
-tl App. - Offdoos      12132          a          34      3      11         33     ace *          2        f.m.t
1121241                  4133          4         J8       t      11         11       i
151334*1)                6163          2         40       3       s15       45    U, Sa.          2          f
2164          S         48      4      14         56    a b. a *        2          f. m
3164          7         a5      3      13         39     a.b.e          3         f.m
1135          4         59      2       6         12      a.            3         f.tm
75                      e s     3      10         30     a....          4          f. m
O9m6          2         67      2       5          10      a. b         3          f. m
1013           1         s       3       4         12      a. b.         3          f. m
316           5         73      2       0         12       a.b          3          f. m
4136          1         74       1     12         12        a           3           f
11X1367                  01      4       8         32       b.a.f        2          f.m
.   65       21        102             14         28       0 e          4
. *                           30           24         126             12         24      b.c 3*
LTOTAL                    -        -731 _
"pedblhEr  a4smwnftt b4hldU Opeddsi e.AditON4 #dSSteWs ..t0sdand f4p.ralbsi Aoobtos
--TV" of PuoMam fUblasidd m*muiguilat t.T*dwdsd
*** _a_e Vft sOw
Teed UhsuuStaff aq        731
Ame. N. Pwsmm dnssh         2
Ave. Staff Dt uiIuS.       2
48



