Document of
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Report No. 4016-PE
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
PERU
PRIMARY HEALTH PROJECT
October 29, 1982
Population, Health and Nutrition Department
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
Currency Unit = Soles
S/.560 = US$1.00
(as of March, 1982)
FISCAL YEAR
January 1 to December 31
PRINCIPAL ACRONYMS USED
APSP     =      Primary Health Care in Peru
CNAP     =     National Commission of Primary Health Care
CNP      =     National Population Council
COOPOP   =     Popular Cooperation Agency
ENCA     =     Encuesta Nacional de Consumo de Alimentos
GOP            Government of Peru
IPSS     =     Peruvian Social Security Institute
MCH      =     Maternal and Child Health
MOF      =     Ministry of Finance
MOH      =      Ministry of Health
PAHO     =     Pan American Health Organization
PAMI     =     Mother/Child Food Assistance Program
PHC      =     Primary Health Care
PHCM     =     Primary Health Care Modules
PHCP     =     Primary Health Care Policy
PNACS    =     National Plan of Coordinated Health Actions
SECIGRA  =     Graduate Civil Service
UNICEF   =      United Nations Children's Fund
USAID    =     United States Agency for International Development



PERU                     FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Primary Health Project
Table of Contents
Page No.
Definitions  ...  .       .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .    .    i
I. BACKGROUND   .1..  .       .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .    .    I
A. Geographic Environment  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .   1
R. Population Profile  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .   1
C. Economic Situation ...  .          .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .    .    2
II. THE HEALTH SECTOR ...  .          .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .    .    2
A. Status ...  .        .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .    ..  2
B. Policy ...................... . 4
C. Structure of Health Services  . . . . . . . . . . . .   6
D. Health Resources  ...  .         .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .    .    9
E. Summary Assessment ................ .  14
III. THE PROJECT ...  .         .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .    .  15
A. Project Concept and Objectives .  . . . . . . . . . .  15
B. Project Components  ...  .          .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .    .  17
C. Project Description   . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .  19
IV. PROJECT COST AND FINANCING   ...  .             .....  .     .  .  .    .  24
A. Cost ....  .         .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .    .  24
B. Financing   ...  .        .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .    .  25
C. Fiscal Feasibility ...  .          .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .    .  27
V. PROJECT IMPLEMENTATION  ...  .           .    .....  .     .  .  .  .    .  28
A. Management ...  .        .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .    .  28
B. Procurement   ...  .        .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .    .  29
C. Bank Review Requirements .  . . . . . . . . . . . . .  30
D. Working Fund and Disbursements .  . . . . . . . . . .  30
E. Accounting and Auditing   . . . . . . . . . . . . . .  31
VI. JUSTIFICATION . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .  32
A. Benefits and Costs ........                  ...     ..   ...     .   32
B. Risks ....................... 34
VII.  AGREEMENTS REACHED AND RECOMMENDATIONS   . . . . . . . .  34
This Report is based on the findings of an appraisal mission which
visited Peru March/April 1982. The mission comprised Messrs. R. Cuca
(Mission Leader), D. De Ferranti and Dr. 0. Echeverri and Mesdames M.
de Valdivia and P. Kleysteuber of the Bank, and Mr. A. Zuniga
(Consultant).
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



-2-
Page No.
ANNEXES
1.   Organization and Delivery of Health Services . . . . . . . 36
2.   Targets for Project Areas after 5 Years of
Service Delivery ... .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .   . 42
3.   Staffing, Personnel Estimates and Functions
of Key Personnel ... .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .   . 43
4.   Training Component ... .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .   . 47
5.   Proposed Location List for New Health Infrastructure . .   48
6.   Architectural Program - Construction of Health
Posts and Health Centers .54
7.   Project Implementation Schedule  . . . . . . . . . . . . . 55
8.   Summary and Detailed Cost Estimates . . . . . . . . . . . . 56
9.   Estimates of Project Recurrent Costs . . . . . . . . . . . 74
10.   Disbursement Schedule  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 75
11.  Assessing the Project's Benefits . . . . . . . . . . . . . 76
12.   Selected Documents and Data Available in the Project File.  82
SUPPORTING TABLES
1.   Comparative Health Indicators in Peru and
Neighboring Countries  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 83
2.   Projections of Age Structure of Population
by Sex, 1980-2000 in Percentages . . . . . . . . . . . . . 84
3.   Selected Health Indicators for the Project Area  . . . . . 85
4.   Fertility and some Family Planning Indicators  . . . . . . 86
5.   Ten Leading Transmissible Diseases Notified Cases
1969-1978  .    .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .    87
6.   Professional Health Personnel by Type and
Rates 1975 and 1980 .88
CHART
1.   Organizational Chart of the Ministry of Health
2.   Organizational Chart - Civil Works Component
3.   Organizational Chart - Training Component
MAP
IBRD 16602 - Project Areas



i -
DEFINITIONS
Adult Literacy Rate             The percentage of persons aged 15 and over
who can read and write.
Child Mortality Rate            Annual deaths of children 1-4 years per
1000 children in the same age group.
Crude Birth Rate                Number of live births per year per 1000
people.
Crude Death Rate                Number of deaths per year per 1000 people.
Dependency Ratio                Ratio of population 14 years or under and
65 or over, to population aged 15 to 64
years, multiplied by 100. Indicates
proportion of population that needs to be
economically supported.
Incidence Rate                  The number of persons contracting disease
as a proportion of the population at risk,
per unit of time usually expressed per
1000 persons per year.
Infant Mortality Rate           Annual deaths of infants under 1 year per
1000 live births during the same year.
Life Expectancy at Birth        Indicates the number of years a newborn
child would live if subject to the
mortality risks prevailing for the
cross-section of population at time of
birth.
Maternal Mortality Rate         Number of maternal deaths per 1000 births
in a given year attributable to pregnancy,
childbirth or puerperal complications.
Morbidity                   :   The frequency of disease and illness in a
population.
Mortality                   :   Deaths as a component of population
change.



- ii -
DEFINITIONS (cont.)
Prevalence Rate                 The number of persons having a particular
disease at a given point in time per
population at risk. Usually expressed per
1000 persons per year.
Rate of Natural Increase        Difference between crude birth and crude
death rate; usually expressed as a
percentage.
Total Fertility Rate            The average number of children a woman
will have if she experiences a given set
of age-specific fertility rates throughout
her lifetime. Serves as an estimate of
average number of children per family.



I. BACKGROUND
A. Geographic Environment
1.01      Peru is the fourth largest country in Latin America with an
area of about 1.28 million km2, of which only about 5% is agricultural
land. The Andes mountains divide the country into three clearly
defined topographic and climatic regions: (i) the coastal region,
alongside the Pacific Ocean, occupies 11% of the country's area, but
includes 46% of total population; for about six months of the year, it
is hot, cloudy and humid but rainless; (ii) the mountain region,
covers 26% of the country area, holds 44% of the population and con-
sists of steep mountain slopes and high valleys between the mountain
ranges, and has a climate varying from mild to very cold temperatures;
and (iii) the jungle region, east of the Andes covers 63% of the area,
holds only 10% of the population and is hot, rainy, and humid. Modern
economic activity is confined to the coastal region because of diffic-
ulties in transportation, communication and cultural differences with
other regions.
B. Population Profile
1.02      There are about 18.2 million Peruvians (1982); almost half
are Indians, about a third are Mestizos and about one tenth are of
European origin. European descendants continue to control business
and politics. German and Italian descendants are powerful in commerce
and finance. Asian minorities have intermingled with the coastal
population and are active in commerce. Most of the Indians (Quechuas
and Aymaras) live in the mountain region, deeply attached to their
ancient cultural patterns and not fully integrated into the economic,
social and political life of the country. This social dichotomy
demands different strategies for planning and implementing social and
economic programs.
1.03      Peru's population almost tripled in the last 40 years and
about two-thirds now live in urban clusters of 2,000 people or more.
The Lima-Callao metropolitan area alone has 5 million people. Urban
growth in the last decade (average annual growth rate of 4.3%) has
magnified problems and requirements in sanitation, transportation,
health, education and other public services in urban areas.
1.04      The present population growth rate in Peru is 2.7% per
annum 1/. As in most developing countries, the rate of growth
l/ Preliminary results of the 1981 Census suggest that the present
rate of growth of population may be as low as 2.1 per cent per
year and that the total fertility rate may be 5.1 children per
woman. A full analysis of the Census, including evaluation of
undercounting, is, however, needed before these figures are
accepted. This job is being done in collaboration with the Latin
American Demographic Center (CELADE).



accelerated in the last 40 years due to slightly incre.s Ig birth
rates and dramatically decreasing death rates.  Only recantly has
fertility begun to decrease and presently the total fer.i'lty rate is
5.3 children per woman compared to about 6.5 in the early 1970s. At
present growth rates, Peru will have a population of 28 rillion by the
year 2000. National efforts to provide employment, foodi, health,
housing and education, and to support a very large dependent-child
population, would be undermined if population growth is not slowed
down. Whilst the Government is aware of these consequences, it does
not yet have a fully developed and articulated policy framework
adequate to respond to the population problem; a family planning
program is, however, now at the initial stage of implementation.
C. Economic Situation
1.05       The Government elected in 1980, has made efforts to achieve
economic efficiency, decontrol and promotion of the private sector,
and also introduced policies aimed at more equitable sharing of
development benefits. At the macro-economic level, it nas given high
priority to creating employment, liberalizing trade, promoting exports
and fighting inflation. At the sectoral level, high priority is being
given to the revival of the agricultural and industrial sectors, the
expansion of mining and energy production, the rehabilitation and
expansion of the country's road network, and the improvement of the
health and housing situation.
1.06       Poverty, however, continues being a dominant problem in
Peru. About 49% of urban people subsist below the absolute poverty
income level (US$235 per capita), compared with 35% (in 1979) in Latin
America as a whole2!. Inflation has further eroded the already
limited purchasing power of the poor, and fiscal constraints have
adversely affected the social sectors, especially the health sector
whose share of total Government budget declined from 7% in 1950, to
4.5% in 1981-82.  This decline hindered the expansion cf health
services to underserved poor populations, especially in rural and
marginal-urban areas. To correct this situation, the Government has
given priority to developing a new approach, involving more efficient
health service delivery through a primary health care strategy and
additional resources.
II. THE HEALTH SECTOR
A. Status
Health
2.01       Peru's health statistics are incomplete and the information
system is unreliable, but they give sufficient basis for assessing the
main problems and trends of the country's health status. Peruvians'
life expectancy at birth increased from 48 years to 58 years in the
last 20 years as a result of better socio-economic conditions and
2/ "Social Indicators Data Sheets"; World Bank, May 1981



- 3 -
public health measures such as water supply and communicable diseases
control. However, their health status continues to be poor in
comparison to other Latin American countries. High mortality and
morbidity together with poor nutrition and high fertility characterize
Peru's health status.
2.02      The reported infant mortality rate is 86 per 1,000 live
births, but other available evidence suggests that it is actually over
100 per 1,000 live births, due to low immunization levels, deficient
nutritional status, poor personal and environmental hygiene, and high
fertility. The most common causes of death among preschool age
children are: pneumonia (24%); enteritic and other diarrhoeal diseases
(20%); bronchitis (9%); and influenza (5%). Maternal mortality is
over 30 per 10,000 live births due mainly to anemia, hemorrhage,
infection, and toxemia during pregnancy, delivery and postpartum
periods. Main causes of adult mortality include: influenza, pneumonia
and bronchitis (19%); tuberculosis (8%); accidents (7%); and
diarrhoeal disease (4%). Other causes account for the remaining adult
deaths. As a corollary, the country's crude death rate, about 11 per
1,000, is the third highest in Latin America (see Table 1).
2.03      Morbidity is also high in Peru.  The leading transmissible
diseases are diarrhoea, hidatidosis, hookworm and other helminthiasis
accounting for about 44% of transmissible diseases; and influenza, ma-
laria and tuberculosis, which account for another 30% of transmissible
diseases (see Table 5). The epidemiological importance of parasitic,
pulmonary and gastro-intestinal infections is clear. Other health
problems are: hypoxia (deficient oxygenation of blood) at high alti-
tudes which affects pregnant women and children; zoonosis which
results in a large number of cases of rabies and trypanosomiasis;
alcohol consumption and coca chewing, especially among the Indians in
rural areas, which are social as well as health problems; and perio-
dontal disease which is widespread. There are no official estimates
of the time lost due to illness, but the human suffering and economic
cost are undoubtedly high. A substantial decrease in the risks of
mortality and morbidity could be achieved by strengthening immuniza-
tion programs, extending breastfeeding, increasing family food
purchasing power, improving personal hygiene habits, better access to
quality health care, and improving household sanitation and water
supply.
Nutrition
2.04      Contributing to this poor health status is the nutritional
problem. Most nutrition data come from the Encuesta Nacional de
Consumo de Alimentos (ENCA) completed in 1972, which concluded that
44% of pre-school children were undernourished. Little improvement in
nutritional status -- and perhaps some deterioration -- has taken
place since then. The National Nutrition Institute now estimates that
over 48% of preschool children are undernourished. Shortened breast-
feeding, poor diets, recurrent childhood parasitic and infectious
diseases and low incomes explain this high prevalence. Other impor-
tant nutritional problems are iodine deficiency in 20-25% of the total
population, and nutritional anemia in 69% of pregnant/lactating
mothers and in 34% of women 15-49 years old. Daily per capita con-



-ur.;z:ion & cal--&ies is about 97X of the FAO standard of 2,350, but
approxI~ ealy  X0% of the pooulation has diets below 90% of that
standard.  Moreover, it is likely that in recent years food consump-
tion declined for low and middle income persons.  S  s -_ies on
imported foods during this period may have provided some relief for
low income families in urban areas but this may ha also produced a
reduction of income in rural areas, with negative          -onal effects
for the rural population.  The most basic cause of mal   rition in
Peru is low incomes due in turn to shortage of employmearL opportuni-
ties. Other associated factors are inefficient use of available local
foods, high prevalence of debilitating infectious and paras-tic
diseases, diarrhoea and lack of family -;areness of the s   ous
consequences of malnutrition.
Population
2.05      The poor health status is aggravated by high fertility (TFR
= 5.3 children per woman). Frequent pregnancies, pregnancy at an
early or very late age and a high number of pregnancies adversely
affect the health of mothers and their offspring. Most Peruvian women
have their first child before age 20. More than half the women aged
25-29 interviewed in 1978 for the World Fertility Survey in Peru said
they wanted no more children. The proportion wanting no more children
rose to three-quarters for those aged 35-39. Despite this expressed
desire to have no more children, only about one-third of the 25-29 age
group and an even smaller percentage of those 35-39 were using some
method of birth control (see Table 4). These figures indicate a large
unfulfilled demand for family planning services which the GOP has only
recently begun to address. The services offered by the GOP are not
yet fully satisfactory because they do not make people aware of the
possibilities of controlling their fertility, they do not reach all
those who could use them, and they are limited in methods. A greater
effort is therefore needed in population education and to extend
service availability.
B. Policy
Health
2.06      In the past, Peru's health policy evolved on the basis of
the medical practices of industrialized countries that do not neces-
sarily address the main health problems and demands of its population.
In the mid 1970s, international concern for primary health care,
endorsed at the Alma Ata Conference, stimulated the MOP to use its
own experiences in primary health care to update health policies and
programs. The Government elected in 1980 decided to formulate a
National Plan of Coordinated Health Actions (PNACS) for 1982-85 with
strong emphasis on primary health care aimed at: (a) reducing mortal-
ity and morbidity especially among rural and urban poor; (b) promot-
ing Maternal and Child Care (MCH) services including implementation of
population policies; and (c) improving efficiency and extending
coverage of health services.
2.07      To facilitate the attainment of these goals, the Government
of Peru (GOP) decided to: (a) reorganize the Ministry of Health
(MOB), especially its central administration; (b) appoint a special



MOH Commission to prepare the National Primary Health Care Policy
(PHCP) and an implementation plan; (c) improve the coordination of
external technical and financial aid; (d) improve the MOH physical
infrastructure and equipment; (e) improve logistics, especially for
the supply of medicines; (f) improve information, supervision, evalu-
ation and control systems of the MOH; and (g) set up intersectoral
coordination for strengthening community participation. So far, MOH's
central administration has been reorganized, but more managerial
strengthening is needed. Implementation of the other initiatives is
under way, in some cases with support from bilateral and multilateral
agencies (see paras. 2.33 to 2.36). The National Commission of
Primary Health Care (CNAP) prepared a document on Primary Health Care
in Peru (APSP), which was officially approved by a Ministerial Resolu-
tion (Jan. 1982).  The main objective of APSP is to make available
essential care based on safe, effective and standardized actions to
underserved populations in rural and urban areas. The basis to imple-
ment the APSP is the Primary Health Care Module concept consisting of
a defined package of human, technological, physical and financial
resources to provide basic health services to population groups
according to size, risks, and resources (see Annex 1). The CNAP also
prepared a proposal on "Primary Health Care and Basic Health Services"
as the keystone for implementing the APSP. It is planned that by the
year 2000, the entire population should have access to primary health
care and that their health status would permit them to live a socially
and economically productive life.
Population
2.08      Other policies in respect to population, nutrition and sani-
tation have also changed recently. In the last five years, the GOP
has carefully moved toward a defined population policy. In 1976, for
the first time, the Government formally announced a population policy
with three broad objectives: (a) to achieve a population growth rate
consonant with the free decision of the population about family size
which would contribute to the human development desired by the
society; (b) to achieve meaningful reductions in mortality and morbi-
dity; and (c) to achieve a better population distribution in accord-
ance with the objective of regional development and national
security. At present, there are no demographic targets and abortion
and sterilization for fertility control are strictly prohibited. The
GOP, however, expects that implementation of the above policy along
with structural changes in the economy will result by the year 2000 in
a population of 25 million, rather than 28 million in the absence of
such a policy. In this connection, the new Government has recently
created a National Population Council (CNP) under the chairmanship of
the President of the Council of Ministers. The CNP is the institution
in charge of developing, promoting and coordinating all population ac-
tivities in the country. A family planning program, part of health
projects supported by TJSAID and UNFPA, has been providing services
through the health delivery network since late 1981. Despite these
encouraging developments, it will take some time for meaningful
reductions in fertility to occur, due in part to the lack of intensive
communication efforts which cannot take place because of religious
sensitivities in the country. If the preliminary results of the 1981
population Census are confirmed, they would indicate that in urban
areas people have been practicing family planning for some time
utilizing the services of the private sector.



-6-
Nutrition
2.09      The Government's response to the nutritional problem in Peru
has been modest, fragmented and weak in operational terms. Several
commissions and multisectorial groups have been charged with the pre-
paration of policies and development of a national plan for food and
nutrition, but implementation has been incomplete, with less than
adequate intersectorial participation and coordination. The Mother/
Child Food Assistance Program (PAMI), initiated in 1978, is the most
important effort of the MOR to correct the nutritional problem of this
target group, but its scope and impact are modest compared to the mag-
nitude of the problem. At present, the MOR interprets its role as one
of monitoring nutritional status and caring for complications arising
from nutritional problems. Nutrition research is meager because the
MOM Nutrition Research Institute lacks financial support and human
resources.
Water and Sanitation
2.10      The Government established by law, in 1962, the Rural Water
Supply Plan aiming at providing potable water to 4,393 localities each
with less than 2,000 people. The plan is phased to match available
resources. Its fourth phase, 1980-1982, would reach 220 additional
localities increasing the coverage up to about 16% of the total target
population. The Ministry of Health has also established a 10-year
plan to develop adequate systems for collection, transport, processing
and final disposal of solid wastes in 70% of cities with 20,000 people
or more.  It is estimated that by mid-1981 water supply was available
to 68% of urban and 19% of rural populations and that sanitation was
available to 58% of urban and 1% of rural populations. These policies
are being implemented at a slow pace because of insufficient human,
technical and financial resources.
2.11      The Government is committed to economic and social policies,
including a more equitable distribution of development benefits, which
will improve the health of the population. GOP is also prepared to
provide more resources for health consistent with the sector's ability
to absorb and utilize such resources effectively but low administra-
tive capacity to prepare and execute programs has so far made this
commitment theoretical.   MOR's efforts to establish health programs
more attuned to the country's health needs are a response to that
challenge.
C. Structure of Health Services
2.12      The Organic Law of 1969 (Law 17523) established MOH as the
organization responsible for regulating and coordinating the delivery
of "public" and "non-public" health services through the National
Health Council. The main health agencies in the "public" sector
include the MOH, the Social Security (IPSS), the health units of the
Armed Forces and the Ministry of Interior, the medical departments of
other public organizations or institutions and the "Beneficencias" or
Welfare Boards (public non-profit organizations). Health services in
the "non-public" sector are provided by private hospitals, clinics and
sanatoria, and by agro-industrial cooperatives and other community-



- 7 -
based organizations. Overall, the health sector includes about 17
different public institutions and 8 non-public agencies.
The National Health Services System
2.13      In 1978, the Government created the National Health Services
System (Law No. 22365) to coordinate the above health agencies so as
to avoid overlapping of functions and responsibilities, and thus
foster a more efficient use of resources. The system is managed by the
National Health Council3/ at the national level and by regional
health councils and local health committees at regional and local
levels, respectively. However, the National Health Services System is
still too weak to deal with the imbalance of power and strong vested
interests among the institutions involved. In practice, almost every
health agency continues to have its own legal and economic basis and
enjoys complete administrative and executive autonomy in the delivery
of health services. The PNACS is the starting point for services
coordination, although greater efforts to coordinate the different
components of the system will ultimately be needed to ensure
consolidation of the National Health System.
2.14      Fifty per cent of the Peruvian population do not have
regular access to formal health services, and 25% have never had
access to them and depend on traditional healers and birth attend-
ants. IPSS covers about 10% of the population, other public institu-
tions cover about 19%; and, the professional private sector covers
about 4%. The other two-thirds of the population are nominally served
by the MOH.
Ministry of Health Structure and Services
2.15      The MOH, created in 1942, was by 1950 the most important
health care provider. As now reorganized (see para. 2.07), the MOH is
headed by a Minister and a Vice Minister advised by a Consultative
Commission and helped by an Auditing Directorate. The MOH has: (a)
four Advisory Directorates (Planning, Legal, Organization and Methods,
and International Relations); (b) seven support directorates
(Administration, Statistics, Infrastructure, Public Relations, Person-
nel, School of Public Health and the National Institute of Health);
(c) two Normative Directorates (Persons and Environment); (d) a
Directorate of General Health Services; and (e) sixteen Regional
Directorates (see Organization Chart 1). Delegation of authority and
responsibility is still limited, however, with consequent excessive
paperwork and inefficiency. Managerial and technical skills are not
uniformly adequate. Low salaries, lack of incentives and low prestige
hinder efforts to hire and retain good managers. Short term prospects
3/ This Council is chaired by the Minister of Health and has
representatives of the four components of the health system (MOH,
IPSS, Armed Forces Health Services, and private services) and of
the IJniversity and professional groups.



- 8 -
'or organizational improvement hinge more on training than on
.oersonnel or structural changes. Prospects for improvement at the
regional level are better because personnel changes are easier,
managers are younger, and possibilities of advancement still exist.
Since program implementation is the responsibility of the regional
level, it is at this level that management improvements will be most
productive.
2.16      At present, the country is divided into 16 health regions,
each one involving one or more departments. Each region has a
Regional Health Directorate whose director is appointed by the Mini-
ster of Health, and a Regional Health Council. The region is then
subdivided into "Hospital Areas", each with at least one general
hospital and a network of health centers and health posts in urban and
clustered rural populations. In principle, each health region should
be able to provide all types of health care except those requiring the
most sophisticated technology (e.g. cobalt therapy, neurosurgery
etc.); tertiary care should be available in the main city of the
region (usually a departmental capital); secondary hospital and
ambulatory care should be locally available within each Hospital Area
and primary care should be available for all urban and rural popula-
tions.
2.17      This regionalized pattern has the following drawbacks
needing correction: (a) lack of appropriate information systems for
planning, programming and budgeting health services; (b) complicated
methodologies of health planning; (c) inadequate logistical and
financial support; (d) weak technical and administrative skills of
health personnel; (e) strong hospital-oriented organization with
consequent bias in the allocation of health resources; and (f) inabi-
lity to decentralize ministerial administration and delegate autho-
rity. Some of these weaknesses are being addressed within the context
of PNACS. Specifically, USAID is supporting MOH efforts to improve lo-
gistics, the German Government and PAHO are supporting the design of a
new information system, and the Bank is supporting the improvement of
overall national planning and budgeting. These efforts will contrib-
ute to better administration of the health system in the medium-term.
2.18      The services of the MOH cover the whole spectrum of medical
services from basic health services, provided by a wide variety of
health workers, to tertiary health services, provided by highly
specialized personnel and utilizing sophisticated technology and
costly facilities. A number of vertical programs have been operating
in the country for the past 20 years (tuberculosis, malaria, MCH care,
immunizations) with varying degrees of efficiency and effectiveness.
Under MOH budgetary restrictions of the past decade, these programs
have significantly deteriorated to the point that, for example,
malaria incidence tripled from 12,033 new cases in 1973 to 32,413 in
1977. The principal benefit of the new Primary Health Care approach is
expected to be a substantial improvement in the use of resources and
in service coverage, achieving both better efficiency and effective-
ness of health services.



- 9--
Peruvian Institute of Social Security (IPSS)
2.19      The IPSS is the result of the merger of the old Social Secu-
rity System for blue and white collar workers. All salaried workers,
their spouses (for pregnancy, delivery and postpartum) and children in
the first year of life are supposed to be beneficiaries. Contribu-
tions are 15% of payroll based on minimum wages. Fifty per cent of
the budget is devoted to pensions and the other 50% goes for health
services including medical care, sick leave, maternal benefits and
milk allowance. IPSS has its own infrastructure for health services
but it also buys services from MOH and the private sector. In the case
of services bought from MOH, fees are reviewed infrequently and,
according to the MOH, they do not cover the cost of these services,
implying that MOH subsidizes the IPSS. IPSS has management problems.
Financial control is weak and recording of contributions and benefi-
ciaries inadequate. This situation undermines the objective of
expanding the services of IPSS to the families of its insured workers
as required by the 1979 Constitution.
D. Health Resources
Manpower
2.20      In 1980, there were 12,400 doctors, 10,000 nurses, 3,900
health technicians and 7,400 nursing auxiliaries in the country. This
is a distorted manpower structure because of the extremely low number
of health technicians and auxiliaries in relation to that of medical
doctors. This manpower imbalance may be reversed in the future. The
seven medical schools are graduating about 600 new physicians per
year, and the eleven university nursing programs and the twelve nurs-
ing schools are graduating 800 nurses per year. The increasing demand
in the public and private sector for nursing auxiliaries has led to
the development of the training programs (ESEP and CENECAPE 4/) which
have increased the number of auxiliaries by about one-third.
2.21      The health manpower distribution is biased towards large
cities. Two-thirds of all doctors live in Lima which has about 29% of
the population, whereas in most rural areas there is only about one
doctor per 10,000 or more inhabitants. To correct this bias, the
Government established, in 1976, a law of Graduate Civil Service
(SECIGRA) which has enabled the MOH to assign more professionals to
rural areas. According to this law, a doctor has to devote one year,
and a nurse six months to work in a rural health situation before
being legally qualified for professional practice, but due to lack of
appropriate training, facilities, equipment and proper intellectual,
social and economic incentives to stay, they migrate to large cities
as soon as they finish this compulsory service.
4/ ESEP = Escuela Superior de Educacion Profesional
CENECAPE = Centro Nacional de Educacion y Capacitacion Especial



- 10 -
2.22     Staffing patterns of MOH facilities vary widely according to
level of care, geographic location and services offered. Health
centers should be staffed by 2 physicians, a general nurse, an obste-
trical nurse, a sanitary technician, a pharmacist, an administration
clerk, a laboratory auxiliary and three ancillary services personnel.
In practice, this level of staffing is seldom possible due to insuffi-
cient funds being allocated by MOH to the health regions. In addi-
tion, health professionals and paramedical personnel are reluctant to
work in health centers which are usually located in small towns and
villages.
2.23      Health posts are staffed by one of three different types of
workers: the bachiller de salud (ESEP graduate), who has four years
of secondary school followed by two years of health training with
emphasis on MCH, including prenatal control of normal pregnant women
and care of their deliveries; the sanitarian, who has one or two years
of secondary education and three to six months of health training with
emphasis on first aid and MCH but without the skills to care for nor-
mal deliveries; and the health promoter, who has some primary school-
ing and one to four weeks of training. Both the bachiller de salud
and the sanitarian are paid by the MOH. The health promoter is suppo-
sed to work about two hours per day and to be paid in kind or cash by
voluntary community contributions. Another health worker is the
community volunteer, "Vigia" (health watcher), who with a few days of
training provides health information and advice in communities to
stimulate demand for services. The above staffing is an outcome of
initiatives to cope with the poor availability of personnel in rural
areas, but has produced wide variations in the quantity and quality of
health services provided at the health post. Present role conflicts
among sanitary auxiliaries, bachilleres de salud and nurses will be
solved through the new primary health care policy delivery system,
which defines clearly the activities to be carried out at each level
of service and the training needed to perform those activities.
Financial Resources
2.24      Financial resources for health in Peru are limited; they are
distributed unequally among the different regions of the country and
among expenditure categories. The MOH's budget was US$190 million in
1981 or about 4.4% of total Government spending. In some regions, MOH
services were funded through regional entities (ORDES). If these
expenditures are included, the share of health rises to 4.9% of
Government spending. This figure has fallen gradually since the early
1950s when it was slightly over 7%.
2.25      The health portion of the IPSS budget was US$245 million in
1981, nearly 30% higher than the MOH's. The police (Ministry of
Interior) and armed forces also operate health care facilities for
their employees, but do not publish financial data.  It is estimated
that their spending on health must be at least US$100 million. The
aggregate for all these major service providers is US$535 million for
1981. This figure, however, does not include private expenditures on
health, except for employee contributions to IPSS and for cost
recovery by the MOR equivalent to about 10% of its budget. Household



- 11 -
survey data suggest that private spending on health, for all manner of
services ranging from traditional medicine to store-bought medicines
to private physicians, may be about 3% of per capita income. If so,
private health expenditures would be in excess of US$500 million, and
total (public plus private) expenditures would be over US$1 billion,
or more than US$50 per capita.
2.26      Large differences among the major public providers in per
capita spending levels underscore the unequal distribution of services
and resources. Assuming that the MOH covers all its intended
beneficiaries or about 67% of the population, its per capita
expenditure was US$16 in 1981. However, if 25% of the population, as
is generally recognized, has no access to non-traditional medical
care, and thus the MOR is only reaching 42%, its rate of spending was
in fact US$25 per capita. The per capita figures for the 10% of the
population who are beneficiaries of IPSS and for the beneficiaries of
the armed forces in that year were over US$130 and US$200,
respectively. The parts of the population with no access to any
modern facilities are among the poorest. Those covered by IPSS and by
the Armed Forces are workers in the modern sector of the economy or
members of the police and armed forces services, and generally have
higher incomes than those relying on the MOH.
2.27      There is also inequality among regions.  Excluding recurrent
expenditures devoted to central administration and special programs,
the budget of the MOH (plus the health expenditures of the ORDES) is
equally distributed between Lima and the rest of the country.
Expenditures by the IPSS have a similar imbalance for Lima, since most
of the beneficiaries are concentrated in the urban areas of the
country.
2.28      There is also inequality in most Hospital Areas between the
resources allocated to the hospital and those allocated to the
peripheral area. As resources are allocated to Hospital Areas in
total and as the Director of the hospital is also the Director of the
Hospital Area, resources tend to be spent at the hospital with little
going to the peripheral areas depriving health centers and posts of
needed resources. Separate budgets for the hospital and peripheral
facilities would likely correct this problem.
2.29      A further breakdown of the MOH budget by input categories
reflects other problems. About 10% of the total budget was devoted to
capital investment in 1981. Of the recurrent budget, about 70% is
devoted to payments to or on behalf of personnel. Medical supplies
and drugs only receive about 5% of the recurrent budget because
patients are expected to buy their medicines. By contrast, in IPSS
about 15% of the recurrent budget goes for medical supplies and medi-
cines. As a result, the poorer people served by the MOR often have to
buy their own medicines while IPSS beneficiaries receive medicines
free.
2.30      As of the beginning of 1980, the MOH had obtained US$73.9
million in foreign aid for the period 1980-1985. Among the major
donors in 1980 were Japan and the Federal Republic of Germany (each



- 12 -
accounting for 21% of the total foreign assistance received), the
World Bank (15.2%), USAID (12.3%) and PAHO (6.2%). Some of the aid is
for service extensions that will generate significant additional
recurrent costs for the MOH, but a relatively large proportion is for
maintenance, equipment and support activities, which have a smaller
impact on operating expenses. Overall, the increase in recurrent
costs is expected to be between US$1 and US$2 per capita. This aid is
also unevenly distributed geographically, compounding the Lima bias
characteristic of domestic fund allocations. Over a third of the
US$73.9 million for 1980-1985 is assigned directly to Lima and just
under another third will benefit Lima along with other regions.
2.31      The MOH has been at a disadvantage in obtaining more finan-
cial resources for two reasons. First, it has not been able to
demonstrate the case for higher budgetary allocations in spite of the
repeatedly emphasized commitment of the GOP to devote more resources
to health for programs which will improve the general health status;
the PNACS and the new Primary Health Care Policy will give the MOH
better leverage in national resource allocations. Second, the MOH has
not been able to recover more than 10% of its budget through user
charges because of an insistence on provision of free medical servi-
ces. A cost recovery of between 20% and 30% of the budget through
user charges does not seem a difficult task while ensuring free servi-
ces for the truly needy. A careful study of the possibilities of cost
recovery should be undertaken by the MOH soon.
Physical Resources
2.32      In 1980, there were 329 hospitals with 28,708 hospital beds
or about one hospital bed per 650 people; the country also had 630
health centers and 1,538 health posts. The MOH owned about 15,460
hospital beds and most of the health centers (421) and health posts
(1,443), (see Table 3). The distribution of hospital beds is biased
in favor of Metropolitan Lima which has more than half of all hospital
beds in the country. Furthermore, some hospitals are underutilized
because they are located in areas where there is not sufficient
demand, in some cases because there are other facilities in the same
place which duplicate services. Many MOH facilities are in disrepair
and lack basic equipment. Some sophisticated equipment is not used
because there are no people trained, the cost of use is high and the
need small. Political pressures, lack of coordination among service
providers, lack of resources for maintenance and poor management all
contribute to this waste. Peru requires more infrastructure, but
careful planning is necessary before expanding the existing facilities
to prevent further resource misallocation. The Primary Health Care
proposal will be an important basis for the rationalization of addi-
tional facilities. Some coordination with IPSS is under way but fully
unified health infrastructure planning can only be a long-term goal of
the National Health System, given existing political constraints.
Support Systems
2.33      Maintenance.  The MOH maintenance system has not functioned
well in the past due to lack of planning, budget and personnel. Con-
cepts of depreciation, planned replacement and preventive maintenance



- 13 -
are completely absent from the planning process. Good professional
staff have been difficult to recruit and retain. The MOR, with the
assistance of the German Government, has designed a new maintenance
system, including training schools and maintenance centers. This is
an important step to correcting the present problems.
2.34      Logistics.  Several problems affect procurement, storage
and distribution of medical supplies by the MOH. The MOR budget for
medicines is so inadequate that many health facilities cannot provide
appropriate therapeutic care for want of basic medicines. There is no
systematic restocking of supplies. Supplies and medicines are kept at
the hospital for its own use and not distributed to the peripheral
areas depending on the hospital. A USAID consultant has for the past
year been helping the MOH to address some of these problems and will
propose solutions for consideration and adoption by the MOH.
2.35      Supervision.  In practice, the supervision system is
punitive and inspectorial, emanating from Lima and spreading all the
way down to the health post, resulting in expensive short visits and
voluminous reports but little practical effect on services. At
monthly meetings health staff are paid, hand in their reports and
receive information on special campaigns and activities. These acti-
vities operate quite independently of the drug and equipment supply
processes. Other obstacles to supervision are: lack of overnight
accommodation; low travel and subsistence reimbursement rates; reluct-
ance of supervisors to abandon their private practice; lack of vehi-
cles; and separation of the information system from the supervision
and supply systems. The MOH is now redesigning the supervision system
with a fresh approach based on supervision from level to level rather
than from Lima, emphasis on training and problem-solving, and
coordination of supervisory activities with those of supply and
information. This effort should improve supervision and service
provision in the near future.
2.36      Information System.   The health information system does not
serve managers, researchers, planners or the general public. The
large amount of forms designed to satisfy a large number of potential
consumers of information makes the process inefficient and very time
consuming. As managers do not give it importance for decision making,
the data is not carefully collected nor promptly analyzed. This
implies that it is not even available for planning purposes or for
research. For management purposes, the information system requires
prompt collection and analysis of just enough data to produce
meaningful indicators of health status, service provision and resource
utilization. Indicators should be made available to managers at all
levels before being sent to headquarters for other uses. Only very
general aggregates should reach MOH headquarters. The MOH, with the
assistance of PAHO and the German Government, is beginning to review
the system with the objective of developing a practical system which
would be implemented with the help of the German Government. The Bank
participated in designing and testing simplified health statistics
forms for PHC.



- 14 -
Community Participation
2.37      Community effort in pursuit of communal goals has long been
a feature of the Peruvian culture. Once a basic need is identified,
such as a health facility, the community organizes to provide the land
and whatever non-skilled labor is necessary. To tap this resource,
the GOP has organized Cooperacion Popular (COOPOP), a nationwide
Governmental agency primarily dedicated to physical improvements at
community level with national coverage and a 1981 budget of US$25
million. In recent years, community based groups have begun lobbying
politicians and Government agencies demanding services and, in par-
ticular, staffing for health posts and schoolrooms. Various payment
and volunteer mechanisms have led some communities to consider super-
vision and support of these staff as a community function and respon-
sibility. As elsewhere in Latin America, Government agencies have
attempted to use the communities to stimulate activity in agriculture,
health and education. In response to MOH programs, some communities
have established formal committees, though they have no clear
activities, no structured relationship with health staff and function
parallel to traditional mechanisms. The habit of community discussion,
the tradition of communal work, the existence of community leaders and
groups, and the community perception of shared responsibility for
improvements in the quality of life will facilitate health promotion,
health education, and small scale construction and environment
improvement activities undertaken by the community itself.
E. Summary Assessment
2.38      The health status of Peruvians is among the lowest in Latin
America. Major causes of mortality and morbidity are enteritic and
other diarrhoeal diseases as well as pneumonias, influenza, tubercu-
losis, and bronchitis related to poverty factors such as poor personal
and environmental hygiene; poor nutrition and education; poor housing
and low income; and inadequate or non-existent health services.
2.39      MOH health resources are scarce, especially for providing
essential services which can prevent, control or cure most prevalent
diseases through home care, ambulatory care and basic hospital care.
There is underutilization of available services because of lack of
geographic, economic and cultural accessibility. This is compounded
by poor quality of services due to unavailability and inefficient use
of equipment and medicines, weak supportive referral and supervision
mechanisms, and less than adequate management. The above situation
tends to be aggravated by rapid population growth which stretches the
already inadequate resources.
2.40      Against this background, the MOH has designed a National
Plan of Coordinated Health Actions (PNACS) for 1982-85 in response to
the GOP commitment to improving health. Within the context of PNACS,
the MOH established a National Policy for Primary Health Care (PHCP)
aimed at: (a) reducing mortality and morbidity, specially among rural
and urban poor; (b) promoting basic health services for mothers and
children including family planning services; and (c) improving and



- 15 -
expanding health services. The main strategy to meet these goals is
the development of Primary Health Care Modules (PHCM), consisting of a
cadre of field nursing auxiliaries to do home care, nurses at health
posts to supervise the field nursing auxiliaries, provide family
nursing care, and community health education, and a medical team at
health centers to provide ambulatory, hospital and community health
care. Each module will serve up to 15,000 scattered population or up
to 40,000 clustered population (see Annex 1). The different com-
ponents of this approach have been tested and proven in small pilot
projects and what is now needed is the wider application of the
approach to cover a meaningful number of people as a first step
towards nationwide coverage.
2.41      The implementation of the PHCP poses a challenge to the
MOR. Political, institutional, technical and financial constraints
will have to be carefully addressed for a realistic and successful
undertaking and MOH's managerial capabilities will need strengthe-
ning. The new institutionalized approach will tackle the major causes
of mortality and morbidity such as child malnutrition, diarrhoea and
debilitating infections, and consists of actions that can be carried
out in a safe, effective and standardized way by field nursing
auxiliaries under supervision, with the support of nurses and
physicians. The changing roles of professional and other staff will
need careful introduction.
III. THE PROJECT
A. Project Concept and Objectives
Project Concept
3.01      This project is designed to assist the Government in improv-
ing the country's health status by providing primary health care and
basic health services, including family planning, to marginal-urban
and rural communities, following the National Primary Health Care
Policy. The main strategy to meet this goal is the development of
"Primary Health Care Modules" (P-CM), defined as a set of human,
technological, physical and financial resources to provide primary
health care, medical care and community health care to about 2,400
scattered rural families or about 6,400 clustered urban families (see
Annex 1). The principles ruling the delivery of health services by
the PHCM are: (a) community participation in decision making and
resource allocation for planning, providing and evaluating services;
(b) delegation of safe, effective and standardized health care
functions to non-professionals leaving those requiring clinical
judgement and decision exclusively to health professionals; (c)
systematic home visiting by field nursing auxiliaries to each family
in order to deliver safe, effective and standardized   health
interventions; (d) use of signs or symptoms (risk factors) for
individual screening to decide where and by whom the individual should
be cared for; and (e) coordination of health care with the
development activities of other Ministries to facilitate development
and, therefore, better health. The different elements of this



- 16 -
approach have already been tested through small pilot projects in
Peru. The project constitutes a first phase adoption of the system on
a nationwide basis.
The Project Beneficiaries
3.02      The direct project beneficiaries would be the inhabitants of
four geographical areas chosen on the basis of health indicators, poor
access to health care, isolation, low educational levels and
demographic factors (see Table 3). The project would include urban
coastal, rural, mountain and jungle areas of Peru providing the
experience for future expansion of the new PHC system to the rest of
the country. The areas chosen are: (a) La Libertad, which includes
the peri-urban zone of Trujillo with 90% of the total population of
0.4 million, and the coastal area of the Department of La Libertad
extending from Pacasmayo in the North to Viru in the south; (b) Lima
(two Hospital Areas) with 1.3 million people concentrated in 180 km2
(Rimac), and 0.5 million in 22 km2 (Cercado de Lima) respectively,
living in shanty towns and squatter settlements; (c) Centro Medio
with a population of 1.1 million people dispersed over 48 thousand km2
in small towns and inaccessible villages; and (d) Ucayali in the
Huanuco Health Region with a population of 0.2 million of whom 48%
live in urban areas and the rest along rivers in 130 thousand km2 of
jungle. In all the project areas, services of MOH are currently
inadequate and of low quality and, except for the few working in
industry, sugar cooperatives and the mines, the population does not
benefit from IPSS services. The majority of people in the four areas
subsist at income levels below the absolute poverty. Relatively high
literacy rates, in urban areas, may facilitate adoption of good health
practices. In rural areas work is sought in agriculture and mining.
Because in these rural areas the majority speaks Quechua, uses
traditional medicine and lives in isolated communities, the acceptance
of modern medicine may be slower, though radio and community
organizations may support dissemination of innovation.
Project Objectives
3.03      The general objective of this project is to increase avail-
ability of and access to primary health services for about 3.5 million
people living in four selected areas of the country (see para 3.02).
The GOP selected these areas because of the population's poorer health
status, and their present lack of health services.
3.04      The project's specific objectives, established by the MOH
are to: (a) reduce mortality caused by: (i) diarrhoeal diseases by
20-40%; (ii) respiratory diseases by 10-25%; (iii) diseases prevent-
able by immunization by 50-70%; and (iv) pregnancy complications by
20-50%; (b) reduce frequency and severity of illnesses due to: (i)
diarrhoeal disease by 20-50%; (ii) respiratory infections by 30-50%;
diseases preventable by vaccinations by 30-70%; and sepsis and toxemia
by 20-40%; (c) reduce the severity of malnutrition by 20-40%; and
(d) increase the number of family planning users by 3-20%. These
specific targets were set according to age groups, region of the coun-



- 17 -
try and present health status (see Annex 2 for more details).
Services will be provided to address each particular objective. A
monitoring and evaluation system will assess the efficiency and effec-
tiveness of services in achieving objectives.
3.05      The project will support the GOP's population policy and has
as specific objective to increase the number of family planning
users. Family planning services are an integral part of primary
health services and health workers will have training in family
planning as part of their primary health training.
B. Project Components
3.06      The project will include 7 components:
(a)   Organization and Delivery of Primary Health Care Services.
(i) developing about 131 PHC modules in four regions to
deliver primary, family nursing, ambulatory, hospital
and community health care;
(ii)  constructing, furnishing and equipping about 60 new
health centers, 118 health posts, and 27 staff housing
additions; and, furnishing and equipping about 66
existing health centers and 60 existing health posts,
out of which 41 health centers and 22 health posts
would be upgraded by MOH;
(iii) providing about 132 vehicles for service delivery
and supervision; and
(iv)  providing equipment and supplies for malaria control.
(b)   Health Manpower Training
(i) developing curricula and training courses according to
job descriptions through about 45 staff-months of
technical assistance and 12 staff-months of local
consultants;
(ii)  developing training methodologies and organizing
training;
(iii) retraining about: 180 health module directors, 180
community health nurses, 2,089 doctors, clinical
nurses, technicians and other professionals, and 640
health post head nurses; and training about: 4,500
field nursing auxiliaries and 20,000 community volun-
teers; and
(iv) providing continous education seminars for all PHC
personnel.
(c)   Community Health Education and Participation
(i) producing and distributing about 400 radio spots; and
printing posters, flip charts and other demonstration
materials for health education activities;



- 18 -
(ii) producing a manual on non-formal education and commun-
ity participation techniques for field staff use; and
(iii) promoting innovative activities by community groups
related to defined health goals, through about 3
staff-months of technical assistance and 3
staff-months of local consultants.
(d)   Monitoring, Supervision and Evaluation
(i) implementing a new PHC information system;
(ii)  monitoring of PHC service efficiency;
(iii) implementing a new PHC supervision system based
primarily on problem solving and continuing education;
(iv) evaluating PHC service processes and impact through
about 31 staff-months of technical assistance and 142
staff-months of local consultants; and
(v) implementing a health financing and cost recovery
study through about 3 staff-months of technical
assistance and 27 staff-months of local consultants.
(e)   Maintenance of Buildings, Furniture, Equipment and Vehicles
(i) constructing, furnishing and equipping two maintenance
centers to provide services to MOH health facilities
in the regions of Centro Medio and Ucayali; and
(ii) providing about 4 staff-months of technical assistance
for design of maintenance centers.
(f)   Institutional Development
(i) providing about 36 staff-months of technical assist-
ance for improving programming and budgeting in
the MOH;
(ii) providing about 60 staff-months of scholarships abroad
to improve technical and managerial skills of MOH per-
sonnel;
(iii)  organizing a management workshop for MOH director
generals and one for regional and area civil works
personnel; and about 20 operational seminars for
national, regional and local health officers; and
(iv) supporting preparation of a second project for
possible Bank financing by providing about 6 staff-
months of technical assistance;
(g)   Project Administration Support
(i)   providing required additional personnel, vehicles and
equipment for project administration;
(ii) providing about 60 staff-months of technical assist-
ance to strenghten project management; and
(iii) providing auditing of project accounts.



- 19 -
C. Project Description
Organization and Delivery of Services
3.07      Four criteria have been  applied to organize and deliver
primary health care services: (a) identification of people's basic
health needs according to their perceived morbidity and fertility;
(b) selection of a package of safe, effective and standardized actions
to prevent and treat common health and nutrition problems at home;
(c) assignment of functions to health personnel on the basis of their
vocational, technical or professional training and education; and (d)
organization of health resources into primary health care modules
(PHCM) (see Annex 1). These criteria define what services, for whom,
when, by whom and where they would be provided. Primary health care,
including family planning, family nursing care, ambulatory medical
care, hospital care and community health care would be provided to the
entire population of the project areas following a systematic
schedule, by field nursing auxiliaries at home, nurses at the health
post and a health team at the health center under physicians'
responsibility.
3.08      Primary Health Care includes all safe, effective and
standardized health and family planning actions performed by field
nursing auxiliaries in the home. The field nursing auxiliaries will
visit each family every two months to deliver a "package" of these
services (see Annex 1 para. 16), thus ensuring improvements in
families' health status. Home visiting on a regular basis requires
full time employees and should, therefore, be remunerated
accordingly. However, since this activity has not existed in the
past, it has been agreed that the field nursing auxiliaries will be
remunerated at the same level as the present Sanitary Auxiliaries who
work in the Health Posts. Accordingly, the GOP confirmed this
agreement during negotiations. Community volunteers would stimulate
the use of health module services after completing short
information/training sessions. The work of volunteers is by
definition an informal, part-time activity and, therefore, is not
remunerated.
3.09      Family Nursing Care includes all primary health care and
other health activities performed by the nurse at the health post.
The nurse would use this facility as a teaching instrument for users
to learn how to improve household hygiene, safety and comfort. The
nurse would provide three basic services: (a) sick care for patients
requiring administration of special drugs and monitoring of symptoms
and signs to decide whether to continue the nursing care at home or to
refer patients for higher level medical care; (b) family health edu-
cation, including: (i) identification of health problems and family
planning needs, and methods of self-care with health/therapy groups;
(ii) information and training sessions for volunteer workers to
stimulate families' use of health services; and (iii) continuing
education to the 6-8 field nursing auxiliaries working in the health



- 20 -
post catchment area; and (c) monitoring of the health status and
fertility of about 600 families under her responsibility, including
collection, processing and analysis of health indicators jointly with
her field nursing auxiliaries. This analysis will be the basis for
planning and reviewing health activities and for informing the
community and the MOH administration on health progress (see Annex 1).
3.10      Ambulatory Medical Care  will be delivered at the health
center and includes medical and family planning consultation, clinical
lab, x-ray exams and treatment for patients requiring ambulatory
professional care. Most pediatric, obstetric, surgical and internal
medicine problems requiring ambulatory medical care will be managed at
the health center. A small proportion (about 11%) will be referred to
tertiary care facilities usually located at regional hospitals.
3.11      Hospital Care  will be delivered at health centers and
includes short stay hospitalized care for pediatric obstetric-
gynecologic and surgical problems (see Annex 1 para. 19). Patients
requiring longer stay would be referred to other hospitals within or
outside the project areas. In some localities where IPSS has hospital
facilities, the MOH would use these facilities under contract instead
of building new facilities. During negotiations, assurances were
obtained that GOP will enter into a contract with IPSS defining these
arrangements, which would be agreeable to the Bank, before June 30,
1983.
3.12      Community Health Care includes:  (a) the assessment of fer-
tility, nutrition and health status of the community served by the
entire health module; (b) the planning, allocation and monitoring of
health resources and services for the health module;  and (c) evaluat-
ing efficiency and effectiveness of health and family planning ser-
vices delivered through the PHCM. These activities would be carried
out by the team of health workers under the leadership of the health
module director.
3.13      The PHCM design is flexible enough to be adapted to rural
and urban areas with scattered or clustered populations. The PHCM in
rural areas would have: one volunteer worker for about 20 families;
one field nursing auxiliary for about 100 families; a health post for
about 600 families and a health center for about 2400 families. In
urban areas, the PHCM would have: one voluntary community worker for
about 40 families; one field nursing auxiliary for about 200 families;
one health post for about 1600 families; and one health center for
about 6,400 families (see Annex 3, page 1 for detailed staffing
pattern for the PHCM). Average family size is assumed to be about six
persons. The above multipliers are estimates based on the time
required by different health providers to take care of the population
under their responsibility and carry out all other activities such as
supervision, training, health education and monitoring. Although 131
modules have been defined, not all of them will have the complete set
of human and physical resources due to the excessive dispersion of the
population. As there is a conflict in the division of funds between
the hospital and the peripheral area (para. 2.28) which may prevent
proper allocation of resources to the PHCM, assurances were obtained



- 21 -
during negotiations that the budgets for the hospital and the
peripheral area will be clearly separated and that a monitoring system
will be established to monitor this separation. This is expected to
allow peripheral areas the capacity to keep staff in better working
conditions. Staff housing and better training opportunities are also
expected to be incentives to attract personnel to the periphery and
maintain interest in PHC. Assurances were obtained during negotia-
tions that additional incentives would be considered, and that these
new incentives would be adopted before December 31, 1983.
3.14      Physical Facilities.  The above activities require a
physical infrastructure of health posts and health centers. Some of
this infrastructure already exists. The project would, therefore,
construct, furnish and equip about 60 health centers, about 118 health
posts and about 27 staff housing additions to existing health facili-
ties. It would also complete the equipment and furnishing of about 66
existing health centers and 60 existing health posts, of which about
41 health centers and 22 health posts would have to be upgraded.
Assurances were obtained during negotiations that the MOH will upgrade
said facilities. Out of the total, about 65 (26 new) health centers
and about 69 (47 new) health posts are located in urban areas. The
rest, about 61 (34 new) health centers and about 109 (71 new) health
posts are located in rural areas. Both types of facilities will
follow a new, economical and functional modular design which allows
for future expansion. About 59 (25 new) of the health centers have
beds, which will perform 12 basic operations requiring a short
hospital stay (see Annex 1, paragraph 19). About 57 health centers
(32 new) and 90 health posts (69 new) will have living quarters for
the staff.
3.15      The health post will have a gross area of up to 110 m2.
Where needed, it will also have living quarters for the staff, in
which cases the gross area would be about 133 m2. The health center
will have about 317 m2; if it is in a rural area and requires living
quarters it will have about 417 m2. The health center with beds will
have an additional 218 m2. In addition, the project will add an
average of about 45 m2 of living quarters to about 27 facilities
already in existence (see Annex 6). Proposed locations for the above
facilities have been agreed upon (see Annex 5) on the basis of the PHC
concept application. Fifty per cent site acquisition and all
prototype typical designs were completed before negotiations.
3.16      To facilitate patient referral and for supervision purposes,
the project would provide about 43 4-wheel drive vehicles, 9 ambul-
ances, 47 motorcycles and 25 motorboats. The vehicles will be allo-
cated to defined localities where there is currently no transport.
During negotiations, GOP provided assurances that these vehicles as
well as other facilities financed under the project would be properly
maintained and used only for the purposes of the project.
Health Manpower Training
3.17      The proposed delivery and referral services require the
development of new skills, acquisition of new knowledge and substan-
tial changes in attitude and behavior of health personnel.   Assuming



- 22 -
completion of 131 PHCMs and assuming changes in personnel during the
life of the project, about 180 directors of modules, 180 community
nurses, 363 doctors, 363 nurses, 683 nursing auxiliaries and approxi-
mately 680 technicians would be retrained for the health centers; 640
health post nurses, 4,500 field nursing auxiliaries and 20,000
community volunteers would also be trained. More than 27,000 persons
will receive some form of training and orientation as part of the
project. About half of the doctors and nurses and about 90% of the
field nursing auxiliaries will be newly recruited personnel. Except
for the retraining of doctors and nurses, which would be at the
regional level, all training would be done at the module level. The
training component would operate in three phases: (a) definition of
job descriptions and development of curricula according to job
descriptions; design, testing and printing of operational manuals and
initial training curricula; and development of trainer's guides and
materials; (b) initial training of trainers and key module staff; and
(c) continuing education and training at the module level (see Annex 4
and Chart 3). Phase (a) is already in process and is expected to be
completed before loan effectiveness. Phases (b) and (c) would be
scheduled according to progress in PHCM organization. The staff of
the PHCMs would receive operational manuals as reference and
information and as an element of their training courses. Manuals and
training curricula are being derived from the job descriptions and
curricula designed by the National Commission on Primary Health Care
(CNAP) with technical assistance financed under a PPF. The trainers
will be the members of training units to be established in each
Hospital Area and consisting of about three professionals (a doctor, a
nurse and a health educator). They will be trained in Lima by the
School of Public Health with help of technical assistance and with
collaboration of schools of nursing. The training units would have
training and supervision responsibilities so that immediate in-service
or continuing education needs can be met within the module.
Continuing education and in-service training needs for each Hospital
Area would be assessed by the training unit which would have an
overview of the functioning of all modules in the Hospital Area, the
needs of field staff, and the strengths and weaknesses of each
functioning module. The training unit would also provide initial
training for new and replacement staff. A process evaluation of
training to be done by the School of Public Health would establish
learnina, attitude, skills and continuing education needs of trained
personnel.
Community Health Education and Participation
3.18      The MOH Department of Health Education, with technical
assistance, would produce: (a) a manual on the application of
non-formal education and community participation techniques for health
promotion to be used by module field staff; (b) about 400 2-minute
radio spots on previously-identified, locally-appropriate themes,
made, recorded and broadcast in local languages by local radio sta-
tions; (c) a series of leaflets for house-to-house distribution on
the same locally-appropriate themes; and (d) sets of posters, flip
charts and demonstration materials for use in health posts and health



- 23 -
centers. Hospital Area health educators will train field staff in
health education techniques and local production of audiovisual mate-
rial.
3.19      In the past 6 years, the MOH has gained some experience in
innovative approaches to integrating health and community develop-
ment. These include, among others, initiating productive activities
such as vegetable gardens and sewing clubs, digging of wells and cons-
truction of latrines. The project would provide means for the MOH to
pursue some of these innovative ideas with community groups. Tech-
nical assistance to help plan and implement such initiatives and funds
to meet requests to finance them would be provided. The criteria to
select innovative approaches, would be that: they be proposed by res-
ponsible community groups; they have clear definitions of scope, cost
and time phasing; and, they have clear health goals. Assurances were
obtained during negotiations that the MOH will present to the Bank,
before June 30 of every year of the project life, specific proposals
based on agreed procedures and criteria for financing innovative
activities before making any expenditures on them.
Monitoring, Supervision and Evaluation
3.20      Service monitoring and personnel supervision would rely
heavily on a simple information system based on a set of cards already
designed and tested, and on continuous education activities within the
PHCM. The set of cards has been designed as a management tool by
which the field nursing auxiliary, the health post nurse, the
community nurse and the PHCM director would monitor health status of
families, and services programmed and provided. Continuing education
and program improvement would be based on the analysis of achievements
and problems made jointly by the members of the PHCM team.
3.21      Since the project's main objective is to modify the PHC
delivery system, the training of personnel, the monitoring of services
and the supervision of personnel, its efficiency and effectiveness
should be evaluated before GOP can implement it nationwide. The proj-
ect, therefore, provides for assessing changes in the population cove-
red by primary health services, specifically, changes in health status
and the costs incurred to achieve those changes. Health status chang-
es will be measured only in those areas with at least three years of
continuous service delivery. This impact evaluation would be carried
out by a local research institution selected on the basis of proposals
made for the study. Proposals would be requested and submitted to the
Bank for review and comment. Specific arrangements, including the
selection of the institution concerned, would be carried out within
one year of project effectiveness.
3.22      The present inadequate financing of the health system
results from both a declining share of the GOP budget for health and
low fees charged for services (para. 2.31). As it is generally accep-
ted that a greater degree of cost recovery is feasible, the project
provides for a study of health financing and possibilities for
increased cost recovery in the health system. This study would be
done by local or foreign consultants. The terms of reference for this



- 24 -
study would be submitted for Bank review by June 30, 1983 and its
results would be discussed, before June 30, 1984, between the National
Health Council and the Bank with a view to adopting its recommenda-
tions by the end of the project implementation period.
Maintenance of Buildings, Equipment and Vehicles
3.23      The German government is supporting the MOH in developing a
maintenance system and it will finance two maintenance training
schools, and two maintenance centers. This project will contribute to
that effort by developing two maintenance centers in Huanuco and
Centro Medio Regions, following the technical and organizational
recommendations set out by the proposed national maintenance system.
The Libertad and Lima regions will be covered by maintenance centers
being built with the help of the German Government.
Institutional Development
3.24      The MOH technical and managerial capabilities are weak,
particularly in manpower training, staff development, and planning,
organization and administration. To help strengthen this capability,
the project provides: (a) 36 staff-months of technical assistance for
programming and budgeting; (b) 60 staff-months of scholarships abroad
to improve technical and managerial skills of MOH personnel; (c) a
management workshop for MOH director generals and another for regional
and Hospital Area civil works personnel; (d) 20 seminars on Primary
Health Policy concepts and strategies; and project objectives, con-
tents and operations; and (e) about 6 staff-months of technical
assistance to prepare a second project for possible Bank financing.
Project Administration Support
3.25      The project would be implemented by the existing line-units
of the MOH and, therefore, no Project Implementation Unit would be
required. It is, however, necessary to strengthen the Directorate of
Health Services, directly in charge of Project Management; the Office
of Physical Infrastructure, in charge of civil works; and the School
of Public Health in charge of training activities, with additional
personnel, equipment and transport. Other assistance required and
financed by the project include: (a) 60 staff-months of technical
assistance to ensure efficient project management; and (b) external
auditing of project accounts.
IV. PROJECT COST AND FINANCING
A. Cost
4.01      Total project cost, including contingencies, taxes, and
duties, but excluding a front-end fee of US$0.5 million, is estimated
at US$55.5 million. The foreign exchange component including
contingencies is estimated at US$17.5 million, or about 32% of total
project cost. To the base cost of US$40.6 million are added a



- 25 -
physical contingency5/ allowance of US$3.1 million (7.6% of base
cost) and a price contingency allowance6/ of US$11.7million (28.8% of
base costs). Detailed project costs are presented in Annex 8 and
summarized by functional and disbursement categories in Table 4.1
below.
4.02      The largest share of the base cost (71%) is allocated to the
improvement and expansion of Primary Health Care Services. About 8.4%
of base cost is allocated for training; 6.8% for health education and
community participation; 2.2% for maintenance; 1.5% for research and
evaluation, and 5.8% for project administration.
4.03      The cost estimates are based on March, 1982, prices.  The
foreign exchange component of the project is estimated at 12% for con-
struction; 70% for furniture and equipment; 100% for technical assist-
ance and fellowships; and 90% for vehicles.
4.04      Implementation of this project will give rise to incremental
recurrent costs associated with the operation of the PHC modules, but
not included in the cost of the project. These costs will increase
with the rhythm of implementation. By 1988, the first year of full
implementation, the costs will be about US$25 million at 1982 prices,
equivalent to 11.8% of the current budget of the MOR. The GOP has
assured the Bank that funds for the incremental recurrent expenditures
of the operation of the project facilities will be available and incl-
uded in the budget annually. During negotiations, assurances were
obtained that the funds needed for the project during 1983, both for
investment and operation, are included already in the proposed 1983
budget.
B. Financing
4.05      The project would be financed by an IBRD loan of US$33.5
million equivalent, which includes the front-end fee, or about 60% of
estimated total cost; the balance of US$22.5 million equivalent would
be financed by the GOP. The proposed loan will finance the entire
5/ Physical Contingencies were calculated as 10% of the base costs
of construction, furniture, equipment, vehicles and materials.
6/ The price contingency was calculated on the basis of the
following inflation assumptions: 8% in 1982 and in 1983; 7.5% in
1984; 7% in 1985; and 6% thereafter. Variations in exchange rate
were assumed to compensate for the differences between local and
international inflation rates. The following implementation
schedule is also assumed: 3% in 1982, 16% in 1983; 22% in 1984;
24% in 1985; 18% in 1986; 11% in 1987; and 6% in 1988. The
inflation assumptions were made considering the "Guidelines on
Expected Price Increases and Real Interest Rates" (Memo from W.
Baum, March 17, 1982).



- 26 -
PERU
PRIMARY WEALTh PROJECT
Table 4.1: Summary Project Cost 1/
Local    Foreign    Total    Local    Foreign    Total   Foreign as X
C o m p o n e n t                 ------Rillion Soles ------    ------USS Milion---------   of Total
Service Delivery
Civil Works                       8.70        1.11      9.81    15.55         1.98   17.53         11
Furniture and Equipment            1.67       3.90      5.57      2.98        6.96    9.94         70
Vehicles                          0.06        0.46      n.52      0.09        0.83    0.92         90
Medical Supplies/Malaria              -       0.28      0.28         -        0.50    0.50
Control
Subtotal                        10.43        5.75    16.18    18.62         10.27   28.89         35
Training
Realth Personnel                  1.89        0.02      1.91      3.38        0.02    3.40          1
Furniture & Equipment             0.002       0.003    0.005    0.003         0.01    0.01         70
Subtotal                         1.89        0.02      1.91      3.38        0.03    3.41          1
Health Education
Furniture and Equipment           0.002       0.004    0.01       0.003       0.01    0.01         70
TEC                               0.44        0.06      0.50      0.79        0.10    0.89         11
Radio Programs                    0.50            -     0.50      0.90           -    0.90          -
Community Participation           0.55            -     0.55      0.98           -    0.98          0
Subtotal                         1.50        0.06      1.56      2.67        0.11    2.78          4
Maintenance
Civil works                       0.25        0.03      0.28      0.44        0.06    0.50         12
Furniture and Equipment           0.06        0.16      0.22      0.12        0.28    0.40         70
Subtotal                         0.31        0.19      0.50      0.56        0.34    0.90         38
Institutional Development
Advisors                              -       0.17      0.17         -        0.30      0.30      100
Fellowships                           -       0.08      0.08         -        0.15      0.15      100
Second Project Preparation        0.03        0.03      0.06      0.05        0.05      0.10       50
Subtotal                         0.03        0.28      0.31      0.05        0.50      0.55       91
Research and Evaluation
health Financing Study            0.03        0.01      0.04      0.05        0.03      0.08       33
Evaluation                        0.14        0.15      0.29      0.26        0.26      0.52       50
Subtotal                         0.17        0.16      0.33      0.31        0.29      0.60       48
Administration
Project Administration            0.86        0.28      1.14      1.54        0.50      2.04       25
Auditing                          0.17            -     0.17      0.30           -      0.30        0
Subtotal                         1.03        0.28      1.31      1.84        0.50      2.34       22
Project Preparation
PPF                               0.38        0.28      0.66      0.68        0.50      1.18       42
Rase Cost                       15.74         7.02    22.76    28.11        12.54    40.65        31
Physical Contingencies               1.11        0.60      1.71     1.99        1.07      3.06       35
Price Contingencies                  4.42        2.15     6.57      7.89        3.85    11.74        33
Total Project Cost 2/           21.27        9.77    31.04    37.99         17.46    55.45        31
Front-End Fee on Rank Loan              -        0.28     0.28          -       0.50      0.50      100
Total Financing Required        21.27       10.05    31.32    37.99         17.96    55.95        32
Note:  Total Physical Contingencies are about 7% of Rase Cost;
Local Price Contingencies are about 26% and Foreign Price
Contingencies are about 28% of the respective Rase Cost
plus Physical Contingencies.
/  Price estimates are as of End of March, 1982; Exchange Rate: 17S$ = Soles 560.
2/ Identifiable taxes are estimated to represent ahout 47 of total nroject cost.



- 27 -
foreig; exch!ange component of the project (US$18.0 million) and
US&15.5 million or about 41% of the local cost.
C. Fiscal Feasibility
4.06       The cost of the project, including both investment and
recurrent expenses, is modest compared to Government spending overall,
although it would be a major item in the MOH's budget. The US$55.5
million investment cost, averaged across the six-year implementation
period, is less than 0.3% of the total 1981 GOP budget and less than
0.7% of the capital budget.  The peak year investment cost, US$13.2
million in 1985, will be less than 0.47 of total spending if current
budgetary trends continue.
4.07       The recurrent costs, which are not included in the US$55.5
million project cost, will be covered entirely by the GOP and consist
principally of salaries, supplies, vehicle operating, maintenance and
other miscellaneous operating costs to support new and upgraded faci-
lities plus the additional staff (see Annex 9, for detailed estim-
ates). During the first year of implementation, the increment in
MOH's operating expenses is expected to be US$6.3 million. This will
rise to US$25.1 million after five years and remain at that level
subsequently. The final US$25.1 million annual figure is under 0.6%
of the total 1981 GOP budget.
4.08       Based on these figures, the project is affordable for the
GOP, even allowing for the difficult economic and budgetary problem
which the country currently is addressing. However, it is important
that the Government recognizes that the project's financial implica-
tions, while not large in the context of public spending overall, will
require a significant increase in the MOH's budget. Officials at the
NOH and MOF are aware of this.  The incremental cost for the first
year of implementation is 2.9% of the MOH's 1982 budget and rises to
11.8% by the fifth year. Phased over five years, the required
increase in MOH spending is not unduly large compared to past changes
in ministerial budgets in Peru. The planning and budgeting capability
of the MOH does, however, require improving, and the project, there-
fore, includes technical assistance in this area.
4.09       Fiscal replicability of the present project on a nationwide
basis would not be difficult for the GOP even if no real growth in its
budget is assumed. The investment required, if full coverage were to
be achieved in a period of ten years, would be equivalent to about
1.3% per year of the 1981 GOP capital budget. The incremental
recurrent cost would raise the budget of the MOH from under 5% of the
total Government budget to between 6 and 7%. This higher level of
spending would still be below the slightly over 7% share the MOH had
in the early 1950s. Thus, national replication of the project would
partially, but not completely, restore the percentage reduction in MOH
funding that has occurred over the past thirty years. Furthermore,
the actual increase in MOB expenses would be less than the above
figures suggest because no adjustment has been made for the fact that
the current project areas are among the poorest in the country and



- 28 -
hence that the remaining areas would not require as extensive an up-
grading of health facilities. Also, experience from the first project
may suggest economies in subsequent extensions. Introduction of other
policy changes -- such as increased efficiency measures in hospital
services and minor enhancements in cost recovery -- could offset some
of the added expense from service expansion without necessarily reduc-
ing access for the poor. Considering all these factors, it would be
entirely possible to replicate the project nationally while keeping
MOH expenses at or below 6% of the GOP budget. At 6 to 7% of Govern-
ment spending, public expenditures on health through the MOH would be
approximately 1.5% of GNP. In some middle-income countries such as
Chile and Venezuela, public spending on health is more than 2% of
GNP. In industrialized countries, it is typically over 3.5%.
4.10      The importance of greater efficiency and of the higher cost
recovery possibilities has been recognized. The project includes pro-
vision for evaluation of the services to be provided under the project
and for a cost recovery study which should indicate to the GOP, areas
where higher fees are called for without reducing the access to
medical services to the needy.
V. PROJECT IMPLEMENTATION
A. Management
5.01      The project would be implemented by the existing line
management of the MOM and, therefore, no Project Implementation Unit
would be required. The Vice-Minister of Health would be Project
Director to ensure proper coordination among the different MOH units
involved in implementation. A full-time Project Executive Director,
with the rank of Director General and working in the Directorate of
'Health Services, has been appointed to oversee the day-to-day imple-
mentation of the project. Sixty staff months of advisory services are
provided to assist the Project Executive Director on efficient project
management. The Directorate of Health Services would: (a) with the
assistance of the School of Public Health of the MOH and with the
management of health regions, organize the training system for the
project and plan, administer and evaluate training; (b) with the
Office of Physical Infrastructure, organize, plan, administer and
supervise the implementation of the civil works; (c) with the other
MOH directorates coordinate, administer and monitor other centrally
related activities; and (d) direct and supervise the work of the
health regions and Hospital Areas in carrying out the actual training
of personnel, execution of civil works and operation of the system.
Detailed terms of reference for the Project Executive Director have
been agreed upon. Assurances were obtained during negotiations that
the Bank would be consulted before appointments of the Project Exe-
cutive Director and the Management Advisor.
5.02      The Project Director would contract with the Popular Coope-
ration Agency (COOPOP) or other institutions equally experienced the
construction of health posts through community effort (see para.
5.04).



- 29 -
5.03      Project execution is estimated to require six years and a
detailed implementation schedule has been drafted by the MOM and has
been agreed upon by the Bank (see Annex 7). Detailed organizational
charts have also been drafted and agreed upon with the Bank (see
Charts 2 and 3).
B. Procurement
5.04      Civil works are small and widely scattered in remote places
of project areas; it is thus most unlikely that they would be of
interest to foreign contractors. Therefore, contracts for the cons-
truction of the health centers and maintenance centers totalling about
US$10.0 million would be awarded on the basis of competitive bidding
following domestic advertising and local procedures satisfactory to
the Bank. Foreign contractors would not be excluded. Force account
would be used for the construction of health posts and staff housing
additions totalling about US$5.0 million. These works would be
carried out by the MOH Office of Physical Infrastructure in the Centro
Medio Region and by COOPOP in the other three project regions. The
communities covered would provide unskilled labor. The MOH's agree-
ment with COOPOP for implementation of health posts and staff housing
would be submitted to the Bank for prior review.
5.05      Because the procurement office of the MOH is neither staffed
nor organized to carry out the efficient procurement of large amounts
of equipment through ICB and because most of the equipment needed in
the project comprises many different small items totalling about US$5
million for four different regions of the country and would be
acquired at different stages during the life of the project, procure-
ment would be through UNICEF by which the Government will realize sav-
ings of about 30% of the cost of goods procured. Contracts awarded
through UNICEF would not cost more than the equivalent of US$200,000
each. Procurement of furniture costing about US$2 million would be
undertaken following domestic advertising and local competitive
bidding procedures satisfactory to the Bank. Large and sophisticated
equipment and vehicles costing about US$4 million would be procured
utilizing ICB procedures in accordance with Bank procurement
guidelines. Goods manufactured in the Republic of Peru or in a
country which is a party to the Cartagena Agreement or to any other
Regional Agreement acceptable to the Borrower and the Bank may be
granted a 15% margin of preference or the applicable import duty,
whichever is less. Furniture, equipment and vehicles that cannot
reasonably be grouped to form contracts for at least US$100,000
equivalent would be awarded without prior Bank approval on the basis
of competitive bidding advertised locally, following Government
procedures that are satisfactory to the Bank, provided the total
amount of all such contracts shall not exceed US$1 million
equivalent. In addition, off-the-shelf items, not exceeding US$10,000
equivalent and aggregating to no more than US$100,000 equivalent will
be purchased on the basis of a minimum of three quotations.
5.06      Appointment of advisors would be done following procedures
that are satisfactory to the Bank and in accordance with Bank guide-
lines. Terms of reference and conditions of employment for advisors



- 30 -
as well as the qualification of the advisors would be satisfactory to
the Bank. The Project Director in consultation with relevant units of
the MOH would select programs of study and candidates for fellow-
ships. The estimated average unit cost per month of technical assist-
ance and scholarships are US$8,300 and US$2,500, respectively.  The
selection of both courses and candidates would be submitted to the
Bank for prior review.
C. Bank Review Requirements
5.07      Contracts for construction of the health centers and
maintenance centers, other contracts for construction in excess of
US$200,000 equivalent, and all contracts for furniture, equipment and
vehicles in excess of US$100,000 equivalent would be subject to the
Bank's prior review of procurement documentation. This would amount
to about 85% of the total estimated value of civil works, furniture,
equipment and vehicles. Other contracts will be subject to random
review by the Bank after contract award.
D. Working Fund and Disbursements
Working Fund for Financing of Civil Works
5.08      Experience with ongoing and previous loans to Peru indicate
that the interval between payment to contractors by the implementing
agency and receipt of disbursements from the Bank has been about three
months. This creates two problems for the implementing agency:
first, a cash-flow problem since the Ministry of Economy and Finance
releases to the implementing agency only those funds corresponding to
the Government's contribution to the project, not making available
funds to pay for the Bank-financed share of contracts that may produce
delays in payments to contractors and further delays in disbursements
and project implementation; and second, lower than agreed financing by
the Bank since the rate of inflation is at present very high and since
there is a long lag time in adjustment of exchange rates and, there-
fore, disbursements in terms of equivalent US dollars are less than
expected over time.
5.09      To prevent the above problems, two funds would be
established. The Government would establish and maintain a Revolving
Fund for an amount equivalent to two months estimated expenditures for
civil works. A working fund would be established for which MOH would
open a Special Account in the Banco de la Nacion. An initial deposit
to the Special Account in US$500,000 would be made by the Bank upon
receipt of a request from the borrower which would be supported by
evidence that the Government Revolving Fund had been established and
the required amount deposited. Payments from the Special Account
would be made by Banco de la Nacion against receipt of fully
documented withdrawal applications. These applications would be
forwarded to the Bank and supported by a statement from Banco de la
Nacion indicating the rate of exchange in effect on the day the
drawing from the Special Account was made, against which the Bank



- 31 -
would replenish the Special Account. The Bank would recover the
initial deposit to the Special Account when the undisbursed balance of
the civil works category reaches twice the amount of the initial
deposit, by reducing the disbursement percentage. Banco de la Nacion
would forward, on a monthly basis, a statement of the Special Account
reflecting transactions during the previous month. During
negotiations, assurances were obtained that the Government will
establish the Revolving Fund by March 3, 1983, and the procedures for
replenishment of such Funds by the Government and from the Special
Account were agreed. Agreement was also obtained concerning the
operation of the Special Account.
Disbursement
5.10      The project  would be implemented over six years and disbur-
sements under the Bank loan would extend over six and one-half years
(see Annex 10). There is no previous experience with Bank health
projects in Peru. The experience in population projects in Latin
America indicate nine years for full disbursements. The country-wide
disbursement profile for Peru is eight and a half years. As this
project has been appraised at a later stage of preparation and as a
PPF was approved after appraisal to ensure readiness for implementa-
tion as soon as the project is effective, it is expected that six
months beyond estimated project completion is enough to complete
disbursements. In addition: (a) the Project Executive Director has
already been appointed; and (b) detailed specifications for the
uncomplicated construction of project buildings would be ready before
loan effectiveness. Disbursement/reimbursement percentages would be
as follows:
(i) 70% of total expenditures for civil works (other than for
upgrading of already existing facilities);
(ii)  100% of foreign expenditures for directly imported
equipment, vehicles and materials;
(iii) 100% of ex-factory cost of locally manufactured furniture,
equipment, vehicles and materials;
(iv)  65% of local expenditures of imported but locally procured
equipment, vehicles and materials;
(v) 100% of foreign expenditures of training abroad;
(vi)  100% of expenditures on Technical Assistance; and
(vii) Project Preparation refinancing.
Disbursement would be made on the basis of approved contracts and
would be fully documented except for civil works carried out by force
account, for which disbursements would be made against certified
statements of expenditures and the documentation would not be
forwarded to the Bank but would be retained by the executing agency
and subject to periodic review by the Bank.
E. Accounting and Auditing
5.11      The project provides for the appointment of accountants at
the regional and central levels of the MOH to reinforce the Accounting
Department within the General Administration Directorate. This unit



- 32 -
.ij fn;nt1lin separate accounts for project related activities, and
r,-re)are disbursement requests for the Bank and have them approved by
fth aut'>-rized officials at MOH and the Ministry of Finance for trans-
mittal to the Bank. The accounts will be open for inspection by the
Bank and summarized in quarterly reports to be submitted to the Bank
by the Project Director. Assurances were obtained during negotiations
that the project accounts would be audited by independent auditors
acceptable to the Bank and that MOH would furnish to the Bank audit
reports, in such a detail as the Bank may resonably request, within
six months of the end of each fiscal year. The auditor's report
would express an opinion as to the reliability of the statements of
expenditures to support claims for disbursements and specifically
whether such claims are supported by adequate documentation and
reflect properly expenditures eligible for financing under the loan
agreement and the adequacy of associated internal controls. Assur-
ances were obtained during negotiations that the Special Account would
be audited by independent auditors acceptable to the Bank.
VI. JUSTIFICATION
A. Benefits and Costs
Benefits.
6.01      The project's principal benefit and thus its basic justifi-
cation would be to extend health service coverage and improve the
health status of up to 3.5 million people in the four project
regions. Specifically, the package of primary health care services to
be provided is expected to help reduce mortality resulting: from
diarrhoeal diseases by 20-40% according to project region; from respi-
ratory diseases by 10-25%; from diseases preventable by immunization
by 50-70%; and from pregnancy complications by 20-50%. Additional
benefits would include reduced morbidity and incidence and prevalence
of illness and disease caused by diarrhoeal disease, respiratory
infections, malnutrition and other illnesses. The project is also
expected to increase the number of users of family planning by making
these services available in the four project regions. Specific opera-
tional targets have been developed against which the effectiveness and
impact of project supported activities and services could be measured
and these are elaborated in detail in Annex 2. These targets have
been carefully established and are technically feasible since most of
the people to be served in the four project regions are very poor,
have very high levels of mortality and morbidity, and presently have
no access to modern and effective health care.
6.02      A second major benefit of the project would be to help
increase the efficiency of the health services provided by: undertak-
ing outreach activities in the project areas to increase utilization;
enhancing the organization and management of the entire MOH health
care system; and, indirectly improving the provision of services for
two-thirds of the population covered by MOH.



- 33 -
6.03      Assuming the achievement of levels of morbidity and mortal-
ity through this project, other secondary benefits would ensue. First,
reduced infant mortality would stimulate acceptance of reduced family
size, demand for family planning services and, ultimately, lower fer-
tility. Second, since most of the target population lives in
marginal-urban areas and depends on daily work for subsistence, lower
incidence and prevalence of disease as well as reduced mortality would
ensure more days of economic activity and higher productivity. Illus-
trative calculations of this effect are presented in Annex 11. Third,
better health among children in the project area would ensure better
attendance and performance in schools, resulting indirectly in higher
returns from public investments in education, and higher future out-
puts and earnings for those children, due to better physical and
mental development.
6.04      The project would also have distributional benefits and an
impact on both the rural and urban poor. The distributional benefits
are due to the provision of services to about 2.3 million people in
urban areas and about 0.3 million in rural areas who live in absolute
poverty and have not had the benefit of health services in the past.
The urban impact exists because most of the beneficiaries (about 2.8
million people) live in marginal urban areas subsisting in extremely
low environmental conditions. The majority of this population lives
in shanty towns with no sanitation facilities and no access to health
services.  The project would not only provide health services, but
also health education. Health status and hygiene are, therefore,
expected to increase among this group. At least 50% of the total cost
of the project is targetted to the urban poor.
Costs
6.05       To estimate the total economic cost of the project, the
financial cost figures, including investment costs (US$55.5 million)
and incremental recurrent costs (both during and after project comple-
tion), were adjusted to eliminate all fiscal transfer payments and
reflect the shadow price for labor. The resulting economic cost,
assuming an opportunity cost of capital of 11%, is US$225 million
through the year 2011. On an annual basis, this is beLow US$7 per
capita 7/. By contrast, the MOH's 1981 budget amounted to US$16 per
capita for the two-thirds of the population it is supposed to cover.
Furthermore, the US$7 figure should be adjusted downward to account
for the additional (indirect) beneficiaries living outside the project
area, while the US$16 should be adjusted upward because some of the
population intended to be served by MOH services in fact has no real
access to them.
7/  Using a thirty year horizon (1982-2011), the annual per capita
cost is US$2.10. Over shorter periods, it is higher, reaching a
peak of US$6.70 at a five-year horizon. If undiscounted finan-
cial costs are used instead of discounted economic costs, the
peak annual per capita cost is US$11.



- 34 -
6.06       A comparison of the total economic cost with estimates of
the expected reductions in mortality and morbidity yields the follow-
ing information concerning unit costs.  The cost per extra healthy day
gained (considering the decrease in disease incidence rate, case
fatality rates and the probability and severity of disability) would
be below US$1. The cost per death averted would be below US$2,500.
Other studies have found a cost per death averted ranging from under
US$200 for narrowly targetted control programs such as a one-disease
immunization campaign to US$500,000 for a broad-ranging, developed
country program. A primary health care initiative such as the present
project would normally be expected to have a substantially higher cost
per death averted, because of its multiple objectives, than a narrowly
focussed immunization program.
B. Risks
6.07      The general management weaknesses of the MOH and the fact
that the project depends on the successful introduction of a new
health strategy in Peru raises a risk that it will not be implemented
successfully. A number of measures have been taken to protect against
this risk such as: (i) the fact that the project has been limited
initially to a relatively small portion of the country; (ii) the fact
that training activities have been initiated prior to Board presenta-
tion; (iii) the fact that the basic elements of the scheme are simple
and can be easily learned and carried out; (iv) the fact that techni-
cal assistance is being provided to assist in project execution; and
(v) the fact that the project is being implemented at the regional
level allowing individual managerial effectiveness.
VII. AGREEMENTS REACHED AND RECOMMENDATIONS
7.01      During negotiations, assurances were obtained that the MOH
would:
(a)   maintain a system for remunerating field nursing
auxiliaries, satisfactory to the Bank, before June 30, 1983
(para. 3.08);
(b)   have:  (i) separate operating budgets for local hospitals
and PHC modules; and (ii) a separate account
to keep track of expenditures for PHCMs and hospitals.
These changes shall be established for the 1984 budget
(para. 3.13);
(c)   assign the Vice-Minister of MOH as the Project Director and
consult the Bank before appointment of the Project Executive
Director (para. 5.01);
(d)   include project investment and incremental recurrent
expenditures annually in the MOB budget. Evidence of this
for the 1983 MIOH budget would be submitted before Board
presentation (para. 4.04);



- 35 -
(e)   not later than June 30, 1983, and each year thereafter until
the completion of the Project, agree with the Bank on the
list and scope of the activities to be carried out as
innovative activities before making any expenditures on them
(see para. 3.19);
(f)   agree with IPSS on the use of IPSS facilities in project
areas, by MOH clients,on the services to be provided, and
the fees to be paid for IPSS services, before June 30, 1983
(see para. 3.11);
(g)   ensure that vehicles, equipment and health facilities
financed by the project are properly maintained and used
exclusively for project purposes; (see para 3.16);
(h)   submit contracts with COOPOP, for the construction of health
posts by force account to the Bank for review before
initiation of civil works (para. 5.04);
(i)   submit proposals on project impact evaluation as well as
MOH evaluation and recommendation for award of contract
to the Bank for review before contract award and before the
end of 1983 (see para. 3.21);
(j)   submit the contract and terms of reference for the
consultant for the health financing/cost recovery study
to the Bank for review before June 30, 1983, and discuss the
results of the study with the National Health Council and
the Bank before June 30, 1984,with a view to adopting the
recommendations of the Study (para. 3.22);
(k)   have the project accounts and the Special Account audited by
independent auditors acceptable to the Bank every year and
submit the auditors- report to the Bank within six months of
the end of the fiscal year (para. 5.11);
(1)   upgrade about 41 health centers and 22 health posts (see
para. 3.14);
(m)   establish a Revolving Fund by March 31, 1983 following
agreed procedures for replenishment of that Fund by the
Government and from the Special Account, and for the
operations of the Special Account (see para. 5.09);
(n)   and by December 30, 1983, implement an improved system of
incentives for medical staff working in the PHCMs (para.
3.13).
7.02      With the above assurances and conditions, the project is
suitable for a Bank loan of US$33.5 million, of which US$495,074 is a
capitalized front-end fee.



- 36 -
ANNEX 1
Page I of 6
PERIT
PRIMARY HEALTH PROJECT
ORGANIZATION AND DELIVERY OF HEALTH SERVICES
A. Organization of Services
1.        Health resources would be organized according to 4 criteria:
(a) identification of basic health needs according to self-perceived
morbidity in the population; (b) selection of a package of health
activities; (c) Assignment of functions to the health personnel; and
(d) Organization of health personnel, equipment and physical facilities
into modules of health care.
Identification of Basic Health Needs
2.        Studies in developing countries indicate that in a period of
two weeks:
Out of 1,000 persons about
- 387 perceive themselves sick;
-  54 do not seek health services;
- 233 require some type of care;
- 200 may be cared for by a health auxiliary;
-  83 may be cared for by a registered nurse;
-  50 need to be cared for by a physician;
-   2 are hospitalized.
3.        The 200 persons cared for by field nursing auxiliaries
present health problems that can easily be identified and for which
there are safe, effective and standardized actions done by field
nursing auxiliaries.
4.        The 83 persons cared for by registered nurses present health
problems requiring greater diagnostic judgement and the application of
safe, effective but not standardized actions -- that is, professional
knowledge is needed to decide what should be the course of action.
5.        The 50 persons cared for a physician present more complex
health problems requiring greater clinical skills, in some cases lab
exams and drugs, diets or additional procedures requiring medical
judgment.
6.        The two persons hospitalized require constant bedside
observation and clinical procedures that can only be applied in a
hospital. This care, as well as that provided by physicians to the
above 50 persons, include actions not always safe, not always effective
and that cannot he standardized. Therefore, they need to be performed



- 37 -
ANNEX 1
Page 2 of 6
by a physician to decrease and monitor its risks, to increase the
probability of being effective and to decide whether actions taken
should or not be changed to improve the probability of solving the
person's health problem.
Selection of "Packages" of Health Activities
7.        Selection of health activities would be as follows:
(a)   identification of the most important health problems (by
prevalence or incidence) in each population age group;
(b)   listing of the most important activities to solve each health
problem;
(c)   selection of actions according to safety, effectiveness and
standardization criteria and grouping them as follows: those
safe, effective and standardized (S, E, ST); those safe,
effective, but not standardized (S,E); and the remaining
ones; and
(d)   groupings of activities into "packages" of health activities
that would be the core of health services at different levels
of a module.
8.        The target population age groups would be the following:
- pre-school age children;
- children 6-14 years old;
- adults 15 and more years old;
- couples;
- pregnant women.
9. The following example shows the identification of two of the most
important health problems in the pre-school age population, and the
actions proposed and selected according to criteria of safety (S),
effectiveness (E) and standardization (ST).
(a)   Measles: morbidity rate 11 x 10,000 per year.
Actions: Isolation (S, E, ST)
Bed rest (S, E, ST)
Aspirin administration (S, E, ST)
Liquids administration (S,E, ST)
Calamine or starch lotion application (S,E, ST)
Antibiotics (S, E) for bacterial complications;
Steroids (E) for neurologic complications;
Sedatives (E) for neurologic complications;
Tracheostomy (E) for severe respiratory compli-
cations;
Referral of cases (S, E, ST)



- 38 -
ANNEX 1
Page 3 of 6
(b)   Diarrhea:  morbidity rate 15-35% in two weeks.
Actions: Environmental sanitation actions (S, E?, ST?)
Safe food and water use (S, E, ST)
House sanitation (S, E, ST)
Oral hydration (S, E, ST)
Diet control (S, E, ST)
Dehydration signs checking (S, E, ST)
Intravenous hydration (S, E)
Nursing monitoring (S, E)
Referral of cases (S, E, ST)
Complications management (E?).
All (S, E, ST) actions can be done at home by a non-professional,
whereas those with (S, E), (E) etc. can only be done at other
facilities (health post, health center, hospital) by nurses and or
physicians.
10.       The group of (S, E, ST) actions to care for pre-school
children, for each particular health problem whether promotive,
preventive, curative or rehabilitative form a "package" of home health
activities. The group of (S, E) actions form a "package" of health
post activities, and the rest form a "package" of health center
activities.
Assignment of Functions
11.       Job descriptions would be developed taking into account the
logical chronological and spatial relations of activities. For
instance, activities (S, E, ST) do not require a professional but a
person with a basic training; they are performed in the moment needed
or in a systematic chronological schedule, and usually at home. These
activities therefore should be done by a non-professional making home
visits with a systematic chronological schedule. Functions and job
description for nurses and physicians would be defined according to
professional responsibilities and authority.
Organization of Health Modules
12.       A health module is a set of human resources and physical
facilities to provide primary health care, medical care and community
health care to defined target populations. Criteria to define target
populations are its size, density and access to services.



- 39 -
ANNEX 1
Page 4 of 6
13.       Two types of target populations are considered in this
project:
(a)    Populations of about 2,400 scattered families (about 15,000
people) usually living in rural areas with no health services
or difficult access to them;
(b)    populations of about 6,400 clustered families (about 40,000
people) usually living in marginal urban areas with difficult
access to health services.
14.       The above subdivision allows for sufficient flexibility to
define the human and physical resources neded according to variations
in population size, density and access to health care, up to completing
the basic structure of a health module for scattered or clustered
populations.
B. Delivery of Health Services
15.       This section defines what services, for whom, when, by whom
and where they would be provided. Primary health care, ambulatory
medical care, hospital care and community health care would be provided
to the entire population of the project areas in a periodic or
permanent schedule by field nursing auxiliaries at home, nurses at the
health post and a health team at the health center under physicians'
responsibility.
16.       Primary Health Care:  Includes all safe, effective and
standardized health and family planning activities performed by health
workers. A "package" of these health activities would be performed by
the field nursing auxiliary for each family every two months to ensure
real improvements in the health status: immunization, nutrition
monitoring; diarrhea control; deparasitation and initial treatment of
common illnesses in children; screening of audiovisual acuity problems
in school children; care of common illnesses in adults; monitoring of
alarm signs during pregnancy, delivery and post partum care for normal
pregnant women; family planning instruction to couples and personal and
household hygiene recommendations. When necessary referral of cases to
other health services would take place.
17.       Family Nursing Care:  Includes all primary health care and
other health activities performed by the nurse at the health post. This
facility would be built as a household model according to population
local needs and characteristics. It would be used as a teaching
instrument by the nurse to teach users how to improve their household



- 40 -
ANNEX 1
Page 5 of 6
hygiene, safety and comfort. Besides this key use, the health post
would be the facility for the nurse to provide three basic services:
(a)   Sick Home Care:  The nurse would care for selected patients
with health problems requiring the administration of drugs,
monitoring of symptoms and signs and nursing care. Although
this care would be delivered at the health post during a
24-48 hour period, its main purpose would be to teach the
patient's family how to take care of him at home by improving
his status and by monitoring simple signs and symptoms while
administering the ordered treatment.
(b)   Family Health Education:  The nurse would provide continuing
education services through the following activities: (i) she
would organize health/therapy groups (i.e., pregnant women,
family planning users, cardiac patients, asthmatic children,
tuberculous patients etc.) to discuss and review with them
the "do's" and "dont's" of exercise, diet, drugs, personal
hygiene, liquor use, smoking etc. according to their specific
health problems; (ii) she would establish a periodic training
course for "rijcharis" with the aim of teaching at least one
family head per 20 families, which the basic health problems
are in their neighborhood and what and where the resources
are to stimulate community participation and use of health
resources; (iii) she would also provide continuing education
to her 6-8 field nursing auxiliaries working in the health
post catchment area, including periodic personal interviews
and group meetings to discuss specific primary health care
methods, techniques and procedures, or problems found during
their family visits. Personal hygiene and household hygiene
would be a permanent effort throughout the family health
education services.
(c)    Monitoring and Information on Family Health Status: The
nurse, jointly with his/her field nursing auxiliaries team
would review quarterly the status and trends of main health
problems and famil planning needs in the catchment area. The
team would collect and process information on morbidity,
mortality, fertility and other health indicators, and after
discussing them, they would be presented to the community
through different communications media available and
understandable to the population.
18.       Ambulatory Medical Care:  This service located at the health
center includes medical and family planning consultation: clinical lab
and x-ray exams; and treatment for patients requiring ambulatory
professional care (see. para. 5). Most pediatric, obstetric, surgical



- 41 -
ANNEX 1
Page 6 of 6
and internal medicine problems requiring ambulatory medical care would
be managed at the health center and a small proportion (about 11%) would
be referred to specialized facilities usually located at regional
hospitals.
19.       Hospital Care:  The health centers would be staffed and
equipped to care for about 90% of patients requiring short stay
hospitalized care for pediatric, obstetrical-gynecological and surgical
problems. The following surgical procedures could be performed at the
health centers: hernioraphy; saphorectomy; dilation and curretage;
breast cysts and benign tumor excision; fractures reduction;
tonsilectomy, appendectomy; vaginal hysterectomy; and fallopian tubes
ligation. Patients requiring long-stay would be referred to other
hospitals within or outside the project regions.
20.       Community Health Care:  Includes the assessment of
population, nutrition and health status of the community served by the
entire health module; the planning, allocation and monitoring of
health resources and services for the health module; evaluating the
efficiency and effectiveness of health and family planning services
delivered through the health module, taking as baseline the objectives
proposed for each project region. These activities would be carried out
by the entire health workers under the leadership of the health module
director.



-42 -                                  ANNEX 2
PERU
PRIMARY HEALTH PROJECT
TARGETS FOR PROJECT AREAS AFTER 5 YEARS OF SERVICE DELIVERY
Objectives                                             P r o j e c t  A r e a s
Centro Medio  La Libertad    Lima    Ucayali
(%)            (%)          (x)       (x)
Children under 6 years of Age
To decrease:
Diarrhoea mortality                           30             40           40        20
The frequency of diarrhoeal disease           20             25           25        20
The severity of diarrhoeal disease            50             60           50        40
Mortality by respiratory infections           15             20           20        15
The severity of respiratory infections    30                 50           40        30
Poliomyelitis mortality                       50             60           70        50
Poliomyelitis morbidity                       60             60           70        40
Diphteria mortality                           60             60           70        50
Tetanus morbidity                             70             70           80        60
Pertussis morbidity                           40             45           50        30
Measles mortality                             50             50           70        50
Measles morbidity                             60             60           60        40
Tuberculosis mortality                        20             25           25        15
Tuberculosis morbidity                        30             30           25        20
Severity of intestinal worm diseases          40             50           40        20
Severity of malnutrition                      25             30           25        20
Children 6-14 years of Age
To screen for:
Eye problems                                  20             30           40        20
Auditive problems                             20             20           35        20
To decrease:
Tuberculosis mortality                        15             20           20        15
Tuberculosis morbidity                        20             30           30        15
Severity of intestinal worm diseases          30             40           45        20
Dental cavities                               20             25           25        15
Adults 15 years of Age and over
To increase:
The number of family planning users
1st year by                                   10             10           20         3
To decrease:
Tuberculosis morbidity                        20             20           20        20
Tuberculosis mortality                        15             15           25        10
To screen for:
Early diagnosis of breast cancer              20             30           35        15
Early diagnosis of cancer of the uterus   20                 20           25        20
Objectives for the Pregnant Women
To decrease:
Mortality caused by hemorrhage               20             30           40        20
Mortality caused by sepsis                   30             40           50        30
Sepsis morbidity                             40             50           60        30
Mortality caused by toxemia                  35             40           50        20
Toxemia morbidity                            25             40           50        20



- 43 -
ANNEX 3
Page 1 of 4
PERU
PRIMARY HEALTH PROJECT
STAFFING, PERSONNEL ESTIMATES AND FUNCTIONS OF KEY PERSONNEL
A. Staffing Patterns in the Proposed Primary Health Care Module
(MAPS)
STAFF
Module Level
Doctor, MAPS Director                                   1
Nurse, Community Health                                 1
Type A              Type B
Health Centers
Doctors
General (Family) Physicians  1/              1                    2
Health Center Director 2/                    1                    1
Dentist                                      1                    1
Surgeon                                      -                    1/2
Anesthesiologist                             -                    1/2
Nurse                                          3                    4
Nurse Auxiliary                                2                    9
Laboratory Technician/Radiologist               1                   1
Pharmacy Auxiliary                             1                    1
Sanitary and Maintenance Engineer              1                    1
Cleaning and Maintenance Assistant              1                   1
Accountant                                     1                    1
Statistician                                   1                    1
Receptionist                                   1                    1
Launderer                                      -                    1
Cook                                           -                    1
Driver                                          1*                  1*
Health Post
Nurse                  1 per 6 health auxiliaries (scattered families)
1 per 8 health auxiliaries (clustered families)
Community
Health Auxiliary                          1 per 100 scattered families
1 per 200 clustered families
Community Volunteer (Rijchary)
* Depending on available means of transportation.
1/ Sharing medical care responsibilities for children and adults,
including obstetrical and gynecological care, and emergency medical
care (70% of their time); and for administrative/public health
responsibilities (30% of their time).
2/ About 70% of time on administrative/public health duties and 30% on
clinical duties.



- 44 -                       ANNFX 3
Page 2 of 4
PERU
B. Health Personnel Estimates in the Project Regions for Health
Centers and Health Posts
Existing 1/   Necessary       Increase
La Libertad
Doctors                        17              48              31
Nurses                          3              75              72
Auxiliaries                    37              53              16
Health Auxiliaries              -             533             533
Community Volunteers            -           3,430           3,430
Centro Medio
Doctors                         8             233              225
Nurses                         56             333              277
Auxiliaries                    58             365              307
Health Auxiliaries              -           1,531            1,531
Community Volunteers            -           7,655            7,655
Ucayali
Doctors                         1              31               30
Nurses                          2              49               47
Auxiliaries                    10              35               25
Health Auxiliaries              -             250              250
Community Volunteers            -           1,250            1,250
Lima
Doctors                        34             200              166
Nurses                         25             213              188
Auxiliaries                    37             230              193
Health Auxiliaries              -           1,686            1,686
Community Volunteers            -           7,460            7,460
1/ Source: Primary Health Care Commission Appraisal Mission,
March 1982



- 45 -                       ANNEX 3
Page 3 of 4
PERU
C. Functions of Key Personnel in the PHC Service Module
Community Volunteers
- Explain and interpret module delivery system and services to the
population under their responsibility;
- Promote rational use of services and facilities
- Support and stimulate community initiatives in enviromental
sanitation and personal health care;
- Provide first aid advice.
Field Nursing Auxiliary
- Administer the package of primary health care services through
systematic family visits to an average of 100 rural families or
200 urban families;
- Indertake systematic health education as part of health services
delivery;
- Inform all families of the referral and service delivery system
available to them in the module;
- Liaise and coordinate service delivery with other auxiliaries,
the health post nurse and community leaders;
Health Post Nurse
- Be responsible for the provision of basic health services to 600
families in rural areas or 1,200 families in urban areas;
- Diagnose the health status of the families on the basis of the
information system designed for the auxiliaries de salud;
- Administrate the health post resources and manage a team of 6-8
field nursing auxiliaries;
- Supervise the work and monitor the services effected by the
field nursing auxiliaries;
- Liaise and coordinate with the health center; programmer and
staff of other sectors, field nursing auxiliaries and community
representatives;
- Participate in the training of field nursing auxiliaries and
train community volunteers;
- Evaluate services provided by the health post.
Community Health Nurse
- Work with the head of module in diagnosing the health situation,
planning and evaluation of activities;
- Organize, direct and evaluate the work of all nurses in the
module;
- Provide health care and services;



- 46 -                         ANNEX 3
Page 4 of 4
PERU
Community Health Nurse (Cont'd.)
- Participate in the training of health post nurses and field
nursing auxiliaries;
- Supervise the work of health post nurses together with the head
of the module;
- Participate in multisectoral and community participation;
- Foster good working relationships between personnel, and ensure
polite, efficient attention is offered to the public.
Director of the Module
- Diagnose the health situation in the module area, maintain an
inventory of the organization, resources and services available
in the module;
- Plan and administrate physical, human, technical and financial
resources of the module in order to improve the health situation
of the area;
- Coordinate and direct the work of the health team;
- Evaluate the efficiency and effectiveness of service delivery;
- Promote community organization and community participation for
health objectives;
- Maintain a high standard of work and human relations among
personnel at all levels; and
- Provide medical care and services.



47 -                                                            IANNE-X 4
PRIMARY HEALTH PROJECT
TRAININC COMPONENT 11
Average                                                                                                         Total Cost
No and Type                     No. of                                                  Where                          Cost/Course            Over 5 Years
of Courses        Tocation  Particip.  Participants                    Trained by    Trained  Organized by   S/.O00's us$ P0O's    UsS OOO's S/.00('s
1.   1   National        I day         50       Multi-Sectoral, Mini-    Coordinator    Lima    Coordinator                5,600      10            10         9,600
Seminar                              sterial & Policy level   of Project                     of Project
2.   1   Natlonal        3 days        50       Ministry of Health           Coordinator    Lima    Coordinator            2,800        5             5        2,800
Workshop                              Senior Policy Manage-    of Project                    of Project
sect & Adninistrative
Staff.
3.   I   Operational  3 days          25        Area & Regional              Coordinator    Lima       Coordinator         5,600       10            10        5,600
Workshop                               Directors                    of Project                of Project
4.   14  Operational
Workshops      2 days        50       Professionals &             Regional &        Peg.    Reg. nirector  ................ No Cost.
Administrators              Area              Office  Area Director
Directors        & Area
Office
5.   2   Training        4 weeks       19       Training Team                Technical        Lima    Project &            8,400       15            30       16,800
of Trainers                                                       Assistance                 Echool of
& Counter-                Public health
parts
6.   12  Initial         2 weeks       15       Medical Pirector             Training         Area    Training Team        2,333        4,2          50       28,000
Training                             of M.A.P.                       Team                                                                      (10 to train &
2 to replace)
7.         In-Service    a week        Tndi-.   Doctors, Technicians          Hospital or    Area       Training Team        43.6       0.078         85       47,600
Training                              & Professionals              Appropriate                                                                  (Calculated  for
Loocrtion                                                                     3 years for 363
staff for 5
days/rs. Only
cost of trans-
port & 'refri-
gere-')
8.   12   Initial         6 weeks       15       Commnuity Nurse              Training         Area    Training Team        4,667        8.3         100        56,000
Training                                                          Teae  &                                                                        (10 to train &
Director                                                                        2 to replace)
MAP
9.   1    Primary         2 days        25       Personnel of Health          Director         Health  Director MAP ............                No Cost.
health Care                          Centre                       MAP & Comm.    Centre  & Comm. Nurse
Oper. Seminar                                                    NHrse
10.   32   Initial         4 weeks       20       Health Post Nurse            Comm. Nurse    Area or Community               2,100      3,8          120        67,200
Traiming                                                          & Training        Health  Nurse
Tena             Center
11.   225  Initial         5 weeks       20       Field Nursing                Comm. &          Area    Community             3,733      6,7       1,500        840,000
Training                              Auxiliary                   Health Post    or          Nurse
Nurse &          L.ocal
Training         Ruild-
Team             4ng.
12.   666  Initial         3 days        30       Community Volunteer          Health Post    Centre  Health Post               202        0.36       240       134,400
Training                                                          Nurse             or       Nurse &                                               (Costed on
Health  Training                                               basis of 512/
Post    Team                                                   course
refreshment)
Continuing Education
(lIp to 450 courses over 5 years -average 100 per year)
13.   40%  Process         5 days        50       MAP Staff & Administ-    Area                  Area    Training
Evaluat.       (approx.)              tration                      Director                  Team
14.   207  Regional        5 days        50       Medical Director,            Regional         Region  Training                700        1.25       565       316,400
Seminar        (approm.)             Comm. Nurse & Admin.         Director                   Team
15.   40%  SPeinar/        5 days        50       MAP Staff                    Area              Area    Training
Workshop       (approm.)                                           Director                  Team
Administration
16.    1   Adv. Mgmt.   2 weeks          25       Senior MOP Management    Technical             Lima    Coordinator             28        0.050        0.050  28,000
Course for                                                         Assistance                of Project
Sen. Managers
17.    1   Progr. &        5 days        25       Region & Area                Nead of          Region  Coordinator               5.6    10            10        5,600
Decision-                             Architects & Engineers    Civil Works                  of Project
Making                                                             Component
1/  Training System: 5-Year Plan.  Coats Based on IlS - 560 Soles (March 1982). Travel and Subsistence Rates (October 1981).



- 48 -                             ANNEX 5
Page 1 of 6
PERU
PRIMARY HEALTH PROJECT
PROPOSED LOCATION LIST FOR NEW HEALTH INFRASTRUCTURE
Module   Module Pop. 1980                             Population 1980                  Site
Number    (in thousands)           Location            (in thousands)  Facility   Status
LA LIBERTAD
1             12.8          Liberacion Social            1.2              PS          b
3             15.3          Laredo                      15.3             CSA          b
5             56.2          Bellavista                   8.0              PS          b
5             56.2          San Martin                   8.0              PS          b
5             56.2          Huanchaco                    7.5              PS          b
7             20.1          Gran Chimu                   3.5              PS          b
8             26.6          Magdalena de Cao             2.3              PS          c
9             16.01         El Bosque                   16.0              PS          b
10             39.3          Pacasmayo                   17.7             CSA          c
11             57.0          Chocope                     29.2              PS          b
CENTRO MEDIO
Area Hospitalaria No. 1 Junin
2             13.0          Carhuamayo                   6.5            CSBV          b
4             17.3          Jachahuanca                  n.a             PSV          c
5             15.4          S. Pedro de Cajas            8.0            CSBV          b
Area Hospitalaria No. 2 Tarma
1             14.2          Huasahuasi                  11.4               V          b
1             34.3          Acobamba                    10.7            CSAV          b
1             34.3          Palcamayo                    9.0               V          b
1             34.3          Union Leticia                5.0             PSV          b
3             18.9          Palca                        6.5            CSAV          b
3             18.9          Maco                         2.5             PSV          b
4              8.2          Huaricolca                    3.1           CSAV          b
4              8.2          Apaycanchilla                2.5             PSV          c
5              9.7          Tarmatambo                   4.1             PSV          b
5              9.7          Cochas                       2.5             PSV          b
Area Hospitalaria No. 3 Jauja
1             17.8          Huertas                      2.1             PSV          b
1             17.8          Paccha Miraflores            2.4               V          b
1             17.8          Paca                          2.8            PSV          b
Cont'd.



- 49 -                           ANNEX 5
Page 2 of 6
Proposed Location List for New Health Infrastructure (Cont'd.)
Module
Module  Population (1980)  Location                   Population
Number      ('OOOs)                                   (1980 'OOOs)    Facility    Status
Area Hospitalaria No. 3 Jauja (Cont'd.)
2              38.4         Acolla                      10.0           CSAV          b
3              12.5         El Mantaro                   3.5            PSV          b
3              12.5         S. Lorenzo                   1.7              V          b
4              15.7         Llocllapampa                 4.0              V          b
4              15.7         El Rosario                   2.4              V          b
4              15.7         Canchayllo                   2.0            PSV          b
5              12.7         Julcan                       3.6              V          b
5              12.7         Curimarca                    n.a            PSV          c
5              12.7         Masma-Chicche                1.0            PSV          c
6             .27.7         Leonor Ordones               2.0            PSV          b
6              27.7         Huaripampa                   1.3              V          b
6              27.7         Muqui                        1.5            PSV          b
7              13.5         Ricran                       6.3           CSBV          a
8              40.0         La Oroya                    33.6           CSBV          b
8              40.0         Sta. Rosa de Sacco           6.9            PSV          b
9              18.8         Morococha                   13.9           CSBV          c
11               6.1         Marca Pomacocha              5.1              V          b
12               8.4         Carhuacayan                  7.2              V          b
Area Hospitalaria No. 4 Huancayo
1              14.7         Mayoc                        1.4            PSV          b
1              14.7         Locroja                      4.7            PSV          b
2              11.0         Anco                         6.8           CSBV          b
3               8.5         San Pedro de Coris           8.5           CSAV          b
5              17.1         Paucarbamba                  8.6           CSAV          a
5              17.1         Ahuaycha                     3.7            PSV          b
6               3.5         Chinchihuasi                 3.0            PSV          a
7              25.3         Colcabamba                  20.5           CSBV          b
8              22.0         Pampas                       6.8               V          b
9              18.7         Salcabamba                  11.0           CSBV          a
9              18.7         Huachocolpa                  3.0           CSAV           b
10              20.0         Surcubamba                  20.0           CSAV          b
11              16.2         Huaribamba                   6.2           CSAV           c
11              16.2         Stgo. de Tucma               n.a             PSV          b
12              17.9         Lampa Parihuanca             9.0           CSAV           a
12              17.9         S. Marcos de Rocha           5.2            PSV          b
13              24.4         Andamarca                    5.3           CSBV           b
14              18.4         Cochas                       4.3             PSV          b
14              18.4         Mucllo                       2.5             PSV          b
Cont'd.



-50 -                             ANNEX 5
Page 3 of 6
Proposed Location List for New Health Infrastructure (Cont'd.)
Module
Module  Population (1980)  Location                    Population
Number      ('OOOs)                                    (1980 '0OOs)    Facility    Status
Area Hospitalaria No. 4 Huancayo (Cont'd.)
15              30.0         Concepcion                     9.8            CSB           a
15              30.0         Heroinas Toledo                1.4              V          b
15              30.0         Matahuasi                      4.2             PS           b
15              30.0          Ingenio                       2.2            PSV           a
16              28.3         Hualhuas                       2.5            PSV          b
16              28.3         S. Agustin de Cajacs           5.4            PSV           b
17              10.7         Acostambo                      8.5              V           b
18              19.5         Chacapampa                     2.3              V           b
18              19.5         Huasicancha                    1.5            PSV          b
19               6.8          Colca                         4.1           CSAV           b
20              38.9          Chupaca                      12.2           CSBV           b
20              38.9         Huamancaca                     6.0            PSV           c
20              38.9          Iscos                         3.4              V           b
21              15.5         Huayucachi                     5.7            PSV           b
22              18.7         S. Huan de Jarpa               3.6              V          b
22              18.7          Chaquicocha                   2.1            PSV           b
22              18.7          San Jose de Quero             5.6           CSAV           a
23               6.0         Yanacancha                     3.5            PSV           a
24              15.8         Huachac                        4.8           CSAV           a
24              15.8          Chambara                      3.4            PSV           b
24              15.8         Marcatuna                      2.6              V           b
25              17.3         Mito                           n.a            PSV           b
25              17.3          Aco                           3.1            PSV           b
26              20.9          Sapallanga                   11.0           CSBV           b
26              20.9          Pucara                        5.1           CSAV           b
27              55.8          Chilca                       44.9           CSBV           b
27              55.8          Azapampa                      2.1            PSV           b
27              55.8          Huari                         n.a.           PSV           b
27              55.8         Huancan                        1.6            PSV           b
28              67.7         El Tambo                      62.1           CSBV           b
28              67.7          S. Martin de Porras           3.3              V           a
28              67.7          Palian                        2.3            PSV           b
Area Hospitalaria No. 5 Huancavenlica
1              21.4         Caja Espiritu                  3.7              V           b
1              21.4         Marcas                         2.9              V          b
1              21.4         Pomacancha                     2.0            PSV           b
1              21.4         Choclococha                    1.6            PSV          a
2              23.3         Julcamarca                    15.8           CSBV           a
Cont'd.



- 51 -                            ANNEX 5
Page 4 of 6
Proposed Location List for New Health Infrastructure (Cont'd)
Module
Module   Population (1980)  Location                    Population
Number       ('OOOs)                                    (1980 'OOOs)    Facility    Status
Area Hospitalaria No. 5 Huancavenlica (Cont'd.)
2              23.3         Congalla                      5.5             PSV          b
2              23.3         Seclla                         2.0            PSV          b
3               2.8         Chincho                        1.3            PSV          b
4              21.4         Paucara                        6.5              V          b
4              21.4         Rosario                        3.6              V          b
4              21.4         Anta                           4.4              V          b
4              21.4         Puca Cruz                      1.5            PSV          b
4              21.4         Pucapampa-Ambato               1.5            PSV          b
4              21.4         Andabamba                      2.3            PSV           a
5              20.7         Lircay                       13.7            CSBV          b
5              20.7         Parco Alto                    2.0             PSV          b
6               8.5         Anchonga                       4.0              V          b
7               9.9         Huachocolpa                   5.7             PSV          b
7               9.9         Sta. Ines Alto                 1.8            PSV          b
8              10.0         Yauli                          6.7            PSV           c
9              21.9         Acoria                       18.3            CSBV          a
9              21.9         Huanaspampa                    1.8            PSV          b
10              15.9         Palca                          3.5            PSV          b
10              15.9         Huando                         9.2           CSAV          a
12               2.0         Pallalla                       2.0            PSV          b
13              13.5         Izcuchaca                      6.5              V           b
13              13.5         Conaica                        1.8              V          b
13              13.5         Occoro                         2.0            PSV           b
14               6.8         Vilca                          4.3            PSV          b
15               4.6         Manta                          1.6            PSV          b
15               4.6         Anccapa                       n.a.              V          b
16               6.8         Acobambilla                   4.0             PSV          b
LIMA
Area Hospitalaria No. 1 Rimac
1              34.0         Zapallal                     12.0             CSA          b
1              34.0         Jerusalen                     6.0              PS          b
2              55.0         Cerro Campana                  4.0             PS          c
2              55.0         Carabayllo                   31.1              PS          b
3              38.0         Infantas                     10.0             CSB          b
3              38.0         Ensenada Alta                  6.0             PS          b
3              38.0         Las Animas                     2.0             PS          c
3              38.0         Santa Luisa lera. Etapa   20.0                 PS          c
Cont'd.



- 52 -                            ANNEX 5
Page 5 of 6
Proposed Location List for New Health Infrastructure (Cont'd.)
Module
Module   Population (1980)  Location                    Population
Number       ('OOOs)                                    (1980 'OOOs)    Facility    Status
Area Hospitalaria No. 1 Rimac (Cont'd.)
4              40.0         Ganimides 2da. Etapa         20.0             CSB          b
4              40.0         Santa Luisa 3era. Etapa   20.0                 PS          c
5              96.0         Villa del Norte              10.0              PS          b
5              96.0         Naranjal                     10.0              PS          b
5              96.0         El Trebol                    12.0              PS          b
6              50.0         Cerro San Juan de Dios    10.0                 PS          b
7              52.0         Ermitano Bajo                30.0             CSB          b
7              52.0         Volante                      10.0              PS          b
7              52.0         Melchorita                     6.0             PS          c
7              52.0         El Milagro                     6.0             PS          a
8             .40.0         Pampa de Cueva               20.0             CSA          b
8              40.0         Los Incas                     10.0             PS          b
9              56.0         Tahuantisnuyo Bajo           36.0             CSB          b
9              56.0          IV Sector                    10.0             PS          b
9              56.0         El Paraiso                    10.0             PS          b
11              32.0         Condorcanqui Jose Olaya   12.0                 PS          b
13              40.0         Urb. El Pacifico             30.0             CSA          b
13              40.0         Cerro El Pacifico              6.0             PS          b
14              43.0         Valdiviezo                    10.0             PS          b
14              43.0          Chaparral                     3.0             PS           b
17              46.0          El Altillo                    6.0             PS          b
17              46.0         Mariscal Castilla             10.0             PS          b
20              50.0         La Florida                    50.0            CSA           b
21              50.0          Huerta Guinea                10.0             PS           b
22              52.0          15 de Enero                   5.0             PS          b
22              52.0          Caja de Agua                 20.0             PS           b
22              52.0          Canto Chico                  10.0             PS          b
23              50.0         Ascarrunz                     10.0             PS           b
24              40.0         Zarate                        40.0            CSA          a
25              36.0         La Libertad                   20.0            CSA           b
25              36.0          Totorita                      6.0             PS           b
25              36.0         Mangomarca                    10.0             PS           b
26              26.0          Campoy                       20.0            CSA           b
26              26.0          Campoy Alto                   6.0             PS           b
27              60.0         Mcal. Luzuriaga               10.0             PS           b
29              40.0          Proyectos Especiales         30.0            CSB           b
30              35.0          Huayrona                      9.0             PS           b
30              35.0         Ayacucho                       6.0             PS           b
31              42.0          Canto Rey                    13.0            CSA           b
31              42.0          Canto Bello                  10.0             PS           b
Cont'd.



-53-                              ANNEX 5
Page 6 of 6
Proposed Location List for New Health Infrastructure (Cont'd.)
Module
Module   Population (1980)  Location                    Population
Number       ('000s)                                     (1980 'OOOs)    Facility    Status
Area Hospitalaria No. 2 Cercado de Lima
1*              70.0         Barrios Altos                42.1             CSA          b
2*              60.0         Maravillas                   41.8             CSA          b
3*              57.0         Manzanilla                   40.1             CSA          b
4*              50.0         Sta. Catalina                38.9             CSA          c
5               63.0         Amazonas                     37.3             CSA          c
6               95.0         Conde de la Vega             32.8             CSB          h
6               95.0         Ramon Carcamo                  9.5             PS          b
6               95.0   Villa Maria Perpetuo Soco.         22.1             CSA          b
7               47.0         Luis Pardo                   14.9             CSA          b
7               47.0         Las Brisas                   10.0             CSA          b
8               54.0         Mirones Bajo                 21.9             CSA          b
8               54.0         Rescate                        5.0             PS          b
8               54.0         Palermo                        4.6             PS          b
9               30.0          San Sebastian               21.5             CSA          b
9               30.0         Juan Agnoli                    3.8             PS          b
UCAYALI
1                13.0          San Alejandro                 5.0             PS           b
2                 2.8          Santa Sofia                   0.5            PSV           b
3                14.5         Nuevo San Juan                 1.5            PSV          b
3                14.5         Masisea                       11.2            CSB           b
3                14.5          Caimito                       n.a            PSV           c
5                 6.7         Nueva Italia                   2.8            PSV           b
5                 6.7          Bolognesi                     3.9            PSV          b
6                13.3          Iparia                       10.3            PSV           b
6                13.3          Cuariaca del Caco             3.0            PSV           b
7                16.3          Nueva Requena                 4.9           CSBV           b
7                16.3          Curimana                      1.2            PSV          b
7                16.3          Tornavista                    0.8            PSV           c
8                 5.5          Tacshitea                     3.0            PSV           a
8                 5.5          San Antonio                   2.5            PSV           b
10                11.6          Puerto Victoria               3.0            PSV           b
NOTE:
CSBV - Health Center Type B (635m2)                      PS   - Health Post (108m2)
with Staff Housing (735m2)                     V    - Staff Housing (25m2)
CSB  - Health Center Type B (635m2)                      a    - Belongs to the Ministry of
CSAV - Health Center Type A (317m2)                                Health.
with Staff Housing (417m2)                     b    - Transfer is being processed.
CSA  - Health Center Type A (317m2)                      c    - Site has not been located
PSV  - Health Post (108m2) with                                     yet.
Staff Housing (133m2)                          n.a. - Not available.
* Demolition of present structure is necessary before construction.



- 54 -
ANNEX 6
PERU
PRIMARY HEALTH PROJFCT
ARCHITECTURAL PROGRAM - CONSTRUCTION OF HEALTH POSTS ANT  HEALTH CENTERS
Archit.            Prelim.                              Compens.
Program (PA)       Plans  (A)         Cost                Area
(net area i2)   (net area m2)   Factor               PA          A
A.  Health Post
1.  Reception                             12.0                 17.3             1.0          12.0     17.3
2.  Kitchen                               12.0                 17.3             1.0          12.0     17.3
3.  Community Demonstration               12.0                 17.3             1.2          14.4     20.8
4.  Pantry                                  5.0                 8.6             1.0           5.0       8.6
5.  Cleaning Storage                        2.5                 2.9             1.2           3.0       3.5
6.  Bathroom                                3.0                 5.8             1.4           4.2       8.1
7.  Family Health                          10.0                17.3             1.3          13.0     22.5
8.  Recovery Room                          10.0                13.0             1.2          12.0      15.6
9.  Dormitory                              10.0                 8.6             1.2          12.0     10.3
Subtotal                         7                  108.1
Eaves  (0.8m2)                                           (31.7)            0.3                     9.5
Interior Patios                                           x                 0                       x
Interior Circulation  (IC7 1- 9) 23.0                     0                1.0          23.0        0
Exterior Works
Staff Nousing                                (25.0)                       (1.2)            (30.0)
TOTAL                                      99.5               10R.1                         110.6    133.5
B. Health Center "A"
Health Post Module                         99.5               108.1                         110.6   133.5
10. Waiting Areas                         20.0                 46.0             1.0          20.0     46.0
11. Bathroom (Women)                        6.0                 5.8             1.4           8.4       8.1
12. Bathroom (Men)                          6.0                 5.3             1.4           8.4       7.4
13. Pharmacy                               12.0                 8.6             1.0          12.0       8.6
14. Records                                 4.0              ]                  1.2           4.8    1
15. Accounting                              5.0              1 22.7             1.0           5.0    122.7
16. Stockroom                             15.0               1                  1.0          15.0
17. Bathroom (Personnel)                    3.0                 5.8             1.4           4.2       8.1
18. Cleaning Storage                        2.5                 2.9             1.2           3.0       3.5
19. Emergency Room                        12.0                 17.3             1.3          15.6     22.5
20. Visits - Paediatric                    10.0                15.1             1.2          12.0     18.1
21. Visits - Gynecological                 10.0                15.1             1.2          12.0      18.1
22. Visits - General                      1.0                 13.0             1.2          12.0      15.6
23. Visits - Dental                        10.0                11.5             1.3          13.0      15.0
24. Laboratory                              6.0                 6.5             1.4           8.4       9.1
25. Environmental Hygiene                  10.0                14.4             1.0          10.0      14.4
26. X-Rays                                 15.0                 6.5             1.3          19.5       8.5
Subtotal                         256.0                304.6
Eaves  (0.8m2)                                           (63.4)            0.3                    19.0
Interior Patios                                         (130.0)            0.05                    6.5
Interior Circulation(307 10-25) 47.0                      12.6             1.0          42.5      12.6
Exterior Works
Staff Housing                               (100.0)                       (1.2)          (120.0)
TOTAL                                     303.0               317.2                         336.4    397.3
C. Health Center "B"
Health Center Module Type A               303.0               317.2                             397.3
27. NHrse Station                          30.0                10.1             1.0              30.0
28. Bathroom  (Women)                       6.0                 8.6             1.4               8.4
29. Bathroom  (Men)                         6.0                 6.0             1.4               8.4
30. Women's Ward                            6.0                 6.0             1.4               8.4
31. Men's Ward                            24.0                 19.4             1.0             24.0
32. Infant's Ward                          24.0                19.4             1.0              24.0
33. Children's Ward                        24.0                19.4             1.0             24.0
34. Library/Dining Room                    16.3                17.3             1.2              19.2
35. Surgery Room                           16.0                17.3             1.5             24.0
36. Recovery Room                          12.0                10.8             1.5              18.0
37. Sterile Room                           12.0                13.0             1.4              16.8
38. Dressing Room                          12.0                19.3             1.4              16.8
39. Laundry                                12.0                17.3             1.4              16.8
40. Kitchen                                12.0                17.3             1.2              14.4
41. Storage Room                           12.0                17.3             1.0              12.0
42. Depository                             12.0                 5.8             1.0              12.0
Subtotal                        557.3                554.9
Eaves  (0.8m2)                               (92.2)                        0.3              27.6
Interior Patios                              (130)                         0.05              6.5
Int. Circolation  (30% 27-42)         76.2                62.8             1.0              62.8
Rsterior Works
Staff Housing
Roofed Esteriors                      10.0                17.3             0.8              13.8
TOTAL                                    643.5                635.0
1/ Already included in Health Center Type B
T ) Not included in total area.



- 55 -
Annex 7
PERU
PRIMARY HEALTH P1ROJECT
Project Impilmentation Schedule
YEAR                EAR               EAR             YEAR              YEAR,              YEAR              YEAR
19B2                 1                2                3                 4                  5                  B
I CIVILWORKSOESIGN
A. FIn.I D.iGO
I Prototyp_
2. Adjultrrnt tq sItt
B. Ltnd A,quIiIon                                       _
11. CONSTRUCTION PROGRAM
A  Compdti. Bidding
1 DGoou-r   pnIp..ratlon
2 Pubil, biddingl
B. Nnw FP.lI,1t.
Hteldh C.nt.r,
1. LI-_-
2 TilIlo _
3 Cvttro M.dIo
4. Uo.y.II
I%nth Po.tt
I. Lim'.
2. TrullIlo
3 Cntro Mdlo
4 UonyS                                                                                 -
C. EI,atlng Fsolitlt,
1. LIao
2. T1ilIlo_
3. C.",tro Wd1.4,
4 UVy.-I 
D M.nt.r.ncn  C.tnr
III. FURNISHING
A. Bdding
B. M.tn.ouring
C. Sltribotran/lnn-hlttIaon__
IV. EOUJPMENTIVEHICLES
A. sidding
B. Dktrlbutlonfln-,sIIt..on
V  TRAINING
A. PPP AotIWiti..
I MW-rl5It-Sn-nl PrI.E.dcP'.
2. Tr.inlng of tr,In.r.
3 R.gIonn  orl.nt.to.. I mIn.t.
B Tr.Ining Court.-
1. C.rr.Il orlertetlor workhop.i
2. InItmel trIlning
3. Ir-S.re tr.InIng
4 ContinuIng .du-1t10n
S. Adminis.tU1iv coon..
B. Ctntr  fttf -na.pmt. cou .
1. Tring. r.piSo-t trIn,                                                                  -
* Course. *flJu*tiofl                                                                __
C  H.thlh Educ.tron
1. ReglonuIer. wo-rkhop.
* Mtri. produotmon            I
M MtnuId diStrbution
4 Bv8iuotmon__
e R  printlnglrpi.ctpo-.nt ___
D0 R.dio
1. R.ordg. of loot progmmo    j_
2. Eoording mit.r t- p..
3. N.tloniouII   brdoticlig !g
VI. INNOVATIVE ACTIVITIES
A, PPF At,lIt,..
1Ar.. Idnt-fic.ton_
B IonpI.m.nt.tlorn
1 Pr .n.tIorPori.ototlon_
2 Ltp  ondtdmm ml.ani mtn-
3 MilIproleot. d-lopmmnt                                  -
4. Irp.ot  .u.to               !
I WIord B.nk-24181



- 56 -
ANNES C
Page I of 18
PERU
PRIMARY HEALTH PROJECT
SUMMARY ESTIMATED PROJECT COSTS BY DISBTJRSEMENT AND FUNCTIONAL CATEGORY
(US Dollars 000's)
Category                                  1982       1983      1984       1985      1986       1987   1989          TOTAL       FFC
1.   Civil Works
A. Service Delivery                     -    3,268      4,249      4,174     2,748      1,280     861         16,580        12
B. Maintenance                          -         -          -         -        250       25C       -            500        12
Total Civil Works                    -    3,268      4,249     4,174      2,998     1,530      861        17,080        12
IT.  furoitare aod Equipmeot
A. Service Delivery
1. Tnfrastrect-re                   -        839     1,678     2,517      1,678       839     839          8,390        70
2. Health Auxiliaries               -        151       303       454        303       151     151          1,514        72
3. Civil Works Admin.               -         37         -          -         -          -       -             37       70
R. Maiotesance                          -         -          -         -       200        200       -            4no       70
C. Health Fducatios                     -        10          -         -          -         -       -             10        70
. Training                              -         6          3         -          -         -       -              9        72
F. Project Preparatio-  1/             62          -         -         -          -         -       -             62        68
Total Farc. & Equipnent             62     1,044     1,984     2,97i      2,181     1,190     990         10,423        70
III. Vehicles
A. Service Delivery
1. Infrastructure                   -          -       247         14       233       155      155           804        90
2. Civil Works Adei.               -        118         -          -         -          -       -            118       90
S. Project Preparatioc 1/              28         -          -         -          -         -       -             28      100
Total Vehicles                      28       118       247         14       233        155     155            950       90
TV.  Drugs!Medicines/'aterlals
A. Malaria Co-trol                      -        40         40        40         40        20      20            200      100
B. Medical Saplies                      -        60         60        60         60        30      30            300      102
C. Health Fdacatio-                     -       148        224       218          -         -       -            590
D. Project Preparatio-                115          -         -          -         -         -       -            115         0
Total Drugs/Med./Materials    115            248       324        318       100         50      50         1,205        41
C'. Technical Assistance
A. I-stitutional cevelopoest
1. Advisors                         -         60        60         60        60        60        -           300       1on
2. Second Pro5ect Prep.             -          -         -         50         -          -       -             50      100
B. Administratio-                       -       100        100       100        100       100       -            500      100
r. health iducation                     -        50         50         -          -         -       -            100      100
U. Research asd Evaluatios              -        25         24        12         12        12    200             285      10o
F. Project Preparatio- 1/             430         -          -         -          -         -       -            430       100
Total Techoical Assistance        430        235       234        222       172        172    200          1,665       100
%7I.  Salaries/Per Diems/Fees/Travel
A. Service Telivery
1. Tooographic Surveys              -          -        57         56         -          -       -            113        0
2. Modific. of Design to Site   -            140       132       136          -          -       -           413         0
B. Training
1. Health Persoeel                 -        409       813        747       728       707        -         3,404         1
C. Health Ed-cation
1. IEC Material Pr-paratio-         -         16        20         is         6         10       -             70        0
2. Edcatos                           -        26        26         26        26         26       -            130        0
3. Radio Programs                   -        144       189        189       189       189        -            900        0
4. Conmanity Participatio-           -         6          -         -         -          -       -              6        0
D. Supervision
1. Civil Works                      -        148       110         Al        69         16       -            424        0
H. Administrati-o
1. General Project Administr.   -            152       151        152       151       151        -            757        0
2. Civil Works                       -       140        98         80        54         11       -            383        0
3. Training                         -         21        21         21        21         20       -            104        0
4A  Health education                 -        SO        50        5s         50         50       -            250        0
5. Comnunity Participatio-          -          9         9          9         9          9       -             45        0
6. Auditing                         -         60        60         60        60         59       -            299        0
F. Research & Evaluatios
1. Project Impact                   -          -         -          -         -         -    200             200         0
2. Training                         -          7         7          7         7          -       -             28        0
3. Health Education                 -          5         4          5         5          4       -             23        0
4. Community Participation           -         2          2         2         2          2       -             10        0
5. Health Financing Study           -         25        25          -         -         -        -             50        0
G. Institational Development
1. Fellovships                      -         60        60         30         -         -        -            150      100
2. Second Project Preparatio-    -             -         -         50         -          -       -             50        0
H. Project Preparation   1/           542         -          -         -          -         -       -            542         0
Total Salaries/PerD iems ...       542    1,417      1,838     1,719      1,378     1,257      200         8,351         2
VII. To-ovative Activities
A. Cotmunitv Participatioc              -       195        195       195        195       195       -            975         0
TOTAL BASE COST                     1,177     6,524     9,071      9,613     7,257      4,550  2,457          40,649        31
Total Phynical Contingencies          21       487        700       767        571       312    206           3,063       35
Total Price Contisge-cies             36       718     1,834      2,842     2,789      2,128   1,395         11,742        33
TOTAL PRnJECT COST 2/               1,234     7,729   11,606    13,222    10,616        6,990  4,057          55,454        31
Frot-End Fee                           -       495          -          -         -         -       -            495       100
TOTAL FINANCISG REQUIRED            1,234     8,224    11,606    13,222    10,616       6,990  4,057          55,949
/ An amount of US$1.15 nillion for project preparation ha. bees included in the cost estimate, out of which uSSn.5
million is being financed through the Project Preparation Facility (PPF).
2/ ldentifiable tacos are estimated to represeot about 42 of total project cost.



-57-ANE 6383
PERU                                                                    Page  2  of  IS
P'RIMARY WARTH PROJECT
CIVIL 'MS
(LIS OHILAAS 00001
BOantots                                                               Base Costs                                 Ph,o,
----- ---- ---- ----- ---- ---- ----- --  - ---- ----- ---- ---- ----- ---- ---- ----- ---- ----    C o-- t.o   PoFo .
Unit     1982 1983 1984 198  1986 1987 1988 Total loot Cost 1982  1983                 1984      1985     1986      1987     1988   Total   Rate  Exch,
I. INVEST9ENT COSTS
A. INFRASTRUCCTURE
1. LA LIBEREAD
HIEALTH CENTER A                        module        -1.1  0.9         -     -     -     -      2    82.321       -     90.6      74.1         -        -         -       -      164.0    0.1  0.12
HEALTH ROOT                             module        -     4  2.2  1,8        ---822                   143        -     88.6      48.7     39.9         -         -       -     177.1   0,1  0,12
UPRADINGH HEALTH CENTERS  AV           lum, sum--                                                -25.1                             25.1     25.1      25.1         -       -     100.3    0.1  0.12
IF'GRAI'lNO HEALTH POSTS V1V           lamp SoN                                                                         13.1      13.1         -        -         -       -      26.2    2,1  0.12
Sa,b-Total LA L1I8E09A                                                                                                 -   217.0    160,0       64.9     25.1         -        -     468,3
2.CEHTRO 4ED10
HEALTH CENTER Au                        module              2    4      4  2,1      2  1.9      16   223.929            447.9    895.7   895.7    465.6   447,.9  429.9  3,582.9    0.1  8.12
HEALTH CENTER 6                         module                   -     -     I           -      1   199.107       -         -        -         -   199.1          -       -     199.1    0.1  6.12
HEALTH CENTER AV                        module              2  4.1  4,1  4.1  0.9         -     15    123.571      - 241.0   500,5    500.5    500,5    111.2              -  1.853.6   0.1  8.12
HEALTH POST V                           module        -5,7 13.7 13.7 00.3  6.8  6.8             57     39.464      - 224.9    539.9    539,9    404.9   269.9  269.9  2,249.5    0.1  0.12
HEALTH POST                             modale-                                -    -     -      1     33.214      -     33.2         -         -        -         -       -      33.2    0.1  0,12
3TAFF H0031N0                           sodule        -  27  u.5  6.5  6.5  4.9           -     27       6.25            16O.9    40.5      48.5      40.5     30,4        -     168.8    0.108.12
UPGRADHING HEALTH CENTERS 81           lamp so--    150.5    150.5    150,5    150.5    158.5                                                                              -     752.2    0.1  0.12
UPGRADING HEALTH CENTERS A             OumesSum                                                                          88.0      88.0         -        -         -       -     176.1    0.1  5.12
UPGRADING HEALTH CENTERS AV            lump so-                                                                         32.8         -         -                                 32.8    8.1  0.12
JPGRADIN6 HEALTH CENTERS A             Lump so--                                                                         17.5         -         -        -         -       -      17.5    0.1  0.02
UPRARDING HEALTH ROOTS VIV             lump so--                                                                         16.6      16.6     l6Ao      16.6         -       -      66.3    0.1  0.12
UPGRAOIN  HEALTH ROOTS                 lump so--                                                                         10.3      10.3     10.3      10.3         -       -      41.2    6.1  0.12
Sub-Total CENTRO MESICI                                                                                                   1,279.5  2,241.9 2,153,9 1,788.1 1,009.8  699.9  9,173.8
3. LIMB
HEALTH CENTER B                         module        -     1    2      2     1    -    -        6   165.893       - 169.2    328.5    32B.5   169.2               -       -    995.4    0.1  0.12
HEALTH CENTER A                         module        -     2    5  5.9       2     2  1.1      18     82.321      -    163.6    414.9    489.0   163.0    163,0    66.9  1.481.8    0.1  0.12
HEALTH POST                             module        -23.4  7.8  7.8                           39     22.143      - 518.1    172.7   172,7              -         -       -    863.6    0.1  0.12
UPGRADING HEALTSH CENTERS 8            lame Sum-  -161.3    161.0    161,3    161.3                                                                               -       -     645.3    0.0  0.12
UPGRADING HEALTH CENTERS A             lame so--                                                                         80.0      88.0     80.0      80.0         -       -     320.1    0.1  0.12
UPGRADING HEALTH POtT0                 lame su--                                                                         23.9      23.9     23.9      23.9         -       -       95.4    0.1  6.12
Sub-Total LIMA                                                                                                           1,115.6 1,181.3 1.255,4    597.4    183.8    88.9  4,401.5
4. UCAYALI
HEALTH CENTER Al                        module        -         0.7  0.3      -    -      -      1   279.821       -         -   195,9      83.9         -         -       -     279.8   0.1  0.12
HEALTH CENTER F                         module        -     -     -  0.6  0.4       -     -      1    248,75       -         -        -   149.2       99.5         -       -     248.8    0.1  0.12
HEALTH ROOT I                           module        -7.2  2.4  2.4          -           -     12     39,429      - 283.9         94.6     94.6         -         -       -     473.1    0.1  8.12
HEALTH POST                             modale                                          1       33.143      -     33.1         -         -        -         -       -      33.1    0.1  0.12
UPGRAIlNO HEALTH CENTERS A             lump so-               -      -             -            -      -          -      29.4      29.4     29.4      29.4         -       -     117.4    0.1  0.12
UPGRADING HEALTH POSTS All            lamp so-                 -     -             -            -      -          -       6.7         -         -         -        -        -       6.7    0.1  0.12
Sa6-Total UCAYALI                                                                                                      -   353.1    319.9    357.2    128.9            -       -  1,159.0
Sub-Total INFRASTRUCTURE                                                                                                  - 2,965.4 3,964.0 3.831,4 2,539.4 1,172.8  788.8 15,201.8
B. WATER AND SANITATION
1. LA LIBERTAD
HEALTH CENTER A                         sostem            0.6  0.5                               1         2.5     -       1.4     1III-                                            2.5    8.1  0.12
HEALTH POST                             s4ste                                              1      2.143      -      2.1         -         -        -         -       -        2.1    0.1  0.12
dPRARHOINS HEALTH POSTS 000            lump so                                                                -      0.7       0.7         -        -         -       -        1.3    0.1  0.12
Sub-Total LA LO8ERTAD                                                                                                  -      4.3       0.9         -        -         -       -       6.1
2. CENTRO MEOIO
HEALTH CENTER 86                        sostem            2.1  4.3  4.3  2.2  2.1         2     17       4.036     -        .6     17.2     17.2       8.9       8.6     8.2       68.6    0.1  0.12
HEALTH CENTER AV                        5Sstem              2  4.1  4.1  4.1  0.9         -     15           3     -       5.9     12.2      12.2     12.2       2.7       -       45.0    0.1  0.12
HEALTH PEST V                           sostem            5.8 13.9 13,9 10.4        7     7    58        2.536     -     14.7      35.3     35.3      26.5     17.6    17.6       147.1   0.1  0.12
OIPSRABINS HEALTH CENTERS B0          lImp so-           -     -      -     -     -      -      -      -      - -          5.2      5.2       5.2      5.2       5.2       -       26.2    0.1  6.12
UPGRADING HEALTH CENTERS AV            lump so                                                              -       2.1         -         -         -        -       -        2.1   0.1  0.02
UTPGRADING HEALTH POSTS 086            lame so          -      -            -             -     -             -           8.7       0.7      8.7       8.7         -        -      35.0   0.1  0.12
Sab-Total CENTRO ME010                                                                                                 -    45.2      78.6      78.6     61.5      34.2   25.9       323.0
3. LIMO
HEALTH CENTER B                         system            0.7  0.7  0.7       -     -     -      2       3.571     -      2.4       2.4       2.4         -        -       -        7.1   0.1  8.12
HEALTH CENTER A                         sostem        -2.3  2.4  2.3          -     -     -       7        2.5     -       5.8      6.0       5.8        -         -        -      17.5   6.1  0.12
HEALTH POET                             sostem            6.6  6.8  6.6                         2    0   2.143     -     14.1      04.8     14.1          -        -       -       42.9    0.1  0.12
Sub-Total LIMA                                                                                                         -    22.3       23.0     22.3         -                 -      67.5
4. UCATALI
HEALTH CENTER 85                        SyStem                  0.7  0.3      -           -       1     5.357      -         -      3.8       1.6        -         -        -       5.4    0.1  0.12
HEALTH CENTERSB                         system                        0,6  0,4                    1      5.357     -         -        -       3.2      2.1         -        -       5.4    0.1  0.12
HEALTH POIST 0                          osstem            7.2  2.4  2.4       -                 12       3.214     -     23.1       7.7       7.7        -         -       -       38.6    0.1  0.12
HEALTH POST                             SoSte                                          1         3.214     -       3.2         -        -         -        -        -       3.2   0.1  0.12
UPGRADING HEALTH CENTERS 80            lame sun          -     -             -     -             -     -          -       0.9       0.9       0.9      0.9                          3.6   0.1  0.12
UPGRAOINO HEALTH CENTERS A             lomp so-         -      -            -      -             -     -          -        1.3      1.3       1.3      1.3         -        -       5.1   0.1  0.12
UPGRADING HEALTH POSTS V1V             lame so-                -     -             -      -            -      -             .8        -         -         -        -       -        8.8   6.1  0.12
Sob-Total OCATALI                                                                                                      -    37.3       13.7     14.7       4.3         -       -       70.0
Sub-Total HATER ANO SANITATION                                                                                             -   109.8    117.0    115,6       65.9  - 34.2    25.9        467.6
C. POWERR



- 59 -
F ERL                                                         ANNEX  8
PRII   NE4LIH PROJECT                                                   Page  3 of  18
CIVIL WDRKS
(LIS DOLLARS XOOI                                                                      :
arsots    .                                                       Base Costs                             pha.
----------------------------------------  --------------------    Cont. Far.
Unit    1992 1993 194 195 1986 1997 1988 Total Unit Cost 1982  1983    1984    1985    1986    1987    1988   Total   Rate  Exch.
;. LA LIBERTAI
HEALTH POST                        senerator    -  0.7  0.7  0.7                  -      2     0.714    -       0.5      2.5     0.5        -        -       -      1.4   0.1  2.12
.PGR4DING HEfLTH POSTS VIV         Iame suo                                                                    0.2     0.2        -            -        -          0.5   0.1  0.12
Sub-Total LA  IBERT4E                                                                                       -      0.7      0.7     0.5        -        -                9
C2. MEELT DOlIC
-EA9TH CENTER 3V                   seten,tur    -    2    4    4  2.1    2  1.9    16          4.286    -       B.6    17.1    17.1       3.9      9.9    8.2      68.6   0.1  0.12
HEARTH CRNTES Au                   generator    -    2  4.1  4.1  4.1  0.9    -    15           1.071    -      2.1      4.3     4.3      4.3      1.0       -     16.1   2.1  0.12
HEALTT POST V                       aenerator    -  6.4 15.4 15.4 11.5  7.7  7.7    64         0,768    -       4.9    11.8    11.8       8.E      5.9    5.9      49.1   0.1  0.12
_PGR4D      NHEALTH CENTERS BV     lUP 5ute            -    -    -    -    - so                                7.6     7.6      7.6      7.9      i.6      -      37.9   0.1  0.12
.PIP9ING HEALOH 'ENTE65 SV  I.--S                                                                                                                                   I -    -    -    -   -   1., 0.1 0.12
.PGi4DINS HELTIH POSTS V'Y          lute S.                                                                    1.9      1.9     179 75              -       -        ,5   0.1  0.12
ib-Sotul CENTRC 9E110                                                                                      -    26.5    42.7    42.7    31.6    23.0   14.1    180.7
3. .176
iEALTH CEN'ER A                       gererator    -    -  0.5  0.5    -    -    -       1     0.893    -         -      2.4     0.4        -        -       -      0.9   0.1  0.12
HESLNH roS                         senerator    -  4.8  1.6  1.6    -    -    -          6     0.714    -       3.4      1       1.1        -        -       -      5.7   0.1  0.12
Sib-Total LA                                                                                                 -     3 .4     :.6      1.         -       -               6.6
4. 0C5,9..1
4 . . _AL
HEAL'H CENTER 80                   generator              0.7  0.3                       1     5.357     -3.                     1.6        -                       5.4   0.1  0.12
HEALTH CENTER B                    senerator    -    -    -  0.6  0.4    -    -          1      5.357    -        -.2                     :.1                       5.4   0.1  0.12
HEAL-N 25O   V                     ser,enator    -  7.2  2.4  2.4    -    -    -    12          1.071    -      7.7      2.9     2.6             -                 12.9   0.1  0.12
HESLTH POST                        sererator         -        11                                1 .071    -     1.1        -                                             1.1   0,1  0.12
UFGRAIIING HEALTH CENTERS 8V        lute -go                                                                   0.9     0.9      0.9       .         -              3.6   0.1  0.12
UPRA4DING HENLTH CENTERS 9   lute su--  0.5  0.5  1.0  0.0                                                                                                           1.8 0.1 0.11
U14ADING HEALTH fOSTS VIV           lut- su                                   -                                            -       -      3.6   0.1  0.12
S,b-T.to1 jC4YALI                                                                                           -    1.8        7.7      9.8     3.5        -       -     33.8
Sub-Total fDNEB                                                                                                 -    44.4    52.7    53.6    35.1    23.0   14.1    222.9
D. STTE PREPARATION
1. LA LIBERTAD
HEALTH CENTER A                      Site           I1.1   0.9    -                      2     5.179    -       5.7      4.7       -        -        -       -     10.4   0.1  0.12
HEALTH POST                           site             4  2.2  1.9           -    -      a      1.607    -      6.4      3.5     2.9                         _     12.9   0.1  0.12
UfGRADING HEALTH CENTERS  9V        lute su--                                                                   1.0      1.0     I.6      1.0        -       -      3.9   0.1  0.12
UPGR4DING HEALTH POSTS VIV          ilmP suo-                                                                   0.0      0.5        -       -                       I   1.0   0.1  0.12
STi-botal LA LIBERTAOD                                                                                            13 .6     9 .7     3 .9     0,0                     28.1
2. CENTRO MEDIII
HE4LTH CENTER B0                      site             2    4    4  2.1    2  1.9    16         7.071    -    14.1    28.3    28.3    14.7    14.1   13.6    113.1   0.1  0.12
HEALTH CENTER 8                       sit                  -    -    I    -    -        1     7,143    -         -        -       -      7.1        -       -      7.1   0,1  0.12
HEALTH CENTER AV                      site        -    2  4.1  4.1  4.1  0.9    -    15        6.214    -    12.1    25.2    25.2    25.2          5.6       -     93.2   0.1  0.12
HE9LTH PDST V                         site        -  5.7 13.7 13.7 10.3  6.8  6.8    57         1.929    -    11.0    26.4    26.4    19.8    13.2   13.2    109.9   0.1  0.12
HEALTH POST                           Site            I    _           _    _    _      1      1.964    -      2.0        -        -        -       -       -      2.0   0.1  0.12
STAFF HOUSING                         site        -  2.7  6.5  6.5  6.5  4.9    -    27        0.643    -       1.7      4.2     4.2      4.2      3.1            17.4   0.1  0.12
UP6R140IN  NEALTH CENTERS 9V        l    Sute          -    -    -    -n-                                       3.7      3.7     3.7      3.7      3.7              18.5   0.1  0.12
UPGR0 DIN  HE9LTH CENTERS B       lute suo-                                                                    2.4      2.4        -       -        -       -      4.9   0.1  0.12
UPGRADING HEALTH CENTERS AV        lutP so-                                                                     1.2        -        -                                1.2   0.1  0.12
UPGR4DING HEALTH CENTERS A         lue su                                                                -      0.9        -       -        -       -       -       0.9   0.1  0.12
UPGRADING HEALTH POSTS VIV         luIp suA-                                                                    0.6      0.6     0.6      0.6        -       -      2.6   0.1  0.12
UfSRADINS HEALTH POSTS              lute suo                                                                   0.5      0.5     0.5      05.        -       -       1.8   0.1  0.12
Sub-Total CENTRO MEDIO                                                                                       -    50.2    9 .2    88.8    75.8    39.7   26.8    372.5
3. LIMA
HEALTH CENTER                         n site      -    1    2    2    1    -             6      5.E93    -      6.0    11.7    11.7       6.0        -       -     35.4   0.1  0.12
HEALTH CENTER A                       site        -    2    5  5.9    2    2  1.1    18         5.179    -    10.3    26.1    30.9    10.3    10.3    5.6          93.2   0.1  0.12
HEALTH FIOST                          site        - 23.4  7.8  7.8    -    -    -    39         1.607    -    37.6    12.5    12.5          -        -       -     62.7   0.0  0.12
UPGRA9IIN  HEALTH CENTERS 8         lute suo      -                  -    -           -                         4.4      4.4     4.4      4.4        -       -     17.6   0.1  0.12
UPGRADING HEALTH CENTERS A         lute n-                                                                      3.9      3.9     3.9      3.9        -       -     15.5   0.1  0.12
UPGR4DING HEALTH POSTS              lute suo                     9-.8                                                    0.8     9.8      0.8        -       -      3.4   0.1  0.12
Sub-Total LI14                                                                                                    63.0    59.4    64.1    25,4    10.3    5.6    227.8
4. UCAYAL0
HEALTH CENTER 8V                      site             -  0.7  0.3    -                  1      9.821     -              6.9      2.9       -                _       9.8   0.1  0.12
HEALTH CENTER B                       Site                   -  0.6  0.4    -            1      9.821    -        -        -     5.9       3,9               -      9.8   0.1  0.12
HEALTH POST V                         site        -  7.2  2.4  2.4    -                 12      2.411     -    17.4      5.8      0.8       -                      28.9   0.1  0.12
HEALTH POST                           site              I    -    -                               2.5           2.5        -        -       -        -                  .5   0.1  0.12
UPGRADIN8 HEALTH CENTERS A          luae so-                                                                   1.9      1.9      1.9     1.9        -               7.4   0.1  0.12
UPGRADING HEALTH POSTS VIV         lute su--                                                                    0.4                         -        -              0.4   0.1  0.12
Sub-Total UCAYALI                                                                                                 22.1    14.5    16.5        5.8        -      -      58.8
Sub-Total SITE PREPARATION                                                                                      -   148.9   174.8   173.2   107.9    50.8   32.4    687.2
E. nAINTENANCE CENTERS
NAINTENANCE CENTERS                     center                             1    1           2        250    -         -       -        -   250.0   250.0        -    500.0   0.1  0.12
Total INVESTNENT COSTS                                                                                                3.267.8 4 248.6 4,173.7 2 998.2 1 530.0  861.2 17 079.5
Total EASELINE COSTS                                                                                                - 3,267.8 4 248.6 4 173.7 2,998.2 1,530.0  861.2 17 079.5



-59-                                                                                 ANNFX 
941in8 WEALTN PtOECT
FURNITURE AND E8UIP4E4T
:1S TIILANS TIOUSAtdf)
-1 cO.~~~~~~~~~B-c5t                                                             w
J,,t  1962  9173  1984   198!  1986  1982   1988   Total  Uloot C3st 1992  :9831            919      1981      1916    198?7    :179   iTtal   Rute  Com.,
HEALTH CENTER I
KE9LT9 CENTER A M-ULE1                  moudle      - 1.4   2.9         4.3   2.9    1.4    1.9    14.4    318.369             621.2    :38.1   212 .     :131.5            612        0"      C.
NITCHEN/11RlN3TR-7i3N1                  module-          1.4   2.9      4.3   2.9    1.4   1.3   19.4         1.136             _ 15     3.1       9.1      3.3       2.1     I.1      :49.9    O. 
9291111,~  5T l 31 ON2                  modlAe      -    .4   29        4.3   2.      I.4   1.8    11.9       3.999      -      i.2       .         3.        . .
NUcr'                                   mod.ule     -    .4   29        4.3   2.3    1,4    1.492.95-.39                          31 72, 2.11    Ii.?                >.1       .         C 
311196496WA1R2                          mclue       - 1.4   29         4.3   2.        .4   2.4   11.4          2.1              2        .  1.     3 .     9.1      2.      21        2.       .: 
ACMEN'S  ~ ~     ~      ~     oo.2-"e     -                                                                          24 .4             111       'Cl      24l
ME3T9340H'120                           oadu1e    1-       49 3                       1.4    8.       14       1  F             _
:'9314   -mMo-.i1e                                                          -           .3 4       4      3,
141134 9004            NCdeiH~ ~~~~ 1, .-.                      9 14 14 144                  081                .        .      
.,~~~44ART 9334              usa~~~d,l        1. Ic            3 C-         .4           1. 14         1  "9.6l                                 i.8       -          0.    '0 .
dIet cROP                     moolC~~~~~~~.die   1-.3 29,   184  11.  14 19    1331                                    .                          5i       2.        .
ST,1:ZA HE9J   EE'ROOM-   :31.3    211.9    392.9    29:.1.31.34134,2   133
NEuTCHCENTE    a90.6                    mdule       - 1.4   9.81    1.2   1.    04   0,9             9.      91.996'Il         3.3      2.5    213.         1. 3.3    !.6 a             5.7   ,..      -
[134   3119909 1   OCT36                  odul e         1.04   9.8     1.2   0.6    9.9    3,4 !4 4.2        1,123             1.       3 .9     O        II.,.     6.e.    2.1.       4.9    2
ST12143 399399  3',,moule                           -   3.4    3.6,    1.32 3.    3 .  1.0   11.9.            1,121      -       .                  , 3.2  2.2  0 2 "~'   .             2.;I     1     ,
3.1-9:04  499.144 CENTER BE                                                                                      -    38.1.3 '~R 1.4 1.4 14.  0.,S   9.    2.19. . -  33.1    38.13 .i         _
3. NE9t,9 HELHCENTER          81 C
HE9L'H CENTER 89 MODULE                 module-          0.6    5.2     I..A  1.    0.4   2.1         2o1    92.993          21.1    432.    223:                           '.3  2971.         '.,    3
SPACEG nE*TERS  SAFmod 'ule -2.6    1.2                                 12.1    ,   0.2    2.6    2.6  2      2.225             0.3               0.8                        2.9       29.35   11   2.2
3    HETo A LTH92   CENTER B3 E                                                                                        -   2O3,      '37.,   2314.0       6:      3       43,0  2,39.3
9. HE913H CENTER 8VC
HEALTH CEN13 9803ODU9                    module         3.1    6.2    9.2    6.2   3.1    3.1   30.8         115!        -      12       2.'    123.11 1                             317.1    9.211   9.2
S112C4 HEA39R                           module    -   3,    6.2    9.28   6,2   3.1          3.    30.1       3.818 5                    J.?      0.1C                        .2       26.1    9.1
043T  PS M98114                         module         - 3.    6.2      9.2   6,2    3,1   3.1   31.3         11.511     -3       67      22       .i       1'      3.       35,6     357.8    3.1    3.'
TRAITMENT ROOM                          module      - 3.1    8.2    9,2    9.2   3.1   3.1   13.8              4,98    1.86298                     1.      29.6      14.     2,7      141.     0.      .7
ACECOUNTI1NG ADDMSIN                    module      - 3.1   6.2         9.2   6,2   3.1   3.51u                o7                ,        .       2.         .        .9      39       3.      3.      .
'LEANEILG 31111                         module      -   3.1    1.2      9.2    1.2   3.1   3.1    39.8         1.389     -                 .3      1.11 12.818.1               4.3 9.O9.       0. .7
L39RAT011Y8                             toulle      - 3.1   6.2         9.2   6.2   3.1   3.1   39.8            ,8       -     2.       16.7     70.1      16.2     23.4    23.9      233.6    3.1   0.7
SHEALT H                                module      - 3.1    1.2        9.2   6.2   3.1   3.2   39.8          8.964      -      32.1    15.3     13.1       2.3     -.6   22,2        278.    3.1   3.7
2NTREATEN3T0 ROMmodule                              - 3.1   9..2    2 69.    3.1   321   30.8                 4.21       -      21.3   4'.2        2.0      4.7     24.832,3           237.5    .1   3.',
GYNECOLOG6118CEAL     E VI IT                                                                                              -   i'8.16.  .2 3. .1 31  296.2l43O.3296.2    198.1  148.1   1,981.2    -     .
446824IENTERCIN                         module      -    .31     .      0.8   9.1 9. .130.13  2.6             8.8 -_ 12          .51    21.3      21       2. 1      26 7  .5    .12.  121.601.1   0.7
T3ENERUALRISTSR  CTmodule                           - 3.3    6.1        9.8   9,1    3.3   03        2.2.1238 133        -      03       3.16      3.9      1.9      0.3     3.3       ;2.9    0.1   3.2
11O9148OQUARTR    68P                    odule      -    .3   0.1    0.8   8,5    0.  30.  3  2.6             1521       -     20.2     16.3      90.1     06.3     03.4    023.      13.6    .1   3.7,
N94LT  CETRAkodule                                  - 06 3.1 4. .7   3.1    2.9    1.911.5  4.8 3'.4                           21.2    154.5    231.2    11.5       27.2    ',.2      212.4    0.1   0.7
398T9UMNEATERN                          module      -    1.9     .2            6 3.1 8.  .1 19 1,9    015.1     705      -      0        47.0 1.9  2.         3      2.9.8     3.      23.8    0.1   0,i
Oul-Totol HEALTH CENTER A9C                                                                                                 -    783.1   1196.1     239.13   116.1    138.0   23.0    1341.2
7. H4EALTH CONTER
REALHCEPTION    Amodule                             -     . 1.1   11.4 711.5 0.750,3   51.8                   0.327?     -      2,9    3,.1        1.9'     3,      12.9    1.85      185.6    0.    0.2
811V4N4 QUAN1RTERS 8OCTO                module      -     . 1.1   10,4   11   11.4    1.2    1    2 1.3      11.509      -      0       02.1     21.2     121.6         0.     9 .    65.11   0.1    9.2
0198484 UROOMS  mTFFodule                               0 .1  11.4       118  18.4    5.1   5.        .           :.2 59.9  .116    T70.3 2.0               1.3       3.           1.2  6.    0.1   0.7
Sub-Total HEALTH P813E  AV                                                                                                        913.0131.1    992.5    131.1    91.8    01.8           958.
8. HEALTH PONTE  AV      
9961344 CE013 400V                        odule     -    .6   3.145.2   3.4   1.1   1.'    12.2               11.535     -      719,924.9    21~.0   1545            19.9~    9.,9    197.4   0.1   0.'
129341 HEARTERS                           1oj       - 37        3.6      . 3.    4 17 .1   1. 2 -   151.       01.3      -       .5       .  1.6            1,1       1.5     0.1       1.3    0.1   0.21
Sub-Tetal HEALTH CENTE  AYC                                                                                                 -    20.1    915.0       924.1    156.0    21.5   7,0, 7204.0
7. HEALTH PO3S3T C
KIT6114901340801TIO9                    module      - 5.1  19.2   24.    39.2   8.1,   81    316.0            12.211-0          9.      1'.3   23.0    917.3           .      ST?    T B51,    7.1   0.2
SPACER AETR                              odule      -    .1,  19.2   24.    16.2    8.1    0.3    36,0         0.253     -       .         .9      el1      4.1       2.1    2.0       3T.4   3.1   9.'
100-A0D  HROOT  PoulOST1  4                                                171.4 57             .    564          -19           11.'    2T.6   322,        23.8    100.       TI.,   'H
Sub-Total   HEPALTR  OCTUR                                                                                                         339.3  1,179.  25. 131'.3    T6'2   T3'.3  T.5.'~
S. HEALTH POST Y~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~2 ATENUf



-  60  -                                                                                         ANNEX  8
Page S of Itl
PERU
PRIIARY HEALTH PROJECT
FURNITURE MID EtiJIPHENT (continumd)
Ocar,taitB Base Costs                                                                                              Fh.  For.
---------------------------------------------        ------- --------    Cont,    Exch.
Usait  1982  M`Z  :9,4    c-  1a36   19g7  1988  Total  Unit Cost 1982  1983               1984     1985    1986    1907        198B   Total   Rate  Corn,
UXL;ARIES                           aet        -   400   80   1200    BC   4G0    40C  ;OOG              G         -     51.4    302.9    4:.3    0,2.9   i5:.;  151.4   11              0; 0
-''6F'R'EES                                ate         -  5-            --           - -       5                   7l .1                    -             -                    '-.    0.    *.
-'LENE                                        tet-         -      -      ---;------ -S-                                           3.S         -                 -         -    -          S
ORR:'haLTAELEVth-2-                          a.'3-0.-----'3..i0'
'2 ANGJERA                                    te--               -:     -- --          -             -- -; Q.l'S -                  .2        -        _        _3.2 .:t3.
XERCXOFIER                                   ate                                                       30
LALLULA-UR                                  ite.              4                                                                   1.;         -        -        -
CAMERA                                       item             2      -       -      -                     2      C.6       -      v.          -        -        -
DESK                                         ate.,            1      -                                             .J      -      0.3         -        -        -         -       -       0.3   0.1    O--
'ABINE'                                      item                                                                 . ;  0                 -                                                -  - .3   0.1 0
CHP;F.S                           ate.      -     10          -             -                         -       -       - iC  C-06 - 01                                            ; 0
CONFERENCE TABLE                             ite       -                                                                                                                                                Q.
WAITING FE  CHAIRS                           tel,      -                                                         0.3       -            A     -.4   C.l 
DRAHING EIUIPMENT                            ite.      -   2.        -       -      -                   2         O.3      -      2
OFFICE  UF'PLIES                             ate.      -  2.5        -                     _      -    2.5       ;.236     -    1.?,          -        -        -         -       -      a
CONFASO                                      ate                I - -           -    -            ;      .17       -      02          -        -        -         -       -       0.     Oi 0'
LEVEL                                        .te-         -- i     -     -     -     -     -              1i  1.071   - 1I,I                  -        -        -         -    -M1.1  O.i  0.'
THEDDDLITE                                   ate.      -      i      -                                    1           3.571  -    3.          -        -        -         -       -       3S     Oi 0'
SLEEFING BAG                                 ite--               - 7   -     - - - - 7 ?                                   -   05             -        -        -         -    -          ..
HELMET ANDC BOTS                             ite,      -      .      -       -      -      -                     0.036     -       ,.'                      -                 -           C.3   2.    0
St-To.tal CIVIL WORKS ADMINISTRAT1CN                                                                                           -     7-.4        -         -        -        -       -
D. 'iAINTENANCE                                aesort -          - -            - ; : -                      2         200   -          -        -         -  200.2  200.1           -  403.   .    .
E. TRAINING
C'VERHEAD PRDJECTORS                         item      -                                                              7 5  -  -  -  -  1  0. 6 7 -    S.0  2.4  -.;   0..
SuG-Cctai TRAINING                                                                                                             -      S.0      3.4                  -        -       -       V.4
F. HEALTH EDUCATION
DRAWINTCABLES                               6Cc,       -      2      --                                          0.        -      0,3         -        -        -         -       -        .3   a 
DRAWING ERIF;PlENT                         amourt                    -       -     -    -     -      v      y O.3          -         ;.       -        -        -         -       -       1.8    O.1    0.
OFFICE SUFF'LIES                            amount    -       2.964    -                                                                      -        -        -         -       -          ? 7.         7
Sub-Total 9EGLTH EBUCATION                                                                                                     -    10.0         -         -        -        -       -
3. PROJECT FREFARATION
i. TRAIN;N0
iYPEHR;TER                               itea      2                                                  2      0.625 i1.3          -        -         -        -        -       -       i.3   C.1 0 .7
DRAWING TABLES                           ste        2                                                2       01.;-3  0.3        -        -         -        -                        0.-  0C C    0.72
DRAWING ERUIFnENT                        ste.       2                                                  2      O.S93  1.8         -        -         -        -        -       -        1.6   0.1  0.72
OFFICE FURNITURE AND SUFPLIES           amount    1                                                          12.929 12.9         -        -         -        -        -       -      ;2.9   0.1   2.72
XEROX  COFIER                            item                                                                         a.'        -        -         -        -        -       -       8.S    0.  0.
DIT0 COFIERS                             item 2-2 4.011 U.0 9  3  0 0
Sub-Tta;l TRAINING                                                                                                      35.0         -        -        -        -         -       -      35.S
2. CIVIL WORKS
TYFE6R;TER                               item       I--1-                 -      -     -      -        ;     0.625  C.6          -         -        -        -        - -6                         0.63
DRAWING TABLES                           ite.       4                                                        C.;42  0.6          -         -        -        -        -        -       0.6    0.1  0.63
DRAWING EIUIFNENT                       amoust    4--a 3.0                                                                       -         -        -        -        -       -        3.3    0.1  0.62
OFFICE FURNITURE AND SUFPLIES           amount      I                                                                            -         -        -        -        -       -      2.2    2.1  0.63
Sub-Total CIVL WORKS                                                                                                   2. G         -        -                                              i
Sub-Total FROJECT FREFARATION                                                                                              62.          -         -        -        -        -       -      S2.
Total CAPITAL COSTS                                                                                                             2.0 1,0'.3 1.001.2 00'.l.7 C2T.i3.8;IS.49S3'.4 CiO-2
Total BASELINE COSTS '2.0 ;,03.5 1,904.2 2,071.2 2100.0  1-;S.4  S90.4 10422.0
JU;  a2, 19B2  15:23



-61 -
ANNEX 8
PERU                                                                         Page  6  of  18
PRIMARY HEALTH PROJECT
VEHICLES
(US DOLLARS THOUSAND)
Quantity~                                                        BDae Cuotdao
-                                                     - Sor~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~t, E,ch,
Urit   1782 1783 1784 1785 1786 1787 1788 Toital Unit Coot 1782   1733    1784  1705  178.6   19837    1788  Octal  O-te  Cvap-.
I. CAPITAL COSTS,
A. SERVICE DEL IVERYi
1. LA LIBERTAD
FOUR WHE'EL DRIVE                 Vehic.E'                       1.2  0.0  ^ 0.0       4       12.5      -       - 15,0        -   15,0    10.1    10.t0    50,0   0.1    0.
AMBULANCE             ~            ehiclc    -    -  0.5  0,5          -     -    -       I     14.286     -        -     7,1  7.1        -        -       -   1-1.3   0.1   0.9,
MOTORC'YCLE                       Yeh,ICI      cl-    -    -1.1            ,5-1   1    51. 4217-                    -     2.1     -    2.1      1,4      1.4    7.1   0.1   0,0
Sub-Total LA LIBERTAB D                                                                                                     21. 3  7,1    17,1   111.4    11.4   711.4
2. CENTRO MEDIC
FOUR WHEEL DRIVE                  vEh)iC le    -     -5.1        -5.1  3'4  3.4         17I       12.5     -        - 63.3        -   63.08   42.5   1.2 ,5  212.5   0.1   0.7
AMBULANCE                         vehicle      -     -2.1        -2.1  1.4  1.4          7      14.286     -        - 30.0        - 30.0   201.0   20.0  110.0   0.1   0.11
MOTORC'YCLESa                     vehicle      -       il1.1     - 1,        7.4  7.4   37       1.427 ?                 15.7          15,7    10.6   10.6   52.7,   0.1   0.7
Sub-Total CENTRE MEDICu                                                                                        -            09.6     -107.6   73.1    73_1  360.,0
3. LIMA
FOUR WHEEL DRIVE                  aehicla      -    -  5.7       -  5,.7  3.0'  3.8     197       12.S                  7.             71.2   4;,v    t .j  2375         .1   3,?
AMBULANCE                         vehicle      -     -0.5  0.5                            I       14.286   -        -     , ;            -       -        - 11,3   0.1    0.7
Sub-Total LIMA                                                                                                 -            7.4  7.11   71.2    47.5    17.5  J5I.I
4, UCAYALI
FOUR WHEEL DRIVE                  vehicle      -    -  00.9      -  0.',  0.6  0.6        3       12.5      -       - 11.3        -   11.3      7.5      75     3.       .      .
MOTORCYCLE                        Vehicle      -    -  11.5      -  1.5      1    1       5      1.427      -       -      .1     -    2.1      1.4      1,4    7.1  01        0.17
BOATS                              boat        -     -  0.6      -  0.6  0.4  0.4         2      4.464      -       -      .              7     1.0      1.0     0.7    0.1    V,
RElUE PEGUE                        boast       -    -  6.7       -  6.7  4.6  4.6       23       2.677      -   -        188.5    -   10.55  12.3   12.3    61.6    0.1 0.
Svb4Totai UCAYALI                                                                                              -       -   34.6      - 34.6   23.0    23.0  115.2
5. CIViL WORKS ADMINISTRATION
PICK UP TRUCKS                    vehiclei- -5                                                  10.714     -   53.6         -    -        -        --           52.6   0.1    0.97
TRUCK                             vehLicle     -     11     64.2886                                       -   64.3         -     -       -        -       - 60.3   0.1   0.7
Sub-Total, CIVIL w'ORKS ADMINISTRATION                                                                         -17.             -     -       -       -       -
Sujb-Total, SERVICE DELIVERY                                                                                       -117,77  216.0 11.3  232.6  155.0  155.0               "
B. PROJECT PREPARATION
1.TRAINING
FOOR WHEEL DRIVE                  vehicle      1I                                                  4 14.0         -       -     -       -        -       - 1.          . 
2. CIVIL WORKS ADM
FOUR WHEEL DRIVE                  vehicle-I 4 14.0                                                                 -       -     -       -       -        - i           . 
Sub-Total PROJECT PREPARATION                                                                                  ZS.G                                         
Total CAPITAL COSTS                                                                                                28c.0  ;,~  24.014.33  232.6  105.0  1-1.1 
Total BASELINE C3870                                                                                               206.0  117.77  246.3 14.3  2.6 150.0   151.0  '776
July 22, I1902 15124



- 62 -
ANNEX 8
PERU                                                                             Page  7 of  18
PRIWRY WENPRJC
PtI8_Aj&MfgACT
DRULEGS/DICINES/MTERIALS
(US DOLLARS THOUSAD)
Ouantits                                                           Base  DOsts                         Phs,  For.
------------------------------------------------                  -------------------  ----   -----------------------------    Cor,t.   Exch.
Unit    1732  1983   1984   1985  1986 1987 1988 Total   Urit Cust  1982   1983   1984   1985   1916  1987 1988 Total   Rate  CaiP,
.APITA  CQST
A. MALARIA CONTROL
LA LIBERTAD                                   set         -    0,2    0.2    0.2  0.2  0.1  0.1            1         40       -    3.0    8,0    8.0    3.0  4.0  4.0    40.0   0.1            1
CENTRO MEDIC                                  set         -    0.2    0.2    3.2  0.2  3.1  0.1            1         53  1SO,    10.0   1-.0   10.0  5.0  5.0    50.0   0.1                    1
LIMA                                          set         -     0.2    0.2    0.2  0.2  0.1  0.1           1         20       -    5.6    5.6    5.'    5.6  2.2  2.3    28.0   0.1            1
UCAYALI                                       set         -    0.2    0.2    0.2  0.2  0.1  0.1            1         82       -   16.t   16.4   16.4   1S.4  8.2  3.2    82.0   0.1            1
S'jb-Total MALARIA CONTROL                                                                                                       -   40.0   40,0   40.0   40.0 20.0 20.0   200,0
U. MEDICAL SUPPLIES
LA LIBERTAD                                 amount        -    0.2     0.2     0.2  0.2  0.1  0.1          1    38.393        -    7.7    7.7    7.        7.7  3,.  3.S    38.4   a.1         1
CENTRO MEDIC                                amount        -    0.2    0.2    0.2  0.2  0.1  0.1            1    91.786        -   18.4   1-,4   10.4   13.4  9.2  9.2    91.8   0.1            1
LIMA                                        amount        -    0.2    0.2      0.2  3.2  0.1 0.1           1   153.214        -           30.6        30.6   30.6 15.3 15.3   153.2   0.1      I
UCAYALI                                     amount        -    0.      0.2     0.2  0.2  0.1  0.1          1    16.786        -    3.4    3.4    3.4    -.4  1.7  1.7    16.8   0.1            1
Sub-Total MEDICAL SUPPLIES                                                                                                       -   60.0   60.0   60.0   60.0 30,0 30.0   300.2
C. HEALTH EDUCATION
PRINTING HOUSEHOLD
DISTRIBUTION MATERIALS                    reams       -      10   15.2   14.8        - - -4            40      11 -5.0  190.0  15.0                       -    -    -   500.0   0.1         0
ROTAFOLIO                                  rotatolio    -   78.2  118.9  115.8    -    -    -            313      0.037       -    2.5    3.8    3.7          -    -    -    10.1   0.1        0
GRAPHICS                                     sheet        -1,078,21,638.91,595.8       -    -    -   4,313        0.004       -    3.9    5.9      5.7       - - -             15.4   0.1      0
POSTERS                                     poster        -2,916.84,433,54,316.8    -    -    -  11,667           8.001       -    3.6    -.5    5.4          -    -    -    14.6   0.1        0
REPRINTING MANUALS
AND MATERIALS                            amount       -    0.3    0.4    0.4    -    -    -             1         50       -   12.5   19.0   18.5         -    -    -    50.0   0.1         0
Sub-Ootai NEALON EDUCATION                                                                                                       -  147.5  22A.2  213.3          -    -    -   590.0
D. PROJECT PREPARATION
I. MATERIALS
VALIDATION OF MANUALS                    amount       I                                                 I         10   10.0                                                10.0   0.1       0
MANUALS AND TRAINING MATERIALS           asount       I                                                 1         93   90.0        -93.0   0.1                                              0
FOUR REGIONAL MEETINGS                   amount       I                                                 1          6    6.0       -       -      -      -      -     -      6.0   0.1       0
TWO MASTER TRAINER COURSES               amount       I                                                 1          6    6.0        -      -       -       -    -    -       6.0   0.1       0
Sub-Total MATERIALS                                                                                                       I15.0                                              115.0
Sub-Total PROJECT PREPARATION                                                                                                115.0                       .15.0
Total CAPITAL COSTS                                                                                                             115.0  247.5  324.3  313.4  100.0 50.0 50.0 1,205.2
Total BASELINE COSTS                                                                                                             115,0  2.7,5  324.3  313.4  100.0 50.0 50.0 1,205.2
Jula 22, 1982 15:26



- 63 -
ANNEX 8
Page 8 of 18
PERU
PRIMRY HEALTH PROJECT
TECHFtlCAL ASSISTANCE
'US DOLLARS THOUSAND)
Oaaritit7                                                      Base Cost;                            F,7,  -Cl.
----------------------------------------                -------------------------------------------------------- otE.......................... r
Ur,it    1972  97S3 1984 1885 186 1907 i980 Total Unit Cost  1932   1933   1354   1,83   1986  19a,   i98   Total   Rate  Comr.
I. CAPFTAL COSTS
A. INSTITJTIONAL DEVELOPHENT
i. P lt46  AWD  JUil6ETIN6         mar-tsorith   -  7.2  7.2  7.27.2  7.2         -    36      S.33t       -   63.    688    6-.    60,0S   60.8          -   300.0      0      I
2. SECOND PROJECT PREPARATION         mar-morth--    -    -                                 6     8.334        -      -       -   $8.3       -       -       -    50.0      C      I
SOub-Total INSTITUTIONAL DEVELOPMENT                                                                              -   68.3   60.0  118.8   68.8   68.8          -    35C.8
B. Al;tINSTRhTION
i. ADJiSOR                            tan-mont:;    -        12    12   12   12   12    -    60   3.22)       -  188.0 1 800.0  100.0  I18.3  100.           -   350C.0 
C. HEALTH EDUCATION
IET 'ISUAL ANRE PRINTEr
MATERIALS PREPARATION              har-mont      -    6    6-34                                           -   5-.0   53.8        -       -       -       -   180.8      0      1
D. RESEARCH AND EVALUATION
PROJECT IMPACT                        man-month-          -    -    -    -    -   24    '                                                                        ".33)  -  -  -  -  -  -  28.    28.8 
TRA3N:NG 8aa.-Aonth                                 - 0.7  0,7  0.7  0.'  8.7        -   3.3      S.334          -                 5.3    535. 5.  .         -    27.5      0      I
HEALTH EDUCATION                      har-month    -         0.5 0.5  0.5  0..5   -       2.7     S.314       -    4.5    4t.5    I^       1.5    1.5        -    22.5      0      I
COMMUNITY PARTICIPATION               mar-aortP     -  8.2  8.2  8.2  8.2  8.2          -   ;.2   8.33-       -     2.8    2.0    2.0    2.8    2.0          -    18.8      8      1
HEALTH PINANCING STUDY                mar-month    -  ;       .5    -    -    -    -        3     B.334       -    ,2.    12.5        -      -       -.8                    0      1
Sub-Tota; RESEARCH AND EVALUATION                                                                                 -   2',.5   2       12.0   12.0   12.,  20C.0   235.0
E. PROJECT PREPARATION
;. TRAINING
PREPARATION OF
OPERATIONAL MANUAL             mar-month   27-22                                            0.339  225.2        -      -       -       -      -.2
PREPARATION OF TRAINING
COURSES AND MATERIALS          can-ionth   12         --8.33S   18.1                                            -      -       -       -       -      - 100.1         C     1
PREPARATION OF
HEALTH EDUCATION MANUAL        man-month    6  -6                                           8.337   'O.C        -      -       -       -       -      -    481        0     1
IDENTIFICATION OF HEALTH
EDUCATION THEMES               wan-month  3           --                       -   3              3.            -    -    -    -    -    -  '5.0   8   I
Sob-Total TRAINING                                                                                        10G.3                                                  400.3
2. CIVIL WORKS
MAINTENANCE PROGRAM
PREPARATION                    san-month  3.66                                              3,339   38.0        -      -       -       -       -      -    300              1
Sjb-Total PROJECT PREPARATION                                                                                430.3       -       -       -       -      -       -   4303,
Total CAPITAL COSTS                                                                                              430.3  234.5  334.5  222.0  1'2.0  1'2.0  2U81.0 1,66.4
Total BASELINE COSTS                                                                                              430,3  234,5  23.,3  222.0  1;.2.C0  :'2.8  200.8 1,663.4
jul.  22. ;982  15:27



- 64 -                                                            ANNEX 8
Page 9 of 18
PERU
PRIIY WEALTH P*OJECT
FEES FOR CIVIL WORKS
(US DOLLARS  THOUSAND)
Orlutitts                                                     Dose Costs                        Pbs. 'or,
----------------------------------------                   ----------------------------------------------- Cur,t. E.; h
Urit  1982 1983 1784 1985 1986 1987 1988 Total Unit Cost 1982  1983    1984    2i85  17S6 1987 1988 Tutal   Rote  CLum.
MrPiTL CUUF
A. TOFOGRAPHIC SURVEYS
4ND SOIL TESTS
i. CENTRO MEDIC
HEALTH CENTER BV         module      -    -  6.5  6.5    -    -    - l         3 2     .75     -         -   13.6    19,6      -    -    -   3O.1         0      O
HEALTH CENTER B            odule     - -           0   0.5   - - -                    2.SJ7      -       -     .,4     1.4     -    -    -    07          C      G
EALT  CENTER HAV          odule      -    -  6.5  6.5    -    -    -    13    .-5              -         -   13.6   1.6        -    -    -   3'.           
,.t,-Total CENTRO MEDIC                                                                             -       -   3,.6   38.6       -    -    -   77.
2 LIMH
HEALTH CENTER B          module      -    -  1.5  1.5       -    -    -        3      2.321      -       -    3.5    3.S       -    -    -    7.0         0 
HEALTH CENTER V          mhodiule    -    -  5.5  5.5       -    -    -    ;;         2.321      -       - 12.8         8      -    -    -25.5            0    0
Sub-Total LIMA                                                                                      -       -   16.3   16.3       -    -    -   32.
3. UCAYALI
HEALTH CENTERF B          odule      -    -  0.5  0.5       -    -    -        ;      3.571      -       -    1.8    1.2                                         A
Sub-Total TOPOGRAPHIC SURVEYS
AND SOIL TESTS                                                                                      -       -   56.6   56.6    -    -    -
B. MODIFICATION OF
DESIGN T0 SITE
1. LA LIBERTAD
HEALTH POST                odoule    -  2.7  2.6  2.6       -    -    -        3      1.161      -    3.2      3-; 3.1                          9.3       0      O
2. CENTRO MEDIC
HEALTH CENTER BV         module      -  4.8  4.6  4.6       -    -    -    14         7.902      -   37.6   36.5   36.5        -           -  110.6       0      0
HEALTH CENTER r          Lodule      -0.3  0.3  0.3         -    -    -        1      6.964      -    2.4    2.3       2.3     -    -    -    7.0         3      C
HEALTH POST 'V           module      - 19.4 18.8 18.8       -    -    -    57         1.39r5     -   27.0   26.2   26.2        -                  5       ,      0
HEALTH CENTER AV         module      -  4.4  4,3  4.3       -    -    -    13         4.357      -   19.3   13.7       3.'7    -    -          56.6       0      0
HEALTH POST              module      -  0.3  0.3  0.3       -    -    -        1       1.25      -    0.4    0.4       0.4     -    -    -    1.3         0      0
iTAFF HOUSING            module      -  9.2  8.9  8.9       -    -    -        7    0.218        -    2.0      1.9     1.9     -    -    -         9       
Sub-Total CENTRO HEDIO                                                                              -   88.7    86.,   86.1       -    -    -  260.9
3, LIMA
HEALTH CENTER ?          module      -  1.7  1.7  1,7       -    -    -               5 5.863    -   10.0    9.7       r-.92,3                                   I 0
HEALTH CENTER A          rmodule     -  5.4  5.3  5.3       -    -    -    16         2.9C?7     -   15.8    15.3    3.3-
HEALTH FOST              module      -  9.2  8.9  8.9       -    -    -    27         1.159      -   10.6   10.3   19,3                        31.3       2      C
Sut-Totai LIMA                                                                                      -   36.4   35.3   35.3 -2- -                     .
4. UCAYHLI
HEALTH CENTER BV         module      -  0.3  0.3  0.3       -    -    -               9.821i     -    3.3      3.2     3-      -     -     -     .S       0
HEALTH CENTER B           odule      -  0.3  0.3  0.3       -    -    -        I       8.75      -    3.0    2.9       2.9 - - -S,                        0     r
HEALTH POST V            module      -  3.1      3    3    -    -    -         9      1.741      -    5'.3     2 .2    2.;   -             - ?                   0
HEALTH POST              module      -  0.3  0.3  0.3       -    -    -        1      1.429      -    0.5      0.5     0.5     -    -    -    1.4         ^      0
ub-Tota, UCAYHLI                                                                                   -   12.1   11.8    11.3        -    -
Sub-Total MODIFICATION OF
DESIoN TO SITE                                                                                      -  140.4  136.3  136.3         -    -    -  412.9
Total CAPITAL COSTS                                                                                        -  140.4  192,9  1222?
Total BASELINE COSTS                                                                                        -            i40.4  ;9^ - 2.9-
JlSl  22! 170.  IJ027



-65  -
ANNEX S
Page 10 of 18
PERU
PRIY HEALTH PROJECT
SALARIES/TRAVELI PER DlENS FOR TRAINING
(US DOLLARS  THLISAD)
Quantity                                                            a-r Costi                        F3. 
Unit     1992  1983   1984   1909   1986   1907  1989 Total  Jnit Cost 1982  1983   1994   1935   1              l84   1987  1999 Total   Rate  Cu0.
CAPITAL COSTS
A. HEALTH PE:OsNNEL TR141NNG
:ENlRAL LEVEL
.NhT;DNAL SEMINAFA
HULTI;ECTDR MINISTEi.hL
AND. FOLICY STAFF                    part:c;pant;    -      50       -       -      -       -    -      s0       0.2    -   11.0        -      -       -       -    -    10.?      O
2. NhTIONAL WORKSHOP
M0H SENI3R POLICY
NGMNT AND ADM STAFF                  participant;    -      50       -       -      -       -    -      so       0.1    -    S.G        -       -      -       -    -     *.0      O
3. OPERATISNAL WORKSHOP
AREA AND REGIONAL
DIRECTORS                            Partiuipants    -      25       -       -      -       -    -     29        0.      -   10.0       -      -       -       -    -    130C
4. OPERATIONAL WORKSHOP
PROFESSDONALS AND ADMINISTRATORS        partic;nants    -    70         -       -      -       -    -    70                 -       -      -       -      -       -    -        -     C
S. TRAINING OF TRAINERS
TRAINING TEAMS STAFF                    narticinants    -        -      -      3                    -      30          1    -       -      -   30.C       -       -    -    30.0      0 
Sub-Trtal HEALTH PERSONNEL TRAINING
CENTRAL LEVEL                                                                                                                  -   29.0       -     0.0                         51.0
D. HEALTH PERSONNEL TRAINING
REGIONAL LEVEL
1. LA LIDERTAD
OFERATIONAL WORKSHOP
PROF AND ADMINISTRATORS              Participants    -    150                -      -       -    -    110                -      -       -      -       -      -    -        -      1
INITIAL TRAINING
CHIEF OF M.A.F.S.                    participants    -       15      -      15      -       -    -      30     0.266    -    1., -    4                -       -    -     a,^      0     0
IN-SERVICE TRAINING
DOCTORS, TECHNICIANS, PROF           participants    -        -   33,7   32.7       -   32       -      99     0.075    -       -    2.5    2.3        -      .5    -     7.4      0
INITIAL TRAINING
COMMUNITY NURSE                      Participants    -       15      -      15      -       -    -      30     0.531    -    s.     .  -    0.0        -       -    -    16.0      0      o
PHC ORIENTATION
HEALTH CENTER STAFF                    centers        -    3.2    3.2    3.2    3.2    3.2    -         16               -      -       -       -      -            -        -     0     0
INITIAL TRAINING
HEALTH POST NURSE                    Parttcipant;    -   20.4        -   09.8       -   19,0    -       60     0.1aa    -    3.S        -    3.7       --    11.3                  1     0
INIITAL TRAINING
HEALTH AUXILLIARY                    Tarticipants             -    100    100    180    100    -    400        0.325            -   32.5   3.5   32 .s   32.5    -   130.0         0      a
INITIAL TRAINING
COMMUNITY VULUNTEER                  Participants    -        -    450    450    450    490    -  l,0O0        0.013    -_- 16     5.6                .6    5.6    -    22.5       0      0
CONTINUING EDUCATION
ALL STAFF                            Participants    -        -    750    750    750    758    -  3,000        C.0:3    -       -   16.9   1S.9   16.9   06.9    -    60.5         0     0
Sub-Total LA LIBERTAD                                                                                                          -   15.0  17.5   2.2   11,0   6..2-    262.7
2. CENTRO MEDIO
OPERATIONAL WGRKSH8P
PROFESSIONALS AND ADM                Participants    -    300                                          300-                     -       -       -      -       -    -        -
INITIAL TRAINING
CHIEF OF M.A.P.S.                    Participants    -       19     15      15     15          -        60     0.26      -    4.0    4.0J    4.0    1,0        -    -    16.0      0      o
IN-SERVICE TRAINING
DOCTORS, TECH., PROFESSIONALS        Participants    -        -  166.3       -  163.3  163.3    -    193       0.07J    -       -   2.6         -   02.3   12.3    -    37.1       3      o
INITIAL TRAINING
CGMMUNITY NURSE                      participants    -       15     15      15     19       -    -      60     0.531-    -    0.0    9.0    0.0 I     .        -    -    32.0      0      0
PHC ORIENTATION
HEALTH CENTER STAFF                    centers        -   10.8   10-.  10.s   100   10.8    -          54               -       -      -       -      -       -    -        -     0      0
INITIAL TRAINING
HEALTH POST NURSE                    Participants    -   39.2   39.2   50.0   10.0         84    -    200      0o.10     -      .4 .4   11.0   11.0   15.0    -    52.5  o  C
INITIAL TRAINING
HEALTH AUXILIARIES                   ParticiPants    -    216    396    396    396    396    -  0,100          0.325    -   78,2  1.7  120.7  128.7  12.            -   s55,0      0      0
INITIAL TRAINING
CDOMUNITY VDLUNTEER                  participants    -        -  2,250  2,250  2,250  2.250    -  9,000        0.013    -        -   25.1   28.1   24.   20.1    -   112.5         0      0
CONTINUING EDUCATION
ALL STAFF                            participants    -  1,520  1.995  1,995  1,995  1,995    -  9,500          0.022     -   31.2   44,9   44.9   44.7   44,9    -   213.7         V
Sub-Total CENTRO NEDIO                                                                                                         -  123.0  233.7  220.   23'.V  22t          -     S
(CONT; EwD



ANNEX 8
-  66  -                                                                                                 Pge -. 1  of  18
PERU
PRIMRY NENLTH PROJECT
SALMRIES/TRAIELIPER BIERS FOR TRAINING ~contoeuad,
Quactits                                                                 BaSe Costs                            P6v.,  For.
----- ---- ---- ----- ---- ---- ---- ----- ---- ---  ---- ----- ---- ---- ----- ---- ---- ---- ---     C oot. on E aExc .
Snolt     19B2  1983    1984    1985    1986    1987  1988 Total  Bolt Cost 1982  1983    1984    1985    1986    1987  1988 Total   Rate  Cow .
.331073' TE3~~~, FEO7000I2NVLT  rt:cmort,             -        -  .3~~~~3.:..                                           -   .3.          -    '3      ''3            ..-
'HEALT'H FCT,T 9602ortci~nss;E-i.42.                                                 0      60       63     -     "I                  ,-.:.    :.
TNIT7AL TRRI.16E',
I 00.0UN 0T    7                     3O       20       7    3~       30   1333   I003   3733                123        .02-                                                             u.
CTINTNINGC EDUCATION,
ALL STA.FF                               eao;-c:oarts       -  1520  1,931-         0    1-9 ,,0:o,            ,,2vv.:                -     4.2    94.9     9?      1.       '9      - 22. 7
Sub-Total  ,~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~P:                                                                      - ----     ----  -   ------  -----   ------  ---   7--0.-
FOFEAT:060LS ACRVTHOF0-1
1rJLTIOL TRADl3ING
unO,F ..90                             atcsr                    15        --       5'.--30C                          33T-2.V-                              -
IN-SERVICE '21993ATINI7.N.'7*G7                                                                                                                                                  -
DEC2040,  TECH, FE0FESEIO9RL0            :artc:opar~t;                  37.?     32.         -    3,        .....                                                                           .        0      8
COMMUNI'TY NUS1EPO?fo'                                                                                                      0      6      -120       -                          -     -     2.        0      1
990 IRKENTUTION
HEALTH CENTER STIFFF                         caster         -       2       2        3        o      .0 2                                                
NITIAL TRAINING
HEALTH FIST NURSE                        Partlcasp2fts            0.                      19.0     - 19.3          60      .108W            3.         -     37        -       ,7    -      :.o       0      0
INITIAL TRA,1'.373-
HEALTH OEXi"AREiEO                       Participants       -      2        2       2       2        2             0        .8              02     9.5    .3.2      13,     630            325 
22NN091T0  O2WENTEER  oartccio-amt~~~~~~~~          22S    452,02             03          ,05            .3       3     -.        3.3.                  03            2.0       0       V
CONTINUING EDUCATION
ALL STAFF'                               paptici pastt              --75E          752     250      752     -    ,5 03> -                     - I.          33.7     3,7    1.              67.5.3
0.1-Tutal UCAYALI                                                                                                                            -    3.3 724          90   20          6        - 373.0
.-L-Tutal HEALTH FERSONNEL TRMAININ
REGIONAL LEVEL                                                                                                                               -                   17  603.1    0, -          - 2.694.3
3,ADMINISTRATIVE TRAINING
MANAGEMENT WOEKSHOF
92H DIRECTORO.                               oaptzcosart;               5       -        -                                                    50.0        -                        -     -     jy         0   2.5
MANAGEMENT WORKSHOP
REGIONAL CIVI,L WORVS STAFF                  Participants               5                                           0         31           3.                                               33.72      3      I
0:6b-Total ADMINISTRATIVE TRAINING- ~                                                                                                                      ,o                                         6200
T. RAVEL AND FEE DKE83amcrt                                                  0     39        .2      .2     3.       -       1          20     -    23        .,    2.3      253     2.0      - 625.0          3 
-ot;l 29911A3 COSTS                                                                                                                                -  00.9   312.0   .,o        .35.   7-4R           3,4024.
Lal' BASELINE COSTS                                                                                                                                     "o. D00.9   112 .9,3      -5.   -C7.4         3.404.3



- 67 -                                                                     ANNEX  8
Page 12 of 18
PERU
PRIIARY  EALTN PROECT
FEES FOR HEALTH EDUCATION
(US DOLLARS TAOUSAD)
Ouantits                                                        Base Costs                        Pht.  FPr.
---------------------------------------------------              ---------------------------------------------------- Cunt. Exch.
Unit    1982  1983   1984   1985   1986   1987  1988 Total  Unit Cost 1982  1983   1984   1985   1986   1987  1988 Total   Rote  CLW.
1. CAPITAL COSTS
A. IEC MATERIALS PREPARATION
GRAPHIC ART AND WRITING            man-month      -   20.9     31   20.2       -       -    -     72     0,116    -    S.7   12.9    8.4        -      -    -    30.0      0      0
REGIONAL AND AREA
MATERIALS DESIGN                man-month      -   16.3   16.3      24   15.4     24    -      96     0.416    -    6.8    6.8   10.0    6.4  10.0    -    39.9         0      0
Sub-Total IEC MATERIALS PREPARATION                                                                                   -   15.5   19.7   18.4    6.4   10,0    -    69.9
S. HEALTH EDUCATORS
GENERAL HEALTH EDUCATOR            maonrth        -     12      12     12     12      12    -     60        O.S    -    6.0    6.0    6.0    6.8    6.0    -    30.0       0      0
REGIONAL HEALTH EDUCATOR           man-tooth      -     4       48     48     48      48    -    240     0.416    -   20.0   20.0   20.0  20.0   20.0    -    99.9         0      0
Sub-Total HEALTH EDUCATORS                                                                                            -   26.0   26.0   26.0   26.0   26.0    -   129.9
C. RADIO PROGRAhS
1. PROGRAM PRODUCTION              2 tri, add    -      64     84      84     84     84    -    488      0.12J    -    8.0   10.5   10.5  10.5   10.5    -   50.0          0      0
2. BROADCASTING
IN 4 REGIONS
LA LIBERTAD                     broadcast      -1,493.31,959.91,959.91,9S9.91,959.9      -  9,333     0.821    -   32.0   42.0   42.0   42.0   42.0    -   200.0        0      G
CENTRO MEDIC                    broadcast      -1,493.31,959.91,959.91,959.91,959.9      -  9.333     0.021    -   32.0   42.0   42.0   42.0  42.0    -   200.0         0      O
LIMA                            broadcast      -  936.61,229.31,229.31,229.31,229.3    -  5,854       0.043    -   40.1   52.7   52.7   52.7   52.7   -.  250.9          0     0
UCAYALI                         broadcast      -1,493.31,959.91l959.91,959.91,959.9    -  9.333       0.021    -   32.0   42.8   42.0   42.0   42.0    -   200.0        0      0
Sub-Total BROADCASTING
IN 4 REGIONS                                                                                                    -  136.1  178.7  178.7  178.7  178.7    -   850.9
Sub-Total RADIO PROGRANS                                                                                              -  144.1  189.2  189.2  189.2  189.2    -   900.9
D. CONMUNITY PARTICIPATION
PREPARATION OF ACTIVITIES          man-morth      -      3       -      -      -       -    -      3      1.834    -    S.5       -      -      -       -    -     5.5      0     0
Total CAPITAL COSTS                                                                                                      -  191.1  234.B  233.5  221.5  225.1    - 1,106.1
Total BASELINE COSTS                                                                                                      -  191.1  234.8  233.5  221.5  225.1    -1,106.1
Julls 22, 1982 15:36



-  68  -                                                            ANNTX  8
Page  1T   of  18
PERU
PRIMARY HEALTH PROJECT
SALARIES FOR CIVIL WORKS SUPERViSION
(US DOLLARS THOUSAND)
Guarntita                                                   Fob  Cost;                       Fhu.  Por,
Unit    1982 1983  1984  1985 1986 1987 1988 Total Unat Cost 1982  1983   1914  1935 1986 1997 1988 Total  Rate  Como.
I. CAPITAL COSTS
A. CI'vIL WORKS
1. LIMA AND LA LIBERTAD
SUPERVISOR                     marn-month     -  58.9  45.5 28.8  9.4  1.4         -   144      0.625      -   36.0   23.4 13.0  5.9  0.9        -   90.0       0      0
RESIDENT ENGINEER              mar-month      - 157.1 121.3 76.8   25  3.8         -   384      0.371    -   50.5   39.0 2i.7  0.0  1.2          -  123.4       2      0
DRIVER                         tarn-month     -  19.6  15.2  9.6  3.1  0.5    -    48           0.2;4      -    4.2    3.3  2.1   0.7  0.1       -   10.3       0      0
SECRETARY                       onar,-onth    -  19.6  15.2  9.6  3.1  0.5    -    48           0.268    -    5.3    4.1  2.6  0.8  0.1          -   12.9       0      0
DRAFTSMAN                      san-month      -  19.6  15.2  9.6  3.1  0.5    -    48           0.268      -    5.3     4.1  2.6  o0.8  o.       -   12.8       0      0
SERVICE PERSON                 man-month      -  19.6  15.2  9.6  3.1  0.5         -    48      0.179      -    3.5    2.7  1.7  0.6  0.1    -    8.6           0      0
Sub-Total LIMA AND LA LIBERTAD                                                                                -  105.5   81.5 51.6 16.8  2.6    -  258.0
2. CENTRO MEDIIO
SUPERVISOR                     man-month      -  34.8    24   24   48 13.1         -   144      0.625      -   21;8   12.0 15.0 30.0  8.2         -   90.0      V      G
SECRETARY HUANCAVELICA         tan-month      -  11.6       0    8   16  4.4    -    48          0.268     -    3.1    2.1  2.1  4.3  1.2 -           12.9      0      0
SECRETARY HUANCAYO             man-m,onth     -  11.6       8    8   16  4.4       -    48       0.268     -    3.1    2.1  2.1  A.3  0.2         -   12.9      0      0
SECRETARY JAUJA TARHA          mar-month      -  11.6       8    8   16  4.4       -    48      0.268      -    3.1     2.1  2.14.3  1.2          -   12.9      0      0
DRIVER                         man-month      -  23.2    16   16   32  8.7         -    96       0.268     -    6.2      4.3  4.3  8.6  2.3       -   25.7      0      0
Sub-Total CENTRO MEDIO                                                                                        -   37.3   2s.0  25.0 51.4 14.0    -  154.3
3. UCAYALI
SUPERVISDR                     tarn-onth      -   9.6   5.4  6.6  2.4        -    -    24       0.164      -    1.6    0.9  1.1  0.4        -    -    3.9       0      0
RESIDENT ENGINEER              man-mornth     -   9.6   5.4  6.6  2.4        -    -    24       0.321      -    3.1    1.7  2.1  0.8    -    -    7.7           0      0
DRIVER                         ftan-month     -9.6   5.4  6.6  2.4           -    -    24                  -       -      -     -     -     -     -      -             0
Sub-Total UCAYALI                                                                                             -    4.7    2.6  3.2  1.2    -    -   11.7
Sub-Total CIVIL WORKS                                                                                            -  14,.5  109.9 00.6 69.3 16.6         -  423.9
Total CAPITAL COSTS                                                                                                  -  147.5  109.9 80.6 69.3 16.6         -  423.9
Total BASELINE COSTS                                                                                                  -  147.5  109.9 80.6 69.3 16.6    -  423.9
!ia  PER DIEM ONLY Y 3 VISITS PER MONTH AT 0.03 PER VISIT . SALARY BY CODE, UCAYALI
lb  SALARY BY CODE UCAYALI
Jiu;N 22, 1982 15:38



- 69 -                                                                    ANNEX 8
Page 14 of IR
PERU
PRIMARY HEALTH PROJECT
SALARI3ES/FEES FOR ADMINISTRATION
(US DOLLARS THOUSAND)
Quartits                                                        Base Co.ts                            PhY.  Frr.
----------------------------------------                   ---------------------------------------------------- Cuut. E;.ch.
Urnlt    1982 1983 1984 1985 1986 198, 19B3 Total Unit Cost 19102  ;T3   1954    1915   iTS6   19S7  :988 'otS    LIe  COFp.
1. CAPITAL COSTS
A, GENERAL PROJECT ADMINISTRATION
1. PROJECT IMPLEMENTATION
EXECUTIVE DIRECTOR                man-month      -       12 12   12   12   12    -    60          1.834      -   22.C   22.0    22.0   22.0    22.0        -    .;C
2. TECHNICAL STAFF
THIEF UNIDAD TECHNICA              an-artY       -   12   12   12   12   12         -    60       1.479      -   17.7    17,7    ;.7    17.7   17.'    -    SS.7
CHIEF ADMINISTRATOR               marr-month     -  9.6  9.6  9.6  9.6  9.6         -    4S       0.625      -    6.0     6.0      6.0     6.0     6.0     -    30.0       O      O
4CCDUNT4NT                        mar-month      - 11.4 11.4 11.4 11.4 11.4         -    57,      v.46       -    5,1    5.;    5.;        J;    5         -    25 4       r, 
ASSISTANT ACCOUNTANT              marn-month     -19.2 9.2 19219.2 19,2             -    96       0.S6S      -    5.1    5.:    2.1         .       .:     -    25.7       0
SECRETARY                         man-month      - 45,6 45.6 45.6 45.6 45.6         -    28       1.268    -   12.2   02.2    12.2   12.2    '2.2          -    6.1
fRiI'vER                          tan-month      - 28.0 28.8 20.8  28.1  28.0       -   144       0.214     -    6.2       '.2   6.2       6.2     6.2     -    30.9       0      0
CLEANING PERSON                   man-month      - 2.8 2.8  2.8 -.o 22.8            -   114       0.179     -    4.1       l.1-.11.1               t.;     -    20.4       0
CIVIL ENGINEER                    mian-morith    -   ;1   12   12   12   12    -    60            0.714    -    8.6   38.6        S.6   8.6        0.6     -     l2.9      G      G
ARCHITECT                         marr-month     - 11.4 11,4 11.4 11.4 11.4         -    57       0.625      -    '.1     7.1    7.1    7.1    71          -    32.6       0      0
DRAFTSMAN                         tan-month      - 11.4 11.4 11.4 11.4 11.4         -    57       0.261      -    3.1     3.1     3.        1 3.     1 -.  -     15.2      0      0
ASSISTANTS                        man-month      - 19.2  19.2 19.2 19.2 19.2    -    9.           0.260     -    5.1      5.1    5.1       5.1    5.1      -      5.7             0
HEALTH SFECIAL-ST                 man-month      - 11.4 11.4 11.4 11.4 11.4         -    57       0.625      -    7.1     7.1    '.1       7.'    7.1      -    35.6       0      0
EQUIPMENT TECHNICIAN              man-month      - 1.1.4 11.4 11.4 11.4 11.4        -    57       0.446      -    5.1    5. 1        1 1   5,1     5.1  -2 5.1             v 
Sub-Total TECHNICAL STAFF                                                                                       - 9 .5   9, .5 .2.5   9                ',,    -         6.'
3. FEES
RENT                                 mornth      -   12   12   12   12   12         -    60       1,706      -   21.4   21.4    21.4     21.       14      -       .       0      0
GASOLINE                             month,      - 57.6 57.6 57.6 57.6 57.6         -   218       0.26S      -   15.4   13.    12.11  2.-1.4               -    77.1       0      0
Sub-Total FEES                                                                                                  -   36.9   36.,9   36.9   3,.9   36.9         -    094.;
Sub-Total GENERAL PfiOJECT ADMINISTRATION                                                                          -  151.4  151,.  151-1  131.4  151.4                757.0
C. CIVIL WORK"                           man-month      - 76.3 53.5 43.9 29.5  5.9         -   209       1.S34     -  139.9    98.1   S0.5   51.0   1 0.'    -   3S3.3            0      0
C. TRAINING                               ar-maonth     - ;;.4 11.4 11.4 11.4 11,4         -    57       1,634      -   20.9   20.9   'C        2O.9   20.9D      -    04.5       0      O
0. HEALTH EDUCATION                      an-onth        - 27.2 27.2 27.2  27.2  27.2-           36      1,S34      -   49.9   19.9   49.9   49.9    49.9         -   219.4       0      7
E. COMMUNITY FARTICIPATION               man-month      -    5    5    5    5    5    -    25            1,S34    -    v.2       9.2     c        ".2     9.2     -     15.0      0      0
F. AUDITING                              mar,-oonth     -32.6 32.6 32.6 32.6 32.6    -   163             1.034     -   59,3   59.        S ' i7. 59,S.8          -   2'0.9       0      0
Total CAPITAL COSTS                                                                                                    -  431,1  319.3  371-.  34'5,    301,9        - 1,839.0
Total BASELINE COSTS                                                                                                    -  41,.1  3S9.3  3'1.b  345.2  301.9           - l,53?.0
'a FER DIEM ONLY, SALARY BY KOH
2u-2. 1982  15:39



- 70 -                                                        ANNEX 8
Page 15 of 18
PERU
PRIM RY HEALTH PROJECT
FEES FOR RESEARCH AND EVALUATION
(US DOLLARS THOUSAND)
Gu2ntits                                                  n2se Costs                     Phs.  For.
Co---t.-E-----------h-------------                       -------------------------------------------C .            h.
Unit    1982 1983 1984 1985 1986 1987 1978  Total Urnit Cost 1982 19,3 1984 1,85 1926  5S,7  1988  Tutal  Rote  Cun'.
I. CAPITAL COSTS
A. PROJECT lIMPACT
LOCAL CONSULTANT                                                           19-7o1 -09      1.839     -    -99.9  179.7                                 0      0
B. TRAINING
LOCAL CONSULTANT            lnr-rlonth    -  3.2  3.8   3.8  3.2       -      -    15      1.334     -  6,t  '.9  6.9  6.9       -       -   27.5      0      0
C. HEALTH EDUCATION
LOCAL CONSULTANT             arn-morth     -  2.5  2.5  2.5  2.5  2.5         -  12.3      1.234    -  4.5  4.5  4.   4,5  4.'           -   22.6      0      0
D, COMMUNITY PARTICIPATION
LOCAL CONSULTANT            aan-&oRth      -  i.;  1.1  1.1  1.;  1.;         -   S.J      1.334    -  2.0  2.0  2.0  2.0  2.0           -   10.1      0      0
E. HEALTH FINANCING STUDY
LOCAL CONSULTANT             ian-r,ontih    - 13.5 13.5    -             -    -  -         1.834    - 2.8 24.8    -                 -    -  -   4.5    0 
Total CAPITAL-C3STS                                                                                         - 32,2 32.21       13.4 6.5 1.J 99,9  30s,
ototl BASELINE COSTS                                                                                         - 38,2 38.2 13.1 ;3.4  6.5  199,9  307,,
JUIY 22, 1982  15;40



-  71  -                                                     ANNEX  8
Page 16 Of 18
PERU
PRIMY HEALTN PROJECT
SALARIES/TUITION/TRAVEL/PER DIEMS FOR INSTITUTIONAL DEVELOPMENT
(US DOLLARS THOUSAND)
OuartitY                                                B'Se Costs                      PhY.  For.
---------------------------------------                  ----------------------------                    CUnt. Efch.
Unit    1982 1983 1984 1985 1986 1987 1988 Total Unit Cost 1982 1983 1784 1985 1986 1987 1988 Total  Rate  Cuurp.
1. CAPITAL COSTS
A. FELLOWSHIPS                      anr-aorJth     -   24   24   12    -    -    -    60             2.5      - 60.0 60.0 30.0      -    -    -  150.0         0      ;
B. SECOND PROJECT PREPARATION   mari-monrth    -    -    - 27.2    -    -    -   27.2              1.834      -    -    - 49.9       -    -    -    1.9,       0      0
TUtal CAPITAL COSTS                                                                                              - 60.0 60.0 79,9       -    -    -  19S.9
Total BASELINE COSTS                                                                                              - 60.0 60.0 79.9       -    -    -  199.9
JUl  22, 1982  15:41



- 72 -                                                                    ANNEX 8
Page 17 of 18
PERU
PRIWY HEALTH PRLECT
SALARIES/FEES/PER DIENS FOR PROJECT PREPARATION
SUS DOLLARS THOUSAND)
Guantits                                                    EL- t; rt.  F
-----------------------------------------                   ------------------------------------------- - ur,t.  .;h
Unit    1982  1953  7964 1;?5 1906 19S7 1900 Rota: Unit Cost  1932  1903 1904 '?95 ;96                     1900 Ttal  R.te
. .F.P  ML :30
A. HDKINISTRKTION
PROJECT ADMINISTRATION                   aar-sonth  go   -                                                 0.455  41.C-            -.    ^
C :/IL WORKS ADMINISTRATION              maro-arth    24                     134                         0.477    63.9      -     --                           3.9      C
PER DHEMS                                  amount    1-                                                       59 59.0                                          57
uiib-Tr,tal ADMINISTRATION                                                            9-- -                                            -     -     -     -     ------
B. CIVIL WRK0S
1. SITE IDENTIFICATION                     site         9'-, -  -                     -            5          52.    ,-7    C o
.PROTOTYPE DESIGN                        amount        1                                               52.32;   s
3. MODIFICATION OF
lESION TO SITE
LA LIIERTADESH                         module         I-          -                                    2.S5?  2.7.                   -  -  -  -  2.9
CENTRO MEDIC OSBO                      madui-         15.8  0 ,vz   L0,
CE,     MEN0E10 CS-v                   module         2                                             to-7 .9.?           -          -    -    -    -    9,           0
LIMACO                                 module                                                   1      5.02       5.9                                      5. 
LIMOCSA                                 module    2A2  2.907  5.a- -
LI M  PS                               module        :2 -o -;                                                    7
UCAYALIPG VS'                          module         33                                              1.41       0.20
Sub-TotaI MODIFICATI-N OF
DESIGN T  SITE2
4. TOPOGRAPHIC SURVEYS
AND SOIL TESTS
LA LIBERTAD CSA                       AMOUNT   2-2  2.32  4.5-                                                                                              0-
CENTRO MEDLI CSBU                      AMOUNT   3 -                           --                       2.57 0.5--.s 
CENTRG MEDIC CSAV                      AMOUNT    2                 S5  5.7-                                                   -           -                 57   C 
LIMA CSB                               AMOUNT  3---7.0 C 
LIMA CSh                               AMOUNT         7.32I   xo.o                                                           --
UCAYALI CSBO                           AMOUNT1   3.571  3,6-                                                                   -.S  '0
5ub-Total TOPOGRAPHIC SURVEYS
AND SOIL TESTS                                                                                                   1, ?          45 ?
--Total CIJIL WOR.S                                                                                                                         -    -    -    -  255.1
C. TRAINING
HEALTH EDUCATION
MANUAL PREPfRATIGN
GRAPHIC ARTIST                        mar,=uonth    1266 .,Sc-                                                                                             ?0.0
SECRETARY                             mar,=unth    1212                                                  o.1     1.80- -
COUNTERPART PERSONNEL MOH    manmabunth  12-12  1.656 20.C-20. 0
COUNTERPART PERSONNEL CENTE           mar,=ronth      6     -     .SSS    ;0,- -                                                                     -      0
CGUNTERPART PERSONNEL ESP   tan=month   6-                                                             1.055 1o0- -                                           .0   o  c
SuLb-TutL   HEALTH EDUCATION
MANUAL PREPARATION                                                                                              s--
2, COMMUNITY PARTICIPATION
IDENTIFICATION OF
PRIORITY AREAS                    mar,=onth   3                  -3   13 55                                                    -.
3. TRAVEL PER DIEMS                        amount  1 -                                                                                                                     -- -V
4. 4     REDIGNAL MEETING
PER  DIEMS                             amount          -                                     :                1?.0.:                                               0      0
5. 2 MASTER TRAINER COURSES
PERDIEMS                               amount                                                               T 24^0-.3
Sub-Tatal TRAINING                                                                                                                                                    7
Total CAPITAL COSTS                                                                                                       542.3-                                          -
Total BASELINE COSTS                                                                                                       542.3-.
J 22,        ..1'8 ;r:4;



-  73   -                                                                ANNEX  8
Page 18 of 18
PRIMARY HEALTH PROJECT
INNOANTI'E ACTIVITIES
(US DOLARS  THOUSANrl)
u a}tit                              2                               C,33.t,                         'I:.  7.
----------------------------------------                   ---------------------------------------------------    r,.E:.
Urit  1982 198?   19384 19QS  1?S6 .9E' ;9o* Tota: Uit CoL;' 1?o^  ;^Si           'V94   ;?SJ   ;?S6      O    1?55 T.ajtS'  L      C.,
C. M"UNITY PARTOCIPATI&-N
1 . H LTiVII ,I E S
-L,-------3
::E'tKPLOA GAR4DEN PFOGFRSAM        asount     -    2  :'.2  O.c   &.2  v        -      I         .x            ..     5.0    f.^,v              O     .C -  25.00.C   C      2
LATRINE PROGRAM                    ;     t     -  3.^  O.   O.^  G .              -      ;-   JO.O   50.0   JL.    50.0   ',0                           -  S'C-.C    C.'      C
TAN'TATION PRROGRAM                Smurit    -  0.2  '.2  C.C  0.2  C.            -      ;   294.54;      -    6.       3       3' 5 ,    .'   'S.?     -  ^9.    0..
INCOME GENERATING P  ROGRHM        a13rTt                                                       -      .^                                                            0.'.1 v..  3.    -  .3W:  22   ''   3  36    23,.  -  .;    O.:
i.cu-Octal  ACTI0'ITIES                                                                                      -  :9'.C   ;^'.C   l.''.C '9L.'.    :9'.C         ^''.C
S,b-Tots: CGMMUNITT PARTICIPAT10N                                                                                   1.           0      . I .O<  ;?'.          - v-52C
Total  CAPI'.AL  COT--'' ..#.UO1'CT                                                .7J5,,'^- '
Lu: ~~~ 1:33 2:2:3                                                                      -  105.0  112=.=3=. = = ..2 .2.2    ,..   .-
'ctal BASELINE CoSTs                                                                                                 -           .%.    1;'                  .      -,
jv1  22, 1982  15:45



- 74 -
ANNEX 9
PERU
PRIMARY HEALTH PROJECT
ESTIMATES OF PROJECT RECURRENT COSTS
March 1982 (IUSS O0Os) I/
Y e a r                       All subsequent
1           2           3                   Years
Personnel Salaries
Phvsicians                     975        1,950      2,925              3,900
Nurses                         975        1,950      2,925              3,900
nther                        1,925       3,850       5,775              7,700
Benefits                     1,375        2,750      4,125              5,500
Total                         5,250       10,500     15,750             21,000
SuDplies
Medicines, etc.                125          250         375               500
Lahoratory                     150          300         450               600
X-Rav                          125          250         375               500
Other                          100          200        300                400
Total                           500        1,000       1,500             2,000
IUtilities
Electricity                     15           30          45                60
Water                            5           10          15                20
Telephone                        8           16          24                30
Postal                           2            4           6                10
Total                            30           60          90               120
Maintenance of
Facilities
Buildings                       50          100         150               200
Equipment                      125          250         375               500
Total                           175          350         525               700
Vehicles, Operating
and Maintenance                 100          200         300               400
Shipping                         25           50          75               100
Training                        100          200         300               400
Supervision                     100          200         300               400
TOTAL
(Constant, March 1982)        6,280      12,560      18,840             25,120
(Current)                     6,280      13,690      22,486             32,829
Source: Mission Estimates
1/ US$1 = S/.560



- 75 -
ANNEX 10
PERU
PRIMARY HEALTH PROJECT
DISBURSEMENT SCHEDULE
(In US$ millions)
Fiscal  Semester                               Cumulative          % of
Year    Ending            Disbursements       Disbursements       Total
1983   Dec. 31, 1982
June 30, 1983          0.9                 0.9             2.7
1984   Dec. 31, 1983          1.4                 2.3             6.9
June 30, 1984          2.4                 4.7            14.0
1985   Dec. 31, 1984          2.6                 7.3            21.8
June 30, 1985          2.9                10.2           30.4
1986   Dec. 31, 1985          3.1                13.3            39.7
June 30, 1986          3.6                16.9           50.4
1987   Dec. 31, 1986          4.3                21.2            63.3
June 30, 1987          3.1                24.3           72.5
1988   Dec. 31, 1987          2.9                27.2            81.2
June 30, 1988          2.4                29.6           88.4
1989   Dec. 31, 1988          2.7                32.3            94.9
June 30, 1989          1.2                33.5          100.0
TOTAL            33.5



- 76 -                          ANNEX 11
Page 1 of 6
PERU
PRIMARY HEALTH PROJECT
ASSESSING THE PROJECT'S BENEFITS
1.     This annex briefly describes the benefits expected to result from the
project, estimates the order of magnitude of one salient benefit, and
discusses the cost in relation to benefits.
Description of Benefits
2.     To the extent that the project's objectives (described in Chapter III)
are achieved, 3.5 million people living in the four project areas, and to a
lesser extent 67% of the population in the rest of the country, will benefit
from effects which can be thought of as spreading outward from the project
activities to the nation, generally, as follows.
3.     First, there will be more and better outputs (i.e., efficacious
preventive and curative services) from public expenditures on health. This
will involve both:
(a) greater quantity of services (more immunizations, more treatment
of sick individuals by health professionals, etc.); and
(b) greater effectiveness of services, in the sense that a unit of
service provided (a course of vaccinations, an outpatient visit,
an inpatient treatment) will have a greater likelihood of positive
health outcome. Reasons for improved effectiveness will include
better qualified or better trained personnel and better supplied
and managed facilities.
4.     Second, improvements in the outputs from MOH services will lead to
improvements in health status -- reductions in mortality and morbidity.
Because funds will be better targetted on where they can have the most impact
-- with more emphasis on primary health care and relatively less on secondary
and tertiary ativities -- the project resulting in:
(a) greater cost-effectiveness in MOH expenditure, in the sense that a
given level of spending will be associated with better health
status for the population as a whole, than would have been the
case otherwise.
5.     Third, reductions in mortality and morbidity may lead to a number of
beneficial economic and social consequences, including, most notably:
(a) increased production, contributing to higher output for the nation
and higher incomes for the households affected, as workers live



- 77 -                           ANNEX 11
Page 2 of 6
longer, healthier lives, and less time is consumed in caring for
ill dependents;
(b)  reduced expenditures by households on medicines and medical care
(insofar as the population in the project areas spends less on
drug supplies, traditional and other private curative services);
(c)  better attendance and performance in schools, resulting in higher
returns from public investments in education (and possibly other
investments too, to the extent that a better-educated, more easily
trained work force increases returns);
(d)  higher future earnings and contributions to national output by
children, due to better physical and mental development; and
(e)  lower mortality rates among children and mothers, resulting
eventually in greater acceptance of family planning. (However,
against this must be set the reduction in per capita income
resulting from the added growth in population during the interim
years until fertility rates fall).
Also, there may be some additional benefit to society insofar as life and
good health are valued to an extent not fully captured by the considerations
above.
6.     Insufficient data exist to derive plausible estimates for many of the
items noted above. Nevertheless, calculations below suggest the order of
magnitude of one principal benefit -- the additional income gained from
reducing sick time and increasing life expectancy.
Income Gains
7.     The magnitude of the increase in production and hence income depends
on two key factors: the number of extra days of work generated and the daily
wage imputed to this extra activity.
8.     With regard to the former, previous studies on other Latin American
countries have assumed that the poorest workers are ill an average of 36 days
per year 1/. If the project achieves its current targets for reductions in
morbidity and mortality (see Annex 2), the number of sick days for adults
might diminish by 10%. If, in addition, two out of every three sick days
occur at times when work normally is done 2/ then the extra days of
potential work generated would be between 2 and 3 days per worker annually.
1/ See, for example, "Colombia: Appraisal of an Integrated Nutrition
Improvement Project," Report No. 1583-Co.
2/ This assumes that: (i) sickness occurs with equal probability on work
and non-work days; and (ii) two out of three days are work days. The
latter assumption reflects the calculations 240:365 = .66, or 5:7 = .71.



- 78 -
ANNEX 11
Page 3 of 6
9.     A more detailed analysis 3/ indicates that this conventional approach
overestimates the extra work time gained from the temporary disability
associated with current illness, but greatly underestimates (by in effect
ignoring) the effect of averting deaths and permanent disabilities. On
temporary disability, the detailed analysis suggests that workers in the
project areas presently experience fewer than 36 sick days a year.
Furthermore, on some sick days they can do at least some work, so it is not
reasonable to assume that all sick days are a total loss. When these two
points are taken into account, the potential work time gained due to
reductions in temporary disability from current illness would probably be
less than one full day per worker annually.
10.    Averting deaths and permanent disabilities, on the other hand, would
have a large impact. Saving a single worker's life can result in more than
200 extra days of work in the current year and, more importantly, many times
that amount across future years. Saving a child's life also produces
significant gains -- albeit entirely in future. Even after discounting to
allow for time preference, these future gains can be substantial. For
example, when a one-year old with a life expectancy of 55 years is prevented
from dying of measles, the present value of the number of extra healthy days
of life gained, using a 10% discount rate, is over 3,600.
3/ A model predicting the change in "quality adjusted health days of life
lost" was developed, drawing on previous efforts by D. Shepard, R.
Zeckhauser, the Ghana Health Assessment Project Team, R. Grosse, N.
Prescott, G. Stoddart, the McMaster University Department of Clinical
Epidemiology and Biostatistics, and others. The model estimates the
impact of: (i) temporary disability during the acute phase of an
illness; (ii) the years of life lost for those who ultimately die of the
illness; and (iii) permanent disability after the acute phase. Input
variables include disease incidence rate, case fatality rate, life
expectancy, probability and severity of permanent disability, and age of
onset, among others. Average values across disease groups are used to
arrive at overall health impact. Since extensive assumptions are
required about many variables on which direct data is limited or
unavailable, the usefulness of the model depends critically on
undertaking an extensive sensitivity analysis aimed at bracketing the
range of uncertainty. Starting values for the sensitivity analysis were
selected from information on the project's targets. Detailed
documentation on the entire analysis is available on request.



- 79 -
ANNEX 11
Page 4 of 6
Furthermore, the project will have a larger impact on mortality and morbidity
among infants and children than on adults.  Based on results of the
sensitivity calculations done as part of the detailed analysis, the total
(discounted) increase in days available for work resulting from averting
deaths and disabilities would be at least 15 days per capita annually. If
one-third of the population are workers, this would be 45 days per worker.
11.    To estimate the appropriate average daily wage to impute to this added
worktime, there is first the fact that GNP per capita for Peru was US$930 in
1980, according to the 1981 World Bank Atlas. Allowing for inflation in the
dollar since then as well as minor adjustments reflecting 1981-82 economic
and population growth, the current 1982 figure may be US$1,100. In the four
project areas, incomes are below the national average. Although no
area-specific income data are available, the most recent nationwide household
survey (ENCA, held in 1971-72) found that the mean incomes of the lowest two
quintiles of the income distribution were 7.5% and 25.6%, respectively, of
the national average 4/. If the project areas are assumed to be at the
average of these two figures (17%), their per capita income would be US$190.
This suggests an average daily wage per worker of US$2.30, given the earlier
assumptions about the ratio of workers to population and the number of work
days per year.
12.    The marginal increase in income from one extra day available for work
is likely to be less than the average daily wage for several reasons. If
labor is in surplus, some of the extra work time will not be fully employed
productively; those workers who do work more will partially displace others.
Also, some of the added work time will fall at slack times of year in rural
production cycles. In addition, the role of workers' preferences in
allocating added time at the margin between productive and nonproductive
activities must be considered. Little data exists on the significance of
these factors for Peru. It is assumed here that the marginal daily wage is
one-third of the average daily wage, or approximately US$0.75.
13.    Under these assumptions, the potential increase in income resulting
from the project would be (45 days x US$0.75 =) US$34 per worker, or US$11
per capita.
Costs and Benefits
14.    Recurrent costs are assumed to increase in steady increments over a
four year period, reaching their final US$25.1 million level in 1986. For
the calculation of econormic costs, the shadow price for unskilled labor was
assumed to be 67% of the market wage, based on a comparison of project
figures with an estimate of urban and rural reservation wages nationwide. A
standard conversion factor declining from .94 in 1982 to .91 in 1985 was used
to adjust for import duties, export taxes and export subsidies. Differences
between financial and economic costs
4/ See Peru: Major Development Policy Issues and Recommendations, IBRD,
June, 1981, Statistical Appendix, Table 2.12.



- 80 -
ANNEX ll
Page 5 of 6
proved to be relatively minor, due to the nature of the proposed construction
and other investments. A discount rate of 11% was assumed, reflecting recent
estimates of the opportunity cost for capital in Peru. Sensitivity analysis
with rates between 8% and 14% showed that the conclusions drawn in Chapter V
are not sensitive to the choice of discount rate.
15.    The benefits figures given include only the increased income from
extra work time. Lacking information on the rate of phase-in, we assumed
that benefits would not begin until 1987 and would then take ten years to
reach their ultimate $38.5 million level.
16.    It was estimated that US$90 million in other benefits besides the
direct increase in income would be required over the thirty year period in
order for total benefits to equal total costs with an 11% discount rate. If
these other benefits phased in on the same schedule as shown, their final
annual per capita level would have to be US$7.5. This implies total benefits
of US$18.5 per capita annually.



PERU
PRIMARY HEALTH PROJECT
YEARLY DATA ON COSTS AND BENEFITS
(in millions of 1982 $)
Benefits in Increases
Year         iUndiscounted Financial Costs               Total Econo ic Costs               in Personal Incomez -
Investment      Recurrent      Total      Undiscounted       Di2counted-    Undiscounted        Discounted-
1982           1.2            0              1.2           1.2               1.2               0                 0
1983           9.0           6.3            15.3          14.9              13.4               0                 0
1984           9.0          12.6            21.6          21.5             17.5                0                 0
1985          15.8          18.8            34.6          34.8              25.5               0                 0
1986          13.9          25.1            39            39.2             25.8                0                 0
1987           4.6          25.1            29.7          29.7             17.6               3.9               2.3
1988            0           25.1            25.1          25.1             13.4               7.7               4.1
1989            0           25.1            25.1          25.1             12.1              11.6               5.6
1990            0           25.1            25.1          25.1             10.9              15.4               6.7
1991            0           25.1            25.1          25.1               9.8             19.3               7.6
1992            0           25.1            25.1          25.1               8.8             23.1               8.1
1993            0           25.1            25.1          25.1               8.0             27.0               8.6
1994            0           25.1            25.1          25.1               7.2             30.8               8.8
1995            0           25.1            25.1          25.1               6.5             34.7               8.9
1996            0           25.1            25.1          25.1               5.8             38.5               8.9
1997            0           25.1            25.1          25.1               5.3             38.5               8.1
20io            0           25.1            25.1          25.1               1.4             38.5               2.1
2011            0           25.1            25.1          25.1               1.2             38.5               1.9
Totals        53.6         690.3           743.9         743.7             224.1            789.5             133.8
Source:  Mission estimates.
1/  Benefits are assumed to phase in over a ten year period starting in 1987.
2Ddt
2/  The assumed discount rate is 11 percent.                                                                      x
0.



- 82 -
ANNEX 12
PERU
PRIMARY HEALTH PROJECT
SELECTED DOCUMENTS AND DATA AVAILABLE IN THE PROJECT FILE
1.    Proyecto de Atencion Primaria y Servicios Basicos de Salud;
Ministerio de Salud; Lima, Peru, February 1982 (14 Volumes).
2.    Politica de Salud y Mortalidad Infantil en el Peru, Direccion
General de Atencion a las Personas. Ministerio de Salud, Lima,
1982.
3.    Informacion Basica Sobre Infraestructura Sanitaria - 1980;
Oficina General de Informacion y Estadistica, Ministerio de
Salud; Lima, Peru, February 1982.
4.    Situacion del Sistema de Abastecimiento de los Establecimientos
del Ministerio de Salud; Direccion General de Atencion a las
Personas; Lima, November 1981.
5.    Peru: Algunas Caracteristicas de la Poblacion - Resultados
Provisionales del Censo del 12 de Julio de 1981, Instituto
Nacional de Estadistica, Lima, Peru, October, 1981.
6.    Peru: Compendio Estadistico - 1980, Instituto Nacional de
Estadistica, Lima, Peru, July 1981.
7.    Justificacion del Proyecto de Presupuesto del Ministerio de
Salud para 1982, Ministerio de Salud; Lima, 1981.
8.    Atencion Primaria de Salud en el Peru, Comision Nacional de
Atencion Primaria de Salud; Ministerio de Salud; Peru, 1981.
9.    Plan Nacional de Acciones Coordinadas de Salud - 1982-1985
(PNACS-82/85); Ministerio de Salud; Peru, 1981 (4 Volumes).
10.   Normas de Planificacion Familiar; Direccion General de Salud
Materno Infantil y Poblacion, Ministerio de Salud; Lima,
December 1980.
11.   Recursos Humanos en Salud - Oferta y Demanda: 1979-1985;
Necesidades de Capacitacion Periodo 1980-1985, Oficina Sectorial
de Planificacion; Ministerio de Salud, Lima 1980.
12.   Plan Nacional de Apoyo a la Atencion Primaria de Salud -
1980-83; Ministerio de Salud; Lima, Peru, 1980.
13.   Informe de la Comision de Reestructuracion del Ministerio de
Salud; Ministerio de Salud; Lima, 1980.
14.   Encuesta Nacional de Fecundidad del Peru - 1977-78 - Informe
General; Direccion General de Censos, Encuestas y Demografia,
Oficina Nacional de Estadistica; Lima, March 1979.
15.   Lineamientos de Politica de Poblacion en el Peru; Instituto
Nacional de Planificacion; Lima, 1976.



-8q3 -                        Table 1
PERU
PRIMARY HEALTH PROJECT
COMPARATIVE HEALTH INDICATORS IN PERU AND NEIGHBORING COUNTRIES
Selected Indicators                            Peru   Chile   Colombia  Bolivia
1.    GNP per capita, 1980                     930    2160       1180       570
2.    Adult literacy rate, 1976 (%)             80        -         -        63
3.    Life Expectancy at birth, 1979            58       67        63        50
4.    Population growth rate, 1979             2.7      1.7       2.7       2.6
5.    Crude birth rate, 1979                    38       23        30        43
6.    Crude death rate, 1979                    11        7         8        16
7.    Total fertility rate, 1979               5.3      2.8       3.9       6.2
8.    Infant mortality rate, 1978               86       55        65         -
9.    Population/physician, 1977 (%)          1550    1620       1970      1850
10.    Population/nursing, 1977                 750      440      1250      3070
11.    Population with safe water                48       84         64        38
1975 (%)
Source: Lines I and 2 from World Bank Atlas, 1982; all others from World
Development Report 1981 Annex, World Development Indicators. Income
distribution figures are somewhat outdated referring to the year 1968
in the Case of Chile and 1972 in the case of Peru. No later figures
available.



- 84                                               Table 2
PERUI
PRIMARY HEALTH PROJECT
PROJECTIONS OF AGE STRUCTIJRE OF POPULATION
BY SEX, 1980 - 2000 IN PERCENTAGES
1980        1985         1990        1995         2000
5-TOT=TF                       4.731        4.198         3.769        3.383
GRR                       2.308        2.048         1.839        1.650
NRR                       1.907        1.740         1.601        1.466
E(O)       FEMALES          61.09        63.43        65.64         67.69
E(0)       MAALES           57.31        59.57        61.86         63.84
INF MORT  FEMALES           91.08        82.95        74.81         67.32
INF MORT  MALES            101.86        92.82        83.60         75.34
FEMALES
AGE         1980          1985         1990         1995          2000
0        1375.6       1402.7        1480.0       1554.2        1593.6
5        1183.8       A332.1        1367.1       1449.9       1528.9
10        1088.8       1175.0        1324.4       1360.8       1444.6
15        943.5        tO80.9        1168.2       1318.3       1355.8
20         785.2        933.9        1072.0       1160.6        1311.4
25         652.7        775.4         924.4       1063.3        1152.9
30         544.9        643.6         766.5        915.6        1055.0
35         450.0        536.4         635.2        758.1        907.3
40         377.8        441.7         527.9        626.5        749.3
45         326.4        369.2         432.8        518.6        616.9
50         271.0        316.5         359.1        422.2        507.2
55         215.6        259.3         304.1        346.4        408.8
60         168.1        201.4         243.6        287.3        329.2
65         126.6         150.1        181.4        221.5        263.6
70          90.0         104.1        125.1        153.3         189.7
75+         92.0         1C5.8        124.9        152.4         190.8
TOT       8692.0       9828.1       11036.6      12309.0      13610.0
MALES
AGE         1980          1985         1990         1995          2000
0        1402.0       1454.1        1536.7       1617.1       1664.6
5        1198.4       1353.6        1413.4       1502.9       1588.4
10        1099.1       1188.3        1344.2       1405.5       1496.0
15         950.7       1089.9        1179.8       1336.3       1398.6
20         788.5        938..7       1078.5       1169.8        1326.8
25         652.8        776.5         926.8       1067.3        1159.7
30         543.7        641.8         765.4        915.7        1056.6
35         448.3        533.0         630.9  ,    754.3         904.4
40         375.6        437.3         521.4        619.1        742.1
45         322.5        363.2         424.3        507.8        604.7
50         264.5        307.7         347.9        408.1        490.1
55         207.4        247.0         288.7        328.1        386.7
60         158.3         187.4        224.6        264.3         302.2
65         117.0         135.6        162.0        196.0        232.8
70          80.6         91.4         107.3        130-0         159.5
75+         77.7         86.1          98.8        117.6         144.7
TOT       8687.0       9831.4       11050.6      12339.9      13658.1
GRAND TOTAL    17379.0       19659.5      22087.2       24648.9      27268.1
.IPTH RATE                   34.9         32.2          29.9         27.3
2EATH PATE                   10.2          8.9           7.9          7.1
POP INCREASE                 24.7         23.3          22.0         20.2
Source: World Bank 1982 Population Projections



- 85 -
Table 3
PERU
PRIMARY HEAL-H PROJECT
SELECTED HEALTh INDICATORS 1FOR TRF PROJF'CT AREA
2/
P R O J E C T A RPE A
Centro Medio
Country 1/  La Libertad  Huancavelica   Junin   Lima    Ucayali
Demographic Indicators
Population (1980 - thousands)            18,800         446              1,069            1,785       194
Urban population (M)                      66.5           90                 53              100        48
Area (km2)                            1,285,200                         48,240              202   130,15n
Dependency Ratio (AgeO-14)                43             43                 43.7             38        50
Fertility Rate                             6.0             5.4      7.5            6.6
Growth Rate                                2.7           25.5       0.9            2.7       31        5.1
Health Indicators
Birth Rate (per '000)                     37.8           36.4    47.1             42.9                42.5
Death Rate (per '000)                     11.1           10.5    18.4             12.0                13.3
Infant Mortality Rate (per'000)           86             75      230             181                 128
Health Facilities (1980)
HTospital Beds                          28,708           1,411    198            1,298     13,915      183
MORH                                   15,460             837    110              730      6,593      135
IPSS                                    4,512            219      -               149      2,569        -
Other                                   8,736            355     88               419      4,753       48
Health Center                              630             42      19               38        140        5
Health Posts                             1,538             66      67               89         70       27
Health Personnel (1979
(Per 10,000 Population)
Doctors                                    6.2            0.5    O.4               1.0        1.4      1.3
Dentists                                   1.8            0.2    0.2               0.3        0.2      0.5
Nurses                                     5.0            0.1    0.5               1.9        1.2      1.9
Auxiliaries                                3.9             1.3    1.6              4.3        2.8      6.2
Source:  1/ World Bark Social Data Sheets, May 1981;
2/ Proyecto de Atencion Primria y Servicios Basicos de Salud, Ministry of Health
Lima, Feb. 1982



-  6-                                Table 4
PERU
PRIMARY HEALTH PROJECT
FERTILITY AND SOMF FAMILY PLANNING INDICATORS
Age Specific      Proportion of         % Who did not
Age    Fertility Rate   Women not wanting  want their            TTse of Contraceptives
1976-1978         more Children (%)  last Pregnancy  Presently   Only in Past
15-19       .068                 30.8                16.0           14.8          17.6
20-24       .226                 41.5                27.1           26.9          21.6
25-29       .254                 43.7                39.3          34.3           22.9
30-34       .236                 68.0                48.0          37.6           20.9
35-39       .159                 75.2                56.5          31.5           17.9
40-44       .087                 79.3                58.1          26.1           19.1
45-49       .026                 80.1                61.4           13.7          19.1
TTR         5.280
Source: Encuesta Nacional de Fecundidad, Peru, 1977-1978



-87-                         Table 5
PERU
PRIMARY HEALTH PROJECT
TEN LEADING TRANSMISSIBLE DISEASES -- NOTIFIED CASES 1969-1978
1969            1974         1978
Dysentery                           23,979          24,803        54,549
Hidatidosis, Hookworm,
and other Helminthiasis           15,174           21,745        34,835
Influenza                          49,764           26,344        28,081
Malaria                              3,166          12,485        20,376
Tuberculosis                       20,440           16,549        15,506
Typhoid Fever                        7,556           6,128         7,584
Whooping Cough                      11,578          12,005         6,544
Hepatitis                            4,336           4,723         5,108
Gonorrhea                            7,875           5,018         4,62q
Varicella                            4,077           4,519         4,585
Total Number of Notified           168,969         163,451       204,43q
Cases for all Diseases
Source: Ministerio de Salud, Oficina Sectorial de Estadistica e
Informacion Informe Estadistico: Enfermedades
Transmissibles, 1978, P. 9.



- 88 -
Table 6
PERU
PRIMARY HEALTT  PROJECT
PROFESSIONAL HEALTH PERSONNEL BY TYPE AND RATES 1975 AND 1980
No. Inhabitants
Number               per Professional
Type                   1975         1980           1975      19R0
Physicians               9,221       12,432          1,695      1,430
Dentists                 3,072        3,687          5,000      4,8R22
Pharmacists              2,949        3,457          5,263      5,143
Sanitary Engineers         241          319         66,667    55,735
Obstetrical Nurses       1,891        2,171          8,620      8,190
Registered Nurses        5,754       10,065          2,717      1,766
Source:  PNACS (1981)



Chart 1
PERU
PRIMARY HEALTH PROJECT
Organizational Chart of the Ministry of Health
MINISTER                                 Consultative Health 1
Commission 
|   General Planning
Office
National Enterprise
for Biomedicine
Vice Minister
|    Generai Auditing
Technical Assistance
Advisers
General Secretariat
Legal Assistance
General Office
General                             Communications
Administration       Pe              and Public Relations
Office             O                General Office                                              Organization and
Methods Office
National                        Information        School of                                         International Relations
Institute      Civil Works      and Statistics      Public                                               General Office
of Health         Office            Office           Health                                          l
Personal Health Care         Health Services                      Regional Health         Environmental Health
General Directorate       General Directorate                       Directorates          General Directorate
World Bank-24154






Chart 2
PERU
PRIMARY HEALTH PROJECT
Organizational Chart - Civii Works Component
Pooular                      MINISTER
CooDeration
L _ I l ~~~VICEMAINISTER| 
AND_
P,ROJECT DiRECTOR _
CENTRAL LEVEL
|     Poject Executi,e  I
I   T       ~~~D.rector    iI
| General Director        T                       Office of PhysicaI
of Hiealth Serv,ce's  |                             nfrastrucal'urea 
-acnmcai~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~~cnia
r~ ~~                        ~ ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ ^    c  n i ca;
_Aamin,stration         _                     sslstance
Aammnistration
- ~   ---'   iSupport Starf
VI~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ 
r       -     -     -     --                 --ors  Eou:omensrl                ----  --  Projects                       tac
Bidding and I !         - I      !                Eouipnent                    Projects
ISuoervistan                                       Equiornen
REGIONAL LEVEL
Commuty                          Community                                 r    ommuTiy  -                                      Communitv
Part-cipation                              Pa rticipafon                   I   Participation   j                     i         Participation
COOPOP                                      COOPOP                            Hospital Area  j                                 COOPOP
.rujilio_                                   Lima                            Centro Medio                 r---*J.               Ucavaii
P_bli Bidding                                            *  -     _.    _._.Ji'Public Bidding
I  Public Bidding  _                                                                     CodeiUcayali    *
1 __~1CX- --J-   r--1                                                                     _    --,r-- 
1 Posts       26 Centers                                     3 9notrrs I  I    i 5 Posts            e         2 Centers        3 Post         2 Cpnters
9PosU  29Po~~      32Centers I ~27 Housingi    l2oss            I                                    Post
TRUJILLO/LIMA                             -                                i _MEDIO_-UCAYALI-
Existing
New
-. ~-. -  -  Strengthened
COOPOP                                                                                                                          'Nond 3ank-24156






PERU
PRIMARY HEALTH PROJECT                                                                     3
Organizational Chart - Training Component
MINISTER
VICEMINISTER
AND          .
PROJECT DIRECTOR
I     PROJECT
.:TRAL LEVEL                                             EXEC. DIRECTOR        GENERAL DIRECTORATE                               GENERAL DIRECTORATE
School of Pu__c T-       OF HEALTH SERVICES                               OFPERSONALHEALTH
School of Pubhic                     r      I
Health        _
Coordinator of                                                                   DEPARTMENT OF
Training for:                                                                 HEALTH EDUCATION
I     Pr,mary Health Care   i
|  -Technical Assistance
I  - Counterparts I:
2 MOH   each SPH
I       and CENTE
I  -Training srem                                                                -     I To be establ,shed
I     Training Plan    1                                                              Earsting
-Evaluation
I  - Admin,stration,
LA LIBERTAD                             CENTRD MEDIO                                    UCAYALI                                    LIMA
HEALTH REGION                            HEALTH REGION                               HEALTH REGION                             HEALTH REGION
Regional                            I    Regional                               f    Regional                       I     RIeonai
Training Unit  I                               I Training Unit                    I  Training Unit
r~-iflniAL LEVELL
ospHotaltal                                                            H     l          H o sital      H t         Htal            ospta
Area            Area                      lAa              Area        Area             Area           Area        Area           Are
r-4  r_mr  _ r-~nr _):-t r -  etr--    r--tl   1
Area    I  Area   I  |Area   I            Area         Area   I     I  Area   Ij  Area         I  Area   I    I  Area   I  I  Area
Traing    Training I    Training I    I Training     Training         Training     T         I  I TianiTraining               I Training
1---L_____I             I              ___*_____J__-it  I  I L-----it
LL      L                                                                                      L  J -r           -
Modulas of Primary    Iodud  of P-                             Heth Cam                           Module of I       Module of Primary
Health Care      I _                             0 _ar *a _                                 I _H.c.                Health Car
World Bank-2415






IBRD 16602
//  \76       ~      <           Iquitos0f             724tuB               /         / t              JULY 1982
P ER U                                                                                                                       4U
HEALTH PROJECT
5Sulno                  7_/              /: ![S,                              --
Pa,toAt      A   t                     29X \--+\ -'
C            g-                                         o        EiIO   F K o          J
t (\0    y o      b       o         m~Moyborrb 2- .<                                          /
t\   {    RConco0                              <         ;    
LA/ABiA YE >~                  _          \&       ,,~       Toropoto >    X    r       
LoLjb6,e,-,ou'4d4~\2                                                                                                              B        R        A        Z        I      L
120     bbefor Cecd                                                 \         \l                      t     i     $g        (\;/aA R             E DO                                l
For de,; see IBRD 1652             0   L/EAaV                                                        \'**F'2\ i'
ww.
Ce,,o de P.sco,
p~ ~    ~          ~                                    rA            oc         ch                    S\ IT f
/    E~~~~~MAR DE DIOS                                                            ,
P    \\0\\\\ Arjc Cre /4 cc                                                   y /Y C CH\ Cf Hoaho  Loere                         3                        -
=>  Numbe  of heoth centes         >t  /|   A   (                     )K      >            '. uno     BE  ;52
O ~ ~ Asl Cod 5 A  A'   to                                                                       rYoi se O, 162  ?                        P  U  NAR  oP V/OS
-12'                              lim, cerfc ontuh                                                                                                     \ Hu                                12
F., dor-l Isee  196590       LIMA                                                    ,rroMuo                            '5Peo
27Stuffn hounrrog                            m MaIdPrro
~~~/                                     J \j                        / C 'Z   
-FA                 /HOOFGU -, IBR 16523,td  >
Project area l                                           L-.j    ~~             kAPUR              z   c                      T I  ,
4       N-be0  of health cetes                                 C
C   Numbfer of health posts 
Asphalt roadsU N 
....m.m....m.mAsphalt roads under cons-trction
A-lol-eothe, roads                                                                                                                                       0
Foies erres                                                                                                                    c
D2V  iep-s- bo-dories                                                                                                                                         -
-16'            .-.        .  ter-tion-l boodories
KILOMETERS            1 00C       200          3005ole, 
MILES 5                   00o                200 
76'                                      ~~ ~ ~ ~~~~~ ~~~~~72'   CHILE                     66'



