Document of                              E
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Report No. P-3400-PE
REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION
OF THE
PRESIDENT OF THE
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
TO THE
EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS
ON A
PROPOSED LOAN
IN AN AMOUNT EQUIVALENT TO US$33.5 MILLION
TO THE REPUBLIC OF PERU
FOR A
PRIMARY HEALTH PROJECT
November 5, 1982
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
The exchange rate is being adjusted daily roughly in line with the differential
between domestic and international inflation. The exchange rate and currency
equivalents in 1981 and as of October 15, 1982 were as follows:
Currency Unit = Sol (S/.)
Calendar 1981            October 15, 1982
US$1                     S/. 426.60                 SI. 823.44
S/. 1                    US$0.0023                  US$0.0012
SI. 1,000                US$2.34                    US$1.21
FISCAL YEAR
January 1 to December 31
ABBREVIATIONS
bpd             - barrels per day
ERP             - Economic Recovery Program
FAO            - United Nations Food and Agriculture Organization
IDB            - Inter-American Development Bank
IPSS           - Instituto Peruano de Seguridad Social
(Peruvian Social Security Institute)
MOH             - Ministry of Health
PHCM            - Primary Health Care Module
PPF             - Project Preparation Facility
UNFPA           - United Nations Fund for Population Activities
USAID           - United States Agency for International Development



REPUBLIC OF PERU          FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
PRIMARY HEALTH PROJECT
LOAN AND PROJECT SUMMARY
Borrower:                     Republic of Peru
Amount:                       US$33.5 million equivalent, including a capitalized
front-end fee.
Terms:                        Repayable in 17 years, including four years of grace,
at the standard variable interest rate.
Project Description:          The project's objective is to assist the Peruvian
Ministry of Health (MOH) in improving health care
services through the establishment of a primary
health care system. The project would provide for
training of staff as well as construction, furnishing
and equipping of health facilities in four regions of
Peru. The facilities would serve about 3.5 million
people, most of whom live in absolute poverty and
suffer from high rates of mortality and morbidity.
The delivery system would also support efforts in the
fields of population planning and nutrition
improvement. The Bank loan would provide funds for
maintenance facilities, project administration,
project monitoring, health education and improving
management in the MOH. Finally, the loan would
include funds for the preparation of a further
primary health care project.
Project Risks:                The project's main risk is that, because of insti-
tutional weaknesses, the MOH will have difficulty in
implementing the health delivery system -- which
depends on successfully training 27,000 people and on
improving a wide range of support activities in MOH.
The project includes a number of measures to help
deal with this risk, including technical assistance
and training of personnel, some of which would be
started prior to loan effectiveness with financing
provided under a Bank project preparation facility
(PPF). In addition, other development agencies
including USAID, the German Government and the Pan
American Health Organization are assisting in
strengthening MOH.
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



- ii -
Estimated Costs:               (including about US$2.2 million equivalent in local
taxes)
Local           Foreign           Total
-US$ millions-------------
Infrastructure and Equipment            18.6             10.3             28.9
Health Staff Training                     3.4             -                3.4
Community Health Education                2.7             0.1              2.8
Monitoring and Evaluation                 0.3             0.3              0.6
Maintenance                               0.6             0.3              0.9
Project Administration                    2.5             1.1              3.6
Institutional Support for MOH             -               0.5              0.5
Total Base Cost                    28.1            12.6              40.7
Physical Contingencies                 2.0              1.1              3.1
Price Contingencies                    7.9              3.8             11.7
Total Project Cost                 38.0            17.5              55.5
Front-End Fee on Bank Loan              -               0.5              0.5
Total Financing Required           38.0            18.0              56.0
Financing Plan:                        Local          Foreign            Total
------------US$ millions------------
Bank                               15.5            18.0              33.5
Government                         22.5              -               22.5
38.0            18.0             56.0
Estimated Disbursements:
Bank FY                      1983   1984   1985   1986   1987   1988   1989
-------------…------US$ millions-------------
Annual                        0.9    3.8    5.5    6.7    7.4    5.3    3.9
Cumulative                    0.9    4.7   10.2   16.9   24.3   29.6   33.5
Rate of Return:                Not applicable.
Staff Appraisal Report:        Staff Appraisal Report No. 4016 -PE, dated October
29, 1982



INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION OF THE PRESIDENT OF THE IBRD
TO THE EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS ON A PROPOSED LOAN TO
THE REPUBLIC OF PERU FOR A PRIMARY HEALTH PROJECT
1.        I submit the following report and recommendation on a proposed loan
to the Republic of Peru for the equivalent of US$33.5 million to help finance
a primary health project. The proposed loan would have a term of 17 years,
including four years of grace, at the standard variable interest rate.
PART I - THE ECONOMY 1/
2.        An economic report entitled "Peru-Major Development Policy Issues
and Recommendations" (Report No. 3438-PE) was distributed to the Executive
Directors on May 4, 1981. This part is based on the report's findings and on
those of economic missions to Peru in June and September 1981 as well as in
July/August 1982. Country data sheets are attached as Annex I.
Natural and Human Resources
3.        Peru, the fourth largest country in Latin America, is divided by
the Andes mountains into three distinct regions: the coastal region (Costa),
with 46 percent of the population and most of the country's modern economic
activity; the mountain region (Sierra) with 44 percent of the country's
population; and the sparsely populated tropical rain forests east of the
Andes (Selva). The country's rugged topography limits trade between the
three regions.
4.        Peru's natural resources include large deposits of minerals--
particularly copper, iron, silver, and zinc--located mainly in the Sierra and
the southern Costa. There are also large phosphate deposits, located in the
northern Costa. Petroleum resources found in the jungle areas and offshore
are also substantial, but their full extent has not yet been ascertained.
Another major natural resource is the large fishing potential in coastal
waters, although the magnitude of the catch is subject to sharp fluctua-
tions. Only a small portion of Peru's total land area is arable, and most of
the soils suitable for intensive agriculture are already being farmed.
5.        Although Peru's energy resource base is relatively diverse, with
scope for expanding hydro and coal based power generation, petroleum is
expected to remain the major energy source in Peru through the rest of this
century. Peru's domestic oil production more than doubled between
1977 and 1981 to over 190,000 barrels per day (bpd), and it became a net
exporter of about 60,000 bpd. To enable Peru to remain a net petroleum
exporter, the Government has embarked on a strategy of accelerated secondary
recovery and exploration efforts to increase production and of rational
pricing policies to contain demand growth.   Prices for domestically consumed
petroleum products have been increased at regular intervals. In addition,
new legislation was enacted offering special tax incentives to domestic and
foreign investors, and the response has been positive. The Government
strategy is already bearing fruit with petroleum output expected to increase
in 1982 to an average level of 207,000 bpd.
1/   This part is substantially unchanged from Part I of the Higher
Agricultural Education Project President's Report of October 19, 1982
(Report No. 3393-PE).



- 2 -
6.        As a result of three decades of rapidly falling mortality rates,
Peru   nonulation growth accelerated during the 1930-1960 period.  Since the
kivLy 1960s, birth rates have fallen gradually, mainly caused by the urbani-
zation process and improved education. But with declining death rates, popu-
lation continued to grow at about 2.5 percent p.a. between 1972 and 1981 and
is currently estimated at about 17 million. The 1981 census, indicates that
fertility declined by 20 percent during the past decade and that the current
rate of population growth has dropped to 2.2 percent p.a. The census also
indicates that the reduction in population growth is most marked among the 65
percent of the population living in urban areas. The census information has
only recently become available and is still being confirmed but it indicates
a dramatic improvement in population prospects. The Government is conscious
of the need to continue to slow down Peru's population growth rate and is
supporting a family planning program (para. 31).2/
Past Development Policies and Performance (1968-80)
7.        Two successive military Governments, in office from October 1968
until July 1980, followed a development strategy aimed at promoting economic
growth and improving distribution of income and wealth. The pattern of asset
ownership in the economy changed drastically through nationalization and a
sweeping land reform, but many of the policies carried out after 1968 had an
excessive cost, and their implementation was inefficient.
8.        Expansionary fiscal and credit policies between 1968 and 1977
produced strong inflationary pressures and widening external gaps. The
current account deficit averaged US$1.1 billion per year in 1974-77, equiv-
alent to nearly nine percent of GNP. To finance this deficit, Peru accum-
ulated a massive external debt, which at year-end 1977 stood at almost US$8.4
billion (including short-term indebtedness), equivalent to two-thirds of
GDP. In 1977-78 GDP per capita dropped by over six percent and under-
unemployment rose from less than 50 percent during the early 1970s, to almost
60 percent of the labor force.
9.        Between 1975 and 1977, several unsuccessful attempts were made to
cope with Peru's deteriorating economic situation. By mid-1978 the economic
crisis had reached grave proportions, with a drop in real GDP and inflation
approaching 100 percent on an annual basis. Moreover, the private sector was
finding it increasingly difficult to open letters of credit for new imports,
and the banking system's net international reserves had dropped to a negative
level of US$800 million.
10.       Beginning in May 1978, the Government adopted a number of important
measures aimed at strengthening public finances, improving the balance of
payments and curbing inflation. The Government also negotiated a stand-by
arrangement with the IMF in support of the stabilization program.
11.       Major debt-relief operations carried out through the Paris Club and
with the Soviet Union and commercial banks in 1978 enabled Peru to reduce the
debt service burden for 1979 and 1980 by postponing repayment of about US$1
billion to the 1982-1986 period. In view of the strong balance of payments
performance in 1979 and 1980 (para. 13), the Government decided to forego
parts of the rescheduling options in exchange for slightly better conditions
for new loans from commercial sources.
2/ Population data presented in Annex I will be updated when confirmed data
are available from the census.



- 3 -
12.       To overcome the economic recession, in late 1978 the Government
adopted a comprehensive Economic Recovery Program (ERP), which, in addition
to the above-mentioned stabilization actions, included measures to open up
the economy, promote non-traditional exports, strengthen the tax system by
broadening its base, and generally improve the efficiency of resource alloca-
tion in the private and public sectors. These policy changes--together with
a declining domestic market because of the recession--resulted in a major
reorientation of industrial development, with a large increase in the value
of manufactured exports from about US$200 million in 1977 to the US$750-800
million range in 1980-81 (equivalent to about eight percent of output). The
Government also drew up a public sector investment program that aimed at
redirecting investment towards projects of clear economic priority and with
positive effects on production and employment. In support of the ERP, the
Bank approved a US$115 million Program Loan in May 1979.
13.       The Government's stabilization-cum-economic recovery program
resulted in a strong improvement in public sector finances in 1979.
Public sector current account savings rose from -0.5 percent of GDP in 1978
to about 3.7 percent of GDP in 1979, and the overall deficit was reduced from
5.7 percent of GDP in 1978 to 1.7 percent in 1979. In spite of Peru's
improved fiscal performance, inflationary pressures remained strong with a
consumer price increase of 67 percent in 1979. The more careful management
of public finances also had a positive impact on the balance of payments.
Moreover, an increase in petroleum exports and a substantial improvement of
Peru's terms of trade contributed to high overall surpluses of the balance of
payments in 1979 and 1980. At year-end 1980, the net reserve position had
improved to about US$1.3 billion, equivalent to about four months of
imports. Peru also made greater use of assistance from official bilateral
and international sources, thus improving the structure of its external
debt. Real GDP growth rebounded to 3.7 percent in 1979; in 1980, however,
growth dropped to 3.1 percent owing, in part, to a drought which affected the
agricultural sector. Because of a relaxation in fiscal discipline, the
public sector deficit increased in 1980 to six percent of GDP, keeping
inflation for the year at a high level--59 percent.
Recent Developments and Outlook
14.       In July 1979, the military Government promulgated a new constitu-
tion, written by a popularly elected constituent assembly. Elections were
held in May 1980, and following his electoral victory, President Fernando
Belaunde was inaugurated on July 28, 1980. His Government faced a
challenging economic and social situation with a number of acute problems
which had been disguised by the apparently solid financial situation. These
included: high levels of under- and unemployment, particularly in urban
areas; higher underlying inflation than had been reported because of price
controls and deferred price adjustments for public goods and services; a
public sector deficit that had been reduced by freezing expenditures for
economic and social services (including education, health and housing);
a balance of payments with a substantial surplus, which, however, was partly
due to unusually high commodity prices and to the fact that import levels
were depressed and manufacturing exports high owing to the recession; and,
finally, deteriorated income distribution over the past several years
resulting in increased social unrest. This unrest has been manifested in
a growing terrorist movement which, if it continues, may threaten political
stability.



- 4 -
15.       The Government named an economic team committed to economic effi-
ciency, decontrol of the economy (including divestiture of some of the
State-owned enterprises), promotion of the private sector (including foreign
investment), and policies aiming at a more equitable sharing of the benefits
of development through job creation and specifically targeted social
programs. Its reliance on, and promotion of, private initiative, in parti-
cular, distinguish the present Government's philosophy and economic program
from that of its immediate predecessors.
16.       The Government has made important headway in a number of areas.
It was successful in accelerating import liberalization by eliminating non-
tariff barriers and lowering tariffs. At the same time, export incentives
were streamlined and revised to eliminate abuse and make the system more
responsive to exports of products with high manufactured content. The
Government also enacted new legislation for the agricultural, mining and
petroleum sectors offering greater financial incentives to investors.
Finally, it made significant institutional changes in the financial sector,
revised the interest rate structure through substantial upward adjustments,
and is preparing a new banking law which would allow further rationalization
and liberalization of the financial system.
17.       In an effort to improve resource use, the Government made
progress in correcting major price distortions. Food subsidies were greatly
reduced and most controlled agricultural prices were adjusted to
international levels. The marketing of agricultural products was
liberalized, and public utility and petroleum prices were adjusted at regular
intervals. Moreover, the Government endeavored to rationalize public
investment and its financing -- an effort that was supported by a Bank
sponsored Consultative Group meeting in May 1981.
18.      The above efforts were complemented by measures to strengthen public
sector institutions. The important public enterprise sector, for example,
was granted greater autonomy by transforming these enterprises into
State-owned limited liability corporations operating under private law. This
measure gives these companies, inter alia, greater freedom in fixing staff
compensation and, thus, helps them to recruit or to retain capable
personnel. Many of the above measures have already had positive short-term
effects, and they have laid the ground for medium-term structural adjustments
of the Peruvian economy.
19.       In 1981, GDP grew at about four percent.  The balance of payments,
however,deteriorated substantially as a result of declining export prices,
high interest rates on the country's debt with commercial banks, and a rapid
expansion of imports. The loss in net reserves amounted to about US$580
million, equivalent to about 2.5 percent of GDP. A major factor in the
deterioration of the balance of payments was the large public sector deficit
which reached about eight percent of GDP. On the positive side, some
progress was achieved in reducing inflation: while inflation on a December
1980-December 1981 basis reached 73 percent, during May-December 1981 it
decelerated to an annual rate of about 50 percent, mostly because of the
openness of the economy, the price dampening effects of an increase in
imports, and--to some extent--to a deceleration of the mini-devaluations.
During 1982, inflation is expected to reach 60 percent (which was also the
average rate during the first five months of the year). The Government is
aware that this level is still too high, however, and is following
restrictive demand management which it expects will result in a further drop
in inflation.



20.       Reducing the public sector deficit has, once again, become the
major challenge facing Peru's economic managers. While the deteriorated
export situation has had a negative impact on tax revenues, the 1981 deficit
was mostly the result of steep increases in expenditures and somewhat lagging
adjustments of petroleum and rice prices. Excess expenditures over initial
budget allocations were incurred mostly for investment projects of lesser
priority. To tackle the difficult public finance situation, the Government
is following a restrictive financial program for 1982 with tight credit
ceilings and limits to foreign indebtedness. The Government also trimmed the
public investment program in line with its investment priorities.  The Bank
has an ongoing and frank dialogue with the Peruvian Government on these
issues. Moreover, in June, 1982 the IMF approved an SDR850 million
compensatory-cum-EFF arrangement to support Peru's stabilization efforts.
In spite of the difficult world economic environment, a slowdown in economic
growth (projected to be about two percent in 1982) and increasing social
tension, the Government is striving to adhere to the agreed-upon program and
to make the necessary adjustments in fiscal management to keep the economy
viable over the medium term. Peru's total debt outstanding to the IMF as of
June 30, 1982 amounted to SDR776.8 million.
21.       Based on cautiously optimistic assumptions with regard to economic
management, through the medium term the country is expected to have economic
growth of about 4-5 percent per year and a manageable balance of payments
situation. Peru's balance of payments could, however, become precarious if
the exportable surplus of oil declines. While measures are being undertaken
to speed up petroleum exploration and to increase manufactured exports, the
results of these endeavors may not come in time to countervail the potential
foreign exchange shortfalls. Against this background, there is a continuing
need for official development assistance, including local cost financing.
Taking the above factors into account, considering an expected debt service
ratio hovering around 35 percent of exports (which are relatively
diversified) and assuming that the authorities continue the initiated course
of economic policies, Peru is creditworthy for Bank lending.
PART II - BANK GROUP OPERATIONS IN PERU 3/
22.       The Bank has approved 51 loans to Peru for a total amount of
US$1,312.5 million, net of cancellations. About 28 percent of the Bank's
lending to Peru has been for transportation (mainly highways and ports), 16
percent for agriculture, 25 percent for the energy sector, 14 percent for
mining and industry, about seven percent for education and urban development,
nine percent for a program loan in support of the ERP in 1979 and one percent
for technical assistance.
23.       Annex II contains a summary statement of Bank loans and their
disbursement status as of September 30, 1982 and notes on the execution of
ongoing projects. As of this date, US$661 million was undisbursed.
Disbursements on Bank-financed projects moved slowly in the late 1970s,
primarily because of weak project execution capacity and a shortage of
counterpart funds that worsened as the economy deteriorated during this
period. Disbursements have improved, however, with vigorous efforts by the
Bank and Government to correct the situation by, inter alia, (i) opening a
Bank resident mission in Peru; (ii) restructuring a number of slow moving
projects; (iii) Government provision of adequate counterpart funds; and (iv)
Government creation of a special commission to monitor loan execution and
3/ This part is substantially unchanged from Part II of the Higher
Agricultural Education Project President's Report of October 19, 1982
(Report No. 3393-PE).



resolve administrative problems. These actions are bearing fruit.
Disbursements on project loans amounted to US$44 million in FY80, US$70.5
million in FY81 and US$75.8 million in FY82. This compares with average
yearly disbursements of US$27.5 million during FY77-79.
24.       The main objectives of Bank lending to Peru are to assist in (i)
the creation of the physical infrastructure needed to sustain and foster
economic development; (ii) the expansion of productive capacity in crucial
sectors, i.e., petroleum, agriculture and mining; (iii) the strenghening,
through technical assistance loans and regular operations, of public sector
management and of local capacity to prepare, implement and operate projects
effectively; and (iv) the improvement of living conditions for the urban and
rural poor. In the past, Bank lending concentrated on infrastructure in the
transportation and power sectors.  More recently, the Bank's emphasis has
shifted to more directly productive fields--mining, petroleum, agriculture
and industry--to help Peru to strengthen its balance of payments. Lending
for social sector projects has also grown and will be further stepped up in
the future. The next operations that would be ready for the Executive
Directors' consideration include projects in rural development, education and
agricultural credit. As part of its assistance strategy, the Bank convened a
Consultative Group Meeting for Peru on May 25-26, 1981 to help the Government
arrange financing for its public investment program.
25.       Bank loans constituted an estimated 6.4 percent of Peru's total
public external debt outstanding and disbursed at the end of 1981, and
absorbed about 3 percent of the country's public external debt service in
1981.  Assuming increased recourse to long-term bilateral and multilateral
aid by Peru, the Bank's share in the country's outstanding public foreign
debt by 1985 could reach about 10 percent, and its share of debt-service
would be around 4.5 percent.
26.       IFC commitments as of September 30, 1982 were US$55.8 million
(including US$15 million to the Southern Peru Copper Corporation for the
Cuajone Copper Mining Project) of which US$35.5 million is held by the
Corporation. A summary statement of IFC investments as of September 30, 1982
is presented in Annex II. In addition, investments in a mining project
and a venture capital company are now being considered.
27.       The other principal lending agencies active in Peru are the Inter-
American Development Bank (IDB) and the United States Agency for Inter-
national Development (USAID). Their total commitments as of December 31,
1981 were US$849 million and US$348.8 million, respectively, and their shares
of public debt service as of end-1980 were estimated at 0.6 percent and 0.5
percent, respectively. In its future lending, IDB is expected to emphasize
lending for agriculture, industry, mining, roads, and small scale irriga-
tion. USAID is expected to stress rural development and health.
PART III - THE HEALTH SECTOR
Background
28.        Health conditions in Peru are among the poorest in Latin America.
Average life expectancy is only 58 years -- compared with 63 and 68 years in
the neighboring countries of Colombia and Chile, respectively. Although



- 7 -
mortality levels have been gradually descending over recent decades,
mortality is still 11 deaths per thousand -- the third highest level in Latin
America. Recorded infant mortality is 86 deaths per thousand live births and
other evidence suggests a more accurate figure may be over 100 per thousand.
These high mortality rates reflect the low immunization level of the
population as well as the deficient nutritional status and poor personal and
environmental hygiene in many parts of the country. Furthermore, morbidity
levels are high, due especially to communicable diseases such as diarrhoea
and other parasitic infections, influenza, malaria and tuberculosis. Over 40
percent of deaths are caused by preventable infectious disease.   These
average figures disguise even more severe health problems among the poorer
segments of the population. Specific data on this group are not available
but it is estimated, for example, that 50 percent of the population has no
permanent access to formal health services. These people tend to live in
rural areas, where health facilities are scarce, or in the pueblos jovenes
(essentially shanty towns) that have been built on the outskirts of many of
Peru's cities.
29.       Peru's health problems have been exacerbated by the country's rapid
population growth. Population has almost tripled in the past 40 years and
reached about 17 million people in 1981. Until recently it was estimated
that Peru's population was increasing at about 2.6 percent per annum and
would reach about 28 million inhabitants by the year 2000. However, results
from the recent census (para. 6) indicate that the demographic growth rate
has dropped to 2.2 percent and that there has been a decline of about 20
percent in fertility rates. A national fertility survey conducted in 1978
also showed that a large proportion of families wish to limit their family
size but that, at that time, only a small proportion of those families were
using some type of family planning method. Responding to this need the
current Government has decided to provide greater support for family planning
(para. 31).
Government Policies
30.       Over the last two decades, Peru's Governments have made efforts to
improve Peru's health situation. Nevertheless, a continuing problem has been
that health policies have been based on medical practices developed for
industrialized countries which are not appropriate for Peru. Thus, most
attention has been devoted towards providing curative care using
fully-qualified doctors working in hospitals rather than providing preventive
health care which is more cost-effective. However, during the seventies,
initial efforts were made to establish community health posts so that some
primary health care -- i.e. preventative health care directed towards
families in a specific area without depending on doctors -- could be
provided. Following its election in 1980, the current Government decided to
formulate a national plan for improving health services which would have a
strong emphasis on primary health care. This plan aims at: (i) reducing
mortality and morbidity, especially among the rural and urban poor; (ii)
promoting mother and child health services including family planning; and
(iii) improving efficiency and extending coverage of health services. In
conjunction with this effort, the Government decided to reorganize the
Ministry of Health (MOH), especially its central administration, and to
appoint a National Commission on Primary Health Care. This Commission
developed a strategy for improving primary health care in Peru which had as
its main objective making available essential care to underserved populations



- 8 -
in rural and urban areas. The Commission concluded that by using an expanded and
improved primary health care system, operated in a cost effective manner, it would
be possible for the entire population of Peru to have access to primary health
care by the end of this century.
31.       Awareness of the need to reduce Peru's increased population growth rate
has also increased in the last five years. In 1976, the Government established a
population policy with the broad objective of allowing families to decide on their
family size. Following this initiative, the current Government has established a
National Population Council with responsibility for developing, promoting and
coordinating all population activities. Support for the Government's efforts in
this area is being provided by USAID and the United Nations Fund for Population
Activities (UNFPA). With their help, family planning services are now being
provided through the health network and information and contraceptives are now
available at subsidized cost to families that wish to use them. For cultural and
religious reasons, the Government is promoting family planning activities in a
low-keyed manner. Instead of resorting, therefore, to advertising, it is
encouraging family planning through word of mouth efforts such as the home
visiting practice that would be supported under the proposed project.
The Ministry of Health and the Health Care System
32.       About 33 percent of the population receives health services from a
variety of public and private institutions (para. 34) which are coordinated by a
National Health Council. The remaining 67 percent of the population -- or about
11.5 million people -- depend on MOH to provide them with health services but only
about half of these have access to health facilities. MOH was created in 1942 and
now provides a spectrum of medical services ranging from basic health services,
provided by paramedics, to hospital services, provided by highly specialized
personnel in costly facilities. The Ministry has a large central administration
(located in Lima), and sixteen regional directorates charged with delivering the
health services. Central administration in Lima is weak, a fact which reflects
inadequate delegation of decision-making authority -- about thirty directors
report directly to the Minister -- and poor salary levels. Consequently,
management is ineffective and there is excessive paperwork and inefficiency.
33.       The prospects for improving MOH operations are best at the regional
level. Each of the regional directors is appointed by the Minister and has
considerable autonomy in implementing the region's health program. As a result,
an energetic regional director can have considerable impact on improving health
services in his region. Each region is divided administratively into a number of
"hospltal areas," each of which has at least one general hospital and some health
centers and health posts. In theory, each hospital area should be able to provide
all types of health care except those requiring highly sophisticated technology;
in practice the availability of services in many rural and poor areas is limited.
34.       Apart from MOH, the most important provider of health care is the
Peruvian Social Security Institute (IPSS). This institute provides health care to
all salaried workers and their families. IPSS owns its own hospitals in many
areas and, in other areas, uses services and facilities provided by MOH and the
private sector (for a fee). Other public health services are provided by the
armed forces, the police and some public institutions and charitable organizations
administered by MOH. The above institutions serve about 29 percent of the
population. About four percent of the population is serviced by non-public
institutions -- such as private hospitals and clinics -- and the health units of
community-based organizations and cooperatives.



-9-
Health Resources
35.       The number of trained people working in the health sector is inadequate,
particularly with respect to para-professionals. In 1980, there were 12,400
doctors in Peru but there were only 10,000 nurses, 3,900 health technicians, and
7,400 nursing auxiliaries. About a quarter of all doctors, nurses and other
medical staff work for MOH. The situation should improve gradually as about 800
nurses are now being trained each year through universities and nursing schools.
In addition, a number of secondary schools have recently opened training programs
for health auxiliaries. The regional distribution of medical personnel is also
unbalanced in that two-thirds of all doctors live in Lima, a city with about a
quarter of the country's population. In some rural areas, on the other hand,
there is only one doctor for every 10,000 inhabitants. In an attempt to correct
this bias, the Government now requires doctors to spend one year in a rural health
location before being professionally registered.
36.       The distribution of physical resources is also disproportionately
weighted towards urban areas. Overall, Lima has more than 50 percent of the
available hospital beds in the country. In 1980 there were 329 hospitals with
28,708 beds, equivalent to about one bed for every 650 persons, and there were 630
health centers and 1,538 health posts. MOH owned 15,460 of the hospital beds,
most of the health centers (421) and almost all the health posts (1,443). Most
MOH facilities are in a state of disrepair, lack equipment and supplies, and are
inadequately staffed. This is especially true of the health centers and health
posts which have continually suffered from inadequate funding and the lack of a
well-designed primary health care system for using these posts effectively.
Introduction of such a system is the principal objective of the proposed project.
37.       Apart from the problems cited above, MOH's support system also suffers
from inadequate maintenance of facilities, poor logistical procedures, ineffective
supervision of regional offices and inadequate information systems. Efforts are
being made to make improvements in all these areas. The German Government, for
example, is providing assistance to improve maintenance procedures and
facilities and a USAID consultant is working with MOH on developing a scheme for
improving logistics with particular attention to procurement, storage and
distribution of medical supplies. In addition, MOH is working on new procedures
for supervision which will involve more effective use of mid-level managers.
Technical assistance included in the proposed loan to improve programming and
budgeting would assist this effort. Finally, with regard to information, the Pan
American Health Organization and the German Government are working with MOH to
develop a new system which can provide the information necessary to monitor the
health status of the population.
Health Service Financing
38.       Financial resources for health in Peru are limited.  In 1981, MOH's
budget was US$190 million, about 4.4 percent of total Government spending, or only
about US$16 for each person depending on MOH for health services. In comparison
IPSS spent US$245 million on health in 1981 (or about US$130 per person) for the
mainly working and middle class citizens it serves. MOH's underspending is
particularly serious because MOH beneficiaries include Peru's poorest families who
already have the worst health conditions.   Resource allocation also tends to be
biased towards urban areas, rather than rural communities, and towards hospitals
rather than primary health care facilities. Finally, funds allocations within



- 10 -
HOH's budget are such that over 80 percent of the resources are used for capital
exp2rditures and salaries whereas ony 5 percent of the budget is used for medical
supplies. On the other hand, IPSS uses about 15 percent of its budget for medical
supplies. As a result, the poorer people served by MOH often have to buy their
own medicines while IPSS beneficiaries do not have to pay for these.
39.       Despite the Government's commitment to improving health services, MOH
has been at a disadvantage in obtaining more funds because: (i) it has not been
able to demonstrate that it can effectively utilize additional funds; and (ii) the
Government's commitment to a free health policy has meant it has not been able to
recover more than about 10 percent of its budget through user charges.
Establishment of an effective primary health care system which is properly
monitored, should provide MOH with a convincing case for receiving more
resources. In addition, the proposed project includes funds for a study on how a
greater proportion of the budget could be recovered through a better system of
charges (para. 50).
Previous Bank Operations in the Sector
40.       The Bank has not previously lent to the health sector in Peru but has
included health components in projects supporting rural and urban development. The
Program Loan (1693-PE of 1979) included US$2.7 million to finance priority health
imports such as drugs for malaria, TB control, and immunizations. In addition,
the Urban Sites and Services Project (Loan 1283-PE of 1976) provides US$2.1
million for construction, equipping, and staffing of five health centers to
benefit a population of 500,000 living in pueblos jovenes in the southern part of
Lima. Finally, the Puno Rural Development Project (Ln. 1812-PE of 1980) provides
US$1.12 million for constructing, equipping, and staffing several primary health
care facilities. Under both the urban and rural development projects, there were
delays in the acquisition of sites, appointments of key project implementation
personnel, and the design of project components. These activities are, however,
now proceeding satisfactorily. In order to avoid these problems in the case of
the proposed project, site acquisition and design are already well advanced and a
Project Preparation Facility (PPF) advance has been made to help MOH personnel
prepare for project implementation.
PART IV - THE PROJECT
41.       The project has been prepared over the last two years by MOH with
support from Bank staff. It was appraised in March 1982. A report entitled
"Peru - Primary Health Project" (No. 4016 -PE dated October 29, 1982) is being
distributed separately. Annex III contains a supplementary project data sheet.
Negotiations were held in Washington from September 22 to September 24, 1982. The
Peruvian Delegation was headed by Dr. Juan Sotelo, the Peruvian Director General
of Health Services. Mr. Ulysses Montoya reviewed the loan documents on behalf of
the Banco de la Nacion.
Project Objectives and Concept
42.       The proposed project would assist the Government in implementing its
newly adopted national primary health care policy which is designed to extend
basic health services to low-income urban and rural populations. More specifi-
cally the project would, in a cost effective manner, increase availability and
access to primary health services for about 3.5 million people -- equivalent to



- 11 -
about 20 percent of Peru's total population -- living in four selected regions of
the country (para, 47). These people should, as a result of the proposed project,
benefit from (i) lower mortality rates--especially from infectious diseases and
pregnancy complications; (ii) reduced frequency and severity of illnesses;
(iii) reduced malnut.rition; and (iv) improved use of family planning. Specific
objectives have been established for the project in each of these areas (para.
60). In addition the project would demonstrate the feasibility of a primary
health care system which could be expanded, at low cost, to other areas of Peru.
43.       The key to achieving these objectives would be the establishment of 131
semi-autonomous units -- dispersed through the four project regions -- which would
be responsible for delivering primary health care. These units -- called Primary
Health Care Modules (PHCMs) -- would consist, on average, of one health center and
about five supporting health posts and would be staffed with doctors, nurses,
paramedical personnel and auxiliaries (facilities and staffing are discussed in
more detail in paras. 45 and 46). PHCMs in rural areas would each serve, on
average, about 2,400 families while those in urban areas would serve about 6,400
families. While some health centers and posts already exist, the innovative
feature of the project would be the introduction of a management concept for
these. This concept would promote the following principles: (i) community
participation in the determination of the services to be provided; (ii) maximum
delegation of health care functions to non-professionals; (iii) regular systematic
home visiting by health auxiliaries; (iv) individual health checks to determine
what medical assistance is required; and (v) coordination of health care with
development activities of other ministries. The introduction of a regular system
of home visiting will permit these families -- most of whom have had little access
to health care in the past -- to be better informed on good health practices, ways
in which they can improve their diet and ways to control family size.
Project Description
44.       The project would consist of:
(i) infrastructure and equipment - this would cover providing the
buildings, vehicles, equipment and supplies (including medicines)
needed to make the PHCMs functional in the selected regional areas;
(ii) health staff training - this would entail retraining the doctors and
nurses, and training the health auxiliaries and community volunteers
needed to staff the PHCMs;
(iii) community health education - producing health education materials
and promoting community participation in health-related activities;
(iv) monitoring and evaluation - this would provide a monitoring,
supervision and evaluation system for the PCHMs, including a health
financing study;
(v) maintenance - includes construction, furnishing and equipping of two
facilities to maintain project infrastructure and equipment;
(vi) project administration - this would cover the personnel, vehicles,
equipment and technical assistance needed in MOH's headquarters in
Lima for preparing and executing the project; and



- 12 -
(vii) institutional support for MOH - this would provide general
assistance to MOH to improve the Ministry, as a whole, and would
cover management training and workshops for MOH staff, technical
assistance for improving budgeting procedures in the Ministry and
funds to prepare a follow up project.
45.       The infrastructure and equipment component would represent 71 percent of
total costs and would cover setting up the physical facilities so that the 131
PHCMs could be established. Some health centers and posts already exist but
60 new health centers and 118 new health posts would be constructed, furnished and
equipped. In addition, 41 of the existing health centers and 22 existing health
posts would be upgraded to meet standards consistent with the ones being
constructed. These upgraded facilities, as well as an additional 25 health
centers and 38 health posts which have already been constructed, would also be
furnished and equipped. Health posts would be limited facilities designed to
support the home visiting activities of the field nursing auxiliaries with
supplies while health centers would be more extensive facilities providing more
specialized medical and dental staff and equipment. A typical health post would
have an area of about 120m2 and cost US$36,000 while the health centers would have
an area of about 460m2 with an average cost of about US$150,000. The component
would also include construction of staff housing additions to 27 existing health
posts in remote locations and provision of 132 vehicles for health service
delivery. Health centers would have some facilities for routine medical
operations. Cases requiring more specialized treatment or a major operation would
be referred to a local hospital. In most cases these local hospitals are run by
MOH but in some cases IPSS hospitals would have to be used. Currently, there is
no provision for MOH patients to use IPSS facilities. To correct this, by
June 30, 1983, MOH and IPSS would enter into an agreement, acceptable to the Bank,
establishing the terms (including fees) under which MOH patients would have access
to IPSS hospital facilities in the project area (Section 3.01(c) of the draft Loan
Agreement).
46.       Each PHCM would be supervised by a director.  Each health post would
then be staffed with one nurse and about five field auxiliaries for home
visiting. This would mean there would be one health field nursing auxiliary for
each 100-200 families. These auxiliaries would visit each family every two months
and do routine health checks -- referring sick people to the nurses in the health
posts when needed -- and advise on nutritional issues. The auxiliary would also
provide advice and information to individual families on family planning
procedures. Although they could not dispense family planning supplies, these
would be available at low cost, in the health posts and centers for families
wishing to use them. The auxiliary would work with 4-5 community workers.
The nurse in the health post would provide more advanced medical care, information
and training sessions and monitor health information for the families in the
area. Each health center would be staffed with 2-3 doctors, 2-3 nurses and about
10 paramedical staff. These would provide more specialized services and
equipment for the patients requiring it. As noted in para. 36, staffing of health
centers has been a problem in the past primarily because MOH has not provided
sufficient incentives for staff to work in these centers, especially in remote
areas. Because of this, MOH would implement an improved incentive system
satisfactory to the Bank for medical staff, including doctors, working in the
PHCMs, by December 31, 1983 (Section 3.06 of the draft Loan Agreement). As a
first step in this, MOH recently established a system for the remuneration of
field nursing auxiliaries. This was important to transform these auxiliaries, who
would otherwise have been unpaid volunteers, into a corps of full-time health care



- 13 -
specialists, committed to the implementation of the PHCM system. This payment
system would be maintained in the future (Section 3.01(b)(iii) of the draft Loan
Agreement).
47.       The project PHCMs would be established in ten of Peru's 57 hospital
areas. These ten are dispersed in four separate geographic regions of the
country. The regions are: (i) La Libertad -- a region in Peru's northern coast
with a population of 400,000 people in the two hospital areas which have been
selected; (ii) Lima's pueblos jovenes -- these contain about 1.8 million people
living in two densely populated hospital areas; (iii) Centro Medio -- five
hospital areas in Peru's Sierra with a population of 1.1 million people dispersed
over many small towns and remote villages; and (iv) Huanuco -- a hospital area in
the Selva. These regions represent the three distinct examples of Peru's
topography ranging from the dry coastal region to the high mountains in the Sierra
and the more sparsely populated jungle. Thus, the PHCM concept would be widely
tested prior to its introduction, in the future, in other parts of the country.
The specific hospital areas have been selected on the basis of health indicators
which show that the people that would be reached through the project are
low-income families who currently have only limited access to health care.
48.       The health staff training component would amount to about eight percent
of project costs. Under this component all PHCM staff in the project regions --
about 27,000 people -- would receive some form of training. In order to ensure
there would be sufficient staff for the PHCMs--allowing for some turnover--about
180 directors, 360 doctors, 1,180 nurses and 1,360 paramedical support staff would
be retrained and about 4,500 field nursing auxiliaries and about 20,000 community
volunteers would be trained. This training would focus on the health, nutritional
and family planning aspects of the PHCM concept and on procedures as well as the
respective roles of the medical staff in carrying the PHCM concept out. The
training would be executed in three phases. The first phase would involve
definition of job descriptions and development of training curricula for each job;
this would include design, testing, and printing of operational manuals and
initial training curricula. Subsequent phases would provide for initial training
of trainers and key staff for the PHCMs, followed by continuing education and
training of staff at the module level. The first phase of this component is being
funded through a Bank-financed PPF and will be completed during 1982 so that the
training of key personnel could start promptly once the proposed loan was declared
effective. Training would be performed by teams in each hospital area composed of
about three professionals; a doctor, a nurse, and a health educator. The training
teams would provide initial training in the field and would be responsible for
continuing education and in-service training according to their assessment of the
operating needs of particular modules.
49.       The community health education component would represent seven percent
of total costs. MOH's Department of Health Education, with technical assistance
financed under the proposed loan, would produce: (i) a manual demonstrating to
PHCM staff how non-formal education and community participation techniques can be
applied to health promotion; (ii) about 400 two-minute radio spots on various
health topics which would be available for broadcast by local radio stations;
(iii) a series of health related leaflets for house-to-house distribution; and
(iv) sets of posters, flip charts and demonstration materials for use in health
posts and centers. Hospital area health educators would also train local staff in
health education techniques and local production of audiovisual material. With
respect to community participation, MOH has had some experience with the introduc-
tion of innovative activities; for example they have promoted the development of
vegetable gardens, sewing clubs, construction of wells and latrines, and meal



- 14 -
preparaAion programs. These experiments have been successful and the project
w t-Id pi ovide support for MOH so the scheme can be expanded. The specific details
ci this subcomponent would be designed with the participation of
individual communities. MOH would agree with the Bank, by June 30 of each year
from 1983 onwards, on the activities to be carried out under this component in the
following year (Section 3.08 of the draft Loan Agreement).
50.       The monitoring and evaluation component would represent two percent of
total costs. Execution of this component is important so that the effectiveness
of the PHCM concept can be reviewed before an attempt is made to expand it on a
national scale. Every six months, the PHCM staff would monitor the health status
of the families under their responsibility and the extent to which the programmed
services were being provided. Continuing education and program improvement would
then be based on an analysis by the members of the PHCM team of achievements and
problems within the module. This component would also provide for specific
evaluation of the health status changes of the target populations to determine
whether the targets described in para. 60 were being met as well as an assessment
of the costs involved in achieving these changes. This evaluation would be done
by consultants financed under the loan. The proposals, evaluation and contract
for this work would be submitted to the Bank for review by December 30, 1983
(Section 3.02 (i) of the draft Loan Agreement). Finally, the project would provide
technical assistance and funds for a study on Peru's health financing system, and
the feasibility of increased cost recovery for MOH services (para. 39). The
contract and terms of reference for this study would be submitted to the Bank by
June 30, 1983 and by June 30, 1984 the Bank and the National Health Council would
jointly review the study's recommendations with a view to their implementation
(Sections 3.02 (ii) and 4.04 of the draft Loan Agreement).
51.       The maintenance component would represent two percent of total project
costs. Consultants financed by the German Government (para. 37) concluded that
the best way to improve MOH's maintenance practices would be to establish small
regional maintenance centers. Following their recommendations, the project would
provide for the construction, furnishing and equipping of two maintenance centers
in Huanuco and Centro Medio and four staff months of technial assistance for the
design of the maintenance centers. These centers would then provide the equipment
and staff needed to maintain MOH's facilities in these two regions. Improved
maintenance facilities in the other two regions -- similar to those which would be
constructed under the proposed project -- are being financed by the German
Government.
52.       The project administration component, including funds used for project
preparation, would represent nine percent of total project costs. Although the
project would be implemented by the existing line-units of the MOH, it is
necessary to provide technical assistance to ensure proper management. The
project would, therefore, include 60 staff months of technical assistance in the
form of an advisor who would be hired to assist in project management. It would
also provide support to the Directorate of Health Services, the Office of Physical
Infrastructure and the School of Public Health with additional personnel
(particularly engineers for assistance in construction supervision), equipment and
vehicles. Finally, under this component financing would be provided for external
auditing of project accounts.
53.       The institutional support for MOH component would represent one percent
of total project costs and is designed to improve MOH's overall technical and
managerial capabilities -- particularly in the areas of training, staff develop-
ment, and planning, organization and administration. Specifically, the project



- 15 -
would provide: (i) 36 staff months of technical assistance to improve MOH's plan-
ning and budgeting procedures; (ii) 60 staff-months of scholarships abroad to
improve technical and managerial skills of MOH personnel; (iii) a management
workshop for MOH directors, and others for regional and hospital area civil works
personnel; (iv) 20 seminars on primary health policy concepts and strategies; and
(v) about six staff months of technical assistance to prepare a second project for
possible Bank financing.
Project Cost and Financing
54.       The total project costs -- including contingencies, taxes and duties --
are estimated at US$55.5 million. The foreign exchange component is estimated at
US$17.5 million, or about 32 percent of total project cost. US$3.1 million has
been included for physical contingencies reflecting ten percent of the base cost
for civil works, furniture, equipment, vehicles, and materials. Price contingen-
cies are based on projected international and local price increases (in dollar
terms) of eight percent in 1983, seven and one half percent in 1984, seven percent
in 1985, and six percent thereafter. Local cost contingencies have been
calculated in US dollar equivalents on the assumption that variations in the
exchange rate would compensate for the difference between local and international
inflation. Taxes and duties are estimated to be about US$2.2 million. Total
financing required for the project is US$56 million including a US$495,074
front-end fee.
55.       The proposed Bank loan of US$33.5 million would cover about 60 percent
of the estimated financial requirements, including the front-end fee. The loan
would cover 100 percent of the foreign costs of the project and US$15.5 million or
41 percent of local costs. Local cost financing is proposed because of the
importance of establishing a strong primary health care system in Peru and the
fact that the principal beneficiaries in the project would be rural and urban
poor. In addition, it is justified because the Government currently faces serious
fiscal and balance of payments difficulties (para. 21). The remaining US$22.5
million in project costs would be provided by the Government and the Government's
1983 budget includes the funds needed the first year of the project. In the past,
there has been no separation of funds allocated to hospitals and other health
activities. This has lead to a problem with regional hospitals absorbing most of
the funds budgeted for health posts. So that this problem can be avoided in the
future, from 1984 onwards separate operating budgets and accounts would be kept
for the hospitals and PHCMs (Section 3.01(b)(i) and (ii) of the draft Loan
Agreement).
Project Execution
56.       MOH would be responsible for implementing the project, using its exist-
ing line mangement. The Vice-Minister of Health would be responsible for
overseeing the project at a senior level and assuring full coordination among the
different MOH units involved in implementation. A full time project executive
director, satisfactory to the Bank, has been appointed to oversee the day-to-day
implementation of the project. This director, who works within the Directorate of
Health Services, would: (i) with the assistance of MOH's School of Public Health,
administer the training system for the project; (ii) with MOHRs Office of Physical
Infrastructure, administer the implementation of the civil works; (iii) with other
MOH directorates coordinate, administer and monitor other centrally related
activities such as procurement and accounting; and (iv) supervise the work of the
regional directorates and hospital areas in carrying out the actual training of



- 16 -
personnel, execution of civil works and operation of the system. To ensure
on-schedule project implementation and to strengthen MOH's management and
administrative capacities, funds would be provided under the loan for technical
assistance at the Project Office level (para. 52). The Vice-Minister would assume
the role of project director and MOH would consult with the Bank on the
qualifications and experience of any future candidate for the position of project
executive director (Section 3.01(e) of the draft Loan Agreement).
Disbursements and Procurement
57.       The proposed loan would be disbursed over six and one-half years against
the following eligible expenditures: (i) 70 percent of expendiures on civil
works; (ii) 100 percent of foreign expenditures for imported equipment, furniture,
vehicles and materials; (iii) 100 percent of ex-factory costs for locally
manufactured furniture, equipment, materials and vehicles; (iv) 65 percent of
costs for any imported items which are locally procured; and (v) 100 percent of
foreign expenditures for training abroad and 100 percent of expenditures for
technical assistance.
58.        Large medical equipment items and vehicles amounting to about US$4
million would be procured under international competitive bidding procedures in
accordance with Bank guidelines. For these items, local suppliers and those from
Cartagena agreement member countries (or any other regional trade agreement
acceptable to the Bank of which Peru is or may become a member) would be accorded
a preference representing the difference between the prevailing duty actually
applicable and the duty applicable to goods imported from non-member countries, or
15 percent on the c.i.f. price, whichever is lower. The regional preference would
not be applied, however, if a domestic manufacturer was determined to be the lower
bidder after application of the domestic preference. Civil works accounting for
about US$10 million are too widely dispersed and too small to be of interest to
international bidders and would, therefore, be awarded on the basis of local
competitive bidding procedures satisfactory to the Bank. The construction of the
smallest, most remote health posts and staff housing with a total value of about
US$5 million, would be done through force account mainly by co-operacion popular,
community self-help organizations established and supported by the Government.
Small pieces of medical equipment and supplies (including medicines with a value
of about US$1 million) would be procured through UNICEF. The total value of these
items is expected to be about US$5 million. Procurement by UNICEF would result in
cost savings of about 30 percent owing to economies resulting from UNICEF's
worldwide purchasing operations. Some furniture, equipment and vehicles with a
combined value of US$3 million would be procured through local competitive bidding
in accordance with procedures satisfactory to the Bank. Additional items, with a
total value of $100,000, would be purchased through local shopping procedures
agreed with the Bank. In total about 200 staff months of technical assistance
services would be provided under the project. The average cost of these would be
about US$8,500 per staff month, including travel costs and expenses. All
consultants financed under the project would have qualifications acceptable to the
Bank and would be hired in accordance with Bank guidelines under terms and
conditions satisfactory to the Bank (Section 3.02 of the draft Loan Agreement).
59.       Government agencies in Peru have sometimes had difficulty in executing
Bank civil works projects in the past because they have not had the funds needed
to pay civil works contractors while waiting to be reimbursed by the Bank. In
order to permit more rapid provision of funds, therefore, the Borrower would
establish, on terms and conditions satisfactory to the Bank, a dollar-denominated
special account in the Banco de la Nacion into which funds from the proposed Bank



- 17 -
loan would be advanced (Section 2.02(c) through (g) of the draft Loan Agreement).
This account is expected to consist of an estimated three months Bank
disbursements for civil works at any time. For its part, the Government would, by
March 31, 1983, also establish a revolving fund -- in the Banco de la Nacion and
on terms and conditions satisfactory to the Bank -- which would be used to pay the
civil works contractors. This revolving fund would consist of not less than two
months payment needs and would be replenished by the Government with its
counterpart funds -- and withdrawals from the special account each time a payment
is made (Sections 2.02(d) and 3.01(f) of the draft Loan Agreement).
Project Benefits
60.       The project's immediate benefit would be to improve the health services
provided to about 3.5 million people in the four project regions. Specific health
objectives have been set for each of these regions. These objectives are: (i) to
reduce mortality caused by diarrhoeal diseases by up to 40 percent, respiratory
diseases by up to 25 percent, diseases preventable by immunization by up to
70 percent, and pregnancy complications by up to 50 percent; (ii) to reduce the
frequency and severity of illnesses due to diarrhoeal disease and respiratory
infections by up to 50 percent, disease preventable by vaccinations by up to
70 percent, and infections during pregnancy by up to 40 percent; (iii) to reduce
the severity of malnutrition by up to 40 percent; and (iv) to increase the number
of family planning users by up to 20 percent. These health targets have been
carefully established and are technically feasible since most of the people to be
served in the four project regions are very poor, have high levels of mortality
and morbidity, and presently have little or no access to modern and effective
health care. While the project would have substantial direct benefits in terms of
its effect on both saving lives and improving living standards, there is no means
of quantifying these. Hence, no economic rate of return has been calculated.
61.       With the achievement of the anticipated lower levels of morbidity and
mortality through this project, the following secondary benefits are expected to
ensue: (i) lower incidence and prevalence of disease would ensure more days of
economic activity and higher productivity for the target population; and (ii)
better health among children in the project area would ensure better attendance
and performance in schools, resulting indirectly in higher returns from public
investments in education. In addition, experience in other countries shows that
reduced infant mortality should be a key step in introducing more widespread
acceptance of reduced family size in Peru. This is especially important since it
would reinforce recent positive trends towards easing of population growth rates
in the country (para. 6).
62.       Total annual costs of this scheme would only be about US$7 per
beneficiary, well below MOH's current budget allocation of US$16 per
capita. Thus the project could provide the basis for a primary health scheme
which, if effective, could be replicated on a national scale inexpensively.  This
would provide a means by which Peru could improve substantially the health status
of its population in an affordable way.
Project Risks
63.       The general institutional weaknesses of MOH raises a risk that the
project would not be implemented successfully. To protect against this risk: (i)
the project has been limited initially to four areas of the country; (ii) training
activities have been initiated prior to Board presentation (using PPF financing);



- 18 -
(iii) the basic elements of the proposed PHCM system are simple and have been
successfully introduced in other countries; (iv) technical assistance is being
provided to assist in project execution; and (v) additional support is being
provided to MOH by USAID, the German Government and PAHO in areas which would
strengthen support activities within MOH. In addition, the project would be
closely supervised by Bank staff.
PART V - LEGAL INSTRUMENTS AND AUTHORITY
64.       The (i) draft Loan Agreement between the Republic of Peru, Banco de la
Nacion (which under Peruvian law must be a party to all external loans to the
Government) and the Bank; and (ii) Report of the Committee provided for in Article
III, Section 4(iii) of the Bank's Articles of Agreement are being distributed to
the Executive Directors separately.
65.       The main features of the draft Loan Agreement are referred to in the
text of this report and referred to in Annex III.
66.       I am satisfied that the proposed loan would comply with the Articles of
Agreement of the Bank.
PART VI - RECOMMENDATION
67.       I recommend that the Executive Directors approve the proposed loan.
A. W. Clausen
President
Attachments
Washington, D.C.
November 5, 1982



- 19 -
Page 1
TABLE 3A
PERU - SOCIAL INDICATORS DATA SHEET
PERU                           REFERENCE GROUPS (WEIGHTED A"E AGES
AREA (THOUSAND SQ. KM.)                                                                - MOST RECENT ESTIMATE)-
TOTAL            1285.2                                   MOST RECENT             MIDDLE INCOME             MIDDLE INCOME
AGRICULTURAL      305.5               1960  /b    1970 /b ESTIMATE /b    LATIN AMERICA & CARIBBEAN              EUROPE
GNP PER CAPITA (US$)                   290.0        470.0      930.0                    1902.0                     2323.9
ENERGY CONSUMPTION PER CAPITA
(KILOGRAMS OF COAL EQUIVALENT)       417.3        662.7      716.1                   1259.9                     2107.4
POPULATION AND VITAL STATISTICS
TOPULATION, MID-YEAR (THOUSANDS) 10181.0        13461.0   17379.0
URBAN POPULATION (PERCENT OF TOTAL) 46.3           57.4       67.4                      65.7                      47.9
POPULATION PROJECTIONS
POPULATION IN YEAR 2000 (MILLIONS)                          27.3
STATIONARY POPULATION (MILLIONS)                           48.8
YEAR STATIONARY POPULATION IS REACHED                     2080
POPULATION DENSITY
PER SQ. EM.                          7.9         10.5       13.2                     35.2                       83.3
PER SQ. KM. AGRICULTURAL LAND       33.3         45.0       55.5                     92.5                      155.4
POPULATION AGE STRUCTURE (PERCENT)
0-14 YRS.                           43.6         44.3       42.9                     39.7                       31.1
15-64 YRS.                           52.0         51.7       53.8                     56.1                       61.2
65 YRS. AND ABOVE                     4.4          3.9        3.5                      4.2                         7.7
POPULATION GROWTH RATE (PERCENT)
TOTAL                                2.4          2.8        2.6                      2.4                        1.6
URBAN                                5.1          4.9        4.2                      3.8                        3.5
CRUDE BIRTH RATE (PER THOUSAND)       46.5         41.5       35.9                     31.4                       23.6
CRUDE DEATH RATE (PER THOUSAND)       20.0         14.8       10.9                      8.4                         9.2
GROSS REPRODUCTION RATE                3.3          3.0        2.4                       2.1                        1.6
FAMILY PLANNING
ACCEPTORS, ANNUAL (THOUSANDS)
USERS (PERCENT OF MARRIED WOMEN)    ..             ..
FOOD AND NUTRITION
INDEX OF FOOD PRODUCTION
PER CAPITA (1969-71-100)            96.0        102.0       77.0                    110.0                      116.0
PER CAPITA SUPPLY OF
CALORIES (PERCENT OF
REQUIREHENTS)                     98.3         97.2      97.5/c                   108.4                      125.1
PROTEINS (GRAMS PER DAY)            64.0         60.1       59.2/c                   66.0                       92.7
OF WHICH ANIMAL AND PULSE         28.0         25.1      24.0T7                    34.0                       35.9
CHILD (AGES 1-4) MORTALITY RATE       37.8         20.2        9.5                      5.6                        9.2
HEALTH
LIFE EXPECTANCY AT BIRTH (YEARS)    47.4           53.1       58.1                     64.2                       67.6
INFANT MORTALITY RATE (PER
THOUSAND)                            162.9        119.7       87.7                     64.2                       65.1
ACCESS TO SAFE WATER (PERCENT OF
POPULATION)
TOTAL                               14.6         35.0       48.3                     65.6
URBAN                               30.2         58.0       60.0                     78.9
RURAL                                0.8          8.0       25.0                     43.9
ACCESS TO EXCRETA DISPOSAL (PERCENT
OF POPULATION)
TOTAL                                 ..         36.0       34.0                     59.3
URBAN                                 ..         52.0       51.0                     75.3
RURAL                                 ..         16.0         ..                     30.0
POPULATION PER PHYSICIAN            2011.7       1904.9    1532.4/c                  1617.3                     1105.4
POPULATION PER NURSING PERSON       2205.0/d    1000.5       676.177                 1063.5                      634.4
POPULATION PER HOSPITAL BED
TOTAL                              425.1        469.6      538.3/c                  477.4                      286.8
URBAN                              273.8/e      524.9     426.477                   679.8                      192.0
RURAL                                 ..       3055.2    5705.2/c                  1903.4
ADMISSIONS PER HOSPITAL BED              ..        19.0       23.0/c                    27.3                      20.0
HOUSING
AVERAGE SIZE OF HOUSEHOLD
TOTAL                                4.9          4.8/f
URBAN                                4.8          4.97         ..
RURAL                                4.9          4.67        ..
AVERAGE NUMBER OF PERSONS PER ROOM
TOTAL                                2.3          1.9/f
URBAN                                2.0          1.7/f
RURAL                                2.7          2.47        ..
ACCESS TO ELECTRICITY (PERCENT
OF DWELLINGS)
TOTAL                               26.0         32.0/f
URBAN                               50.7         54.3/f
RURAL                                4.2          2.77'       .



- 20 -
Page 2
TABLE 3A
PERU - SOCIAL INDICATORS DATA SHEET
PERU                         REFERENCE GROUPS (WEIGHTED AVERA5ES
- MOST RECENT ESTIMATE)
MOST RECENT             MIDDLE INCOME          MIDDLE INCOME
1960  /b    1970 lb ESTIMATE /b    LATIN AMERICA & CARIBBEAN         EUROPE
EDUCATION
ADJUSTED ENROLLMENT RATIOS
PRIMARY:    TOTAL                 83.0       103.0     112.0                    104.3                    102.4
MALE                 95.0       111.0     115.0/c                 106.4                     107.1
FEMALE               71.0        96.0     108.0Th                 103.3                      99.0
SECONDARY:   TOTAL                15.0        30.0      50.0/c                  41.3                      60.2
MALE                 18.0        34.0      53.O7T                  40.4                      66.4
FEMALE               13.0        26.0      46.0/c                  41.8                      54.0
VOCATIONAL ENROL. (% OF SECONDARY) 19.9         17.1      18.3/c                  33.7                      31.6
PUPIL-TEACHER RATIO
PRIMARY                           33.6        35.5      40.2                    29.9                      25.8
SECONDARY                         12.3        17.3      29.2                     16.7                     22.2
ADULT LITERACY RATE (PERCENT)       61.0        72.5/f   79.7                      79.1                     75.9
CONSUMPTION
PASSENGER CARS PER THOUSAND
POPULATION                         7.8        17.1      18.6/c                  42.8                      51.0
RADIO RECEIVERS PER THOUSAND
POPULATION                       108.0       135.1     147.5                   270.5                     157.2
TV RECEIVERS PER THOUSAND
POPULATION                         3.2        29.3      50.2                   107.7                     123.7
NEWSPAPER ("DAILY GENERAL
INTEREST") CIRCULATION PER
THOUSAND POPULATION                   ..       123.3      S1.4/c                  63.7                     112.3
CINEMA ANNUAL ATTENDANCE PER CAPITA  6.4          ..        ..                      2.7                      4.0
LABOR FORCE
TOTAL LABOR FORCE (THOUSANDS)    3186.8       3891.8   5149.2
FEMALE (PERCENT)                  21.2        20.8      23.2                    24.4                      36.6
AGRICULTURE (PERCENT)             52.5        48.0      40.0                    31.3                      38.7
INDUSTRY (PERCENT)                19.6        18.4      18.5                    23.9                      25.9
PARTICIPATION RATE (PERCENT)
TOTAL                               31.3        28.9      29.6                     33.6                     44.5
MALE                                49.6        45.8      45.5                     50.4                     56.3
FEMALE                              13.2        12.0      13.7                     16.8                     32.8
ECONOMIC DEPENDENCY RATIO              1.5         1.7       1.6                      1.3                      0.9
INCOME DISTRIBUTION
PERCENT OF PRIVATE INCOME
RECEIVED BY
HIGHEST 5 PERCENT OF HOUSEHOLDS   39.O/g        ..
HIGHEST 20 PERCENT OF HOUSEHOLDS  64.47j      61.0/f
LOWEST 20 PERCENT OF HOUSEHOLDS    2.5         1.97        ...
LOWEST 40 PERCENT OF HOUSEHOLDS    8.0Zi      7.07        .
POVERTY TARGET GROUPS
ESTIMATED ABSOLUTE POVERTY INCOME
LEVEL (US$ PER CAPITA)
URBAN                               ..          ..     235.0/c
RURAL                               ..          ..     180.07                   184.1
ESTIMATED RELATIVE POVERTY INCOME
LEVEL (US$ PER CAPITA)
URBAN                               ..          ..     293.0/c                 518.0
RURAL                               ..          ..     2O.07c                  371.1                     406.6
ESTIMATED POPULATION BELOW POVERTY
INCOME LEVEL (PERCENT)
URBAN                               ..          ..      49.0/c
RURAL                               ..          ..
Not available
Not applicable.
NOTES
/a  The group averages for each indicator are population-weighted arithmetic means. Coverage of couotries
among the indicators depends on availability of data and is not uniform.
/b   Unless otherwise noted, data for 1960 refer to any year between 1959 and 1961; for 1970, between 1969
and 1971; and for Most Recent Estimate, between 1978 and 1980.
/c  1977;  /d 1964;  /e 1962; /f 1972; /g Personal income within labor force.
May, 1982



-   21   -                                                                                         Ias 
DtF:NIT1OttS DF 5kedl fIDflCATt.OS
totra.    ino  ittx  da L an. oaeloaree    aecy.aa    ttmraoolacs00t.a .i  ati-.lo                                             ..t.ine   tote -tna    thx coeoo rer
cne.eaa.  asra. t. ceecrabcrdern -a mga.... ... onl.                                         _iacs.  ttd  nar.cteaaecertin  a7 o  tcterseoI
Oheroceeove  droorare(l?ciaa.acafltfydtopatontealroclcoI-    ty979 J---n. t.OOapttsot                   -dt Iartecel-.ahnescrntcdo
cttetrooaait    ecep  tt  En    ooa    El  xprtrs   too  coce    il.r  tomaNorh   ftEtaan  Cddl  Estis  hoet oebye  t stoge
GNPl-UPER                GNPEn    a.  ntierfrci   ro   aeterc'.e   c   oaaEladir  cci.   Oticr                        ede  a racEd.d   Eotcc   eoe from111   "n.      'lla
ma(rttai  hecoa:ros -Ehadro   c.-asdaaoptt  odELa%-Dcr Ocr  Insa                              . rooot  adi-I  -ins    -1iet  dependstl  -at ohs aoalnl-t ot tt
di   attai-m    atonatatrle    npdtnBnrgmron   olaoUodtit:    as                                                    I.erag .acolyoel .  I, nepacoogtneeaioe
Et9t7 tcc..a...  .....t....                                                                                                                              f_ LendIre......gr  .I 
tiEd   ttnoosandaqts.(                                                   Pon-~~llaric.i      d   Illll tsiaEaie-oaoort  .nd o.a.PotcatacI             aa
eordosceacoacasrtlod   resrndnlaomaarecdOdar.                   _so   Inroa .    onaehy.ipepe.teo.ar. _rptta
1972. analifi data                                                                   reatoak   ssistant.noess ,  Eas-,   etc-I  actea-e npt etac-
tcEoc---iit         960oia 970E coa dootiato  pee. ceEa   Oi   90   -a.1                           csa-hrEio               apitetr Pr.o"       de    nyoceoti
Eci a                                                                                    oaOtasEc__tPI.".  f.  b,s r - hspe     Lad  -otl  -toner at satamEottoor  teictge
fia  csptat  atafa h  iat cota  at oats  .. -     .
lad.?tclalI.Edan lttosaas-Eo   Dal  El 11  1070. aod . 1990...EEESEt
caea -                                                                                   cortars hIts ath da1-omehng J.Ii.    ...d   (peranta pse rhopseinIy.it      tt   r   oa 
_rer_iod ic. rcec ci tore  1-1 - dkrcn FapE arcil to   ...ta   ponotoo;knsti   asaaatagapa   aEaol womtr    ag0at
_oa   opltx   0y eLe -maham ad .ihycsetdf      yam   erdai   ats                     Otat fra     .msent gs.                 _,tieg   Ialaeet-essee,atcae
zrhetxtpr aa -Iscs fo.raity   ae  aets  a   insEnl  astIoaipedpes
ceoel . ne tamae late  spettea     y taklae    at7.ter.Ti   ac                         aettxs           leanEhaart  e ?'    - 1-01 nIt8. 7aaitrd-a
'ethit   av..o gtoliasthns  adYatelatldpaxeig  aeo-aaoe
-lani cocetry. I  dstitoaiged  ne o   thes   mice oxbetoom   ofmat:ty               OcCrf
and fortaliep  trends m   prnlirac    yotpx-s                                         Adi     'tr .. .n .....t t    -ailoa-f--L~R-                 ,
___________________  asta ixer  onalakxeties  l  ongrorn  are  Poxay shox  -  nte. mle  idtesot-cos   oxal                  I mae -ad LIcl
c-t  n rticee o  eqelin  ie  ecr  rte.amaela es aa xpo toe r-     rnlleat  t al aresatsheyrItai t           n..s.   srhmtgesofces-i ir
nale   oesan...    ac i- votane   oxhp ytter teti_v  rtesdria.,rte    ieiasppltxetoae                                                        oldsvtde   ;d6l
ti   enasirt  reln  a m  e  rpndito    at,whr anhIeIrtenyat                   fotI.,td   x  di,_tlaemletna   prs    exatte   e
2   nai-elve   csiEnaa  y           hseata__pooa txcseaeocne..ihatota  eoa.e.eolst   a   neea10                                                                 .eim
mt caoed a  tie  asic    t   Pth   prlon hritraisa    s  ooaorsnc   x pp  nae  enea   ia  tEaatfE tt_Lnxl  ga
:-Lneo    1000 7ca  the iet  otdmktt'.. ki-terlir  rate h.to. re  as                          etnaocmE    na.wl  e   eae-  xpeasbi;eodr
occ  ,aoe.       -ltcxt!aendresa  lese   ar.ear  or aptie ...ar.                                                                                                   asrr..on
Eaaoieaisy pradixeEarertd-  hs  ea  rfex satExar  pdoltPm trtoe   gm                  tsi  niae -nna.rteahe   ErPein           .nercit.       trpa.l
ale   o               -P-ut            hid he-1  ce.v.e&                                          omasLyh ci 1r i   7yasx    gtvrapndnaoxr                         t   eaai
oa-;1900, 1970, s    Ld 1979  data.-                                      Psro-tesaterdemal-.paat.te.simsy-Tt soaterLb sd  am
Poaaianiearooeptet       hler(-4yasI  votakog1 -ags 1-pray !'                                             :sey secmdty  aas    ie  Op           f na bIs of   -dreet  id eitc
haree P. and reIred 95       nasaa   ne   spetnarsr   d-rs  pp-d                                crePoxin   lnss
latixe  1960  1990.and 100 data.    Idalt71Et -eer  r ts                                                         t a  Iemnt  -Ikeereem   9- idlt  ta-l rnred end  etta
year papaEa95an  Pa  1960-670 199-70,CONSU1M70-ON
tarlitha tr- 199-00, II9...-70, 'A In Li7-00.         .P   L  ..  I    Iy.                    Pe...en.xarlee  (per rnaoaad aoeoda-ao Pe--9aaetn  oascep-                sao
"PnyI t.Eaa   a9Ed.       era -   1990  ca                                                       aEarar  vehIles
Grn   ei   ar    e   hcant.        ara  Osa-hs pet thx.... d  ox mad-na__l,aeirsprtotm    naltai   m                                               ye  aIt r    nr   o   ai
-ayoo-aIii  .90.ln,ata19   aa                                                                   epao     -tt  gethlptt    e  hmeoa   aoain   r  ae    r
F-ilEy  rts   sal   isya sPerga - ratr  In 1960, 1970, ena i991.                                 motcaeieeokmd    ieag
yeaolyPlanamr-dvartdee  rand (riho...d. -d     nol-oe   idoyneI  nar-r   eriomr   omaln)-O   es-estriaitr
at7 ot-onriaeie  ooeaaros  tntinl  aay   inon   rgrm                  errlyalcpa   hoae  pplt-rItm  oesat Eesd  Vrrenr
cier0tred  roaetn  etCaEt 099-1-dO   -tidr  f  erositarraa                             trea  ana   Ltmeedoni parCaia  a  lear - -L-    Shte  an . -ire             cj- o
prod AMoNTRIeaTIalOaN          akie.Pnataeei'dasndadf                             n               Prbinkass sald    .d  , dotig hi   peat ...ildoc   idatm.s.. teelm-ns
Per osette earply of welatlee (patient ot renmtrtaartt)-Caepaeed  frau            armed Excise and aeaapiarsd bat eta iaaieg homaselnes. siodemes. eti..'i.
emargy emmloakant af man trad emypalaZs - I ara -abl  tro oete  parg -ap --          oxetegpp latia  ofalan. ahsit  I   aia   xai                               r
pa  dat-mial  sple   npi- aaiipcdvlt   mit  lc                                                   a   xtraloi6.170ad1- ae
_mankeos  _sad  hix hn  p aimgl  and  lasses  _nddtbta.tqie                                    etate    otse  -Lttfrsi   ate.frney   aee   n
bisil   ral   9krS  1970 end '. 191 data.                                                 itO. 1970 ceO 980 data
nert appy   o   oa        a.   e  epiy      o  tadEsot.treaane.O-si  hyras   r  nqae  a   oa,-aa rdbEses ehr teta
qctrssets totalt onPesr-s estitms   Op.O  pronid  tot   "attaIpetoneag                                        I of toal  mal   and  tasi  toali-lr   talsacep           ey
altsie  h9  paaa  total. prteia pe  day-end D -eca  of-d ams ed.                        I1960           ;IZ. 1970.md90 data   Oh19r80 ada   ie   atiptts    a
yalfta pen daL. atatt  1   esatddh  anial.r..im.Liseee_a  i                                           7laotmreeen -mttmtroxtart  tosprlto,aalm    tated
"I teld tod-are;19i6.90an  tIAP?1data.                                                          taahs total labat -   fatat.fy
roedEoscrial  adpias  m  rtape   ec   9h-6,190  n  17  data.                          atICO 96n otirgotrotoerr-L.. I  L,.
CIi tacas If--.) Irsat Raeype  hNatas) - axaf    datitt pa   hiaeaE                             eoxaeo  Pmaxba.(ihi   ee   odee)-9tEe   yroa
tries  cre aeated  tns lif  rabia;19, 190ad  F98 dLr.                                     ad60 ho9asbn fde
aafr;16.190cd18   ar.adeai  oe t9epeeoxi   aeaaalaaox
I d          --   hh.-tatarit  nt  If pe   h.sra      exlcan   rctacsodraeye                   i msaA lt PPwrty Ifno   lee  IEb prcyie-armai   ot   
aeae  a  n         Inen  lane, ti,10,17   n  1t800  -da.  a23lt  pnprrt-s  esic  ta  axio   -ee1eoriat    t
psroatigenot  is it  eepeotie poymataxo7   Era   t eaeath,vo s Reka rt td                                   a     Fdmr.,  .IrmcP  'lame  is- 1enned Era  ti.dra
booed Ia -or trandyxer layette oa Imrdt Fn10   etr  lo       ooe   a  nef.d             I ooaihdro          o Iar ftonrns   t  oeE    ia   cn
o naae   mistmael  esicmaaosaa   htiae.I   oa   ra7iioiiyroa  o  ao,-n  oaPnre  toane   prei-ra
raasona -l ocetLaoi  Itlytht  ieoxmatf  at65  19mie 0 at c1977   Id--                        anMFDISRotaB-PeTIONiaypmthsmrtadroelaeeaaeao
xx norhens  o oeesdisr     ...r..mdt pati as toe   h.  .. fet.tng.ch
tetll p  ymrx   needs.'L 
OconrestoEnorrra losrosal caernnnt or ropaianlona-corel . ai-man.- awe total--4  IId
fticapIf.o   poae  ts           ha-r aip isa   tld
ciAL  ciseT         d   ipsl,eeHtaiaerssae    fsae   ani
miSat-ae    r aetrarsssssx  tnt. -ss at.. pEr plahem  ahs            ap...l-....
le   tialr tans.
Platr lepa  Pcaaax   Ppoatandkiddontosir  t  tat sigprso                                                                       txosd   ia,h.e  aiaO_aeo
clnsqaliia    Ers              96ca 0ottla            -fa-at  ln f.                                                      Evmti  elpkdaaPa7mcn.Dpre
Poexlaxam ear n.rsina Ptrax  - Ppalaria   atnidedhr natre  at pestis keg                                 ran 198
male ered Onsie  mradaatsoaeses, eeafstaatoornec. reani icat raises eod~~(~S
narsflgamadl tarses:90  I  ido                                                                                          --



I                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      I



- 22 -
PERE                                                                                                         ANNEX I
Page 4 of 5
ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT DATA
ACGT UA L                                                        ESTIMATEE        PROJECTED                 GROWTH NATE (5 p.s.)                 1977
NATIONAL ACCOUNTS                                          1965             1970          1975           A976           1977          1979          1979p           1980p          1981             1995            1965-76      1976-80      1980-85             7 of
(millions of CS dollaro at 1977 pricos)                                                                                                                                                                                                                          CDP
Cross D-ometic Prodoot                                    8902.5          10693.6       13376.9        13647.1       13639.6        13570.0       14079.0         14516.4        15082.5          18792.5             3.9           1.6         5.3              100.0
GReis from Tor=s of Trade                                 -610.9            130.0        -246.9         -179.4            0.0       -235.9          679.9           872.1          317.0            558.2             n.a           0.0         -.a                0
Gro-s D-oetlo I-ncomm (GDY)                               8291.6          10823.6       13129.9        13467.7       13639.6        13334.9       14758.9         15388.5        15399.9          19350.7             4.4           3.4         4.7              100.0
Imports                                                   1840.2           2190.1        2985.4         2697.7        2706.8         1888.7        2086.8          3004.6         3455.3           3724.7             3.5           2.7         4.4               19.8
Exports                                                   2314.3           2616.8        1906.9         1908.8        2129.5         2431.2        2730.1          2579.5         2632.6           2979.6            -1.7           7.8         2.9               15.6
Enporto, Torms of Trade Adjooted                          1703.4           2746.8        1660.0         1729.4        2129.5         2195.3        3410.0          3450.6         2949.6           3537.8             0.1          18.9         0.5               15.6
Resoorce Cap, Teron of Trade Adjooted (-: surplus)         136.8           -556.7        1325.4          968.3         577.3        -306.6        -1323.2         -446.0           505.7            186.9             0.0          0.0          0.0                4.2
Total Crnsumption                                         6461.3           8669.0       11319.3        11694.8       12172.2        11272.3       11633.5         12543.7        12990.5          15787.9             5.4           1.8         4.7               89.2
Iovsot=ent                                                1967.1           1597.9        3142.0         2741.2        2044.7        1756.0         1802.2         2398.8          2914.7           3749.7             3.1         -3.3          9.3               15.0
Dooestic Saviogs                                          1830.3           2154.6        1816.6         1772.9        1467.4         2062.6        3125.4          2844.8         2409.0           3562.8            -0.3          12.5         4.6               10.8
p/ preliminory
PRICES IN US DOLLARS (1977 = 100)
Export Prior Iodeo                                           32.9            46.5           87.4          90.6          100.0          97.7         148.6           175.4          164.3            243.4
Imp-rt PrEic  lodeo                                         44.7             44.3         100.4           95.7         100.0          109.1         119.0           131.0          146.7            205.1
Teran of Trade lodcx                                         73.6           105.0           87.1          94.7         100.0           90.4         124.9           133.9          112.0            118.7
Annual Average Exchange Rate (Soles per $)                  26.9             38.7           40.8          57.4          83.8          156.3         224.6           288.7          416.0              n.0
GDP BY SECTOR                                                     LABOR FORCE                                                    LABOR PRODUCTIVITY
011TPUT, LABOR FORCE AND PRODUCTIVITY                             To Mil. of US              Per-eot of            Growth                                      Pr     t of        Grth                                         Perent of              Growth
IN 1973 PRICES                                                       Dollars                    Total               Rate             To 'hosds                   Tot.o1            Sotl             'o US Dollars                Average               Rtat
1970         1980         1970       1980           70-80          1970        1980          1970      1980        70-S0           1920        1980         1970        1980          70-80
Agri-olture (inl. flihing)                                     1534.2       1457.8          17.3       11.8         -0.5           2011.9      2248.0         48.0      40.0        1.1            762.6       648.5          36.1       29.4          -1.6
Sodootry (oinlog, manuf., elertr., ....cr.)                    3226.3       4712.4         36.5        38.1          3.9           769.1      1037.2          18.4      18.5        3.0           4194.9      4543.4         198.6      206.2           0.8
Servicee (all others)                                          4084.8       6198.1          46.2       50.1          4.3           1407.6      2328.3         33.6      41.5        5.2           2902.0      2662.1         137.4      120.8          -0.9
Total/Av-rage                                                  8845.3      12368.3         100.0      100.0          3.4           4188.6      5613.5        100.0    100.0         3.0           2111.8      2203.3         100.0      100.0           0.4
GENTRAL GOVERNMENT FINANGE                                                                                                                                                 ESTIMATED       PROJECTED
(as percent of Carre.t G0P)                                      1965           1970           1975         1976         1977          1978           1979       1980         1981           1982
CGrreot  Revenoe                                                 13.2            14.6          14.0           13.4        13.5         14.3          16.0        18.4          16.6          17.2
Cotrreol Sopeditore                                              12.4            12.1          14.4           14.8        16.9         15.8          12.0         16.2         16.5          15.7
Curroot SayiCgs                                                   0.8             2.5          -0.4          -1.4         -3.4         -1.5           3.2          2.2          0.1            1.5
Capital Expeoditor-s                                              3.9            3.7            4.5           4.5          3.5          3.1           3.7          4.7          4.6           4.1
ERteroal Asoioton-e (Net)                                         1.0             0.5           2.3            1.8         3.0          0.4          -0.7          0.3          0.3             0
CURRENT RXPENDITURE DETAILS                                                                  AC T U A L
(as percrot of Total Correto  E.penditore)                       1968           1973           1976         1977          17                           DETAiL ON                                         1981/85 Development PI..
PUBLEC RECTOR                                       US $            I Total
Education                                                        30.6            27.9          22.9           18.1        16.1                         INVESTMENT PROGRAM                                  Millio.
H-alth                                                            9.0             6.3           6.2            4.7         6.0                                                                           1981 Prires
Agro-ltota                                                        3.6            4.4            1.8            1.3         3.4
Other E-o-omic Serovlcr                                           3.2             4.0           5.2            3.2         2.7                         Agri-oltore, Fiohilog                               1557.2            14.1
G-roal Services (i-lodiog defeno.)                               46.4           42.7           46.9          54.1         45.2                         Todostry, Tooriom aod Mioing                         924.1             8.3
Interest on Debt                                                  5.4            11.3          10.8          15.1         24.1                         Energy                                              2688.1            24.2
Oth-r                                                             1.8             3.3           6.2            3.5         2.5                         Troosport ood Co-ot-nlotiao                         2567.2            23.0
Social and Loa ..  oroIctot Proj-oto               2367.6            30.4
Total Correot Expe-ditures                                    100.0          100.0          100.0         100.0        100.0
T 0 T A L                                     11084.2           100.0
MONEY AND CRE0IT                                                  1973          1974         1975         1975          1976         1976        1977          1977         1978         1978          1979         1979          1980           1981 p
(BillLons of Soles outstandlg
at the rod of period)
Moosy nod Q-aoi-Mo-oy                                             98.3         120.0        141.9        142.4         166.3        166.8       216.2        220.5         344.1        361.1        686.4         725.9         1305.1        1973.5
look Credit to Public Seter                                      27.2         26.9          49.7         60.3        101.4         115.3       149.3        198.9        262.2         303.7        204.1         237.0          371.5         682.2
Book Credit to Prioole Seator                                     73.2         84.5         108.2       109.8         134.5         136.0       167.8        173.8        233.1         243.2        382.8         442.5         801.8         1521.8
Underlyiog Exchaoge Rate (S/. par US$)                            38.7          38.7         38.7         65.0          65.0         85.0        85.0        160.0         160.0        225.0        225.0         390.0          390.0         390.0
MHoay as Perrent of GDP                                           25.0          24.3         22.6         22.7          20.0         20.1        19.9         19.3          18.7         19.6          19.9         21.1           23.5          20.7
tolsotoer Prior Iadox in Boles  (1977=100)                      37.5         43.9          54.3                      72.4                     100.0                     157.8                      264.7                        421.4
Annoal Percentage Chaoge In:
Con-suer Prior Ilden io Solos                                    9.5         16.9          23.7                      33.5                      38.0                      57.8                       67.7                         59.2          75.4
BRok Credit to Public Sector                                    53.7         -1.2          84.8                      68.2                      29.5                       31.8                     -32.8                         56.8          83.6
Baok Credit t1  Prioate Sector                                  27.7         15.5          28.1                      22.4                      23.4                      34.1                       57.4                         81.2          89.8



I



H                 7;   . . .        .-~~~~~~~.   ...    . .    
X~~~~~~~~ ~ ~ ~ 3; -      -<^                                                                     o       a <r                                                            .
-.                                   - - b
L, L
LI                                              -,~~~~~~.....-   .              ..
I S
2 s t 5 O _ W _ V s s | @ - O W _ _ W 2 _ _ @ O W _ W ~~~~~~~Z. _ W   _[W 



I



- 24 -
ANNEX II
Page 1 of 6
THE STATUS OF BANK GROUP OPERATIONS IN PERU
A.    STATEMENT OF BANK LOANS (as of September 30, 1982)
Amount
Loan                                                         (less cancellations)
Number     Year           Borrower             Purpose         Bank    Undisbursed
--- US$ million ---
27 loans fully disbursed                                       409.2
949       1973    Republic of Peru         Education           24.0         1.5
1196       1976    Republic of Peru         Transport           76.5        17.0
1215       1976    Republic of Peru         Power               35.6         4.1
1281       1976    CENTROMIN               Mining               39.7         3.9
1283       1976    Banco Vivienda          Urban Dev.           21.6         8.0
1358       1977    COFIDE                   Industry            35.0         3.2
1403       1977    Republic of Peru        Agriculture          25.0        19.0
S-li       1978    Republic of Peru         Preinvestment        8.8         1.7
1771       1980    Republic of Peru         Irrigation          56.0        46.0
1806       1980    PETROPERU                Petroleum Prod.    32.5         20.9
1812       1980    Republic of Peru         Rural Dev.          15.0        13.1
1888       1980    Republic of Peru         Preinvestment        7.5         5.1
S-19       1980    SIDERPERU                Technical Asst.      5.0         4.6
1963       1981    CORPAC                   Aviation            58.0        56.9
1968       1981    COFIDE                   Industry            60.0        53.0
2018       1981    ELECTROPERU              Power               25.0        24.9
2064       1981    Central Reserve Bank  Industry               26.0        26.0
2091       1982    Republic of Peru         Transport           93.0        93.0
2117       1982    PETROPERU                Industry             5.3         5.3
2139       1982    SEDAPAL                  Water Supply        40.6        40.6
2150       1982    Republic of Peru         Agriculture         40.6        40.6
2179       1982    ELETROLIMA               Power               81.2        81.2
2195       1982    PETROPERU                Petroleum           81.2        81.2
2204       1982    Republic of Perul/   Technical Asst.    10.2             10.2
Total                                                   1,312.5
of which has been repaid                                197.2
Total now outstanding                                   1,115.3
Amount sold                            18.3
of which has been repaid            18.3                  -
Total now held by Bank                                  1,115.3
Total undisbursed                                                     661.0
1/ Approved but not yet signed.



- 25 -
ANNEX II
Page 2 of 6
B.    STATEMENT OF IFC INVESTMENTS (as of September 30, 1982)
Type of
Year                Obligor                       Business        Loan   Equity   Total
1960         Industrias Reunidas, S.A.         Home Appliances   0.2        -       0.2
1960        Luren S.A. and
Ladrillos Calcareos, S.A.       Bricks             0.3       -       0.3
1960        Durisol del Peru, S.A.             Building
Materials          0.3       -      0.3
1960; 1962  Fertilizantes Sinteticos, S.A.  Fertilizers           4.1       -       4.1
1962; 1968  Cemento Andino, S.A.               Cement              2.3     0.2      2.5
1964; 1967  Cia. de Cemento Pacasmayo          Cement              1.1     0.5      1.6
1975        Southern Peru Copper Corp.         Mining             15.0      -      15.0
1978        Cia. de Minas Buenaventura         Mining              2.0     0.5      2.5
1980        Cia. Minera San Ignacio
de Morococha, S.A.              Mining             2.7      0.5      3.2
1981        Sogewiese                          Leasing            3.0      0.1      3.1
1981        Consorcio Energetico de            Power
Huancavelica                    Transmission       4.5       -       4.5
1982        Palmas del Espino                  Palm Oil          15.0       -      15.0
1982        Sociedad Minera
Gran Bretana S.A.               Mining             3.0      0.5      3.5
Total gross commitments                              53.5     2.3    55.8
less cancellations, terminations,
repayments and sales                            19.9      0.4    20.3
Total held by IFC                                    33.6     1.9    35.5
Total undisbursed incl.
participants' portion                              7.1       -       7.1



- 26 -
ANNEX II
Page 3 of 6
C. STATUS OF PROJECTS IN EXECUTION I/
(As of September 30, 1982)
Loan 949-PE:      Education Project; US$24.0 million Loan of December 5, 1973;
Effective Date: March 5, 1974; Closing Date: June 30, 1982.
The project has experienced serious difficulties and is now about 40
months behind schedule owing to start-up problems including weaknesses in the
project unit and cumbersome bureaucratic procedures. In order to resolve these
problems, the project has been modified to reduce its scope, increase the Bank
disbursement percentage, create a revolving fund and improve administrative
procedures (see President's Memorandum R79-59 of March 27, 1979). As a result,
the pace of project execution improved substantially and the project has now been
completed except for preparation activities for a second education project. An
extension of the closing date until February 28, 1983 is now being considered for
such preparation activities only.
Loan 1196-PE:    Lima-Amazon Transport Corridor Project; US$76.5 million Loan of
May 27, 1976; Effective Date: August 18, 1976; Closing Date:
December 31, 1982.
Construction of the project's river ports component is almost
completed, although with some cost increases because of start-up difficulties.
There were serious delays in contracting for civil works under the road component
because of slow procedures and limited Government implementation capacity. These
problems have been largely overcome and construction is now underway on all
project components. The project has been modified so as to reallocate funds for
the purchase of road maintenance equipment and eliminate improvement of those road
sections which cannot be completed within a reasonable time (see President's
Memorandum R79-88 of April 27, 1979). Although the project is moving well, an
extension of the closing date will be necessary to permit its completion.
Loan 1215-PE:    Fifth Power Project; US$36.0 million Loan of September 20, 1976;
Effective Date: November 18, 1976; Closing Date: December 31,
1982.
The slowdown of demand in ELECTROLIMA's market in the wake of economic
difficulties as well as procurement problems, have delayed the project's power
distribution component and completion is expected about a year behind schedule.
Serious delays were also experienced in getting the technical assistance program
of the loan underway; however, all consultants have now been retained, and with
strong support from the current staff in the Ministry of Energy and Mines the
program is now well advanced. Because of the delays, the Closing Date has been
extended to end-1982.
1/ These notes are designed to inform the Executive Directors regarding the
progress of projects in execution, and in particular to report any
problems which are being encountered, and the action being taken to
remedy them. They should be read in this sense, and with the understanding
that they do not purport to present a balanced evaluation of strengths and
weaknesses in project execution.



- 27 -
ANNEX II
Page 4 of 6
Loan 1281-PE:    CENTROMIN Mining Project; US$40.0 million Loan of December 6,
1976; Effective Date: May 24, 1977; Closing Date: December 31,
1982.
Initiation of the copper mining component was delayed by about two
years because of the lack of local counterpart funds owing to the recession of the
late 1970s. CENTROMIN is now proceeding with the project with support from
additional Government counterpart funds, as well as a supplementary IDB loan and
commercial bank borrowing to cover inflationary cost increases. Engineering,
procurement and mine development activities on this part of the project are
well-advanced. The mine-water treatment plant has been completed.
Loan 1283-FE:    Urban Sites and Services Development Project; US$21.6 million
Loan of October 12, 1976; Effective Date: January 10, 1977;
Closing Date: December 31, 1982.
Administrative difficulties, particularly the need to reconcile
Peruvian procedures with Bank guidelines for procurement, delayed the project by
about one year. All components are now moving ahead well and disbursements stand
at over US$13.0 million. Because of past delays, however, the Closing Date will
have to be extended to permit completion of the project.
Loan 1358-PE:    Industrial Credit Project; US$35.0 million Loan of January 28,
1977; Effective Date: March 30, 1977; Closing Date: June 30,
1983.
Peru's economic recession led to a contraction of investment and to
lower than anticipated demand for the loan in the late 1970s. In view of this,
the Borrower--the National Development Bank (COFIDE)--agreed to finance projects
identified by commercial banks and other financial institutions, which would also
guarantee these loans and provide some loan servicing. With this action and
improving economic conditions over the past two years, demand for the credit line
has increased, and it is now fully committed.
Loan 1403-PE:    Irrigation Rehabilitation Project; US$25.0 million Loan of May
20, 1977; Effective Date: August 2, 1977; Closing Date: June
30, 1983.
Because of the weakness of the project unit, there was a long delay in
completing the designs for civil works in the six valleys where irrigation systems
are to be improved. The unit has been substantially strengthened over the past
few years, the design phase is now complete and construction has started. The
project, however, is now several years behind schedule.
Loan S-11-PE:    Water Supply and Power Engineering Project; US$8.8 million Loan
of December 22, 1978; Effective Date: June 27, 1979; Closing
Date: December 31, 1982.
The main components of this project consisted of the feasibility study
for the Mantaro water transfer scheme and a master plan for Lima's water system.
The Mantaro study has been completed, and all other components are being
implemented satisfactorily.



- 28 -
ANNEX II
Page 5 of 6
Loan 1771-PE:    Lower Piura Irrigation Rehabilitation Project; US$56 million Loan
of February 4, 1980; Effective Date: May 28, 1980; Closing Date:
December 31, 1985.
Project implementation is underway and proceeding satisfactorily.
Loan 1806-PE:    Petroleum Rehabilitation Project; US$32.5 million Loan of April
28, 1980; Effective Date: September 30, 1980; Closing Date:
January 31, 1983.
The project got underway more slowly than expected because of the weak
implementation capacity of PETROPERU. All project components, however, have now
begun and execution is proceeding well.
Loan 1812-PE:    Puno Rural Development; US$15 million Loan of April 28, 1980;
Effective Date: July 9, 1981; Closing Date: June 30, 1985.
Although there was a delay in making this loan effective, project
activities are now underway. Consultants for the extension program have been
hired and irrigation system designs are being prepared.
Loan 1888-PE:    Bayovar Engineering and Technical Assistance Project; US$7.5
million Loan of August 21, 1980; Effective Date: December 22,
1980; Closing Date: June 30, 1983.
The feasibility report for the phosphate fertilizer project has been
completed and final project preparation activities are now underway.
Loan S-19-PE:    SIDERPERU Technical Assistance Project; US$5.0 million Loan of
December 15, 1980; Effective Date: April 16, 1981; Closing Date:
June 30, 1985.
A consultant's report evaluating SIDERPERU's expansion plans has been
reviewed. A plan of action to deal with the findings of this report is being
discussed with SIDERPERU.
Loan 1963-PE:    Aviation Development Project; US$58.0 million Loan of August 19,
1981; Effective Date: January 21, 1982; Closing Date:
December 31, 1986.
Procurement activities for equipment have begun.
Loan 1968-PE:    Second Industrial Credit Project; US$60.0 million Loan of
August 19, 1981; Effective Date: February 25, 1982; Closing
Date: June 30, 1985.
About US$10 million of this loan has thus far been committed.



- 29 -
ANNEX II
Page 6 of 6
Loan 2018-PE:    Power Engineering Project; US$25 million Loan of August 19, 1981;
Effective Date: February 25, 1982; Closing Date: June 30, 1985.
Final design of a number of projects included in this loan, including
the Yuncan hydroelectric project, are now underway.
Loan 2064-PE:    Small-Scale Enterprise Project; US$26 million of June 16, 1982;
Effective Date: August 17, 1982; Closing Date: December 31, 1985.
Initial subloan requests are now under review.
Loan 2091-PE:    Eighth Highway Project; US$93 million Loan of June 4, 1982;
Effective Date:                    ; Closing Date: June 30, 1986.
Loan effectiveness has been delayed because of the difficulty
encountered by the Government in meeting the loan agreement condition of
installing qualified candidates for senior positions in the Highways Directorate.
This problem is now close to resolution.
Loan 2117-PE:    Oil Refinery Engineering Project; US$5.3 million Loan of
September 17, 1982; Effective Date: December 20, 1982;
Closing Date: June 30, 1985.
Consultants are now being selected.
Loan 2139-PE:    Lima Water Supply Project; US$40.6 million Loan of June 4, 1982;
Effective Date: September 15, 1982; Closing Date: June 30,
1988.
Initial project execution activities are underway.
Loan 2150-PE:    Agricultural Research and Extension Project; US$40.6 million
Loan of September 17, 1982; Effective Date:
Closing Date: March 31, 1988.
Some project consultants, to be retroactively financed, have been
contracted.
Loan 2179-PE:    Sixth Power Project; US$81.2 million Loan of September 17, 1982;
Effective Date:                      Closing Date: June 30, 1988.
Initial project execution activities are now underway.
Loan 2204-PE:    Public Sector Management Project; US$10.2 million Loan of
Effective Date:              ; Closing date:
December 31, 1985.
The loan was approved by the Executive Directors on September 30, 1982.



- 30 -
ANNEX III
Page 1 of 2
PERU
PRIMARY HEALTH PROJECT
SUPPLEMENTARY PROJECT DATA SHEET
Section I: Timetable of Key Events
(a) Time taken by the country to prepare project:  24 months
(b) Project prepared by: Ministry of Health with Bank assistance
(c) First presentation to the Bank: March 1981
(d) Departure of Appraisal Mission: March 6, 1982
(e)  Completion of Negotiations:        September 24, 1982
(f) Planned Date of Loan Effectiveness: March 1, 1983
Section II: Special Bank Implementation Action
None
Section III: Special Conditions
(a) By June 30, 1983, MOH and IPSS would have to enter into an agreement,
satisfactory to the Bank, providing for the use of IPSS hospital
facilities in the project area by MOH patients and establishing the
fees to be paid (para. 45);
(b) By December 31, 1983, MOH would implement an improved system of
incentives, satisfactory to the Bank, for medical staff working in the
PHCMs. MOH would also maintain its system for the payment of field
nursing auxiliaries (para. 46);
(c) By June 30, each year, from 1983 onwards, MOH would agree with the Bank
on the activities to be carried out under the project's community
participation subcomponent in the following year (para. 49);
(d) The proposals, evaluation and contract for project evaluation would be
reviewed with the Bank before December 30, 1983. The contract and
terms of reference for the health financing/cost recovery study would
be submitted to the Bank by June 30, 1983 and, by June 30, 1984,
the Bank and the National Health Council would discuss the
recommendations of the study with a view to their implementation
(para. 50);



- 31 -
ANNEX III
Page 2 of 2
(e) From 1984 onwards MOH would establish and maintain: (i) separate
budgets for hospitals and PHCMs; and (ii) separate accounts to keep
track of expenditures for both hospitals and PHCMs (para. 55);
(f) The Vice-Minister of Health would assume responsibility as Project
Director and MOH would consult with the Bank on the qualifications
and experience of any future project executive director (para. 56);
(g) In order to facilitate Bank disbursement against civil works
expenditures, a dollar-denominated special account--into which loan
funds would be advanced--would be established in the Banco de la Nacion
(para. 59);
(h) By March 31, 1983, the Government would also establish a revolving fund
for civil works expenditures in the Banco de la Nacion under terms and
conditions satisfactory to the Bank. This revolving fund would be
maintained at a level of at least two months projected expenditures for
civil works (para. 59).



IBRD 16602
/   \  7g  IquitosOvC  72   ,_            ,/                          i zf,   JULY 1982
J8t S ~~~~~~~~~~~P  E R U ,X4
T.Iom:            *\                         HEALTH  PROJECT
R    iulcnc        **        \            I                                    -'        ' obnb)-
Pa,to g   PI/ U R A    (                      1                    
ZAMBAYEQU(   ?> /    SAN
cairnmat) \ M A R T'I /V \          J   > >                                     B    R   A    Z   I   L
F ,2   do .   e eil -   seB R D   169 IM H  /
'\\   LIBERTAD _),
rc Numbeot hshcnes1iK(g.
A+++ Nerries S_          0  uA          c                            '7 '
-~~~~~                                                Moledv\qega    '\ I 
K / 100  P0 A3pC0    V1\/Y \\FV<\\
Cerde Posco-,.      c2\                >
H~,o                                   L.~ LMe,ced                                                   L
R,,-c wj ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ V  N   N n                                                        BRD 1~52D
12-
16~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~~~I-IR  69                          Lim
MILES  0                 100                200                                                               T    1652
z c~~~Tor
C-fdBk~f. l tT."
of nere emc  thF Nr   .be, c     f s at Ith d be -mm    t  s            ATdm h                                                          _7-
boudvm sh  onth  qAs nfphamlth -ad  of uh W/d d                                                                                                       0rd: 
.....t   ......   Ammhbqsplm.semIt " s   v emadeniNtr Co t .ci
All-eyUBpNh B,,     B o.d                                7,6                                                   7,2                     CH       E6
gf,,,,.   BB,fBRB,h ..ysB  B    .,.dB.B.,
Fe'ries                                                                                    A.~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ICHL           0
R),e,s                                                              A   R  F  a   u  I  P  A~ 72



