Document of
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Report No.:    19985
IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
NEPAL
BHAIRAWA LUMBINI GROUNDWATER IRRIGATION III PROJECT
(CREDIT NUMBER 2144-NEP)
DECEMBER 27, 1999
Rural Development Unit
South Asia Regional Office
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in
The performance of their official duties. It contents may not otherwise be disclosed
Without World Bank authorization.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
US$ 1.0:     NRs 28.60             1989 (at Appraisal)
NRs 33.30    1990, NRs 39.90       1991, NRs 45.70    1992
NRs 49.30    1993, NRs 50.00       1994, NRs.55.20    1995
NRs 55.50    1996, NRs 60.20       1997, NRs 62.00    1998
NRs 67.00    1999 (at ICR mission)
WEIGHTS AND MEASURES
1 meter (m) = 3.28 feet; 1 kilometer (km) = 0.62 miles;
1 hectare (ha) = 2.47 acres =1.50 bighas;
1 million cubic meter (Mm3) = 810 acre-feet or 35.3 Mft3
1 cubic meter per second (m3/s) = 35.31 cubic foot per second (cfs);
I cubic foot per second (cfs) = 0.028 cubic meters per second (m3/sec); 1 metric ton = 2,205 pounds
FISCAL YEAR OF BORROWER
July 16 - July 15
ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS
ADB      Asian Development Bank
BLGWP Bhairawa Lumbini Groundwater Irrigation Project
CAS     Country Assistance Strategy
DOI      Department of Irrigation
DIO      District Irrigation Offices
DTW      Deep Tube Well
ERR      Economic Rate of Return
FIA      Farmers' Irrigation Association
FMIS    Farmer Managed Irrigation System
HMGN   His Majesty's Government of Nepal
ICB      International Competitive Bidding
ICR      Implementation Completion Report
IDA      International Development Association
IP       Irrigation Policy
LCF      Labour Conversion Factor
M & E   Monitoring & Evaluation
MUV    Manufacturers Unit Value
NEA      Nepal Electricity Authority
O&M      Operation and Maintenance
PCR      Project Completion Report
POP      Project Operation Plan
SAR      Staff Appraisal Report
SCF      Standard Conversion Factor
TW       Tube well
WID      Women in Development
WUA    Water Users' Association
WUC    Water Users' Committee
WUGs   Water Users' Groups
kharif    Wet Season (June to October)
rabi     Dry Season (November to February)
Vice President             Meiko Nishimizu
Country Director           Hans Rothenbuhler
Sector Director            Ridwan Ali
Team Leader                Ohn Myint



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
NEPAL
BHAIRAWA LUMBINI GROUNDWATER IRRIGATION III PROJECT
(Credit Number 2144-NEP)
TABLE OF CONTENTS
Description
Part 1: PROJECT IMPLEMENTATION ASSESSMENT
Preface                                                             v
A. Project Data                                                        I
B. Principal Performance Ratings                                       2
C. Assessment of Development Objectives and Design and Quality at Entry
- Development Objectives                                         2
- Original Components                                            2
- Revised Components                                             3
- Quality at Entry                                               4
D. Achievement of Objectives and Output
- Outcome/Achievement of Objectives                              4
- Output by Components                                           6
- Net Present Value/Economic Rate of Return (ERR)                7
- Sensitivity and Risk                                           8
- Financial Rate of Return                                       8
- Institutional Development Impact                               8
E. Major Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcome
- Factors generally subject to Government control                9
- Factors generally subject to implementing agency control       9
- Costs and Financing                                            9
F. Sustainability
- Rational for Sustainability Rating                             10
- Transition Arrangements to Regular Operation                   11
E. Bank and Borrower's Performance
- Lending                                                        11
- Supervision                                                     11
- Overall Bank Performance                                       12
- Borrower's Preparation                                         12
- Borfower's Implementation                                      12
- Overall Borrower Performance                                   13
H. Lessons Learned
- Preparation and Lending                                        13
- Implementation and Operation & Maintenance                     13
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the
performance of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without
World Bank authorization.



Part II: ANNEX-ES (STATISTICAL DATA)
Annex 1 a Key Performance Indicators (Outcome and Impact)          15
Annex lb Key Performance Indicators (Output)                       16
Annex 1 c Key Performance Indicators ILC and IDS Components        17
Annex Id Key Performance Indicators Output indicators IDS Component  18
Annex 2a Project Costs by Component                                19
Annex 2b Project Costs by Procurement Arrangement                  20
Annex 2c Project Financing by Component                            20
Annex 3  Costs Benefits Analysis                                   21
Annex 4a: Bank Inputs (Missions)                                   22
Annex 4b: Bank Inputs (Staff)                                      23
Annex 5: Ratings for Achievement of Objectives/ Outputs by Components  24
Annex 6  Ratings of Bank and Borrower Performance                  25
Annex 7  List of Supporting Documents                              26
Table of Contents (contd.)
Description
APPENDICES
Appendix 1: Aide-Memoire of Supervision/Implementation Completion     27
Reporting Mission
Appendix 2: Economic Re-evaluation of Bhairawa Lumbini GW Irrigation III   38
Financial and Economic Re-evaluation                      38-42
Table 1: Number of Operation DTW and command area by year          43
Table 2: Crop Area, Yields and Production for Stage - I            44
Table 3: Crop Area, Yields and Production for Stage 11/ii and Stage III  45
Table 4. Crop Area, Yields and Production (Artesian) 1 ha          46
Table 5: Per ha Financial Crop Budget Present/Future without Stage I  47
Table 6: Per ha Financial Crop Budget Present/Future without Stage II&III    48
Table 7: Per ha Financial Crop Budget with project for Stages I, II, and III    49
Table 8: Per ha Financial Crop Budget without project for Artesian well  50
Table 9: Per ha Financial Crop Budget with project Artesian well   51
Table 10 Summary of Financial and Economic Prices                  52
Table 11: Economic Price Derivation                                53
Table 12: Investment Costs of one DTW                              54
Table 13. Investment Costs of Artesian well                        55
Table 14. Annual O&M costs of DTW                                  56
Table 15: Financial Analysis of a DTW model                        57
Table 16. Financial Analysis of an Artesian DTW model              58
Table 17: Per ha Economic Budget without project Stage I           59
Table 18. Per ha Economic Budget without project Stage II and Stage III  60
ii



Table 19. Per ha Economic Budget without project Stages I, II, and III  61
Table 20: Per ha Economic Budget without project Artesian          62
Table 21: Per ha Economic Budget with project Artesian             63
Table 22: Economic Analysis of a DTW model                         64
Table 23. Economic Analysis of an Artesian DTW model               65
Table 24. Project Expenditures (NRs Million)                       66
Table 25. Post Project Costs                                        67
Table 26. Economic Analysis of Stage I                             68
Table 27. Economic Analysis of Stage II and Stage III               69
Table 28. Combined Economic Analysis of Stages I, II, and III       70
Table 29. Financial and Economic Analysis of ILC sample 20 projects  7 1
Appendix 3: Borrower's Evaluation of the Project                       72-78
Map: IBRD 22125 Bhairawa Lumbini Stage III Project Area
. . 






IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
NEPAL
BHAIRAWA LUMBINI GROUNDWATER IRRIGATION III PROJECT
(Credit No. 2144-NEP)
Preface
This is the Implementation Completion Report (ICR) for the Bhairawa Lumbini
Groundwater Irrigation III Project in Nepal, for which Credit Number 2144-NEP in the amount of
SDR36.6 million equivalent were approved on May 20 1990, and made effective on February 19,
1991.
The Credit closed on June 30, 1999, as stipulated at appraisal. Final disbursement took
place on November 16, 1999 at which time a balance of SDR 62,220.0 was cancelled.
The ICR was prepared by the staff of SASRD in cooperation with a FAO/CP economist.
The report was peer-reviewed by Jock R. Anderson (RDV) and R.B. Reidinger (EACCF). The
Borrower provided separate evaluation that has been appended as Appendix 3 of the ICR.
Preparation of this ICR was begun during a mission to Nepal between May 22 to 28, 1999.
It is based on material in the project file. The Borrower contributed to the preparation of the ICR
by providing project completion report and project operation plan of the project.
v






A. Project Data
Report Date: December 27, 1999
Name: Bhairawa Lumbini Groundwater Irrigation III Project   Credit number 2144-NEP
Country/Department: Nepal/SASRD                             Region: South Asia
Sector/Sub-Sector: Agriculture/Irrigation
Original                     Revised/Actual
Key Dates
Preparation/PCD                July 1989                    June-August 1989
Appraisal                      Nov/December 1989            Nov/December 1989
Approval                       May 29,1990                  May 29, 1990
Effectiveness                  December 1990                February 19, 1991
MTR                            December 1996                December 1996
Closing                        June 30, 1999                June 30, 1999
Borrower                       His Majesty Government of    His Majesty Government
Nepal                        of Nepal
Implementing Agency            Department of Irrigation     Department of Irrigation
Other Partners                 Department of Agriculture    Department of Agriculture
Nepal Electricity Authority  Nepal Electricity Authority
Water User Associations      Water User Associations
Current                     AtAppraisal
Staff
Vice President                 M. Nishimizu                 A. Karaosmanoglu
Country Manager                Hans M. Rothenbuhler         S. Asanuma
Sector Manager                 R. Ali                       C. Helman
Team leader of ICR             J. Perumalpillai-Essex
Task Leader of ICR             Ohn Myint
ICR Primary Author             Ohn Myint
Team Leader of Appraisal                                    R. Reidinger



2
B. Principal Performance Ratings
Outcome                                                           Satisfactory
Sustainability                                                    Likely
Institutional Development Impact                                  Satisfactory
Bank Performance                                                  Satisfactory
Borrower Performance                                              Satisfactory
Quality at entry                                                  Satisfactory
Project at Risk at any time                                       Minimal
C. Assessment of Development Objectives and Design and of Quality at Entry
1.   Development Objectives. The objectives of the Bhairawa Lumbini Groundwater Irrigation III
Project (BLGW III) were to: (a) raise agricultural production and farm incomes and increase food
security through expansion of on-going deep tube-well (DTW) irrigation programs and through
construction and rehabilitation of private farmer-managed irrigation schemes (FMIS); (b) promote
privatization and increased farmer participation in managing irrigation systems, thereby reducing
government costs, improving operation and maintenance (O&M) and ensuring greater sustainability; and
(c) strengthen Nepal's irrigation institutions, particularly the Department of Irrigation (DOI), in
implementing the Government's new irrigation policy (IP-1988), which mandated a shift away from
traditional publicly-owned and managed irrigation towards participatory management systems.
2.   The project was a follow-on to two earlier DTW irrigation projects. Its objectives were innovative
and important for the country, which was testing the recently introduced irrigation policy mentioned
above. These objectives remained unchanged during project implementation.
3.   Original Components. The BLGW III had three separate components: (a) construction of new
tube-wells in Stage III, and completion and O&M transfer of previously funded DTW systems in the
Stages I and II in Rupandehi District; (b) expansion of an irrigation line of credit (ILC), a pilot project
designed to test the Government's irrigation policy; and (c) continued institutional development support
(IDS) for DOI. Components (b) and (c) were originally conceived under the Mahakali Irrigation II
Project (Credit Number 1924-NEP).
Part A: BLGW Component
*  construction of 73 new DTWs serving some 8,600 ha in Stage III;
* completion of 16 DTWs serving nearly 2,000 ha implemented in Stage II and turnover to
farmers of 38 completed Stage II DTWs;
*  modification and turnover of 64 DTWs in Stage I serving some 7,680 ha;
*  maintenance of project facilities including staff quarters, vehicles, equipment, spare parts and
materials;
*  support to agricultural services;



3
*  support to farmers' organizations; and
*  technical support, training and studies.
Part B: ILC Component
This component aimed to pilot further the Government's policy for demand-driven irrigation
development. This piloting was to be implemented in 30 months. The project targeted three types
of sub-projects covering 6,600 ha of irrigable land in 8 hill districts and 5 terai districts in the three
western development regions. IP-1988 required a beneficiary contribution to capital costs and
O&M. The component was designed to:
*  rehabilitate existing farmer-owned small and medium-sized irrigation sub-projects in selected
districts of three western regions;
*  turnover rehabilitated small- and medium-sized public irrigation schemes to farmers for O&M;
and
*  construct and improve groundwater schemes to be managed by farmers' groups.
Part C: IDS Component
This component assisted DOI in developing the institutional capacity to support a long-term
irrigation sector program. It comprised:
*  strengthening the Planning, Design and Research (PD&R) Division of DOI by providing office
and engineering equipment, vehicles, training and consultant services for sub-project
identification and feasibility studies, development of a computerized DOI's management
information system, and support to farmers' organizations;
*  strengthening DOI regional and district offices by providing buildings, equipment and
vehicles, and funding mobile irrigation teams (staffing, training, equipment and operational
costs);
*  strengthening DOI at the center by renovating its headquarters, through human resource
development and through assessment of its financial resources, training requirements and
administration.
4.   Revised components. The original components were maintained, but their scope was scaled up on
account of savings in the Credit and increased farmers' demands for the ILC, as follows:
* the number of new DTWs in Stage III was increased from 73 to 78, and 8 out of 22 completed
DTWs in Stage II/Phase II were re-drilled due to well caving.
* agricultural services were supplemented in the later stages of the project by extension activities
such as the introduction of new high value cash crops, provision of marketing information to
farmers, organization of marketing groups, and women in development (WID) activities
including literacy and skill training for women's groups. These additional activities contributed
to significant increases in farmers' knowledge and incomes.



4
the implementation period of the ILC component was extended from 2.5 to about 6.5 years, and
many additional schemes were included to meet growing demand from farmers. This reflected a
general acceptance of IP-1988. Coverage was expanded from 13 hill and terai districts to 36 hill
and terai districts. In total, the project served 605 farmer-managed irrigation schemes (FMIS),
covering about 54,850 ha, compared to the appraisal estimate of 6,600 ha.
5.   Quality at Entry. Preparation and design of the project were satisfactory. Problems and lessons
learned from BLGW I and II were built into the design of BLGW III, including experience gained in the
construction and installation of DTWs, provision of a dedicated power supply, roads and other support
services to farmers (farner organization, agricultural extension). These were all satisfactory during
implementation. However, the creation of self-contained support divisions within the project, such as the
project's agricultural and electro-mechanical divisions using staff appointed by the Groundwater
Development Board, may become a liability for the Government following project completion. The
eventual hand-over of these support services to the district line agencies may be problematic on account
of the rather poor interaction between the project and the line agencies during project implementation.
6.   The project design was innovative in its participatory approach, involving farmers in planning and
implementation and in contributing to capital costs. The turnover of completed DTWs to farmer
management promoted sustainability and replicability and reduced the financial burden of O&M on the
Government. The ILC and IDS components were well justified in further testing IP-1988 on demand-
driven FMIS and to strengthen DOI's institutional capacity.
7.   The increased scope of the project during implementation was appropriate as it was determined on
the basis of development needs, agricultural potential and proven groundwater resources of the project
area. It was also compatible with the Government's growing implementation capability.
D. Achievement of Objectives and Outputs
8.   Outcome/Achievement of Objectives.  Overall, the achievement of project objectives, as
indicated by the baseline survey and yearly M&E activities, was marginally satisfactory. The objective
of increasing agricultural production and farn incomes was largely achieved. Under the BLGW
component, the Stage III project completed a total of 158 DTWs (including 60 DTWs in Stage I, 20 in
Stage I/Phase 11, and 78 in Stage III, but excluding 11 DTWs already turned over to WUGs in Stage
II/Phase 1), covering a total command area of about 18,971 ha. This is slightly above appraisal targets of
153 DTWs (64 in Stage I, 16 in Stage II, and 73 in Stage III) and a total command area of about 18,280
ha. The total effective area irrigated by DTWs only is estimated at about 80 percent of the total command
area, or about 15,170 ha, the remaining 20 percent being irrigated in any given year from other sources,
particularly artesian and surface water1. This is less than had been predicted at appraisal, because the
existence of artesian water had not been foreseen, nevertheless as indicated below the positive impact on
agriculture production was still more than sufficient to justify the investment.
9.   Incremental production in the project area is estimated at around 114,000 tons per year, against
54,500 tons estimated at appraisal (see Appendix 2 for detailed financial and economic analysis). This
' There is a wide variation of pumping hours in all the developed wells (from over 1,000 hrs/well to 100 hrs/well.).
It is partly because over 30 percent of tube-wells (24 in Stage I, 9 in Stage II and 24 in Stage III) have significant
artesian flows (more than 50 percent of design flow) for a considerable part of the year.



5
achievement was based on a substantial increase in cropping intensity and yield. With the project, the
cropping intensity increased to about 209 percent, 20 percent higher than the appraisal estimate2. Yields
of major crops increased by 50 percent (to 4.5 ton/ha) for paddy and by 95 percent (to 3.0 ton/ha) for
wheat. These yields are 10-20 percent higher than the appraisal estimates of 3.8 and 2.7 ton/ha
respectively.
10.   Farmers' net incomes increased dramatically (from a net cash income of NRs 57,000 to NRs
132,000 in Stage I and from NRs 32,000 to NRs 132,000 in Stages II and III). This increase is
proportionately less than had been estimated at appraisal (from NRs 14,000 to NRs 95,000 for an average
farm size of 1.64 ha) (Appendix 2). Nevertheless, it is considered satisfactory and provides more than
adequate financial incentives to participating farmers.
11. Under the ILC component, 276 surface irrigation schemes covering 28,355 ha were rehabilitated,
and 217 new groundwater tube-wells covering 4,210 ha were constructed. The sizes of ILC tube wells
varied from 12 ha to 40 ha, and are smaller than Bhairawa Lumbini DTW. The remaining 212 schemes
covering 22,293 ha were transferred to the Nepal Irrigation Sector Project after July 15, 1997, when the
ILC was closed under this project. The total completed command area under ILC was approximately
32,500 ha, a 5-fold increase on appraisal estimates. Based on the agriculture baseline surveys conducted
in 17 selected surface irrigation schemes and 3 groundwater tube-well systems, cropping intensities
increased by about 40 percent for the surface irrigation schemes and by 47 percent for the tube-wells,
somewhat lower than the 65 percent estimated at appraisal. Yields of paddy and wheat increased by
about 60 percent, as anticipated at appraisal. Farmers' net incomes per ha are substantial, ranging from
NRs 17,270 to NRs 27,186 (see Table 29 for financial and economic analysis results of selected 20 sub-
projects). These incremental net farm incomes are lower than those estimated at appraisal due to
substantially lower incremental cropping intensities3. Nevertheless, they provide adequate financial
incentives to farmers.
12.  The objective of promoting privatization and increased farmer participation in planning,
implementation and cost sharing was largely achieved in the main component. The project provided
assistance in forming WUAs, four Regional Coordination Committees (RCC) and one Central
Coordination Committee (CCC), their formal registration at the Chief District Office, and drawing up the
constitution of WUAs. Of the 169 DTWs (including 11 in Stage IIl/Phase 1) at ICR, 121 (72 percent) in
all Stages were fully handed over to the concerned Water Users' Groups (WtJG) of each tube well, who
managed O&M on their own. Of the remaining DTWs, 19 were in the process of being handed over to
WUGs, while 29 were planned for turnover shortly. Regarding capital cost sharing, farmers deposited
NRs 300 up-front earnest money and contributed free labor for construction of buried pipes and field
channels4, representing about 2 percent of total Stage III costs (NRs 156,000/ha), as anticipated at
appraisal. Farmers' contributions in some tube-wells were not well coordinated with the overall
construction schedule, resulting in weaknesses in farmers' direct involvement in construction.
2 Incremental cropping intensity, as well as incremental yield, was lower in Stage I, compared to Stages II and III, as
the former was already under irrigation before intervention (canal lining) of BLGW III, whereas Stage II (virtually)
and III (totally) were non-irrigated before the BLGW III intervention.
3 Appraisal estimates for ILC were based one typical model subproject for each type.
' The average length of trench per ha holding is 95m by 1.2m x 0.6m equals 68.4 m3/ha (NRs 2,800 worth)
Experience shows that small land-holders usually excavated their quota by themselves whereas larger land-holders
contracted the work to the incumbent civil works contractor. Quality of work was better in the latter case, as the
construction season coincided with the crop harvesting and processing period. Government subsidy policy for
DTW was 90 percent.



6
13.  Under the ILC component, Farmers' Irrigation Associations (FIAs) were formed for all the
completed sub-projects, and O&M works were taken over by them. In addition, farmers' contributions to
capital costs in the form of labor for construction works ranged from 3-21 percent for the surface
irrigation sub-projects, and 15 percent for the groundwater irrigation development. Overall, farmers'
contributions under ILC amounted to 12 percent of total ILC costs, compared with 7-40 percent estimated
at appraisal. In some cases (about 15 percent of the total sub-projects), the beneficiary demand concept
was not really applied, nor was there any genuine farmers' contribution to development costs. In those
cases, demands were made by a few influential farmers, whose own contributions leverage a significant
government subsidy. This kind of leakage is to be expected where large capital subsidies are made
available. In limiting it to about 15% on average, the project largely achieved its objective of targeting
smal] farmers.
14.  The performance of the institutional development component was generally satisfactory in the
private sector (as described above) but only marginally satisfactory in the public sector. The capability
of district DOI and PD&R division staff in reviewing and updating the irrigation master plan, data base
and design criteria was substantially improved and was initially satisfactory. However, the momentum
was not maintained due to frequent staff transfers and lack of incentives in the system. The use of a
computerized management information system (MIS), established in DIO headquarters for accounting,
manpower planning and inventory, was limited by a lack of interest by management and by low pay for
computer staff.
15.  Output by Components. Overall, output of the project is rated satisfactory.  With a few
shortfalls, the physical achievements of the project exceeded appraisal targets. Under the BLGW
component, the project affected 180 DTWs, including turnover of 16 DTWs in Stage II/Phase II to
WUGs. A total of 140 DTWs were operational at ICR, including 60 modified DTWs in Stage I, 31 new
DTWs in Stage 11 and 49 DTWs in Stage III. An additional 29 DTWs in Stage III are expected to be
operational shortly after turnover to farmers (Table 1). However, only 4 km of the targeted 10 km of
drainage works were completed, because of farmers' resistance to land acquisition for drainage channels.
Moreover, the repair of some defects on 16 irrigation distribution pipe networks remains to be completed
in Stage Il/Phase II. Except for the 16 DTW systems which are to receive power from a newly completed
5 MVA sub-station, all DTW systems are in operable condition. Operation of the new sub-station is
pending and is yet to be handed over to the Nepal Electricity Authority (NEA) by the project.
16.  Maintenance facilities, including project roads, vehicles, equipment, spare parts and materials,
were all completed as targeted. A considerable amount of spares was left over for use in the project's
operational phase. The project management has arranged for these surplus spares to be valued and sold
to the WUAs, as required, through their central committee.
17.  Under the BLGW component, agricultural support services were also maintained at a high level
involving farmer training and demonstrations for the introduction of new cash crops, such as kidney bean,
sunflower, peas, soybean and cow peas, providing marketing knowledge to farmers, and the
establishment of two agriculture sub-centers. However, the provision of five storage facilities was
excluded, as similar facilities are now available in or near the town of Bhairawa.
18.  The BLGW component also financed local and foreign technical training and a number of specific
studies. About 204 months of foreign consultants and 324 months of local consultants were used for
implementation assistance and studies. In addition, two separate studies were carried out by international
consulting firms, namely: (a) Birganj Groundwater Development; and (b) Terai Groundwater
Development. Local consultants also completed studies on WID and Marketing of Agricultural Products.



7
The project successfully launched a number of WID activities (i.e. literacy classes, kitchen gardening and
sewing classes), and assisted farmers in marketing.
19.  The ILC component far exceeded its physical targets, on account of a large unforeseen demand by
farmers. Because of delays in the preparation of a proposed follow-on NISP, implementation oftheILC
pilot program was extended until July 15, 1997. For the same reason, its area of coverage was also
expanded to 36 hill and terai districts. The recruitment of consultants under this component was delayed
until mid-1994. Eventually, 207 (including 22 expatriate) months were provided under the component.
20.  Under the IDS component, a new DOI central building was completed and all HQ staff have been
accommodated there since February 1997. 7 district irrigation offices (DIO) were also completed and
some building extension works were undertaken in the Far Western Regional Directorate.  A
computerized MIS and a departmental library were established in the DOI headquarters. Under the
component, not all technical targets were met. Completed activities included the updating of the
irrigation master plan and irrigation data base, updating of low flow measurements in terai rivers, revision
of the IP (1992) and several feasibility studies of medium and large FMIS. However, in the pilot testing
of Participatory Joint Management conducted in three public irrigation sub-projects, the program was not
pursued satisfactorily due to a lack of coordination between center and field staff. Under the ILC,
training of staff for implementation of ILC procedures was conducted and many DIO field staff were
trained within the country.  However, no foreign study or fellowships were undertaken, as the
Government suspended the use of the Credit for training. This amounted to non-compliance with the
Credit Agreement. Throughout the region Borrowers are reluctant to use credit money to finance foreign
training and therefore in future projects, the need to include such training should be carefully
reconsidered.
21.  Net Present Value/Economic Rates of Return (ERR). Total project costs estimated at
appraisal were NRs 1,533.42 million (US$52.69 million equivalent), including NRs 1,154.55 million
(US$39.67 million) for the BLGW III component, NRs 308.29 million (US$10.59) for the ILC
component and NRs 70.58 million (US$2.43 million) for the IDS component. Actual expenditures as of
30 June 1999 were estimated at NRs 3,113 million, 203 percent of the appraisal estimates (Table 2). In
terms of US dollars these expenditures were approximately US$59.43 million, or 113 percent of the
appraisal estimates, as shown below:
Component               SAR Estimates          ICR Estimates
NRs M       US$ M      NRs M      US$ M
BLGW III              1,154.55      39.67    1,854.93      35.12
ILC                    308.29       10.59    1,144.38      22.26
IDS                     70.58        2.43      114.06       2.05
Total                 1,533.42      52.69    3,113.37      59.43
22.  Under the BLGW Component, separate ERRs were estimated at ICR for each stage, allowing for
incremental costs and benefits associated with: (a) modification of the DTW system (lining) in Stage 1;
and (b) construction of new DTWs in Stages II and III and the BLGW main component. In general, the
evaluation followed appraisal assumptions and methodology. However, it introduced two additional
assumptions, namely: (i) areas irrigated by DTWs were estimated at about 80 percent of total command
areas; and (ii) peak cropping intensity and yields for major crops were assumed to be achieved over 7
years, against the appraisal estimate of 5 years. Based on these assumptions, the ERRs are robust,



8
ranging from 22.1 percent for a typical DTW to 33.3 percent for an artesian well (see Appendix 2, Tables
22-23).
23.  Based on recorded project expenditures (Table 24) and post-project maintenance costs for
infrastructure, WUAs and agricultural support (Table 25), the overall ERR is robust (32.9 percent) for the
modification of the existing DTW system in Stage I, and favorable (15.0 percent) for the installation of
the new DTW system in Stages II and III (Tables 26-27). Taken as a whole, the ERR for the BLGW
component, including Stages I, II and III, is favorable at 18.3 percent (Table 28), 3.7 percent lower than
the appraisal estimate of 22 percent.
24.  Sensitivity and Risk. Generally, the ERRs are more sensitive to decreases in benefits than to
increases in project costs, particularly in Stages II and III. The ERR falls to 12 percent (assumed
opportunity cost of capital) if benefits are reduced by 25-70 percent or if costs are increased by 40-230
percent.
25.  Overall, the risks to project sustainability are minimal. Several risks were tested, particularly
farners' willingness and ability to: (a) take over and manage the completed DTWs; (b) undertake regular
and periodic O&M; (c) achieve the assumed effective area irrigated by DTWs (estimated at 80 percent of
command area); and (d) achieve the projected cropping intensity and yields of major crops. In all cases,
the ERRs of the sub-components and of the whole project remained acceptable.
26.  Under the ILC component, ERRs were calculated based on an analysis of 20 selected sub-projects,
which was prepared by ILC consultants and DOI and incorporated in the Mahakali Irrigation II Project
Completion Report (Cr. 1924-NEP, December 1997). With the exception of one surface irrigation sub-
project (ERR -5 percent), the ERRs were acceptable and robust, ranging from 12.4 percent to 30.7
percent for 16 surface irrigation sub-projects (14-35 percent estimated at appraisal) and from 16.3-25.7
percent for 3 groundwater irrigation sub-projects (18 percent estimated at appraisal).
27.  Financial Rates of Return (ERR). At appraisal, no FRRs were calculated. However, at ICR,
calculations were made for a typical DTW model and for an artesian model. Based on recorded DTW
and artesian well investment costs (Appendix 2, Tables 12-13) and on estimated annual O&M costs
(Appendix 2, Table 14), the FRRs over a 20-year period were robust, ranging from 21.5 percent for a
typical DTW to 31.1 percent for an artesian well (Tables 15-16).
28.  Institutional Development Impact. Under the BLGW component, over 168 WUA chairmen, 190
pump operators (more than one for each tube-well) and 58 WUG members were trained on the
management aspects of tube-wells and irrigation canal lining. The project helped form a Central WUA,
four Regional WUAs, and over 169 individual tube-well WUGs, and it introduced WIUAs to the private
mechanical and electrical workshop facilities available in the area. Some interaction between private
workshop personnel and the WUAs was established through training courses given by project staff. More
attention was given to deep tube wells under the Bhairawa main project since the size of each tube well is
bigger (120 ha) than the ILC small and medium tube wells (12 ha to 40 ha).
29.  At the suggestion of IDA, the project initiated a program of WID activities in 1996. The project
area contains over 80,000 people in 14,000 households, of whom 49 percent are women. Only 12 percent
of these women are literate, compared to a national literacy rate of 32 percent. About 65 percent of them
are aged between 10 and 65 and are directly engaged in agriculture. Four WID activities, namely: (a)
literacy classes; (b) sanitation and environment training; (c) basic agro-technology; and (d) financial
management training were carried out. About 108 women's groups (each of 30 women) were formed and
given training.



9
30.  Under the ILC, the legalization of over 300 ad hoc FIAs at the District Development Offices was
achieved. User groups continue to be provided with training on water use and agriculture by the District
Irrigation and Agriculture Offices. On-farm water management training, including irrigated agriculture,
continues under the NISP. Under IDS, the project provided opportunities for DOA staff to receive
training on sub-project identification and criteria for sub-project preparation.
E. Major Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcome
31.  Implementation took longer than expected but it did not extend beyond the Credit closing date.
The stipulated construction completion date was December 31, 1998, and final completion took place on
June 30, 1999 (Credit closing date). At that time, farmer turnover activities remained to be completed in
29 tube-well systems. Mostly, the factors causing delay were within the control of the Government and
the implementing agency (below).
32.  Factors generally subject to government control: During project implementation there were at
least five changes of government and many untimely changes of senior project staff, affecting all
components. Not all of these changes were the result of the transfer regulations for government staff, and
they had a significant negative impact on project implementation. Most important, they caused: (a)
delays in the award of ICB/LCB contracts; (b) a lack of coordination between government agencies, in
particular the DOI and the Nepal Electricity Authority (NEA); and (c) late approval of annual work
programs. Implementation was also delayed by insufficient budget releases in the early years and late
releases of funds throughout the project period. A serious generic issue is the non-synchronization of
annual budget releases with the main construction season for civil works, which is only 6-7 months/yr.
33.  Factors generally subject to implementing agency control: A significant problem was the lack of
coordination and supervision by project staff of the (mandatory) farmers' contribution of trenching and
refilling buried irrigation pipe in the BLGW component. This had a negative impact on both the
construction schedule and the quality of civil works. There was also a lack of coordination between
project managers on the use of the Special Account (SA), which led to funding problems. In the BLGW
component, more than 10 tube-wells were abandoned because of poor site selection (either in low lying
areas where irrigation is not necessary or in areas where artesian or surface water is sufficiently
available). In the ILC, procedural and technical guidelines were sometimes put at risk by the frequent
transfer of district level staff, local political intervention, and large farmers' influence in sub-project
selection. These factors were also responsible for difficulties in the institutionalization of PIM and of
demand-driven principles for project selection. There was at times a lack of transparency in the public
dissemination of procedures for sub-project preparation, selection and approval, cost sharing and
contracting. Due to the lack of proper monitoring and follow-up, there were delays in account
compilation at the districts and regional offices, which almost led to suspension of the Credit several
times. In addition, deficiencies in proper documentation and maintenance of expenditures led to some
audit qualifications. In many instances warning letters were sent to the borrower about the qualifications.
Other than the points noted above, the management including financial management of the project were
considered satisfactory.
34.  Costs and Financing. Some increases in project expenditures (par. 21 above) were attributable to
increases in the scope of works. In the BLGW III main component, there were: (a) an increase in civil
works for Stage II tube-wells, (b) construction of 6 additional DTW systems in Stage III; (c) drilling and
re-drilling of additional DTWs in Stages I and II; (d) significant increases in unit costs of mechanical and
electrical works; (e) repair of leakage in piped distribution networks; and (f) hiring of consultants for
additional studies. It is important to note that farmers' own contributions also increased substantially,



10
from NRs 8.36 million estimated at appraisal to NRs 20.71 million at ICR. In spite of the large over-run
in NR costs, total expenditure on the BLGW component in US$ equivalent (US$4.55 million) was 11
percent lower than the original appraisal estimate. In the ILC component, however, US$ expenditures
were 210 percent of the appraisal estimate on account of the large increase in the scope of works and
affected irrigated areas. Costs in the IDS component were about 62 percent above appraisal estimates in
NR terms, but substantially lower in US$ equivalent.
F. Sustainability
35.  Based on the experience of Stage 1 (60 DTW) and Stage II/Phase I (16 DTW), which have been in
operation for 7 to 14 years, the project will have a significant positive impact on agricultural development
and farm incomes in the project area. This will be complemented by the proper formation of central and
regional WUAs, participation and interaction of WUAs with private workshops and steady improvement
in the availability of power and reliability of water supply, which will allow farmers to adopt improved
agricultural practices and to diversify their crops.
36. Rational for Sustainability Rating. The sustainability of the BLGW Project depends mainly on
beneficiary farmers' attitudes and their ability to operate and maintain the tube-well equipment. Their
willingness to do so will depend on the benefits they derive from tube-well irrigation and their interaction
with private workshops and O&M facilities, and on government technical support made available in their
vicinity. Experience in Stage I and Stage II/Phase I indicates that increased farm incomes were achieved
with the use of appropriate inputs and suitable marketing outlets, aside from water. Cursory analysis
shows that net incremental agricultural production values vary from NRs 45,000/ha to NRs 13,000/ha
under full to partial irrigation. Average O&M expenditures, including preventive (every three years) and
regular O&M, vary from NRs 3,700 to 1,700 per hectare. Regarding the availability of O&M facilities in
the area, many private workshops are now capable of repairing and casting pump and motor equipment
used in the system. The project management correctly encouraged private workshops in the area to
complement project facilities, promoted WUAs at the Central and Regional Water User Coordination
Committee, and trained mechanics from private workshops. With these arrangements in place and likely
to be complemented by future technical assistance from the regional Groundwater Field Office, the
project is likely to be sustainable.
37.  In the case of the ILC, almost all schemes are farmer developed, owned and operated, except for
20 turnover schemes, which were formerly managed by the DOI. There is no doubt about farmers'
ability to operate as in the past. Most improvements to the systems made during the project will allow for
easier system operation and less repair during the wet season, because temporary weirs have been
replaced by more permanent structures made up of locally available material. Aqueducts now built into
the systems will also allow less interruption to water supply from cross drainage. Sustainability is now
dependent mainly on some head-works and permanent intakes that were new to FIAs. The sustainability
of these structures depends on training and timely technical assistance on some aspects of O&M which
FIAs cannot cope with. Technical assistance by DIO to the FIAs seems to be readily available in all
districts, provided the concerned FIAs meet the costs of regular maintenance. In a few sub-projects
farmers need to be trained to operate and maintain new types of structures with masonry and steel gates,
especially in Terai. Overall, the ILC is likely to be sustainable.
38.  During implementation, the project also provided for many development activities of a non-
engineering nature, including WUA training and support, agriculture planning, extension, marketing
training and WID training. All these activities were carried out under the project umbrella using project
facilities. Support and transfer of these activities to the respective line agencies in the concerned districts



II
is under way, but some time is needed for a smooth transition. Besides, farmers in some 35 DTW
systems that came into operation recently in Stage III require adequate training and guidance. To meet
these requirements the project proposed to continue to maintain the core staff of the O&M, Agricultural,
Farmer Organization, and Administration Units to perform the supporting role during the transition
period of about two years after Credit closure.
39.  Transition Arrangement to Regular Operation.  At ICR, the project proposed a plan of
operation and staffing detailed in the project's POP (Project Operation Plan). The POP deals with the
next two years, during which O&M support activities are to be gradually taken over by district line
agencies, including the Groundwater Field Office at Butwal. Thereafter, core staff mentioned in the POP
and their supporting role will be progressively reduced. The Groundwater Field Office (GFO) would
provide future technical activities, NEA would operate the new sub-station, the Department of
Agriculture would carry out extension and training, and private sector workshops would provide for tube-
well equipment maintenance. A budget of NRs 27 million and NRs 11 million for the transitional two-
year O&M phase would cover core staff salaries and overhead, buildings maintenance, office running
costs, equipment, machinery and vehicle maintenance, training of farmers and maintenance of roads,
pumps and accessories (19 tube-wells), which are to be handed over in FY2000. Further costs of
agricultural training and extension would be bome by the on-going AREP.
40.  Post-project activities can be monitored through the on-going Nepal Irrigation Sector Project
(replication of ILC) covering the three western development region districts and Rupandehi District of
BLGWP. The outcome and the lessons learned from the project will be used in a proposed follow-up
project of a similar nature, the Terai Groundwater Project (TGWP). The impact evaluation of the
BLGWP by OED would best be done in FY2001, when all O&M support systems will have been handed
over to the district level, and before the finalization of the TGWP preparation and appraisal.
G. Bank and Borrower's Performance
Bank
41.  Lending.  The project concept was based on the experience of Stages I and II of BLGWP at the
time of project preparation. The change in the O&M principle from Stage I to Stage II, based on
participatory demand, supported the newly-promulgated IP-1988. The concept was innovative, but IDA
had some experience from Mahakali Irrigation II, and experience was also available from the ADB-
financed Irrigation Sector Project. The project was consistent with the Government's development
strategy at that time. IDA encouraged the Borrower to study the experience and to effect changes in
project implementation procedures, as appropriate. The project was prepared in sufficient detail, and
preparation and appraisal concentrated on most of the issues observed in the previous two stages. The
appraisal team comprised the necessary quality and skill mix of staff, some of whom continued to be
involved in the project for many years. As the project was based on sector reform, it had a wide
geographic spread, which led to some logistical difficulties during preparation and appraisal. The
financial management arrangements put in place under Stage I and 11 of the project were continued under
Stage III, and with the exception of some minor difficulties noted in Paragraph 43 below were
satisfactory.
42.  Supervision. At the time of implementation, it was apparent that the mandatory farmers' labor
contribution to trench excavation for distribution pipelines was the primary reason for poor quality in
finished works. Due to the high level of technology required for DTWs powered by electrical pumps and
with buried pipe systems and the need for multi-agency involvement in operations (electrical, mechanical
and civil works), the turnover to farmers took longer than expected at appraisal. Farmers expressed their



12
preferences to the smaller tube well units like in the ILC. Options to modify tube-well size or the
development methods as defined in the project were rather limited, because all pumping equipment and
accessories were procured in lots in the early stages of implementation. This was a significant problem at
the mid-term review.
43.  Continuity of Bank staff supervision was generally good. IDA provided frequent and effective
supervision, but this could not cover the entire geographic spread of ILC participating districts. Thus ILC
and IDS account compilation in the early implementation periods were not effective nor timely. This
caused disbursement problems, qualified audit opinion, and delays in audit report submission, which
almost led to suspension of the Credit. This was solved when the Bank was able in the later stages to
mobilize SOE and account supervision and review missions teamed with the Kathmandu office staff.
44.  In spite of these difficulties, the Bank's follow-up and efforts to resolve implementation problems
allowed the project to be completed within the original time frame and within the resources of the Credit.
The Bank's lending and supervision can be rated satisfactory.
Borrower
45.  Overall performance of project management was satisfactory. In general, the Borrower made
considerable efforts to implement the project with diligence and efficiency in spite of some generic
problems arising from political pressure on some aspects of project management.
46.  Preparation. As the project was a follow-on from Stages I and II in the case of BLGW, and of
Mahakali II in the case of ILC and IDS, the project needed little organizational adjustment, technical
investigation or logistical support during preparation.  The most important innovation was the
participatory project implementation, which introduced a range of conditions regarding the FIAs and
WUAs. These were willingly adopted by the Borrower. Essentially, no major issues arose during
preparation.
47.  Implementation. During implementation, problems were caused by changes of project manager
and senior staff in the main component, and of project coordinators in the ILC and IDS components.
These resulted in unnecessary delays in decision-making. Though usually in accord with the transfer
regulations for government staff, the frequent turnover of key staff impeded the momentum of project
implementation, especially during its early stages and during its final wind-up. Following each turnover,
new managers could not reach decisions promptly on various contractual issues affecting the completion of
tube-well systems, i.e. procurement, disbursement and contractual settlement, training and even system
operation.  Management of the special account by the Financial Comptroller General Office was
unsatisfactory initially due to a lack of coordination between project components. This was later resolved by
introducing a pro-rated quota for each component. Audit reports on all components were often late, but
not to the point of Credit suspension. In spite of all these problems, with the concerted efforts of the
Borrower, project construction was completed, and partial operation of some tube-well systems (about 49
TWs) in Stage III took place one year ahead of Credit closure.
48.  Other problems arose in synchronizing planning and decision-making. For example: (a) a delay in
the turnover of the new East sub-station to the Nepal Electricity Authority (NEA) despite the Ministry's
approval; and (b) inadequate attention paid in the selection of transmission line alignment, which resulted in
delays in commissioning and completing DTW systems taking power from that line. Diring tube-well site
selection, identification of irrigable areas was not always satisfactory, and in a few cases tube-well areas
ended up in low-lying areas or in areas already receiving surface water. Due to inappropriate well
development technology in Stage II, 8 tube-wells (out of 38 wells developed) had to be re-drilled. A lack of



13
quality control, supervision and coordination in the construction of some distribution systems in Stages II
and III using beneficiary farmers led to a need for repairs to piped distribution systems after completion.
49.  At the later stage of implementation, the implementing agencymade a major effort to complete the
project successfully within the stipulated period. Many innovative and good programs were introduced to
help WUAs carry out their own O&M after the project. Additional activities affecting WID, marketing,
training and other initiatives outside the original scope of works were implemented. A Project
Completion Report (PCR) and Project Operation Plans (POPs) were prepared and made available to the
ICR mission for review and comments. The PCR was reviewed and commented on by the ICR mission.
Recommendations made were taken up by the management. The Borrower's performance in project
preparation and implementation are rated satisfactory.
H. Lessons Learned
50. Lessons learned from BLGWP and ILC are described below.
Preparation and Lending:
(a)  The project confirms the success of earlier development models, based on farmer participation in
all phases of planning, investment and operation. Such arrangements were already in place in the ILC
(FMIS and shallow well) areas. This project introduced them for deep tube-wells through turnover of
public wells to farmers' groups. The success of this process is supported by empirical evidence from
many other parts of the world.
(b)  It has taken three project cycles to reach what can be regarded as fully sustainable development in
this case. This reflects a need to take a long-term view of institutional change and of the preparation of
beneficiaries for full participation. It suggests that Bank interventions should be seen as part of a
continuing process, possibly involving more than one project cycle.
(c)  The models supported by the project depend on strong financial incentives for beneficiaries. These
in turn require sound technical and economic evaluation of investments and careful selection of priorities,
particularly in cases where artesian or other surface water source is evident. They also require open and
transparent processes for site selection. By and large, this project succeeded because of these incentives,
even in the DTWs, which by their nature are less attractive for small farmer groups than the shallow or
smaller wells like in the ILC. Experience with the deep tube well in Nepal shows that size of irrigation
unit per deep tube well should be no more than 40 ha (ILC type) though larger unit may be more cost
effective.
(d)  Equity considerations and poverty objectives require early agreement in communities on gender
and distribution issues. Such agreement is critical in the process of site selection and priority setting.
Furthermore, the design and preparation of projects involving significant targeted subsidies, such as
applied in this case, need to focus heavily on ensuring minimal leakage towards the larger land-holders.
Implementation and Operation and Maintenance
(e)   The main problem areas in this project have been in the role and functioning of the public sector, in
particular in the release of funds and their synchronization with construction schedules, public
procurement, account compilation, financial management and timely disbursement. These are all matters
requiring close attention, and if necessary project execution training to staff, in future sector reform
projects with wide geographic coverage involving many districts and agencies.



14
(f)   The critical role of public services is also evidenced by the project, especially technical support to
farmer groups. There is a need in all future projects of this kind to work up-front in defining this role, in
disseminating it among the communities, in defining the complementary role of private service agents (eg
workshops), and in defining who will be responsible for maintaining technical support following the
project. At ICR, these were the least satisfactory aspects of the project.
(g)   The failure of the Borrower to use the Credit allocation for the foreign training reflects a
widespread reluctance in South Asia to use credit money for this purpose. In future projects this should
be taken into account during the design and negotiations.
(h)   The project orientation towards promotion of private sector investment in service delivery aspect
should be encouraged right from the outset with proper investment regulations and rules, training and
knowledge dissemination, while public sector takes up more and more regulatory and technical support
role.



15
Annex la: Key Performance Indicators
Outcome/Impact Indicators
ICR Estimate
Actual or        at full
Indicators                  Unit   SAR Estimate  ICR Estimate       development
A. BLGW III Component
Input:
- Irrigable Areas by DTWs
Stage I                                      ha              7,680          7,200            7,200
Stage II                                     ha              2,000          2,522            2,522
Stage III                                    ha              8,600           3,463           9,249
Total                                                       18,280          13,185           18,971
- Irrigated Areas by DTWs
Stage I                                      ha              7,680           5,760           5,760
Stage II                                     ha              2,000          2,018            2,018
Stage III                                    ha              8,600          4,629            7,399
Total                                                       18,280          12,407           15,177
Output:
- With Project Cropping intensity            %                189         167-197             209
- With Project - Paddy Yield               tons/ha            3.8          3.0-4.2            4.5
- With Project - Wheat Yield              tons/ha             2.7          2.5-3.0             3.0
- Farm Incomes (FY98/99 Prices)            Rs./ha          94,500          88,585           88585
- Farmers contribution to capital costs      %                1.4             1.4
B. Irrigation Line of Credit
Input:
Irrigable Areas by Surface and GW             ha             6,600          32,565          32,565
Output:
- Cropping Intensity                         %                189         132-280          157-280
- Crop Yield- Paddy                        tons/ha            3.8          1.7-3.5          2.2-3.5
- Crop Yield - Wheat                       tons/ha            2.7          1.0-2.5          1.6-2.5
- Farm Incomes (1997 Prices)               Rs./ha    24,500-30,600    17,270-27,186   17,270-27,186
- Farmers contribution to capital costs      %               7-40              12
C. Institutional Development Support
- MIS system now functional                  %                100              70              100
- No. of DlOs now preparing full-scale       %                100              90              100
irrigation projects
-PJM system has been working satisfactorily
and adopted by farmers in all schemes         %                100            100              100



16
Annex 1b: Key Performance Indicators
Output Indicators
Indicators                                    unrt   Appraisal   Revised   ActualICR Estimate        Actual/ICR Estimates as %
Target     Target                           Appraisal      Revised
A. BLGW III Component
Modification of Stage I Systems
Additional watercourse lining                 km          140        140          140                    100%       100%
Appraisal Target     ActuaVICR Estimate    Actual/ICR Estimates
Completion of Stage II Systems                         Phase I  Phase II    Phase I       Phase II    as % of Appraisal
Drilling and testing tubewells                no           8          22            8        22          100%
Artesian sealing of tubewells                 no            8                       0          8         100%
Pumphouse/control chambers                    no          16          22           16        22          100%
Distribution systems                     systems          16          22           16        22          100%
Provide/install pumps                         no          16         22            16        22          100%
Powerlines                                    no          16         22            16        22          100%
33/11 kv substation                           no           0           1            0          1         100%
Roads                                         km           0         1.5            0        1.5         100%
Drainage works                                km           0          19            0         17          89%
Buildings                                     no           0           1            0          1         100%
Redrilling                                    no           0           0            1          8
Construction of Stage IlIl Systems                    Appraisal   Revised ActuaVICR Estimate         ActuaVICR Estimate as %
Target                                      Appraisal     Revised
Land Acquisition                              ha                                   76
Drilling and testing tubewells                no          73          79           79                    108%       100%
Pumphouse/control chambers                    no          73          79           77                    105%       97%
Distribution systems                          no          73          79           77                    105%       97%
Drainageworks                                 km          38          10            4                     11%       40%
Installed pump units                          no          73          79           77                    105%       97%
Power lines/Transformers                     km           118        134          117                     99%       87%
33/11 kv substation                           no           0           1            1                               100%
Roads                                         km          92         123          118                    128%        96%
Subcenter                                     no            2          2            2                    100%       100%
Input godowns                                 no            5          5            0                      0%         0%
JTA quarters                                  no           6           6          4.5                     75%       75%
B. ILC Component 1/
No. Surface Irrigation Schmes completed      no            NS                     276
No. Surface Irrigation Schmes started        no            NS                      69
but remained incompleted 2/
No. GWs completed                            no            NS                     217
No. GWs started but remained incompleted 2/  no            NS                      43
NS-number of subprojects were not specified at SAR as subprojects were to be identified during project implementation.
Only total area of 6,600 ha were estimated.
11 See details in Appendix 1.
2/ Incompleted schemes and GWs are carried over to NISP.
Source: Project Office, BLGWP III and Mahakali Irrigation II Project Completion Report (December 1997).



17
Annex Ic: Key Performance Indicators
Output Indicators
ILC AND IDS COMPONENT
(June 1997)
Transfer from             Under BLGW m                  Total
Mahakhali II
1. Surface Irrigation
No. Schemes Completed                                                36                        240                        276
Area (ha)                                                         2137                       26218                     28355
No. Schemes Incomplete & Carry Over to NISP                                                      69                        69
Area (ha)                                                                                    21459                      21459
2. Groundwater
No. Wells Completed                                                  67                        150                        217
Area (ha)                                                           959                       3251                       4210
No. wells Incomplete & Carry Over to NISP                                                       43                         43
Area (ha)                                                                                      834                        834
Total Area (ha)                                                    3096                      51762                      54858
Expenditures (NRs Million)
Appraisal . _ ....Actual.
Est'mates
FY90191   FY91192     FY92193       FY93194      FY94195       FY95S96      FY96197       Total
ILC
Civil Works-Project                     289.00      26.61      39.17        101.93       183.75        214.23        39.16        280.70        885.55
Civil Works-Farmers'Contribution                    2.13        3.13         8.15         14.70        17.14         3.13          69.81        118.20
Agric. Support and Environment           19.29       1.02      23.46         17.89        24.77        20.60         3.31         49.58         140.63
Subtotal ILC                            308.29      29.76      65.76        127.97       223.22        251.97        45.60        400.09       1144.38
IDS                                      70.58      0.00        0.00         0.00         17.00         t.80         33.38        54.88         114.06
Total Costs                             378.87      29.76      65.76        127.97       240.22        260.77        78.98        454.97       1258.44
Source: Mahakhali Irrgation II Project, PCR, June 1997.



18
Annex ld: Key Performance Indicators
Output Indicators
C. Institutional Development Support (IDS) UNDER BLGW III PROJECT
Civil Works
DOI, HQ building
7 District Irrigation offices in
Palpa
Parbat
Baglung
Pyuthan
Dailekh
Surhket
Dhangarhi
Other works in DOI, HQ
Fire Fighting equipments
Flooring, furnishing and furniture
Studies
Ram Jamra & Kularrya Kulo (Kailai)
Proganna Kulo (Dang)
Low Flow Measurement Updating
Master Plan Irrigation Data Base Updating
Social Assessment Study of Model NISP Subprojects
Irrigation Policy 2049 Updating
Consultancy Services
Design and Supervision of DOI Central Building
Participatory Joint Management (PJM)
to foster PJM in the following schemes:
West Gandak Canal System, Nawalparasi
Begnas Tal Irrigation Project, Kaski
Rampur Phant Irrigation Project, Palpa



19
Annex 2a: Project Costs by Components (US$ million equivalent)
Components                           Total Appraisal            Total Actual 2/       Actual as
Estimat. I/                                     % of
appraisal
estimates
Local Foreig    Total   Local   Foreign    Total
n
BLGW III
Modification of Stage I          1.69    0.83    2.52     2.61     0.69       3.30      131
Construction of Stage II & III   9.39   13.82    23.22    15.10    12.40     27.50      118
O&M Costs                        0.49    0.92     1.41    0.87     0.37       1.25      89
Agric. Support                   0.46    0.35    0.81     0.28     0.19       0.47       58
Farmer Organization Support      0.25    0.41    0.66     0.05     0.08      0.13       20
GW Investigation                 1.41    1.69    3.10     1.01      1.51     2.52        81
Subtotal                        13.70   18.03    31.73    19.93    15.24     35.17      111
Irrigation Line of Credit        7.14    3.45    10.59    18.11    3.96      22.06      208
Institutional Development        1.41    1.01    2.43     1.76     0.44      2.20       91
Support                                                 .
Total baseline Costs            22.25   22.49   44.75 l 39.79    19.64       59.43      133
Contingencies                    5.0     2.25    7.95   -   I ---
Grand Total                     27.95   24.75    52.70 1 39.79    19.64      59.43      113
1/ US$1.0 = NRs. 29.10
2/ Annual exchange rates over project implementation period were averaged at US$1.0 =
NRs 52.39.



20
Annex 2b: Project Costs by Procurement Arrangements (US$ million equivalent)
Expenditure                              Appraisal Estimates                          Actual/
Categories                                                                         ICR Estimates
ICB      LIB      LCB       Other     NA        Total
Works                                    18.60     4.00                22.60           38.02
Goods                 10.30     0.60     3.00      0.20                14.10            8.16
Land Acquisition                                             0.30       0.30            0.21
Services                                           7.40                 7.40            7.24
Salary & O&M Costs                               _    _      8.30       8.30            5.80
Total                 10.30     0.60    21.60      11.60     8.60      52.70           59.43
Annex 2c: Project Financing (US$ million equivalent)
Expenditure                    Appraisal estimates                    Actual/ICR Estimnate
Categories
IDA     HMGN   Farner   Total   IDA 1/  HMGN2/   Farner    Total
__________            __________              ~~~   ~ ~~ ~~3/  _ _ _ _ _
Works                  20.70     1.40     0.50     22.60     33.44      1.91      2.67      38.02
Goods                  14.00     0.10              14.10     8.10       0.06                8.16
Land Acquisition         -       0.30               0.30                0.21                0.21
Services               7.40                         7.40     7.24                           7.24
Salary & O&M Costs
5.10     3.20               8.30      3.81      1.99                 5.80
Total                  47.20     5.00     0.50     52.70     52.59      4.17      2.67      59.43
1/ Total cumulative disbursements as of 9 August 1999 stood at US$51.61 million
equivalent. It was expected at ICR that total Credit of SDR36.60 million (US$52.59
million equivalent) would be fully disbursed within October 31, 1999. But at the end of
the grace period i.e., end October 1999 the disbursement amount was US$51,86 million
only. The unused credit amount of US$ 84,996.86 (SDR 62220.00) was canceled on
November 16, 1999.
2/ HMGN's contributions reduced significantly due to substantial increases in farmers
contribution under ILC.
3/ Including farmers' contribution in labor for construction of DTWs under BLGW III
component (US$0.39 million) and rehabilitation of surface irrigation schemes and
construction of groundwater wells under ILC component (US$2.28 million).



21
Annex 3: Cost Benefit Analysis
Bhairawa Lumbini Groundwater Irrigation III Component
Appraisal Estimate   ICR Re-Estimate
A. BLGW III Component
Economic Rates of Return (ERRs) (%): 1/
-Stage I Area                                                          -                32.9%
-Stage 11 and III Area                                               22%                15.0%
-Whole Project 2/                                                    22%                18.3%
Net Present Values (NPVs) (NRs. million)
-Whole Project 2/                                                   728.09             932.61
B. ILC Component
Economic Rates of Return (ERRs) (%): 3/
Surface Irrigation Sub-project Models                                14-35              9-31
Groundwater Subproject Models                                         18                16-26
C. Underlying Assumptions
Project Life (years)                                                  30                 30
Standard Conversion Factor                                           0.90               0.90
Effective Areas irrigated By DTWs (%)                                100%                80%
With Project Cropping Intensity and Yields to be achieved (Years)     5                   7
Unskilled Labor Value-Shadow Wage Rate (NRs/md)                      16.88              67.50
Financial Wage Rate (NRs./md)                                         25                 75
Opportunity Cost of Capital (%)                                       10                12.00
1/ Unlike SAR, the ICR re-estimate shows statewise ERRs. SAR estimated all stages combined.
2/ Including Stage I, II and III.
3/ See Summary of Economic Re-evaluation parameters and results of selected 17 surface irrigation sub-projects
and 3 groundwater subprojects in Appendix 2.



22
Annex 4a: Bank Inputs (Missions)
Performance Rating 2/
Number                    Specialized           Implementa    Development
Stage of      Month/        of         Days in       Staff Skills             tion        Objectives
Project Cycle    Year       Persons       Field      Representedl/             Progress
Preparation a/        6-8/89        7          155       Eng, Eco(2), Inst, Ag,       _
HydrGeo, Soc
Appraisal            11-12/89       4           96       Eng,Ag,Eco, Inst             _
Supervision I b/      6/90          -           -        Eco                          _
Supervision 2        10-11/90       4           20       Ag, HydroGeo, Eco,Inst       1              I
Supervision 3         2-3/91        2           40       Ag, HydroGeo                  I             I
Supervision 4         3-4/91        2           56       Eng, Soc                     1              I
Supervision 5         7/91          1           22       Eco                          1              I
Supervision 6         11/91         2           22       Ag, HydroGeo                 2              1
Supervision 7         34/92         2           50       Ag, Eco                      2              1
Supervision 8        10-11/92       3           54       Eng,Ag,Popr                  2               1
Supervision 9         34/93         4           70       Ag,Eng,Eco,Fin               2               1
Supervision 10       9-10/93        5           75       Soc, Popr, Eng,              2
HydroGeo, Ag
Supervision 11        6/94          3           28       Eng, Ag, Disb                2               1
Supervision 12        11/94         3           15       Ag (2), Popr                 2               1
Supervision 13        4/95          4           20       Eng(2),Ag (2)                2              2
Supervision 14        11/95         4           20       Eng (2), Ag(2)               2              2
Supervision 15        3/96          5           25       Ag (2),Eng(2),Opr            2              2
Supervision16         12/96         4           22       Ag,Eng (2),Eco               2              2
+MTR
Supervision 17        6/97          5           22       Eng (3),Ag, Env              2              2
Supervision 18        11/97         2           10       Eng(2)                       2              2
Supervision 19        6/98          4           15       Eng (2), Ag, Soc             2              2
Supervision 20        11/98         5           20       Eng(2),Ag, Soc, Popr         2              2
Completion            5/99          5           40       Eng (2),Eco (2),Disb         2              2
I/ Eng=lrrigation Engineer; Eco=Economist; Ag=Agriculturist; HydroGeo= Hydrogeologist; Inst-lnstitutional Development
Specialist; Soc=Sociologist; Env=Environmental Specialist; Progr-Program Officer; Disb=Disbursement Assistant.
POPR=Principal Operation Officer; Disb=Disbursement, Fin=Financial Specialist, Opr=Operation Officer.
2/1-Highly Satisfactory; 2- Satisfactory; 3-Unsatisfactory; 4 -Highly Unsatisfactory; NR-Not Rated; NA-Not Applicable
a/ Including two separated missions (one for detailed preparation works and one for preparation reviews) b/ Start up mission.



23
Annex 4b: Bank Inputs-Staff
Stage of                       Actual/Latest Estimate
Project Cycle
Staff weeks    US$(000)
Preparation to Appraisal                45.00        114.75
Appraisal / Negotiations                28.00         71.40
Negotiations through Board Approval      8.10         20.65
Supervision                            202.00        515.10
ICR                                     13.00         33.15
TOTAL                                 296.10        755.05



24
Annex 5: Rating for Achievement of Objectives/outputs
Highly                                            Highly
Objectives/Outputs            Satisfactory      Satisfactory    Unsatisfactory   Unsatisfactory  Not Applicab
Macro policies                      Z           O
Sector policies                                     W                               L            LZ
Physical                         [                  W                               LI
Financial                        L                                                  LI
Institutional development        [I                                                 L            L
Environmental                                         ]                 ]           LI]
Social:
-Poverty reduction               [                  V                              LI            LIII
-Gender                          El]                  ]                I           L             LI]
-Farmer Participation                               W                                I           [Iii]
Private sector development                          W                               LI
Public Sector Management                            V                              LI
Other (specify)                  L                                                  L0



25
Annex 6: Rating of Bank and Borrower Performance
Highly                                             Highly
Bank Performance              Satisfactory       Satisfactory    Unsatisfactory   Unsatisfactory
(                (v*)             (/)               )
Lending                          [Z n
Supervision                      [ ]               [                [  I
Overall                          [                 [I]
Borrower Performance
Preparation                                        [                 [               LI]
Government Implementation
Performance                      D    ll]
Implementing Agency       |                                                         LI]
Overall                                              W



26
Annex 7: List of Supporting Document
1.   Project Performance Audit Report - Nepal Bhairawa-Lumbini Groundwater Project
(Credit 654-NEP) - World Bank Report No. 5261 September 20, 1984
2.   Project Completion Report - Nepal Bhairawa Lumbini Groundwater Project (Credit 1316-
NEP) - World Bank Report No. 10477 - April 2, 1992
3.   Bhairawa Lumbini Groundwater Irrigation III Project - Staff Appraisal Report World
Bank Report No. 8411 -NEP, May 7, 1990
4.   Project Completion Report for Mahakali Irrigation II Project, Department of Irrigation,
March 1998, Section IV Bhairawa Lumbini GW Irrigation III (Transferred ILC and IDS
sub-projects - December 1997 status).
5.   Irrigation Line of Credit Pilot Project Final Report, Department of Irrigation, June 1996
6.   Evaluation Report of ILC in the Western Development Region, DOI, Research and
Training Branch, June 1993
7.   Project Completion Report of Bhairawa Lumbini Groundwater Irrigation Stage III Project,
Tahal Consulting Engineers Ltd. July 1999
8.   Project Operation Plan, Bhairawa Lumbini Groundwater Irrigation Stage III Project, Tahal
Consulting Engineers Ltd. June 1999
9.   Project supervision aide-memoires of Bank semi-annual supervision missions June 1990 to
November 1998.
10. Semi-annual reports of the Bhairawa Lumbini GW Irrigation III project, Department of
Irrigation, 1990 to 1998.
11.  Aide-memoire, Mid-Term review mission, Bhairawa Lumbini Groundwater Irrigation III
Project, December 1996.
12. Documents in World Bank Group Archives files.



27
Appendix 1
Nepal
Bhairawa Lumbini Groundwater Irrigation III Project (Cr. 2144-NEP)
Supervision/Implementation Completion Reporting Mission
May-June 1999
Aide-Memoire
Introduction
1.    An IDA mission comprising Messrs./Mme. 0. Myint, T. Lohavisavapanich, T.Hart (part-
time), S. Shrestha, and S. Ranjitkar (part-time) visited the project site from May 22 - May 28, 1999, to
supervise and prepare an implementation completion report (ICR) of the project. This Aide Memoire
is based on the findings of the mission. During its visit the mission held discussions with the
Bhairawa-Lumbini Groundwater Irrigation III Project (BLGW III) staff, the project consultant, the
Western Irrigation Directorate Director and District Irrigation Office staff (DIOs), the Project
Coodinating Officer (Nepal Irrigation Sector Project), Butwal Groundwater Field Office (GFO) staff,
District Agriculture Development Office (DADO) staff, Chief District Officer (CDO), farmers,
Central Water Users' Coordination Committee and other agencies, and reviewed project
documentation, relevant studies and reports. The draft Project Completion Report (PCR) and the draft
Project Operation Plan (POP) dated May 1999 were major sources of information for the ICR. The
mission discussed its preliminary findings with the Secretary, Ministry of Water Resources (MOWR)
before the wrap-up meeting.
2.    This Aide Memoire was discussed at a wrap-up meeting at DOI on June 15, 1999. Officials
from the Ministry of Finance (MOF), MOWR, Department of Agriculture (DOA), Department of
Irrigation (DOI) and the concerned Project Manager and staff were present at the meeting.
Amendments agreed at the meeting have been duly incorporated. The findings of the mission is
subject to the approval of the Bank's management. The mission wishes to thank the Director-General,
DOI, the Project Manager (PM) and staff of BLGWP, and staff of the other concerned agencies, for
their cooperation, and assistance.
The Project
3.    The BLGW  III Project was the follow-up third phase deep tube-well irrigation project
financed under World Bank Credit No. 2144-NEP of SDR 36.6 million. The credit was signed on
September 21, 1990 and became effective on February 19, 1991. The project comprised three
separate parts: (a) completion, and operation and maintenance of tube well systems in the Stage III
area in Rupandehi district; (b) expansion of the Irrigation Line of Credit (ILC) Pilot project; and (c)
continued Institutional Development Support (IDS) to the DOI.
4.    The Project Objectives were to: (a) raise agricultural production and farm incomes and
increased food security through expansion of an on-going deep tubewell (DTW) irrigation program
and through construction and rehabilitation of private Farmer-Managed Irrigation Schemes (FMIS);
(b) promote privatization and increased farmer participation to turn irrigation development into a
demand-driven process, reduce government costs, improve O&M and ensure sustainability of the
developed schemes; and (c) strengthen Nepal's irrigation sub-sector institution, particularly DOI, as
needed to implement the His Majesty's Government of Nepal's (HMGN) sector program approach to



28
Appendix 1
irrigation investment by shifting from public managed system to beneficiary participatory
management system.
5.    The scope of the project was determined on the basis of development need, accessibility to the
agricultural potential and proven groundwater resources of the project area, and the HMGN's
implementing capability. Details of the project components are as follows:
Part A: BLGW main component
(a) construction of about 73 new DTW irrigation systems and drainage facilities serving some
8,600 ha in the Stage III area (US$20.5 million);
(b) completion of 16 DTW systems serving nearly 2,000 ha implemented in the Stage II area
(US$2.7 million) and turnover to farmers all completed Stage II DTWs (38 nos.);
 modification of Stage I DTW systems (64 nos) and turnover to farmers (US$ 2.5 million);
(d) provision of maintenance of project facilities including vehicles, equipment, spare parts
and materials (US$ 1.4 million);
(e) provision of agricultural support services (US$ 0.8 million);
(f) provision of farmer organization support (US$ 0.7 million);
(g) provision of technical support, training and studies (US$3.1 million).
The estimated base costs of the component were US$ 31.7 million.
Part B: Irrigation Line of Credit Pilot Project
The expanded ILC pilot project to be implemented in 30 months was to test the Government's
Irrigation Policy (IP) of demand-driven approach on ground. The project activity targeted for
three types of Subproject and to cover 6,600 ha of irrigable land in 8 hill districts and five
terai districts of three Western Development Regions. As per the Irrigation Policy, the capital
costs were to be contributed and management to be undertaken by the farmer beneficiaries in:
(a) carrying out rehabilitation of existing farmer owned and managed small and medium-sized
irrigation sub-projects in selected districts of three Western Regions of Nepal;
(b) turnover to farmers rehabilitated small and medium sized public irrigation schemes for
operation and management;
D construction and improvement of groundwater schemes to be managed by farmer groups.
The estimated total costs of the component were about US$10.6 million
Part C: Institutional Development Support (IDS) to DOI
The assistance to the DOI in developing the institutional capability to support a long term
irrigation sector program comprised:
(a) Strengthening of Planning, Design and Research Division of DOI by providing office and
engineering equipment, transport vehicles, training and consulting services for sub-project
identification and feasibility studies, development of DOI management information system,
and farmers' organization support



29
Appendix I
(b) Strengthening of DOI Regional and District Offices by providing buildings, equipment
and vehicles, and providing funding for staffing, training, equipment and operation of mobile
irrigation teams.
 DOI Headquarters Renovation and Strengthening: Renovation and construction of a new
headquarters building. Human Resources Development, including the financing assessment of
the DOI and its capacities, resources and training requirements and assessment of its
administration.
The estimated total costs of the component were US$ 2.4 million.
6.    The total project cost (including contingencies) of US$52.7 million (NRs 1533.4 million) was
to be financed with the help of an IDA credit of US$47.2 million (SDR36.6 million orNRs 1373.5
million). The counterpart HMGN's funding was estimated as US$ 5.0 million equivalent (NRs 147.0
million) and the beneficiary farmers' contribution was about US$ 0.5 million equivalent (NRs 12.9
million).
Mission's Findings
Project Implementation
7.    BLGW Main Component: The status of completion at the ICR mission in end May, 1999 are
as below.
(a) construction completed in 77 new DTW irrigation systems, 5 DTW systems more than the original
target with each tube well serving 120 ha (except one artesian TW unit serving 70 ha). However, only
4 km of the targeted 10 km drainage works were completed due to farmers' resistance to land
acquisition for drainage channel. Except for the 16 DTW systems which are to get power from a
newly completed 5 MVA sub-station, all DTW systems are in operable conditions. Operation of the
new sub-station is pending with handing over arrangements to Nepal Electricity Authority (NEA) by
the project. All completed tube wells except 29 tube wells, which are in the process of handing over
to beneficiary Water Users Group (WUG), have been successfully handed over to the concerned
WUGs (Table 1).
(b) 16 irrigation distribution networks remained to complete in the 22 DTW systems of Bhairawa
Lumbini Stage II Project Phase II (Cr.1316-NEP) were fully completed and installed with pumps and
motors in the Stage II area. But 8 deep tube wells out of that 22 tube wells needed re-drilling due to
well caving. Of the 38 tube well systems completed in Stage-II (16 tube-well under Stage I Phase I
and 22 Tube well systems under Stage II Phase II), 31 DTW systems have been successfully put into
operation, and the remaining 7 systems were abandoned either due to their low lying irrigable area or
WUGs declined to take over after system completion. So far, 27 out of 31 DTW systems were
completely handed over to the concerned WUGs and the remaining 4 systems recently completed
from re-drilling and repair are in turn over process;
 modifications of the irrigation networks by lining of distribution canals in Stage I 64 DTW systems
were completed in 60 successful DTW systems. All 60 systems were turned over to WUGs. Four TW
systems were abandoned due to their low lying irrigation areas;



30
Appendix I
(d) provision of maintenance facilities including project roads, transport vehicles, equipment, spare
parts and materials were all completed as target. Considerable amount of spares are left over in the
project for use in operation phase. These surplus spares could be valued and sold out at time of needs
by farmers;
(e) provision of agricultural support services were being carried out throughout the project
implementation period by training farmers and demonstrations for introducing new cash crops such as
kidney bean, sunflower, peas, soybean and cow peas etc, providing marketing knowledge to farmers
and facilitating two agriculture sub-centers. Provision of five storage facilities were excluded as
similar facilities are now available in or near Bhairawa town.
(f) the project also provided assistance in forming WUGs, four Regional Coordination Committees
(RCC) and one Central Coordination Committee (CCC), their formal registrations at the Chief District
Office, and in the drawing constitution of Water User Association;
(g) provision of technical support, training and studies include providing the project's technical
consultants, local and foreign training of staff and the studies conducted using project funds. A team
of foreign and local consultants had been provided for the implementation assistance. About 204
person-months of foreign consultants and 324 person-months of local consultants were used for the
project implementation and studies. These exclude the two separate studies carried out by two
international consulting firms, namely: (i) Birganj Groundwater Development Studies and (ii) Terai
Groundwater Development Studies. It is noteworthy to mention that two more studies over the
originally stipulated studies have been completed by the project consultants, namely (i) Women in
Development (WID) study and (ii) Marketing study of the BLGW agricultural products. The project
had also successfully launched some WID activities (literacy classes, kitchen gardening and sewing
classes), as well as assisting farmers in marketing of agricultural products.
Except a few numbers of study tours and within country training, no foreign study and fellowships for
a number of selected agriculturists and engineers working for the project had been pursued by the
Borrower, as the Government has temporarily suspended using credit money for training. This non
compliance to the agreement need to be seriously reviewed in future projects.
8.    Implementation took longer than expected at appraisal due to (a) delay in award of ICB/LCB
contracts, (b) lack of coordination among Government agencies in particular the DOI and the DOA,
Nepal Electricity Authority (NEA) etc., and (c) frequent change of project mangers (four managers in
the implementation period). The stipulated project construction completion date was December 31,
1998 against the actual completion date of June 30, 1999, which is the date for the Credit closing.
Even then, some farmers' turn-over activities are remaining to be completed in 29 numbers of TW
systems.
9.    The project has expended for improvement of 64 TW systems in Stage I, completion and
modifications of 38 TW systems in two phases of Stage 11 (which were originally formulated without
demand-driven procedures at their time, and then revised to the demand driven approach at Stage-III
along with Stage III new tube-wells), and 78 TW systems in Stage-III against the target of 73 TW
systems. At the time of the completion 169 TW systems out of 175 stipulated systems are completed
successfully and are being handed over to the concerned WUGs. The average effective area irrigated
by each tube well using groundwater is about 90 ha against the stipulated 120 ha.



31
Appendix 1
10.   Irrigation Line of Credit (ILC). In the original stipulation, Irrigation Line of Credit
component of the Project, which tested HMGN's new Irrigation Policy, was to be implemented under
Mahakali Irrigation II Project (MIP-II) Credit-1924-NEP. However, from the second year onward,
the ILC component had been subdivided into: (i) constructions of new surface schemes; (ii)
rehabilitation of existing schemes, (iii) turnover of small and medium DOI schemes, and (iv) the
groundwater schemes. After two years of MIP-II construction, on-going 36 rehabilitation subprojects,
2 groundwater clusters with 67 tube well units were transferred to the BLGWP, leaving MIP II with
the construction of new surface irrigation subprojects only. The appraisal envisaged that about 6,600
ha of new and rehabilitated farmer-managed irrigation would be built under the project within 30
months (to be completed in 1994). Due to growing demands of farmers and delays in preparation of
the follow-up project (Nepal Irrigation Sector Project) the component was continued to about six and a
half year (1996/97), and expanded to thirty six hill and terai districts in the three Western
Development Regions. The ILC pilot project was closed on July 15, 1997 with the completion of256
surface schemes, 20 turnover schemes and 217 groundwater TW units covering a total area of 32,565
ha in three Western Development Regions. The achievement exceeded many folds over the SAR
stipulation due to the extension of time and resources. Similar transfer arrangements were also made
for the Institutional Development Support (IDS) component.
11.   The details on the completed activity included three types of Sub-Projects:
(a) 36 nos.of sub-projects and 67 numbers of tubewell units covering 3096 ha which were transferred
to this project due to change of arrangement in the implementation policy to finance the rehabilitation
schemes under BLGW-III Credit.
(b) 220 nos. surface rehabilitation FMIS and 150 tubewell units of new groundwater schemes were
arranged in 11 clusters covering 27150 ha.
<C 20 Turnover schemes covering 2319 ha.
12.   The ILC pilot project under BLGWP is considered to have been successfully concluded and
has enabled to realize a new Nepal Irrigation Sector Project (NISP- Credit 3009-NEP), which was
formulated based on lessons learned from it.
13.   Institutional Development Support (IDS) to DOI. Under the strengthening of PD&R
Division, provisions to manage and supervise the continuous review and, updating of the irrigation
master plan, its database, and preparation of design criteria were successfully implemented. Notably,
updating of Irrigation Master Plan, Irrigation Data Base, updating of Low Flow measurements in Terai
rivers, and revision of Irrigation Policy (1992) had been achieved along with several feasibility studies
of medium and large FMIS under this component. However, in the pilot testing of Participatory
Management conducted in three public irrigation sub-projects undertaken, the efforts were partial and
the program was not pursued satisfactorily due to lack of coordination between center and the field
staff. Training of staff for implementation of ILC process and procedure were conducted and many
DIO field staff were trained. Computerized Management Information System (MIS) and a
Departmental library were established in the DOI headquarters. Under the building and associated
activities a new DOI central building had been completed and all headquarter staff are housed since
February 1997. Seven District Irrigation Offices had been completed and some building extension
works were undertaken in Far Western Regional Directorate.



32
Appendix 1
Project Cost
14.   Total costs of the project were estimated at NRs. 1,533.42 million (US$52.69 million
equivalent), including NRs 1,154.55 million (US$39.67 million) for the BLGW III component, NRs.
308.29 million (US$ 10.59) for the ILC component andNRs. 70.58 million (US$2.43 million) for IDS
component. Expressed in Nepali Rupee, the actual project expenditures as of 30 June 1999 are
estimated atNRs. 3,113.37 million, which is 203% of the appraisal total project costs estimated (Table
2). The total project expenditures in terms of US dollars would be about US$59.43 million or 113%
of the appraisal estimates as shown below:
Component               SAR Estimates          ICR Estimates
NRs M      US$ M       NRs M      US$ M
BLGW III             1,154.55     39.67     1,854.93     35.12
ILC                   308.29      10.59     1,144.38     22.26
IDS                   70.58       2.43       114.06      2.05
Total                1,533.42     52.69     3,113.37     59.43
15.   Substantial increases in project expenditures were attributable mainly to increases in the total
number of DTWs drilled under BLGW III component, and increased scope of the total number of
rehabilitation of irrigation schemes and construction of new groundwater tube wells under the pilot
ILC. In the case of BLGW 111 component, anticipated expenditures by end June 30, 1999, would
amount to NRs.1,854.93 million, 61% higher than the appraisal estimates. Major factors contributing
to the cost overrun were due to increases in civil works including major repair works for Stage II area
tubewells, construction of additional 6 DTW systems in the Stage III area, drilling and re-drilling of
additional 14 DTWs in Stage I and 9 DTWs in the Stage II areas, significant increases in the costs of
mechanical and electrical works, repair of leakage in piped distribution networks, and project staff and
consultants for additional studies. In addition, farmers' contributions also increased substantially from
NRs 8.36 million at appraisal estimate toNRs 20.71 million at ICR. In terms of US dollar, due to
about 80% depreciation in Napali Rupee parity to US dollar (from NRs. 29 per dollar in 1989 to the
average of NRs. 53 per dollar during project implementation), total expenditures of the component
would be US$35.12 million equivalent, US$ 4.55 million lower than the appraisal estimate, or which
is about 89% of the appraisal estimates.
16.   The actual expenditures of the ILC component were NRs.1,144.38 million, 371% higher than
the appraisal estimates in Rupee terms. In US dollar, total expenditures were US$22.26 million, about
210% of the appraisal estimates. This is mainly due to increase in the revised scope of works and
areas. As of mid-July 1997, the project rehabilitated 345 surface irrigation schemes and constructed
260 DTWs, MTWs and STWs. Total command areas are 54,875 ha, eight folds of 6,600 ha estimated
at appraisal. However, 69 surface irrigation schemes and 43 groundwater tube wells remained
incomplete when this component was closed, and the remaining works have been carried over to
NISP.
17.   Total cumulative disbursements as of mid-May 1999 amounted to US$51.49 million.
Additional US$1.1 million are expected to be disbursed from the BLGW III component within mid-
October 1999, and the total Credit of SDR 36.60 million (US$52.59 million equivalent) is expected to
be fully disbursed.



33
Appendix 1
Project Impact
18.   BLGW III component. A total of 140 DTWs are operational in end May 1999, including 60
modified DTWs in the Stage I area, 31 new DTWs in the Stage II areas and 49 DTWs in the Stage III
area. Additional 29 DTWs in the Stage III are expected to be operational in the next month.
Therefore, the project is expected to complete a total of 169 DTWs covering total command area of
about 20,370 ha, against the appraisal targets of 175 DTWs and total command area of about 21,040
ha respectively.
19.   The agricultural production impact, based on the actual achievements of farmers in the Stage I
and II areas, cropping intensity increased substantially to about 209%, 20% higher than the appraisal
estimate of 189%. Yields of paddy and wheat also increased substantially by 50%-95% to 4.5 ton/ha
and 3.0 ton/ha respectively, 10%-20% higher than those appraisal estimates of 3.8 ton/ha and 2.7
ton/ha respectively. As a results of substantial higher cropping intensity and crop yields, incremental
farm incomes are expected to be significant. Similarly, as the higher production benefits would
partially offset the cost overrun, the economic rate of return of the BLGW III component is expected
to be acceptable at above opportunity cost of capital of 12% but lower than appraisal estimate of 22%.
20.   The yield could be more if benefits from irrigation were demonstrated with timely inputs of
good seeds and fertilizer and clearly perceived by farmers. After installations of tube wells and handed
over to users, the latter are currently using pumped water providing minimal crop water requirements,
mainly to avoid catastrophic crop failures during droughts. The actual number of pumping hours in
Stage I and Stage II area varies widely from the average maximum of 936 to average as low as 77
hours. Reasons for the large variations in pumping hours is partly because of significant artesian
flows are available in 24 TW out of 60 TW in Stage I along with surface sources in rainy season, and
8 TW out of 16 TW in Stage II Phase I and partly because farmers' perception of non responsive
yields to irrigation in case of lack of inputs. This practice is not conducive to achieving maximum
yields but farmers in this Project do not seem motivated to irrigate unless they can be convinced that
returns justify it. That requires convincing demonstrations of irrigated cultivation, timely inputs, and
assistance in marketing.
21.   ILC Component. As noted earlier, a total of 281 surface irrigation schemes covering 29,155
ha were rehabilitated and 217 groundwater tube wells covering 4,210 ha were constructed. Total
command area would be 33,365 ha, 506% of the appraisal estimates of 6,600 ha. Based on the
agriculture base line surveys conducted in 17 selected surface irrigation schemes and 3 groundwater
tube well systems, cropping intensities increased by 40%-45% to 157%-280% for the surface
irrigation schemes, and by 40%-50% to 174%-206% for the groundwater tube wells. Yields of paddy
increased by 20%-50% to 2.1-3.5 ton/ha and wheat by 20%-60% to 1.6-2.4 ton/ha for the surface
irrigation schemes. Similar to the groundwater tube wells, yields of paddy increased by 100%- 130% to
3-3.5 ton/ha and wheat by 80%-100% to 2-2.3 ton/ha. The re-estimated ERRs range from 12.4%-
30.7% for the surface irrigation schemes and 16.3%-25.7% for the groundwater tube wells compared
with the appraisal estimates of 14%-35% and 18% respectively.
Borrower's Performance
22.   In general, the Borrower made considerable efforts to implement the project with diligence
and efficiency. But during the implementation period, there had been a number of changes to project
manager and senior staff of the main component, and project coordinators of the ILC and IDS



34
Appendix 1
components in the course of implementation resulting in unnecessary tardiness in the decision making
process. Notably, there have been turnovers of four project managers. Though in accord with HMGN's
transfer regulations for government staff, these frequent turnovers impeded the momentum of project
implementation during its early stages and equally at the final wind-up. Subsequently, every new project
management could not reach decisions promptly on some contractual issues affecting timely completion
of tube well systems, i.e. procurement, disbursement and contractual settlement, training and even
systems operation.
23.    Some cases for delays in decisions and synchronized planning with the other stakeholders are:
(a) pending in turnover of new East sub-station to the concerned Nepal Electricity Authority (NEA)
despite Ministry's approval; and (b) inadequate attention paid in the selection of transmission line
alignment resulting in delays for commissioning and completion of DTW systems taking power from that
line. During TW site selection, identifications of irrigable areas were not thorough because of which
in few cases TW areas were ended in low-lying areas or, if not, areas receiving some surface water
resources. Due to in appropriate well development technology in Stage-TI area, eight tube wells (out of
38 wells developed) had to be re drilled. Lack of quality control, supervision and coordination in
construction of some distribution systems in Stage II and III with beneficiary farmers led to the needs for
repairs of the piped distribution systems after completion.
24. Audit reports in the main component and mostly in the Ground water investigation, ILC and IDS
sub-components were often late but not to the stage of credit suspension. In spite of all these, with the
concerted efforts of the Borrower and the consultants, the project construction was completed and
partial operation of some TW systems in Stage III have been taken place since one year ahead of the
credit closure.. A detailed Project Completion Report and Project Operation Plans (POPs) were
prepared and made available to the mission at ICR, for the review and remarks. The PCR was
reviewed and commented by the ICR mission. Taking into account of comments made by the
mission, the PCR will be finalized and submitted to IDA by no later than July 31, 1999.
Bank Performance
25.    The whole project concept was based on the technical advice and suggestions of IDA at the
time of project preparation. The O&M principle for Stage I and Stage II projects were revised with a
change of concept in Irrigation Policy of the Government. IDA encouraged the Borrower to study the
problem timely, and changed the implementation procedure of the project accordingly. The project
was also prepared in adequate details and the preparation and appraisal concentrated on most of the
issues observed in the previous two stages.
26.   At the time of implementation, it is apparent that the mandatory farmers' contribution in
trench excavation for distribution piped lines and laying pipes caused many deficiencies in quality of
finished works. Due to the high level of technology required for DTWs energized by electrical pumps
and buried piped system on one hand, and needs of multi-agencies' involvement in operations
(electrical, mechanical and civil works) on the other, the turnover to farmers took time longer than
expected in appraisal. Almost continuity of the Bank staff participating in the supervision activities
has been good in general, but the options open to change the tube well size or development methods as
defined for the project were rather limited, primarily because of all pumping equipment and
accessories were procured in lot in the early stages of implementation.



35
Appendix 1
27.   IDA provided frequent and effective supervision and suggestions but IDA's supervisions on
the ILC and IDS account compilation in the early implementation periods were not effective until it
could mobilize SOE and Account review missions teamed with the local office staff at the later dates.
Project Sustainability
28.   Bhairawa Lumbini Irrigation Project The sustainability of the Project depends mainly on
attitude and capacity of beneficiary farmers to operate and maintain the tube well equipment. Their
motivation to do so will depends on benefits they derive from the development and private O&M
facilities available in the project vicinity. Experience with the irrigated agriculture in the completed
Stage I (operating since last 14 years) and Stage II/Phase I (operating since last 7 years) reveals that
increased farm incomes were achievable with the use of appropriate inputs, not only water, and
suitable marketing outlets. Cursory analysis showed that the net incremental agricultural production
values vary from NRs 45,000/ha to NRs 13,000/ha under full to partial irrigation conditions. The
average O&M expenditures including preventive (every three year) regular O&M costs vary from
NRs 3700 to 1700 per hectre. Regarding the availability of O&M facilities in the area, the mission
had inspected many private workshops in the vicinity which are capable to repair pump and motor
equipment of the system. The project management and the consultants correctly promoted the future
O&M of TW systems by encouraging and assisting private service shops to develop in the area, by
introducing them to WUGs and Central and Regional Water User Coordination Committee, and by
training technicians employed by the private work shops. The mission observed that most of the
WUGs know where the services are available. However, farmers of the some Stage III systems which
come into operation quite recently still require technical guidance and assistance that should be given
beyond the closing date for a reasonable duration. With all these arrangement complement with future
technical support (no financial support) to be provided by the regional Grounwater Field Office, the
project is likely to be sustainable.
29.   Irrigation Line of Credit Almost all of the ILC schemes under this project are farmer
developed, owned and operated systems, except 20 turnover schemes, which were formally run by the
DOI. There is no doubt about farmers' capabilities to run their systems. Sustainability issue is related
only to headworks and permanent intakes that were introduced under the project. The sustainability of
these structures depends on DIO providing timely technical assistance with some aspects of
maintenance and repair, with which WIUG cannot cope. Technical assistance by DIO to WUG seems
to be readily available, but funds are to be provided by the concerned WJUGs for regular maintenance.
In few subprojects farmers need to be trained to operate and maintain new types of structures with
masonry and steel gates, especially in Terai. District Irrigation Offices are now available for the
technical assistance and seem no problem to render the assistance. The project is likely to be
sustainable.
Future Operation and Maintenance
30.   Bhairawa Lumbini Irrigation Component. There are about 169 DTW systems installed,
tested and put into operation by the project. During implementation, the project has also provided a
long list of development targeted activities of non-engineering nature, such as water user organization
training and support, agriculture planning, extension and support, marketing training, and women in
development training etc. All these activities have been carried out under the project umbrella using
project facilities. Support and transfer of these activities to the respective line agencies in the
concerned district is being initiated, but need some times for smooth transition. Besides, farmers in
some 35 DTW systems that come into operation recently in Stage III require training and guidance for



36
Appendix 1
a certain duration. To cope up with these requirements the project has proposed to keep four divisions
with core staff such as O&M Unit, Agricultural Unit, Farmer Organization Unit, and Administration
Unit with core staff to retain the supporting role during the transition period of about two years after
the Credit closure.
31.   The Plan of Operation and staffing are detailed in the project's POP submitted to the mission.
The supporting role along with the staff will be progressively reduced once the district's line offices
take over their respective roles, Groundwater Field Office (GFO) for future the technical support
activities, NEA for operating new sub-station, Department of Agriculture for extension and training,
and private sector work shops for Tube well equipment maintenance. Budget requirement for the
transitional O&M phase includes core staff salaries and overhead, buildings maintenance and office
running costs, equipment, machinery and transport vehicle maintenance costs, demonstration and
training of farmers, maintenance of roads, pumps and accessories (19 TWs) which are to be handed
over in the first year. The required amount is about NRs 27 million for first year and NRs 11 million
for the second year mainly for the staff salaries overhead and O&M costs. It was agreed that
additional costs required for agricultural training and extension activities are to be borne by the on
going AREP. The mission recommends that the required set-up for the transitional O&M unit be
finalized, budget be approved in FY00 and inform IDA about the arrangement by no later than
September 30, 1999.
32.   Irrigation Line of Credit. Future operation, as in the past, will be entirely the responsibility
of the water users. Improvements to the systems made during the project will have made operation in
many ways easier: less repair work in wet season for previously temporary weirs where these have
been replaced by more permanent structures made up of locally available material, less interruption to
supply due to damage of canals by cross drainage where new aqueducts have been built. More reliable
water supplies enable will enable planned operation to be effectively implemented.
Lessons Learned
33.   Lessons which have been learned from BLGWP and ILC are described below.
Implementation:
(a) in demand driven and users' participation project activities, more attention should be given to
appropriate synchronization of all implementation activities thorough adequate demonstrational
training and organization of farmers, but without setting annual area or budget targets in advance;
(b) farmers participation requires adequate and professional preparation and make them understand
thoroughly about applied policies and objectives concerning rights and responsibilities ahead of any
major investment;.
 farmers' participation in the development process is desirable in all stages, right from the outset of
the activities, to instill the sense of ownership and knowledge transfer;
(d) in groundwater development using medium and deep tube wells, size of irrigation unit should be
smaller for ease of farmers owned operation (preferably no more than 40 ha) though larger employed
unit may be more cost effective;



37
Appendix 1
(e) users' organization should be given chance to revisit the size and mode of irrigation before
finalizing the system in case of fully developed artesian wells (artesian discharge close to designed
discharge almost at all times);
(f) in case of competing demands, preference should be given to areas where no surface water
resources are available as means for irrigation;
Operation and Maintenance
(g) in case of rehabilitation projects responsibility for maintenance should remain with WUG even
during construction so that there is no dispute or ambiguity on future maintenance;
(h) for a new scheme which responsibility for O&M is to be assumed by WUG, commissioning must
be thoroughly and carefully done to avoid continuing responsibility of DOI due to minor omissions or
imperfections in their work;
(i) in tube well irrigation involvement of the private sector in project should be started as early as
possible, to establish relations with WUGs, and to familiarize with the needs at O&M stage;
(j) in future, project orientation towards promotion of private sector investment in service delivery
aspect should be encouraged with proper investment regulations and rules, training and knowledge
dissemination, while public sector takes up more and more regulatory and technical support role.
Next Steps in ICR Preparation.
34.   The Draft PCR and POP prepared by the project and the consultant should be finalized and
sent to the Bank by no later than July 31, 1999. When approved by HMGN, the Bank will treat this
report as HMGN's own report of the project and plan for the operation phase of the project. The Bank
will prepare and submit to HMGN a draft ICR for comments by mid-October 1999. The comments on
the Bank's draft ICR and a separate HMGN's evaluation summary report on the project be sent to the
Bank within one month of receiving the report. DOI should be responsible for coordinating HMGN's
comments. The Bank will incorporate the comments unedited in the ICR. The evaluation summary
report to be attached unedited to the Bank's ICR, should also include:
(a) an assessment of project design and operation experience;
(b) an evaluation of HMGN' s own performance during the evolution and implementation of
the project, with special emphasis on lessons learned that may be relevant in the future; and
(c) an evaluation of the performance of the Bank during the evolution and implementation of
the project, including effectiveness of the relationship between HMGN and the Bank, with
special emphasis on lessons learned.
Myint:\b1gicram.doc



38
APPENDIX 2
FINANCIAL AND ECONOMIC EVALUATION
A. Introduction
1.        At ICR, the economic and financial viability of the project were re-estimated.  The
calculations followed the original appraisal methodology and included certain revised coefficients
regarding cropping intensity and yield. The analysis was undertaken at FY98/99 constant prices and
used recorded project expenditures. For the analysis of the Bhairawa Lumbini Groundwater Irrigation
(BLGW) component, recorded cropping patterns and crop yields in Stages I, II and III were used.
For the Irrigation Line of Credit (ILC) Pilot Project component, the evaluation was based on the
results of the analysis undertaken in the Mahakali Irrigation II Project Completion Report (Cr. 1924-
NEP), December 1997, prepared by consultants and the Department of Irrigation.
2.        Farm incomes were estimated for a typical deep tubewell (DTW), and the economic rate
of return (ERR) was calculated for the BLGW main component, including Stage I (modification of
existing DTW systems), Stage II (completion of on-going DTWs carried over from the BLGW II
Project), and Stage III (construction of new DTWs). At ICR, ERRs were calculated separately for
Stages I, II and III, and additional analyses were undertaken to estimate farm incomes for a typical
artesian well development. The financial rates of return (FRRs) to typical DTW and artesian well
investments were also calculated.
3.        For the ILC component, farm incomes and ERRs were calculated for 20 selected sub-
projects, including 13 major and minor surface irrigation rehabilitation schemes in the hills; 4 major
and minor surface irrigation rehabilitation schemes in the Terai; and 3 groundwater irrigation wells,
one each for DTW, medium tubewell (MTW) and shallow tubewell (STW). However, the costs and
benefits of the ILC component were excluded from the calculation of the ERR for the whole project
since: (a) the ILC was treated as a pilot component; and (b) sub-projects were selected on demand
only during project implementation.
B. BLGW Component
4.        DTWs and Irrigable Areas. The project modified and constructed 158 DTWs, covering
a command area of 18,971 ha, which exceeds appraisal targets by 3 and 4 percent respectively. These
physical achievements included modification of 60 existingDTWs on 7,200 ha in Stage I, completion
of 20 DTWs carried over from the BLGW II Project on 2,522 ha in Stage II and construction of 78
new DTWs covering 9,249 ha in Stage III. Of the total command area, it is estimated that 80 percent
is effectively irrigated by DTWs, while the remaining 20 percent receives irrigation from surface and
artesian sources. Thus the total effective area irrigated by the 158 DTWs is approximately 15,180 ha,
15 percent below the original appraisal estimate. This includes approximately 5,760 ha in Stage I,
2,020 ha in Stage II and 7,400 ha in Stage III. The number of operational DTWs and their command
areas are presented in Table 1.
38



39
5.        Cropping Intensities and Yields. Recorded cropping intensities and average yields
were adopted for the pre-project (PP) situation for Stage I (FY87-FY91) and for Stages II and III
(FY89-FY91). With the project, recorded FY92-FY99 cropping intensities and yields in Stage I,
projected to full development, were taken for all three Stages. Cropping intensities in PP ranged from
164 percent in Stage I to 138 percent in Stages II and III (Tables 2-3). With the project, the average
cropping intensity is projected to reach 209 percent at full development in Stages I, II and III.
Incremental cropping intensities therefore ranged from 45 percent in Stage I to 71 percent in the
Stages II and III. For artesian wells, the cropping intensity was about 124 percent in PP, and is
projected 205 percent with the project (Table 4).
6.        Average recorded yields of major crops in PP were relatively high, ranging from 2.1-2.4
tons/ha for wheat to 2.5-3.6 tons/ha for paddy. With the project, average yields are projected to reach
3.0 tons/ha for wheat and 4.5 tons/ha for paddy. Incremental yields ranged from 25-43 percent for
wheat and 25-80 percent for paddy.
7.        Agricultural Production. Based on the above, the BLGW component would generate
incremental production of approximately 113,800 tons, and on-farm employment of 1.1 million man-
days per year, compared with appraisal estimates of 54,500 tons and 0.7 million man-days.
8.        Farm Incomes. Crop budgets are given in Tables 5-9, and the farm-gate prices of inputs
and outputs prevailing in the project area are given in Table 10. The project impact at farm level has
been substantial, though lower than original appraisal estimates, which were frankly over-optimistic.
Based on an average farm size of 1.64 ha in the project area (see table below), annual net farm
incomes would increase from NRs 68,418 (Stage) I and NRs 43,505 (Stages II and III) to NRs
145,280 (all Stages). Overall, the 2-3 fold increase in net farm incomes resulting from DTW
modification and development is satisfactory and would provide more than adequate financial
incentives to participating farmers. For the artesian well development, annual net farm incomes would
also increase substantially, from NRs 18,450 in PP to NRs 113,570 with the project and would be
highly attractive to farmers.
9.        Cost Recovery. At negotiations, an agreement was reached to implement partial capital
cost and full O&M cost recovery. For capital cost recovery, farmers in Stage III were to provide an
up-front cash payment and a contribution in labor for installation of buried pipe distribution systems
and construction of field channels. At ICR, total farmers' contribution in labor to the capital costs for
construction and installation of DTWs and field channels was estimated at NRs 20.71 million (1.4
percent of total Stage III costs as anticipated at appraisal).
10.       Water User Groups (WUGs) were formed and took over the full responsibility for O&M
of DTWs. At ICR, 121 DTWs in Stages I, II and III had been handed over to the concerned Water
User Groups (WUGs); 19 were in the process of being handed over; and 29 were planned for hand-
over. Based on an average annual pumping of 400 hours, O&M costs per farm are estimated atNRs
1,712 for the DTW irrigation and NRs 615 for artesian irrigation. These O&M charges are easily
within farmers' means, representing only 0.6-1.3 percent of their annual net cash incomes (par. 8).
This indicates that there is a large potential to increase O&M charges if pump irrigation is to be more
effectively utilized.
39



40
1.64 Ha Farm Model
Pump Well                    Artesian
Stage I          Stage II & III
(DTW Modification)     (New DTW)
WOP    WP   WOP   WP  WOP   WP
Net Farm Incomes             68,418     145,280   43,505   145,280   18,450   113,570
Increment ( percent)                    212                334                616
On-Farmn Consumption 1/      11,400     11,400    11,400   11,400    11,400   11,400
Net Cash Incomes             57,018     133,880   32,105   133,880  7,050    102,170
Water Charge 2!                         1,712               1,712             615
Net Cash Incomes after Water  57,108    132,168   32,105   132,168  7,050    101,555
Charges
Water Charge as percent of
Net Cash Incomes                        1.3                 1.3               0.6
1/ Assuming per capita consumption of 115 kg paddy and 75 kg wheat and 6 persons per family.
2/ See Table 14.
11.       FRRs. Based on recorded investment costs (Tables 12-13) and on estimated annual
O&M costs (Table 14), the FRRs to all resources, calculated over a 20-year period, are robust, ranging
from 21.5 percent for a typical DTW to 31.1 percent for an artesian well (Tables 15-16).
12.       ERRs. All costs and benefits are expressed at border prices using a Standard Conversion
Factor (SCF) of 0.9 to adjust local costs, services and non-traded commodities. The economic prices
of inputs and outputs (Tables 1.0-11) were used to convert the crop budgets (Tables 17-2 1). In
addition, the analysis adopted two conservative assumptions: (a) the effective areas irrigated byDTWs
are only 80 percent of total command areas (as noted above); and (b) maximum cropping intensity and
yields of major crops are achieved over 7 years, against an original appraisal estimate of 5 years.
Based on these assumptions, the ERRs range from 22.1 percent for a typical DTW to 33.3 percent for
an artesian well (Tables 22-23).
13.       Using recorded project expenditures (Table 24) and estimates of post-project costs for
sustaining the project's infrastructure, WUGs, and agricultural support activities (Table 25), the ERRs
are robust at 32.9 percent for the modification of the existing DTW system in Stage I and favorable at
15.0 percent for the construction and installation of new DTW system in Stages II and 111 (Tables 26-
27). Despite the substantial reduction in the effective irrigated areas and lower incremental crop
yields (par. 5-6), coupled with the project's cost overrun, the ERR for the BLGW component (Stages I,
II and III, also taken to represent the whole project) is favorable at 18.3 percent (Table 28), 3.7
percent lower than the appraisal estimate.
14.       Sensitivity and Risk. ERRs of the sub-components and of the whole project are more
sensitive to decreases in benefits than to increases in costs, particularly in Stages II and III. ERRs
would fall to 12 percent (assumed opportunity cost of capital) if benefits were reduced by 25-70
percent or costs rose by 140-230 percent, as shown below:
40



41
ERRs at 12 percent
Sub-Component/Component         Increases in Total Costs    Decreases in Total
Benefits
Stage 1                                 +330%                     -70%
Stages II & III                         +140%                     -25%
Whole Project                           +175%                     -45%
15.       Overall, the sustainability risks are minimal. Several risks have been tested, particularly
farmers' willingness and ability to: (a) take over and manage the completed DTWs; (b) undertake
regular and periodic O&M; (c) attain the effective areas irrigated by DTWs; and (d) achieve the
projected cropping intensity and yields of major crops (paddy and wheat) at full development. In all
cases, ERRs of the sub-components and the whole project would remain highly favorable, as shown
below:
ERRs (percent)
Stage I      Stages II & III   Whole Project
Base case                                    32.9            15.0               18.3
(a) No. operational DTWs reduced by:
(i) 10 percent                               30.6            14.0               17.1
(ii) 20 percent                             28.2             12.9               15.8
(b) Areas effectively irrigated increased
or decreased by:
(i) +5 percent                               34.5            15.5               18.9
(ii) +10 percent                             35.0            15.9               19.4
(iii) -5 percent                             31.8            14.5               17.7
(iv) -10 percent                             30.6            14.0               17.1
(v) -20 percent                              28.2            12.9               15.8
(C  Incremental  cropping  intensity         24.7            13.8               16.5
reduced by 30 percent
(d) Incremental yields of major crops        29.2            13.2               16.3
reduced by 30 percent
Note: The conditions under (c) and (d) are very much less than the actual recorded maximums.
41



42
C. ILC Pilot Project Component
16.       Irrigable Areas and Agricultural Production. The project completed 276 surface
irrigation sub-projects, and 217 groundwater sub-projects, covering a command area of 32,565 ha.
The latter was 4 times the original appraisal estimate. Based on PBME studies of 17 surface irrigation
sub-projects and 3 groundwater sub-projects, the increase in agricultural production was substantial.
Table 29 summarizes the parameters for the financial and economic analyses and the results for the 20
sub-projects. Average cropping intensities increased from 112-243 to 157-280 percent for the surface
irrigation, and from 124-162 to 174-206 percent for the groundwater irrigation. The overall increment
in cropping intensity (37-45 percent) was lower than estimated at appraisal (65 percent). Yields of
major crops (paddy and wheat) increased by 60 percent, as anticipated at project appraisal.
17.       Farm Incomes. Based on the above, annual net farm incomes with the project ranged
from NRs 17,270-24,925 per ha for the surface irrigation schemes to NRs 20,639-27,186 per ha for
the groundwater schemes. At 1997 constant prices, these annual net farm incomes were 11-30 percent
lower than those estimated at appraisal (NRs 24,500-30,600), due mainly to the substantially lower
incremental cropping intensities.  Nevertheless, they represent a strong incentive for farmers'
participation in financing and management.
18.       Cost Recovery. At negotiations, the Government agreed to promulgate an Irrigation
Policy (IP), mandating that farmers contribute to capital costs (7-40 percent, depending upon type, in
cash, land and labor). If desired by farrners, part of their cash contribution could be provided through
ADBN loans. With regard to O&M cost recovery, farmer groups would become eligible to obtain
funds from ILC only if they agreed to take over full O&M responsibility after completion, and thus
recovery of O&M costs through water charges was not an issue for ILC sub-projects.
19.       At ICR, the average farmer's contribution in labor to capital costs for construction works
ranged from 3 to 21 percent for the surface irrigation sub-projects, and was 15 percent for
groundwater irrigation development. Overall, total farmers' contribution under ILC amounted toNRs
118.20 million, 12 percent of total ILC costs, compared to 7-40 percent estimated at appraisal.
20.       WUGs were formed and took over the responsibility for O&M in all sub-projects. The
average annual O&M costs per ha are estimated at NRs 203 for groundwater irrigation and NRs 604
for surface irrigation. The costs are well within farmers' means, representing only 1.0-3.5 percent of
annual net farm incomes.
21.       ERRs. With the exception of one surface irrigation sub-project whose ERR was negative
(-5 percent), the ERRs of 19 sub-projects were acceptable, ranging from 12.4 to 30.7 percent for 16
surface irrigation sub-projects (against 14 to 35 percent estimated at appraisal) and from 16.3 to 25.7
percent for 3 groundwater irrigation sub-projects (against 18 percent estimated at appraisal).
42



43
Nepal                                               Table 1
Bhairawa Lumbini Groundwater Irrigation IlIl Prect
(Cr. 2144-NEP)
Implementabon Completion Report
Number of Operational DTWs and Command Areas by Years 1/
FY90      FY91       FY92      FY93      FY94       FY95      FY96       FY97       FY98       FY99      FY00      Total
Stage i:
Artesian well
well (no)               0         0          0         0         0          1         0          0         0          0         0          1
area (ha)               0         0         0          0         0         120        0          0         0          0         0         120
Partly Artesian
well (no)               0         0          1         2         6         15         0          0         0          0         0         24
area (ha)               0         0         120       240       720       1800        0          0         0          0         0        2880
Pump well
well (no)               0         0          4         7         11        11         2          0         0          0         0         35
area (ha)               0         0         480       840       1320      1320       240         0         0          0         0        4200
Subtotal
well (no)              0          0         5          9         17        27         2         0          0         0          0         60
area (ha)              0          0        600       1080       2040      3240       240        0          0         0          0        7200
Stage IlIlt:
Partly Artesian
well                    0         0          0         0         0          0         8          0         0          4         0         12
area                    0         0          0         0         0          0        1060        0         0         480        0        1540
Pump well
well                    0         0          0         0         0          0         3          0         0          5         0          8
area                    0         0          0         0         0          0        360         0         0         622        0         982
Subtotal
well                   0          0         0          0         0          0         11        0          0         9          0         20
area                   0          0         0          0         0          0        1420       0          0        1102        0        2522
Stage ilI:
Artesian well
well (no)               0         0          0         0          0         1         0          0         0          0         0          1
area (ha)              0          0         0          0         0         55         0          0         0          0         0         55
Partly Artesian
well                    0         0          0         0         0          0         0          5         31         0         15        51
area                    0         0         0          0         0          0         0         597       3701        0        1791      6089
Pump well
well                    0         0          0         0          0         0         0          7         5          0         14        26
area                    0         0          0         0         0          0         0         836       597         0        1672      3105
Subtotal
well                   0          0         0          0         0          1         0         12         36         0         29        78
area                   0          0         0          0         0         55         0        1433      4298        0        3463       9249
1/ The effecbve areas irrigated by DTWs are estimated at 80% of command areas at ICR.



44
NEPA                                             Table 2
Bhairawa Lumbini Groundwater Irrigation IlIl Project
Implementation Completion Report (Cr. 2144-NEP)
Cropped Area, Yields and Production
Stage I (5,760 ha)
PresentNVithout Project 1/              With Project 2t
Area (ha)Yield (ttha)    Total     Area (ha)Yield (ttha)   Total
production                         Production
(tons)                             (tons)
Kharif
Paddy-LV            1372      2.00    2744                46      2.80     129
Paddy-HYV           4115      3.60   14814              5432      4.50   24443
Maize                 85      2.90      247                6      3.70      21
Pulses                82      0.90       74              104      1.60      166
Oilseeds               0      0.00        0               23      1.90       44
Vegetables             0      0.00        0               23     20.00     461
Subtotal            5654              17879             5633             25263
Rabi
Wheat               2181      2.40    5234              2557      3.00    7672
Maize                175      3.00      525               12      3.70      43
Oilseeds             637      0.60      382              985      0.80     788
Pulses               432      0.90      389              996      1.70    1694
Potatoes              71     19.00    1357               351     25.00    8784
Vegetables           179      13.00    2321              518     24.50   12701
Subtotal            3675              10208             5420             31682
Hot Season
Paddy                 48      3.40      165                0      0.00        0
Maize                 21      3.50       73              369      3.30    1217
Pulses                 3      1.00        3              161      1.30     210
Sunflower             25      0.90       23              196      1.50     294
Vegetables             3    20.50        71              265     25.00    6624
Subtotal              101               334              991              8344
Total Cropped Area    9430            28421            12044             65289
Net Cultivable Area    5760                             5760
Cropping Intensity (%   164%                            209%
1 Average actual FY87 to FY91.
1t Average actual FY92 to FY99 in the Stage I area, projected to full development.



45
NEPAL                                           Table 3
Bhairawa Lumbini Groundwater irrigation liI Project
Cropped Area, Yields and Production
Stage Il/ll & III (9,417 ha)
Present/Without Project 1/                   With Project 2/
Area (ha) Yield (ttha)  Total             Area (ha) Yield (I/ha)  Total
producdion                               Producion
(tons)                                   (tons)
Kharif
Paddy-LV               1676       1.90      3185                  75        2.80      211
Paddy-HYV              7439       2.50      18599                8880       4.50     39961
Maize                   0         0.00        0                   9         3.70       35
Pulses                 104        0.70       73                   170       1.60      273
Oilseeds                0         0.00       0                    38        1.90       72
Vegetables              9        11.00       104                  38       20.00       753
Subtotal               9229                21960                 9211                41304
Rabi
Wheat                  3070       2.10      6447                 4181       3.00      12543
Maize                   9         2.00       19                   18        3.70       68
Oilseeds               235        0.40       94                  1610       0.80      1288
Pulses                 245        0.50       122                 1629       1.70      2770
Potatoes                19        6.60       124                  574      25.00      14361
Vegetables              28       10.00       283                  848      24.50      20764
Subtotal               3607                 7089                 8861                51794
Hot Season
Paddy                   0         0.00        0                    0        0.00       0
Maize                   38        2.00       75                   603       3.30      1989
Pulses                  38        0.60       23                   264       1.30       343
Sunflower               2         0.90        2                   320       1.50      480
Vegetables              75        8.00       603                  433      25.00      10830
Subtotal                153                  702                 1620                 13641
Total Cropped Area    12988                 29751                19691               106740
Net Cultivable Area    9417                                      9417
Cropping intensity (%)  138%                                     209%
1/ Average actual FY89 to FY 91.
2/ Average actual FY92 to FY99 in the Stage I area, projected to full development



46
Nepal                            Table 4
Bhairawa Lumbini Groundwater Irnigation IlIl Project
(Cr. 2144-NEP)
Implementabon Completion Report
Cropped Area, Yields and Production
Artesian (1 ha)
PresentVWithout Project                     With Project
Area (ha) Yield (Vha)  Total             Area (ha) Yield (tlha)    Total
producbion                               Production
(tons)                                  (tons)
Kharif
Paddy-HYV                0.04       2.00      0.08                 0.85      4.50      3.83
Paddy-local              0.81       1.20      0.97                 0.06      2.80      0.17
Maize                    0.00       0.00      0.00                 0.00      0.00      0.00
Pulses                   0.03       0.50      0.02                 0.05      1.60      0.08
Oilseeds                 0.00       0.00      0.00                 0.01      1.90      0.02
Vegetables               0.00       0.00      0.00                 0.01     20.00      0.20
Subtotal                 0.88                 1.07                 0.98                4.29
Rabi
Wheat                    0.24       0.80      0.19                 0.65      3.00      1.95
Maize                    0.00       0.00      0.00                 0.00      0.00      0.00
0iiseeds                 0.09       0.50      0.05                 0.08      0.70      0.06
Pulses                   0.03       0.40      0.01                 0.08      0.60      0.05
Potatoes                 0.00       0.00      0.00                 0.04     15.00      0.60
Vegetables               0.00       0.00      0.00                 0.04     20.00      0.80
Subtotal                 0.36                 0.25                 0.89                3.45
Hot Season
Paddy                       0       0.00      0.00                 0.08      4.00      0.32
Maize                       0       0.00      0.00                 0.02      3.00      0.06
Pulses                      0       0.00      0.00                 0.02      1.30      0.03
Oilseeds                    0       0.00      0.00                 0.02      1.30      0.03
Vegetables                  0       0.00      0.00                 0.04     20.00      0.80
Subtotal                 0.00                 0.00                 0.18                1.23
Total Cropped Area        1.24                1.32                 2.05                8.98
Net Cultivable Area         1                                        1
Cropping Intensity (%)   124%                                     205%



47
NEPAL                                                          Table 5
Bhairawa Lumbini Groundwater Imgatron iII Project
implementatbon Completim Report (Cr. 2144-NEP)
Per ha Financai Crop Budget
Presentnithout Proti - Stage I
Kiharif                         Rabi                                                 Hot Season
Paddy  Paddy  Maize   Pulses  Wheat  Maize  Oilseeds    Puises    Potato Vegetabies  Paddy    Maize  Pulses Sunflower Vegetables
Output:                LV    HYV
Main Produx:
Yiled(tlhal           2      3.6     2.9     0.9    2.4    3.D        D.6       0.9        19        13       3.4      3       t.0      0.9      20.5
Pncelt              10000  10000   9000   25000   10000   9000    30000        25000     7500       5000    10000   9000   25000   30000         5000
Value               20000  36000   26100   22500  24000  27000   18000        22500    142500    65000    34000   27000   25000    27000    102500
By-Product:
Yled(fa)             2.2    5.4       0      0.13    1.4      0      0.45       0.13       0          0       5.1      0      0.14      0          0
PrJtA                770    770       0     6000   300        0      5000      6000        0         0       770       0      6000      0          0
Value               1694   4158       0      780    420      0       2250       780        0         0       3927      0      840       0         0
Total Gross Value  21694  40158  26100  23280  24420  27000   20250           23280    142500    65000    37927   27000   25840    27000    102500
Inplus:
Seeds(kg=a)          55      50      30      40      120     30       10        45        1500       2        50      30       40       15         2
PFii-ug              11      11      15    30.0      13      15       50        30         15       500       11       15      30       s0        500
Value                605    550    450      1200   1560    450       500       1350      22500      1000      550    450    1200       900       1000
UWakglha)            100    120      100     45      120    100       30         0         90       165       120     100      45       60        165
PrnseAg              9.0    9.0      9.0     9.0    9.0    9.0        9.0       9.0       9.0       9.0       9.0     9.0     9 0      9.0        9.0
Value               900    1080    900      405    1080    900       270         0        810       1485     1080    900      405      540       1485
DAPt(kpat            60      80      60      30      90      60       30         0         90       120       80      60       30       60        120
PncArg              20.0   20.0    20.0    20.0   20.0   20.0    20.0          20.0      20.0       20.0     20.0    20.0    20.0      20.0      20.0
Vakue               1200   1600    1200    600    1800   1200         600        0        1800      2400     1600    1200    600       1200      2400
MOPJkgJha)            0      30       0       0      25      30        0         0         45        60       30       0       0        30        60
Prcehg              11.0   11.0    11.0    11.0    110    11.0       11.0      11.0       11.0      11.0     11.0    11.0    11.0      11.0      11.0
Value                 0      330      0       0     275    330        0         0         495       660      330       0       0       330       660
Manure(lha)           0      0        3       0       0       3        0         0         0         0        0        3       0        2          1
Pnit                 300    300      300     300    300    300        300       300       300       300       300     300     300      300        300
Value                 0       0      900      0       0      900       0         0         0          0        0      900      0       600        300
Chenirals (NRsl      200    300      300      0      100    200        0         0        200       400      300      300      0       300        400
Land Taxes lNRs)     40      40      40      40      40      40       40        40        40         40       40      40      40        40        40
Tota Labourlmd/ha}    140    145     100     50      90      100      40        30        135       200       145     100      50       100       300
Prceld               75      75      75      75      75      75       75        75         75        75       75      75       75       75        75
Labour Coss         2100   2175    1500    750    1350   1500        600       450       2025      3000      2175    1500    750       1500      4500
Tota Animal Days(ad)   35    40      35      25      35      35       20        20         30        40       40       35      25       30        40
PrFr/x               175    175      175     175    175    175        175       175       175       175       175     175     175       175       175
AnimalCosts         1225   1400    1225    875    1225   1225         700       700       1050      1400     1400    1225    B75       1050      1400
Trtai Costs        6270   7475    6515    3870   7430   6745    2710           2540     28920      10385    7475    6515    3870      6460      12185
Net Prdudion Value  15424  32683  19585   19410  16990  20255    17540        20740    113580    54615    30452   20485   21970    20540        90315



48
NEPAL                                                    Table 6
Bhairawa Lumbini Groundwater Irrigation III Project
Implementation Completion Report (Cr. 2144-NEP)
Per ha Financial Crop Budget
PresenitWilhout Project-Stage II & lIl
Kharrf                             Rabi                                           Hot Season
Paddy   Paddy Vegetables  Pulses  Wheat   Maize  Oilseeds  Pulses   Potato Vegetables   Maize  Pulses SunflowerVegetables
Output:               LV      HYV
Main Produce:
Yield(tTha)          1.9     2.5      11       0.7     2.1      2.0     0.4     0.5      6.6      10        2      0.6      0.9       8
Price/t            10000   10000    5000    25000   10000   9000   30000   25000    7500    5000    9000   25000   30000    5000
Value              19000   25000   55000    17500   21000   18000   12000   12500   49500   50000    18000   15000   27000    40000
By-Products:
YieW(tfha)           2.1     2.7       0      0.07     1.3      0       0.3     0.1       0        0       0       0.1       0        0
Pricelt             770      770       0      6000    300       0      5000    6000       0        0       0      6000       0        0
Value               1617    2079       0      420      390      0      1500    600       0        0        0       600      0        0
Total Gross Value  20617   27079    55000   17920   21390   18000   13500   13100   49500   50000   18000   15600   27000    40000
Inputs:
Seeds(kg/ha)         80      60        2       60      140      30       6       60     1800       2       30      60       15        2
Pnce/kg              11      11       500     30.0     13       15      50       30      15       500      15      30       50       500
Value               880      660     1000     1800    1820    450      300    1800    27000    1000       450    1800      750      1000
Urea(kg/ha)          0       45       60       0       45       75      30       0       60       60       75       0       60       60
Price/kg            9.0      9.0      9.0     9.0      9.0     9.0      9.0     9.0      9.0     9.0      9.0      9.0      9.0      9.0
Value                0       405     540       0       405     675     270       0      540      540      675       0      540      540
DAP(kg/ha)           0       30       120      30       30      60      30       30      90       120      60      30       60       120
Price/kg            20.0    20.0    20.0    20.0    20.0    2D.0    20.0    20.0    20.0    20.0    20.0    20.0    20.0            20.0
Value                0       600     2400     600      600    1200    600       600     1800    2400      1200    600      1200     2400
MOP(kglha)           0        0       30        0       0       0        0       0       30       30       0        0       30       30
Prcelkg             11.0    11.0     11.0    11.0    11.0    11.0    11.0    11.0    11.0    11.0    11.0    11.0    11.0           11.0
Value                0        0       330       0       0       0       0        0      330      330       0        0      330       330
Manure(t/ha)         0        0        3       0        0       2        0       0        3        3       2        0        2        3
Pricelt             300      300      300     300      300     300      300     300      300      300     300      300      300      300
Value                0        0       900       0       0      600       0       0       900      900     600       0       600      900
Chemicals (NRs)      50      100     1500      100      50     200      100     100      500     1500     200      100      300      1500
Land Taxes (NRs)    40       40       40       40      40       40      40      40       40       40       40      40       40       40
Water charges        0       0        0        0        0       0       0        0       0        0        0        0       0         0
Total Labour(md/ha)    120   140      200      60       90      90      60       60      135      200      90       60      100      200
Pricelrnr            75      75       75       75       75      75      75       75      75       75       75      75       75       75
Labour Costs        1800    2100     3000     900     1350    1350    900       900     2025    3000    1350    900        1500     3000
Total Animal Days(ad)   30   40       40       30       35      30      30       30      30       40       30      30       30       40
Pricelad            175      175      175      175     175     175      175     175      175      175      175     175      175      175
Animal Costs        1050    1400     1400    1050    1225    1050    1050    1050    1050    1400    1050    1050    1050            1400
TotalCosts         3820    5305    11110    4490    5490    5565    3260    4490    34185   11110    5565    4490    6310    11110
NetProduction Value  16797   21774   43890    13430   15900   12435   10240    8610    15315   38890   12435   11110   20690    28890



49
NEPAL                                                                       Tabb 7
BhOmw Lumbn Gmi_lwa  00loc IIIF*d
b        _-mUll COap.    ROWat P. 214-NEP)
P  ha F    hurii Cap Bud1t
YfiUPe -stopa gs 111 111
Khde                                                           Ri                                                          Hot seam
PadoY     Psd       Miz.   O64Ka  Vegel_MS    Puss    WI"                Maize    04s..d       Pulse      POWo  V"gelabls Vegtabls         Maze    Pulsee   Suwd
0ue0t                     LV       WiV
Yield(tft2 zs                     4 5        3.7       1.9        20         1 6        3         3.7        0.8       1.7        25        24.5        25        3-3        1.3       1.s
Pno lo                           *ooooo     9000      3          soo       25000      1O00       90W       3WO        25000      7500       50oo      50         9000      25DOO      30WO
V.                    29000      45000     33300      57000    IOOO D     40000     300M       33300      24000     42500    107500    12500    s25000         2700       32500      45000
Sy.PO&CIs
YieketfSaJ              3         49         0         14          0        023        1.8        0         0.6       0.25         0         0          0          0        0.19        0
pFcff                   770       770         0       sooo         0       600         300         0        5so       sow          0         0          D          D        6D00 
V.6.                   2310      3M          0        700          0        1390      540         0        3000       1s0o        0          0          0         0         1140        0
Os va.w               3310       4773      33300      6400D     100        41380     30540      33300      270D0     44000    187500    122500    125000    29700          33840      45on
lIrts:
Seda(kg4)               g0        60         30         a          2         e0        140        30         6         60        15o0        2          2         30         60         15
F0A9                    1 1        .1        ,s         50        5oo       3200        13        is         S0         30        15        500        soo        15         30         so
Vak                    SP         660       450        300       1000       1600      1820       450        300       1800      2500       1000       1000       450        18D0       0o0
i.M4e,a1                30          5        75         80        150        0         120        75         e0         0         120       150        50        75          0         60
Pilcag                 9.0        9 0       9.0        9.0        9.0       s.0        s.0        9.0        .0        9 0       9 0        9.0        9.0        9.0       0.0        9.0
V90                    270        075       675        540       1350        0        1080       675        540         0        1080      1350       1350       675         0         540
DAPhqflial              30        90         90         30        1sD        ff        75         90         30        45         1SO       180        160        90         45        s0
Paceg                  200       200        20.0      200 a      20.0        0.       20.0       20.0       20.0      20.0       200        20.0      20.0       20.0       20.0      30.0
VAN                     oo       Iwo       law       600        3600       90D       1500       100        SW         000        00       3          3000      1wo        900        18wo
MoP(kg5a)                0         0         0          0         60         0         25          0         0          0         60         00        60          0          0         30
Pnc**g                 110       110        11.0       110       11.0       110       11.0       11.0       11.0       110       11.0       110       110        11.0       11.0       11.0
Vase                     0                   o 0        0        560         3         275        0          0          0        660        060        000        0          0         330
meu.(ial                0          I         2          2         6          0          2         2          2          0          5         6          6          2         0          2
Paed                   350        3m0       300        300        300       300        300       300        300        300       300        300        300        300       300        300
V90                     0         3DD       600        0oo       low0        D         SDD       600        600         0        1500       1B00      1ism        600         0        600
ChSw.c sNRI)            100       300      s5o         150       3500       300        10D0      50         150        300       1000       3500      3500        500       300        500
Ljnd Taae(NRs!          40        43         40        40         40        40         40         40        40         40         40        40         40         40         40        102D
TotUI Lg     dIba)      120       140        go        60         300        60        s0        9s          60        60         135       300        300        90         60        100
Pcemd                 75        75         75         75        75         75        75         75         75        75         75         75         75        75         75         75
Labow Costs            1800      2100       1350       900       4500       900       1350       1350       00        9000       2025      4500       4500       1350       900       1500
Toulul Ablaeys(Sd)    30          d0         30         30        40         33        35         30         30        30         30         40         40        30         30         30
Pn.01d                  175       175        175       17S        175       175        175        175       175        175        175       175        175        175        175       175
AmmalCos               1050       o4o          0 1050  SO        140D       1000       1225      1oso       1050       1050      1050       1400       1400      1050       105D       1050
Total Co08            4740      7275       6485       4180      17850      4990      7M0        6445       4180      4M90       33455     17850      17050      6465       4090       8240
Net Pdudo. VAe   25570           01406     26835      59020     02150      36390     22550    2z635        2202       39010    154045    104650    107150    23235         20650      30790



50
NEPAL
Bhairawa Lumbini Groundwater Irrigation IlIl Project  Table 8
(Cr. 2144-NEP)
Implementation Completion Report
Per ha Financial Crop Budget
PresentWOP-Artesian
Kharif                          Rabi
Paddy     Paddy      Pulses     Wheat    Oilseeds    Pulses
Output:                              HYV        Local
Main Produce:
Yield(Vha)                           2         1.2        0.5        0.8        0.5        0.4
Price/t                            10000      10000     25000      10000      30000      25000
Value                              20000     12000      12500       8000      15000      10000
By-Products:
Yield(/ha)                          2.1        1.8       0.07       0.48       0.37       0.06
Price/t                             770        770       6000       300        5000       6000
Value                               1617      1386       420        144        1850       360
Total Gross Value                  21617      13386     12920       8144      16850      10360
Inputs:
Seeds(kg/ha)                        70         70         45        100         15         45
Price/kg                            11         11        30.0        13         50         30
Value                               770        770       1350       1300       750        1350
Urea(kg/ha)                          0          0          0         60         30         0
Price/kg                            9.0        9.0       9.0        9.0        9.0        9.0
Value                                0          0         0         540        270         0
DAP(kg/ha)                           0          0          0         30         30         0
Price/kg                           20.0       20.0       20.0       20.0       20.0       20.0
Value                                0          0          0         600       600         0
MOP(kg/ha)                           0          0          0         0          0          0
Price/kg                           11.0       11.0       11.0       11.0       11.0       11.0
Value                                0          0          0         0          0          0
Manure(Vha)                          0          0         0          0          0          0
Price/t                             300        300        300       300        300        300
Value                                0          0          0          0          0         0
Chemicals:                           0          0          0         0          0          0
Land Tax                            40         40         40         40         40        40
Total Labour(md/ha)                 125        120        30         75         40         30
Price/md                            75         75         75         75         75         75
Labour Costs                       1875       1800       450        1125       600        450
Total Animal Days(ad)               30         30         20         28         20         20
Price/ad                            175        175        175        175       175        175
Animal Costs                       1050       1050        700        980        700        700
Total Costs                        3735      3660       2540       4585       2960       2540
Net Production Value               17882      9726      10380       3559      13890       7820



51
NEPAL                                                                      Table 9
Bharawa Lumbini Groundwater Irrigation IlIl Project
(Cr. 2144-NEP)
Impiemntation Comptetion Report
Per ha Financial Crmp Budget
With Project-Artesian
Kharif                                          Hot Season                                              Rabi
Paddy     Paddy    Pulses   Olseeds Vegetables   Paddy         Maize    Pulses   OiLsees Vegetables   WMeat   Oilseeas    Pulses    Potato Vegetabes
Output                  HYV        Local
Main Produce:
Yield(ttha)            4 5        2.8       1.6        1.9       20         4         3         1.3       1.3        20         3        0.7       0.6        15        20
Pricen                10000     10000      25000     30000      5000      10000     9000      25000      300        5000      10000     30000     25000      7500       5000
Vaue                  45000     28000      40000     57000    100000    40000       27000     32500      39000    100000    30000       21000     15000    112500    100000
By-Products:
Yield(tVha)            4 8       4.2       0.22       1.4        0         4.2        0        0.18       0.9        0         1.8       0.5       0.08        0         0
Pricens                770       770       6000       5000       0         770        0        6000       5000       0         300      5000       6000        0         0
Value                 3696      3234        1320      7000       0        3234        0        1080      4500        0        540       2500       480        0          0
Tota Gross Vaue      48696      31234     41320      54000    100000    43234      27000      33580     43500    100000    30540       23500      15480    112500    100000
inputs:
Seeos(kglha)           50         55        75         15        2         50         30        75         15        2         140        6         45       1500        2
Price/kg               "I          11      30.0        50       500        "          1'5       30        50        500        13        50         30        15        500
vaue                   550       605       2250       750       0oo0       550       450       2250       750       1000      1820       300      1350      22500      1000
Urealkg/ha)            150        120        0         90       150        120       100        0          90       150        140       60         45        150       150
Pncehkg                9 0       9.0        90        9.0       9.0       9.0        9.0       9.0        9.0       9.0        90        9.0       9.0        9.0       9.0
Value                 1350       1080        0        510      1350       1080       900        0         810       1350      1260       540       405       1350      1350
OAP(kglhaa             90         S0        90         60       120        90         90        90         60       120        90        60         30        120       120
Price/kg              20.0       20.0      20.0       20.0      20.0      20.0      20.0       20.0      20.0       20.0      20.0      20.0       20.0      20.0       20.0
Value                  1800      1200       1800      1200       400      1800       1800      1800       1200      2400      1800       1200      600       2400       2400
MOP(kg/ha)             30         15        30         30        60        30         0         30        30         60        30         0         0         60         60
Price/kg              11.0       11.0      11.0       11.0      110       110       11.0       11.0      11.0       11.0      11.0      11.0       11.0      11.0       11.0
Value                  330       165        330       330       660       330         0        330        330       660       330         0         0         660       660
Manure(ttha)            0         0          0         0         4          0         3         0          0         4          0         0         0          2         4
Pnceit                 300       300        300       300       300       300        300       300        300       300        300       300       300        300       300
Value                             0          0         0        1200        0        900        0          0        1200        0         0         0         600       1200
Chenicals              300       200        500       800       3500      300        So0       500        800       3500       100       200       100        700       3500
Lald Tax               40        40         40        40        40         40        40         40        40         40        40        40        40         40        40
Total Labour(tmdha)    145       140        90        100       275        145       90         90        100       275        90        60         50        180       275
Price/md                75        75        75         75        75        75         75        75         75        75         75       75         75        75         75
LabourCosts           2719       2625      1688       1875      5156      2719      1688       1688      1875       5156      1688      1125       938       3375       5156
Total Animal Days(ad)    40       35        30         30        40        40         30        30         30        40        35         25        25        40         40
Prce/ad                175        175       175       175        175       175       175        175       175        175       175       175        175       175       175
Animal Costs          1750      1531.25    1312.5    1312.5    1750       1750      1312.5    1312.5    1312.5      1750     1531.25   1093.75   1093.75      1750      1750
Total Costs          8839       7446      7920       7118      17056     8569       7590      7920       7118      17056     8569       4499      4526      33375      17056
Net Production Value    39857   23788     33400      56883     02944     34665      19410     25660      36383     82944      21971     19001     10954      79125     82944



52
NEPAL                                  Table 10
Bhairawa Lumbini Groundwater Irrigation Project
Implementation Completion Report
(Cr. 2144-NEP)
Summary of Financial and Economic Prices
of Outputs and Inputs
Financial                    Economic 1121
Outputs    Seeds               Outputs    Seeds
NRsIkg
Paddy                            10.00      11.00                13.10      14.40
Maize                             9.00      15.00                 11.10     12.20
Wheat                             10.00     13.00                 13.30     14.60
Oilseeds                          30.00     50.00                27.00      45.00
Pulses                            25.00     30.00                22.50      27.00
Potato                            7.50      15.00                 6.75      13.50
Vegetable                         5.00      500.00                4.50      450.00
Sunflower                         30.00     60.00                27.00      54.00
By-products:
Paddy                             0.77                            0.69
Wheat                             0.30                            0.27
Oilseeds                          5.00                            4.50
Pulses                            6.00                            5.40
Inputs                       Inputs
Fertilizers:
Urea                                           9.00                         14.20
MOP                                           11.00                         15.30
DAP                                           20.00                         19.60
Manure                                         0.30                          0.27
Farm Labour (NRsJmd)                             75                          67.5
Draft Power (NRs/day)                            175                         158
1/ Non-traded outputs, inputs, labour and draft power were adjusted by SCF of 0.90.
2/ For traded commodities, the economic prices were based on world market prices projected by the World Bank
with adjustments made for local transport and handling costs as shown in Table 11. The economic prices of seeds
of seeds were based on the financial price ratio between grains and seeds.



53
NEPAL                                            Table 11
Bhairawa Lumbini Groundwater Imgation Project
Implementation Completion Report
(Cr. 2144-NEP)
Economic Price Derivation
Paddy     Maize      Wheat      DAP        MOP       Urea
World Price - Projected 2005 (USS/ton)1l                291        109        141       178        108        117
Quality Adjustment(%)                                    85        80         80        100        100        100
Adjusted Woad Price(USS/ton)                            247        87         113       178        108        117
Intematonal shipping costs                               35         50        60         50         60        35
CIF Calcutta Port (US$Ston)                             282        137        173       228        168        152
ClFCulcuttaPort(NRstton)2I                             18917      9192       11578     15276      11256      10184
Transport & Handling to wholesale market 31             2900      2900       2900       2900       2900      2900
WholesalePriceatProjectArea                            21817      12092      14478     18176      14156      13084
Processing ratio                                         65        100        100       100        100        100
Price of Commodity                                     14181      12092      14478     18176      14156      13084
Processing cost 41                                       45         0         0
Storage & Marketing costs                               1064       907       1086       1363       1062       981
Transport to/from farm 3/                                90        90         90.        90         90        90
Economic Farm-gate pnce(Rs/ton)                        13073      11095      13302     19629      15308      14155
Financial Farm-gate pnce(Rslton)                       10000      9000       10000     20000      11000      9000
SAR Economic Farm-gate price (Rs/ton) in 1989 const Prce  5600    5420       7771      20146      9379       19292
i/ IBRD Commodity Price Forecats, Aprl 1999, adjusted to FY 98/99 constant value.
Rice: Thai, milled 5% broken. FOB Bangkok.
Maize: US, No. 2 Yellow. FOB Gulf Ports.
wheat: (Canadian) no. 1, Westem Red Spring (CWRS), in store, St. Lawrence, export price
Urea: bagged, FOB Europe.
DAP: FOB US Gulf.
Potasium Chlorde (Munate of Potash): FOB Vancouver.
21 US$ 1.0=NRs. 67
3/ Adjusted by SCF of 0.90.
4/ Net of by-products values, and adjusted by SCF of 0.90



54
NEPAL                                         Table 12
Bhairawa Lumbini Groundwater Irrigation IlIl Project
(Cr. 2144-NEP)
Implementation Completion Report
FY 98/99 Actual Cost of a DTW
(Effective Irrigated Area-96 ha)
Capital Costs:                                         Cost (NRs. 000)
Preliminary survey & design                                    77
Land (roads & drainage)                                       428
Well materals                                                 653
Well constructon                                              196
Development & testing                                         176
Pump unit                                                     842
Pump unit spares                                              126
Pump installation                                              74
Artesian sealing                                               58
Pump house                                                    419
Steel Pipe (200m)                                             157
Control chamber                                               240
Pipe line materal                                            4878
Pipeline installation                                         890
Alfalfa valve                                                 131
Construction of outlets                                       405
Surge Riser                                                    40
Unit drainge earthworks                                        99
Unit drainage structure                                       198
LT. connecton material                                         32
L.T. connection works                                          16
Transformer 11/4 kv                                            99
Erection of transformer                                        20
Field channels                                                198
Engineerng and administration (7.5 %)                         784
Subtotal                                                    11236
Infrastructures:
Proportion of 33 and 11 kv line                               792
Proportion of access road                                    2970
Subtotal                                                    3762
Total                                                       14998
NRs/ha                                                        156



55
NEPAL                                   Table 13
Bhairawa Lumbini Groundwater IlIl Project
(Cr. 2144-NEP)
Implementation Completion Report
FY 98/99 Actual Cost - one Artesian Model
Capital Costs:                                                           Total
(NRs'000)
Preliminary survey & design                                               55
Land (roads & drainage)                                                  405
Well materials                                                           726
Well construction                                                        218
Development & testing                                                    195
Pump house                                                               260
Unit drainge earthworks                                                   80
Unit drainage structure                                                  128
Field channels                                                           128
Engineering and administration (7.5 %)                                   165
Subtotal                                                                2360
Infrastructures:
Proportion of access road                                               2970
Total                                                                  5330



56
NEPAL                            Table 14
Bhairawa Lumbini Gmundwater Irngation IlIl Project
(Cr. 2144-NEP)
Imphmenlatlon Completfon Report
Annual Operating Costs-DTW
(Eleccal Pump)
DTW                                        Artesian
Financial  Economic                         Financial  Economic
Annual Operating Costs:
Gross Command area (ha)                           120        120                               70         70
Effective Command Area (80%. ha)                   96         96                               56         56
Capacity of Tubewell (m3/hr)                      300        300
Rating of motor (kw)                               45         45
Pumping hours (hours)                             400        400                          free flow   free flow
Annual Consumption (400X45 kwh)                 18000      18000
Electircity charges:
Capacity charges (45ksw) @ NRs 251kwimonth      13500          0
Energy charges (kwh) @ NRs 2.51kwh at          45000      90000
Transfonmer tosses (3% of bill)                  1755       1755
Subtotal                                       60255      91755
Maintenance bi:
Distribution systems                            10000       m000                             6000       5400
Pump (etectnrcat & Mechanical)                  15000      13500
Pump Operator (year) @ NRs 1500/month           15000      13500                            15000      13500
Subtotal                                       40000      36000                             21000      18900
7otal per year (NRs)                          100255    127755                             21000      18900
NRslha Gross CA                                 835       1065                              300         270
NRsAha Effective CA                             1044       1331                             375        338
at Econormc cost esUmated at NRs 5.0howh
1i Adjusted by SCF of 0 90



57
NEPAL                               Table 15
Bhairawa Lumbini Groundwater Irrigation IlIl Project
(Cr 2144-NEP)
Implementafion Completion Report
Financial Analysis- A OTW Modell/
(NRs Million)
Incremental  Incremental
Investment O&M Costs  Agric.  Total Costs    WOP-Net  WP-Net      Net Prod.     Net
Costs 2/     3/    Extension            Prod. Value  Prod. Value   Benefits  Benefits
4/                            5S
Yearl               6.00      0.00      0.00       6.00        0.00        0.00        0.00    -6.00
Year2               9.00      0.00      0.00       9.00        2.55        2.55        0.00    -9.00
Year3                         0.10      0.03       0.13        2.55        3.54        0.99     0.86
Year4                         0.10      0.03       0.13        2.55        4.53        1.98     1.85
Year5                         0.10      0.03       0.13        2.55        5.52        2.97     2.84
Year6                         0.10      0.03       0.13        2.55        6.52        3.97     3.84
Year7                         0.10      0.03       0.13        2.55        7.51        4.96     4.83
Year8                         0.10      0.03       0.13        2.55        8.50        5.95     5.82
Year9                         0.10      0.03       0.13        2.55        8.50        5.95     5.82
YearlO                        0.10      0.03       0.13        2.55        8.50        5.95     5.82
Year11                        0.10      0.03       0.13        2.55        8.50        5.95     5.82
Yearl2                        0.10      0.03       0.13        2.55        8.50        5.95     5.82
Yearl3                        0.10      0.03       0.13        2.55        8.50        5.95     5.82
Yearl4                        0.10      0.03       0.13        2.55        8.50        5.95     5.82
Yearl5                        0.10      0.03       0.13        2.55        8.50        5.95     5.82
Year16                        0.10      0.03       0.13        2.55        8.50        5.95     5.82
Yearl7                        0.10      0.03       0.13        2.55        8.50        5.95     5.82
Year18              0.84      0.10      0.03       0.97        2.55        8.50        5.95     4.98
Year19                        0.10      0.03       0.13        2.55        8.50        5.95     5.82
Year2O             -0.67      0.10      0.03      -0.54        2.55        8.50        5.95     6.49
NPV=NRs      11.87 million       FRR =          21.7%
1/ Gross command area 120 ha, effective irrigated area 96 ha.
2/ FY98199 actual costs (Table 12).
3/ O&M costs estimated at NRs 1044/effective irrigated ha.
4/ Agricultural service estimated at NRs 270/effective irrigated area.
5 Incremental benefits in WP have been assumed to be achieved over 7 years.



58
Table 16
NEPAL
Bhairawa Lumbini Groundwater Irrigation IlIl Project
(Cr 2144-NEP)
Implementation Compleibn Report
Financial Analysis- An Artesian Modell/
(NRs Million)
Incremental Incremental
Investment O&M Costs    Agric.   Total Costs    WOP-Net  WP-Net        Net Prod.    Net
Costs 21     3/      Extension               Prod. Value  Prod. Value   Benefits   Benefits
4/                                5/
Yearl              2.13        0.00        0.00        2.13        0.00         0.00      0.00    -2.13
Year2              3.20        0.00        0.00        3.20         1.49        1.49      0.00    -3.20
Year3                          0.02        0.02        0.04         1.49        2.06      0.57     0.53
Year4                          0.02        0.02        0.04         1.49        2.64      1.15      1.11
Year5                          0.02        0.02        0.04         1.49        3.22      1.73      1.69
Year6                          0.02        0.02        0.04         1.49        3.80      2.31     2.27
Year7                          0.02        0.02        0.04         1.49        4.38      2.89      2.85
Year8                          0.02        0.02        0.04         1.49       4.96       3.47     3.43
Year9                          0.02        0.02        0.04         1.49        4.96      3.47     3.43
YearlO                         0.02        0.02        0.04         1.49        4.96      3.47      3.43
Yearll                         0.02        0.02        0.04         1.49        4.96      3.47      3.43
Yearl2                         0.02        0.02        0.04         1.49        4.96      3.47     3.43
Yearl3                         0.02        0.02        0.04         1.49        4.96      3.47     3.43
Yearl4                         0.02        0.02        0.04         1.49        4.96      3.47      3.43
Yearl5                         0.02        0.02        0.04         1.49        4.96      3.47     3.43
Yearl6                         0.02        0.02        0.04         1.49        4.96      3.47      3.43
Yearl7                         0.02        0.02        0.04         1.49        4.96      3.47      3.43
Year18                         0.02        0.02        0.04         1.49        4.96      3.47      3.43
Yearl9                         0.02        0.02        0.04         1.49        4.96      3.47      3.43
Year2O                         0.02        0.02        0.04         1.49        4.96      3.47      3.43
NPV-NRs           9.99 million         FRR =         31.4%
1/ Gross command area 70 ha, effective inigated area 56 ha.
2/ FY98199 actual costs (Table 13).
31 O&M costs estimated at NRs 375/effective irrigated ha.
4/ Agricultural service estimated at NRs 270/effective irigated area.
5/ Incremental benefits in WP have been assumed to be achieved over 7 years.



59
NEPAL                                                                 Tabl 17
Bhawaa Lumbir Gmunatr lIgation lil Project
Imple on Completion Report (Cr. 2144-NEP)
Per ha Economic Crop Budget
Presenwithout Project- Stage I
Kharif                                   Rabs                                                      Hot Season
Paddy     Paddy    Maze       Pulses    Wheat    Maize    Oilseeds   Pulses    Potato Vegetables   Paddy          Maize   Pulsee   Sudwr VegtWe
Output                     LV       HYV
Main Produce:
Yie4ftra)                 2         3.6       2.9       0.9        2.4       3.0       0.6        .9        19        13        3.4        3         1.0       D.9      20.5
Pricelt                 13100     13100      11100     22500     13300      11100     27000     22500      6750      4500      13100     111Q0     22500     27000      4500
Value                   26200     47160      32190     20250     31920     33300      16200    20250    128250    58500        44540     33300     22500     24300     92250
By-Producws
Yield(tlha)              2.2       5.4         0        0.13       1.4       0        0.45      0.13        0         0         5.1        0        0.14       0         0
Priceat                  630       630         0       5400       270        0        4500      5400        0         0         630        0        5400       0          0
Vahue                   1386      3402         0        702       378        0        2025       702        0         0        3213        0        756        0         0
Tott Goss Value        27586      50562     32190      20952     32298     33300     18225     20952    128250    58500       47753      33300     23256     24300     92250
Inputs:
Seedqkghta)              55         50        30        40        120        30        10        45        1500       2         50         30        40        15        2
PrFa4tg                  144       144       12.2      27.0       14.6      122        45        27        135       450        14.4      122        27        54        450
Value                    792       720       366        1080      1752      366        450      1215      20250      900        720       366       1080      810       900
Urea(kgJba)              100       120        100       45        120        100       30         0         90        165       120       100        45        60        165
Priceig                 14.2       142       14.2      14.2       142       14.2      14.2      14.2       14.2      14.2      14.2       14.2      14.2      14.2      14.2
Value                   1420       1704      1420       639       1704      1420       426        0        1278      2343       1704      1420      639       852       2343
OAP(kglhaj               60         80        S0        30         90        80        30         0         90        120       s0         60        30        60        120
Prnceag                 196        19.6      19.6      19.6       196       19,6      19.6      19.6       19.6      19.6      19.6       19.6      19.6      19.6      19.6
Value                   1176       1568      1176       588       1764      1176       586        0        1764      2352      1568       1176      588       1176      2352
MOP(kglha)                0         30         a         0         25        30         0         0         45        60        30         0         0         30        60
Pnce/kg                 15.3       15.3      15.3      15.3       15.3      15.3      15.3      15.3       15.3      15.3      15.3       15.3      15.3      153       15.3
value                     0        459         0         a        383       459        0          0        689       918        459        0         0        459       918
Manure(t'h a)             0         0          3         0         0         3          0         0         0         0          0         3         0         2          1
Pnce/t                   270       270        270       270       270       270        270       270       270       270        270       270       270       270        270
Value                     0         0         910        0         0         810        0         0         0         0          0        910        0         540       270
Chemicalst(NRS)          180       270        270        0         90        100        0         0        160       320        270       270        0         270       320
TotalLabour(mdolha)      140       145        '00       50         90       100        40        30        135       200        145       100        50        100       300
Pnce/m1d                 67 5      67.5      47.5       67.5      i7 5      67 5      67.5       67.5      67.5      67.5       67.5      67.5      67.5      67.5       67.5
Labour Costs            9450      9788       5750      3375      6075       6750      2700      2025      9113      13500      9788      6750       3375      6750      20250
TotaiAnimalDays(ad)      35         40        35        25         35        35        20        20         30        40        40         35        25        30        40
Pricelad                 158       158        158       158       158        158       158       158       158        158       158       158        158       158       158
AnimalCosts             1106       1264      106       790       1106      1106       632       632       948       1264      1264       1106      790        948       1264
TotalCosts             14124     15773      11898      6472      12874     12267     4796       3872     34221      21597     15773     11898      6472      11805     28617
NetProduction Value     13462     34790     20292      14480     19425     21033      13429     17080     94029     36903      31981     21402     16784      12495     63633



60
NEPAL                                                               Table 18
Sharawa Lumbini Gwundwater Irrigabon ll Prryect
Impleneitatin Complton Report (Cr. 2144-NEP)
Per ha Economic Crop Budget
Pnesentlw/tlout Project-Stage It & IIl
Kharf                                   Rabi                                                     Hot Season
Paddy    Paddy Vegetables   Pulses    Wheat    Maize   Oitseeds   Pulses    Potato Vegetables         Maize   Pulses  Sunfew Vegetables
Output                    LV       HYV
Main Produce:
YielftAha)               1.9      2.5        11        0.7       2.1       2.0       0.4       0.5       6.6        10        2        0.6       0.9        8
Prioen                 13100      3100      4500     22500      13300     11100     27000    22500      6750      4500      11100     22500     27000     4500
Value                  24890    32750      49500     15750     27930    22200       10800    11250     44550     45000      22200     13500    24300    36000
By-Pneducts:
Yield(tha)              2.1       2.7        0        0.07       1.3        0        0.3      0.1         0         0         a        0.1        0         0
Pnct                    630       630        0        5400       270        0       4500      5400       0          0         0       5400        0         0
Value                   1323     1701        0        378       351        0        1350      540        0          0         0        540        0         0
TotalGross Value       26213    34451      49500     16128     28281     22200      12150    11790    44550      45000      22200     14040     24300    36000
Inputs:
Seeds(kg/ha)             80        60        2         60        140       30         6        60       1800        2        30         60        15        2
Pnceklg                 14.4      14.4      450       27.0      14.6      12.2       45        27       13.5       450       12.2       27        54       450
Value                   1152      864       90        1620      2044      366       270       1620     24300       900       366      1620       810       900
Urea(kgrna)              0         45        60        0         45        75        30        0         60        60         75        0         60       60
PrceAg                  14.2      14.2      14.2      14.2      14.2      14.2      14.2      14.2      14,2      14.2       14.2      14.2      14.2      14.2
Value                            639       852        0        639       1065      426        0        852        852      1065        0        852       852
3AP(kglha)               0         30       120        30        30        60        30        30        90        120        60        30        60       120
Pricekg                 19.6     19.6       19.6      19.6      19.6      19.6      19.6      19.6      19.6       19.6      19.6      19.6      19.6      19.6
Value                    0        588       2352       588       588      1176       588       588      1764       2352      1176      568       1176      2352
MOP(kgbha)               0         0         30        0          0         0         0         0        30        30         0         0         30        30
Pncelkg                 15.3      15.3      15.3      15.3      15.3      15.3      15.3      15.3      15.3      15.3       15.3      15.3      15.3      15.3
Value                    0         0        459         0        0         0         0         0        459        459        0         0        459       459
Manure(htial             0         0         3          0         0         2         0         0         3         3         2         0         2         3
Price/t                 270       270       270       270        270       270       270       270       270       270       270       270       270       270
Value                    0         0        810        0          0        540        0         0        910       810       540        0        540       810
Chemicals(NRs)           45        90       1350       90        45        180       90        90        450       1350      0so        90       270       1350
Tota Labour(mdllha)      120      140       200        60        90        90        60        60        135       200        90        60        100      200
Price/md                67 5      67.5      67.5      67.5      67.5      67.5      67.5      67.5      67.5       67.5      67.5      67.5      67.5      67.5
LabourCosts            8100      9450      13500     4050       6075      6075      4050      4050      9113      13500     6075      4050      6750      13500
Total Animal Oays(ad)    30        40        40        30        35        30        30        30        30         40        30        30        30        40
PnceJad                 158       158       158        158       158       158       158       158       158       158       158       158        158      158
Animal Costs            948       1264      1264      948       1106       948       948       948       948       1264      948       948        948      1264
TotalCosts             10245    12895     21487      7296      10497     10350     6372      7296      38696     21487      10350     7296      11806    21487
NetProducuonVatue      15968    21556      28013      8832      17784    11850      5778      4494      5855      23513     11850     6744      12495     14513



61
NEPAL                                                                   Tah 19
Bharr*a Lumnbia Grounwater lttNalin 61 Prcect
lubeutsou Conle    Rea (Cr. 2144-NEP)
Per ha Ecoumanc Crop Budget
Wth Prte  Stage 4 , 116 D1
K(t                                                          Rabi                                                     Hu Seasot
Paddy    Paddy    Maeat  Oseeds Vegetables   Pulses    Wheat    Maize  OCisee              Pulses    Potat  Vgetales Veetbes         Maze   Pulses  Sa*w
Output                     LV       HYV
Man Produce:
Yield(tjha)              2.8       4 5       3.7       1.9        20        1.6        3         3.7       D.8       1.7       25        24.5       25        3.3       1.3       1.5
Prkel                   13100     13100     11100    27000       4500      22500     13300     11100      27000     22500     6750      4500       4500      11100     22500    27000
Valu                    38880     58950     41070    51300      90000     36000      39900     41070     21600     38250    168750    110250    112500    36630       29250    40s80
By-Proucts:
Yeld(ba)                  3        4.9        0        14         0        0.23        1.8       0         0.6      0.25        0         0         0          0       0.19        0
Prkcel                   630       630        0        4500       0        5400       270        0        4500      5400        0         0         0         0        5400        0
Vauw                     1890     3087        0       6300        0        1242       486        0        2700      1350        0         0         0         0        1026        0
GrosValue               38570    62037    41070    57600        90000     37242      40386     41070     24300     36000    168750    110250    112500    36630       30276    40500
Input:
Seeds(kg/ha)             80         60        30        6         2         60        140        30         6        60       1500        2          2        30        60        15
Pricu4g                  14.4      144       12.2       45       450       27.0       14.6      12.2       45        27        13.5      450       450       12.2       27        54
Value                    1152      864       366       270        000      1620      2044       366       270       1620     20250       900       900       366       1620      810
Urea(kgiha)              30         75        75        60       150         0        120        75        60         0        120       ISO        ISO       75         0        60
Pncelkg                  142       142       142       142       142       142        14.2      14.2      142       14.2      14.2       14.2      142       14.2      14.2      14.2
Vaue                      0        1065     1065       652      2130        0        1704       1065      852         0       1704      2130       2130      1065        0       852
DAP(kqha)                30        90        90         30       160        45         75        90        30        45        tSO       a80       100        90        45        90
Pncebg                  19.6       i96       19.6      19.6      196       19.6       19.6      19.6      19.6      19.6      19,6       19.6      19.6      19.6      19.6      19.8
Value                    588       1764      1764      588       3526       882       1470      1764       588       882      3528       3528      3528      1764       682       1764
MOP(kg1ha)                0         0         0         0         60         0         25         0         0         0        60         60        60         0         0        30
Pr=c1g                  15.3      15.3       15.3      15.3      15.3      15.3       15.3      15.3      15.3      15.3      15.3       15.3      15.3      15.3      153       15.3
Value                     0         3         0         0        918         0        383        0         0          0       918        918       918        0          0        4f9
Hanurue(ha)               0         1         2         2         6          0         2          2         2         0         5         6         6          2         0         2
Pncei2 27                          270       270       270       270        270       270       270        270       270       270       270       270        270       270       270
Value                     0        270       540       540       1620        0        540        040       040        0       1350       1620       620       540        0        540
cherucas(NRsu            90        270       450       135       3150       270        60       450        130       270       900       3150      3:S0       450       270       450
TotaLabour(mdlfha)       120       140       90         60       300        60         90        90        60        60        135       300       300        90        60        100
Pricemd                 67.5       67.5      67.5      67.5      67.5      67 5       67.5      67.5      67.5      67.5      67.5       67.5      67.5      67.5      67.5       67.5
Labour Costs            8100      9450      6075      4050      20250      4050      6075       6075      4050      4050      S113      20250     20250      6075      4050      6750
TotialAnnautoDays(ad)    30        40         30        30        40        30         35        30        30        30        30         40        40        30        30         30
Pnce/ad                  158       158       153        158      101        158       158        158       158       150       158       15          0 158 tS6   t                158
A.malcotsts              948      1264       948       948       1264       948       1106      948        948       948       s48       1264      1264       948       948       948
TotlCosts              10878     14947     11208      7383     33760      7770      13412      11208     7383      7770      39711     33760     33760      11208     7770      12573
NetProdtuconVabue      27692    47090       29862    50217      56240     29472      26975     29862     16917      31830    13000    76490       78740     25422      22500     27927



62
NEPAL                                 Table 20
Bhairawa Lumbini Groundwater Irrigabon IIl Project
(Cr. 2144-NEP)
Implementabion Completbon Report
Per ha Economic Crop Budget
PresentlWOP-Artesian
Kharif                           Rabi
Paddy      Paddy      Pulses     Wheat    OiLseeds    Pulses
Output                               HYV         Local
Main Produce:
Yield(ttha)                          2          1.2        0.5        0.8        0.5        0.4
Priceit                            13100      13100      22500       13300      27000      22500
Value                              26200      15720      11250       10640      13500      9000
By-Products:
Yield(tlha)                          2.1        1.8       0.07       0.48       0q37        0.08
Pricelt                             690        690        5400        270       4500       5400
Value                               1449       1242       378         130       1665        324
Total Gross Value                  27649      16962      11628       10770      15165      9324
Inputs:
Seeds(kg/ha)                         70         70         45         100         15        45
Pncelkg                             14.4       14.4       27.0        14.6       45         27
Value                               1008       1008       1215       1460        675       1215
Urea(kg/ha)                          0          0           0         60         30          0
PnceiRg                             14.2       14.2       14.2       14.2        14.2      14.2
Value                                0          0          0          852        426         0
OAP(kglha)                           0          0           0         30          30         0
Pnce/kg                             19.6       19.6       19.6       19.6        19.6      19.6
Value                                0          0           0         588        588         0
MOP(kg/ha)                           0          0           0          0          0          0
Pnce/kg                             15.3       15.3       15.3       15.3        15.3       15.3
Value                                0          0           0          0          0          0
Manure(t/ha)                         0          0           0          0          0          0
Pnce/t                              270        270         270        270        270        270
Value                                0          0           0          0          0          0
Chemicals:                           0          0           0          0          0          0
Total Labour(md/ha)                  125       120         30         75          40         30
Price/md                            67.5       67.5       67.5        67.5       67.5       67.5
Labour Costs                        8438       1620       405        1013        540        405
Total Animal Days(ad)                30         30         20         28          20         20
Price/ad                             158        158        158        158        158        158
Animal Costs                        948        948         632       884.8       632        632
Total Costs                        10394      3576       2252       4797        2861       2252
Net Production Value               17256      13386       9376       5972       12304      7072



63
NEPAL                                                                                Table 21
Bshrawa umbni Groundwaler Iroqaton IlIl Proo
(Cr. 2144.NEP)
ImptemenWtaon Complecon Report
Per ha Economic Crop Budget
W08 PmjectdAtesoan
Khanvf                                         Hot Season                                              Rabi
Paddy     Paddy    Pulses   Oilseeds Vegetables   Paddy       Maize   Pulses   Oilseeds Vegetatbes   Wheat   Oilseeds   Pulses    Potato Vege*e
Output                    HYV       Local
Main Prduce:
Yiekdottha)              4 5       2.8        1.6       1.9        20        4         3         1.3       1.3        20         3        0.7       0.6        15        20
Pncelt                  13100     13100     22500      27000     4500      13100     11100     22500      27000      4500      13300     27000    22500       6750      4500
Value                  58950      36680     36000      51300     90000     52400     33300     29250      35100     90000      39900     18900     13500    101250    90000
By-Product:
Yiekht/ha)               4 8       4.2       0.22       1.4        0        4.2        0        0.18       0.9        0         1.8       0.5       0.08       0          0
PoceAl                   690       690       5400      4500        0        690        0        5400       4500       0         270      4500      5400        0          0
Value                   3312      2898       1188      6300        0       2898        0        972       4050        0        486       2250       432        0         0
TullGross Value        62262      39578     37188     57600      00009    55298      33300     30222      39150     90000     40386      21150     13932    101250    90=00
Inputs:
Seedsukglha)             50         55        75        iS         2        50         30        75         15        2         ?40        6        45        1500        2
Pnceukg                 144        14.4      27.0       45        450       14.4      12.2       27         45       450        14.6      45        27        13.5       450
Value                    720       792       2025       675       900       720       366       2025       675       900       2044       270      1215      20250      900
Urea(kglha)              150       120         0        90        150       120       10         0         90       150        140       60         45       150        150
Pricahg                 14.2      14.2       142       142        142       14.2      14.2      142       14.2       14.2      14.2      14.2      14.2       14.2      14.2
Value                   2130       1704       0        1278      2130       1704     1420        0        1278       2130      1988       952       639      2130       2130
DAP(kgtha)               90        60         90        60        120       90         90        90        60         120       90        60        30        120        120
Pncetkg                 196        196       19.6      19.6       196       19.6      19.6      19.6       19.6      19.6      19.6       19.6      19.6      19.6      19.6
Value                   1764       1176      1764      1176       2352      1764      1764      1764       1176      2352      1764       1176      588       2352      2352
MOP(kglha)               30         15        30        30        o0        30         0         30         30        60        30         0         0         60        60
Pncekg                  153        15.3      15.3      15.3       '53       15.3      15.3      15.3      15.3       15.3      15.3       15.3      15.3      15.3      15.3
Value                    459      229.5       459      459        918       459        0        459        459       918        459        0         0        918       918
ManunHt/ha)              4          0         0          0         4         a         3          0         0         4          0         0         6         2          4
Pnce/t                   270       270       270        270       2,0       270       270       270        270       270        270       270       270       270        270
Value                     0         0          0         0        1080       0        810         0         0        1080        0         0         0        540       1080
Chemwals                 270       180       450        720      3150       270       450        450       720       3150       90        180        90       630       3150
Tota Labour1mdlha)       145       140        90        t       275       145        90        90        100       275        90        60        50        t80        275
Pricejnd                67 5       67.5      67.5      67.5       67 5      67.5      67.5      67 5       67.5      67.5       67.5      67.5      67.5      67.5      67.5
Labour Costs            9788      9450       6075      6750      10563     9788      6075       6075      6750      18563      6075      4050      3375      12150     18563
TotalAnimalDaysoad)      40         35        30        30       .40        40         30        30         30        40        35         25       25         40        40
Pricelad                 158       158        158       158       158       158       158        158       158        158       158       158       158       158        158
Anikal Costs            1580      1382.5     1185       1185      1500      1580      1185      1185       1185      1580      1382.5    987.5    987.5       1580      1580
TotatCosts             16711     14914      11958     12243     30573     16285      12070     119S8     12243      30673     13803      7516      6895     40550      30673
NetProducdonValue      49552      24664     25230     45357      59328     39014     21230     18264      26907     59328      26584     13635     7038      60700     59328



64
NEPAL                              Table 22
Bhairawa Lumbini Groundwater Irrigation IlIl Project
(Cr 2144-NEP)
Imptrnementabon Completion Report
Economic Analysis- A DTW Model 11
(NRs Million)
Incremental Incremental
Investment  O&M Costs     Agric. Total Costs    WOP-Net  WP-Net   Net Prod.       Net
Costs 21      3/       Extension            Prod. Value  Prod. Value  Benefits   Benefits
41                             5/
Yearl                 5.76         0.00       0.00      5.76        0.00       0.00       0.00      -5.76
Year2                 8.64         0.00      0.00       8.64        2.53       2.53       0.00     -8.64
Year3                              0.13      0.02       0.15        2.53       3.51       0.98      0.83
Year4                              0.13      0.02       0.15        2.53       4.49       1.96      1.81
Year5                              0.13      0.02       0.15        2.53       5.47       2.94      2.79
Year6                              0.13      0.02       0.15        2.53       6.45       3.92      3.77
Year7                              0.13      0.02       0.15        2.53       7.43       4.90      4.75
Year8                              0.13      0.02       0.15        2.53       8.41       5.88      5.73
Year9                              0.13       0.02      0.15        2.53       8.41       5.88      5.73
Year1O                             0.13       0.02      0.15        2.53       8.41       5.88      5.73
Yearl1                             0.13      0.02       0.15        2.53       8.41       5.88      5.73
Yearl2                             0.13      0.02       0.15        2.53       8.41       5.88      5.73
Year13                             0.13      0.02       0.15        2.53       8.41       5.88      5.73
Year14                             0.13      0.02       0.15        2.53       8.41       5.88      5.73
YearlS                             0.13       0.02      0.15         2.53      8.41       5.88      5.73
Year16                             0.13       0.02      0.15        2.53       8.41       5.88      5.73
Yearl7                             0.13       0.02      0.15        2.53       8.41       5.88      5.73
Yearl8                0.84         0.13      0.02       0.99        2.53       8.41       5.88      4.89
Year19                             0.13       0.02      0.15        2.53       8.41       5.88      5.73
Year20               40.67         0.13      0.02      -0.52        2.53       8.41       5.88      6.40
NPV=NRs         11.96 million       ERR=         22.1%
11 Gross command area 120 ha, effective irrigated area 96 ha.
2/ FY98199 actual costs.
3/ O&M costs estmated at NRs 1331/effedive irrigated ha.
4/ Agricultural service estimated at NRs 243/effective irrigated area.
5/ Incremental benefits in WP have been assumed to be achieved over 7 years.



65
NEPAL                              Table 23
Bhairawa Lumbini Groundwater Irrigation IlIl Project
(Cr 2144-NEP)
lmplementation Completion Report
Economic Analysis- An Artesian Model 11
(NRs Million)
Incremnental Incremental
Investment  O&M Costs  Agric. Total Costs    WOP-Net  WP-Net      Net Prod.    Net
Costs 2'      3/    Extension            Prod. Value  Prod. Value   Benefits   Benefits
4/                             51
Yearl                 1.96      0.00       0.00      1.96        0.00        0.00       0.00     -1.96
Year2                 2.94      0.00       0.00      2.94        1.47        1.47       0.00     -2.94
Year3                           0.02       0.01      0.03        1.47        2.05       0.58      0.55
Year4                           0.02       0.01      0.03        1.47        2.62       1.15      1.12
Year5                           0.02       0.01      0.03        1.47        3.20       1.73      1.70
Year6                           0.02       0.01      0.03        1.47        3.78       2.31      2.28
Year7                           0.02       0.01      0.03        1.47        4.35       2.88      2.85
Year8                           0.02       0.01      0.03        1.47        4.93       3.46      3.43
Year9                           0.02       0.01      0.03        1.47        4.93       3.46      3.43
Yearl0                          0.02       0.01      0.03        1.47        4.93       3.46      3.43
Year1l                          0.02       0.01      0.03        1.47        4.93       3.46      3.43
Yearl2                          0.02       0.01      0.03        1.47        4.93       3.46      3.43
Year13                          0.02       0.01      0.03        1.47        4.93       3.46      3.43
Year14                          0.02       0.01      0.03        1.47        4.93       3.46      3.43
Yearl5                          0.02       0.01      0.03        1.47        4.93       3.46      3.43
Yearl6                          0.02       0.01      0.03        1.47        4.93       3.46      3.43
Year17                          0.02       0.01      0.03        1.47        4.93       3.46      3.43
Yearl1                          0.02       0.01      0.03        1.47        4.93       3.46      3.43
Yearl9                          0.02       0.01      0.03        1.47        4.93       3.46      3.43
Year2O                          0.02       0.01      0.03        1.47        4.93       3.46      3.43
NPV=NR  10.38   million        ERR =       33.3%
1/ Gross command area 70 ha, effective imgated area 56 ha.
2/ FY98/99 actual costs.
3/ O&M costs estimated at NRs 338/effective irrigated ha.
41 Agricultural service estimated at NRs 243/effective irrigated area.
5/ Incremental benefits in WP have been assumed to be achieved over 7 years.



66
NEFAL                                                                 Table 24
Bhairawa Lumbiri Gridwater IlIl Project
(CFL 2144NEP)
Bhairawa Lurbin Groxrwawtee Componeot
Implementeabon Conmie6  Report
Project Expenditures (NRs Miton)
FY90191    FY911f2    FY92i93    FY93194    FY94t9S    FY95i96    FY96l97    FY97198    FY98199       ToIt          FE
Stage I
CNilWorkS                                         0.00        429        6.04      12.54      42.24      59.66       11.96      13.39       0.55     150.67      30.13
OEM                                               1.80        3 20       1.52       2.22       2.23       4.26        3.65       3.89       0.65      23.42       7.03
Subtotal Stage I                                  1.t0        7.49       7.56      14.76      44.47      63.92       15.61      17.28       120      174.09      37.16
Stage lAlIt
LandAcquisibon                                    0.46        1.74       0.84       1 35       1.34       0.90        0.34       1.80       2.50      11.27       0.00
Tubeweils Constructon                             2.60       495         5.65       6.60       8.42       12.71       6.95       0.00       0.10      47.98      28.79
Civil works-Project                               7.82      22.79       84.75      88.92      44.09      166.27     135.92      96.74      19.59     665.89     133.38
Civil works-Faers Conibubton                      0.25       0.72        2.69       2.81       1.33       3.66        4.85       3.73       0.67      20.71       0.00
Machanrial works                                  0.69       3.05        3.33       2.48       3.23       3.50        1.60       2.32       5.70      25.90       130
Electrical works                                  3.63       3.63        1 47       194        Z12       10.45        1.57       Z49        9.31      36.61       1.83
Material                                         44.58      21.84       47.04      27.11      46.77      40.80      18.78       37.84      25.46     310.22     279.20
Equipment &Vehce                                  0.00       0.00        0.00       0.00       1.11       7.25       5.58        6.40       0.27      20.61      15.46
O&M costs                                         1.20       2.51        2.60       4.21       4.02       8.21       9.28       15.25      10.50      65.78      19.73
Subtotal Stage H&lHl                             61.23      61.23      146.37     135.42     112.43     253.75      1U.87      166.57      32.10    1205.97     479.68
Staff salanes & Operating Costs                   4.56       703         798        827        8.41      10.24       13.23      1496       16.90      91.58      18.32
Consultants & Training                           19.62      27.73       22.34      22.21      25.94      25.17      27.35       23.46      24.98     218.80     175.04
Subtotal                                         24.18      34.76       3032       30.48      34.35      35.41      40.58       38.42      41.88     310.38     193.36
Agric. & Farmer Organization Support. Studies
Agra. Support                                     0.40       1 36        1 46       1-64       2.60       3.18       3.70        5.93       4 36      24.63       9.85
FarmerOrganrzaoon Support                         0.10       0.28        0.31       0.51       0.55       091         1.29       1.38       1.61       6.94       4.16
Grounowater lnvestgatson                          0.00       0.00       18.38      32.85      15.12       2.23       29.15      28.13       7.06     132.92      79.75
Subtout                                           0.50       1.64       20.15      35.80      1.27        6.32      34.14       35.4       13.03     164.49      93.77
Total Expenditures                               87.7i     105.12     206.40      215.66     209.52     359.40     275.20      257.71     13821    1854.93      803.97
TotalEconomicCostsofStagel (FY98i99Prices) I     14.79      2635        30.53      43.20      66.76      78.43      41.90       43.09      21.15
Total Economic Costs ot Stage 11,111 (FY9199 PrIcesi  1,06.58  t04.12  20789      t92.05     147.12     270.65     220.15      201.71     109.aa
1/ Annual Project expenditures were re-stated m FY98/99 constant pnces by applying the wholesale price and .UW iodicee to the Local costs and foreign costS respecWtely.
Local costs were turther adjusteM by SCF of 0.90 and toreign cOstr byI 00. Expenditures ot Farmer organzason and agncutkerar support. consutar and protect admoinooSson eier aoponionated
based on the benefited areas or each stages.
Source: Project Office. BLGWP Il



67
NEPAL                                              Table 25
Bhairawa Lumbini Groundwater Illi Project
(Cr. 2144-NEP)
Bhairawa Lumbini Groundwater Component
Implementation Completion Report
Post-Project Cost Estimates
(NRs Million)
FY99/00         FYOO/Ol          FY01/02            Total            FE%
Maintenance Works:
Equipment & Vehicle                                          3.00             0.00             0.00            3.00              90
Civil works 1/                                              10.00             3.50             3.50           17.00              20
Subtotal                                                    13.00             3.50             3.50           20.00              30
WUG Support                                                  2.19             1.51             0.00            3.70               5
Agrc. Extension Support 2/                                    6.50            6.50             4.11            17.11              15
M&E Unit                                                     3.28             2.98             0.54            6.80               5
Well Observation                                             0.40             0.00             0.00            0.40               0
Land Compensation                                            3.00             0.00             0.00            3.00               0
BLGW Illi Project Admin. 3/                                 27.60             1.00             0.80           29.40               0
Subtotal                                                    42.97            11.99             5.45           60.41               5
Total Financial Costs                                       55.97            15.49             8.95           80.41               11
Total Economic Costs: 4/                                    55.35            15.32             8.85           79.53
Stage I 5/                                                  21.03             5.82             3.36           30.22
Stage II and III 5/                                         34.32             9.50             5.49           49.31
1/ Civil works maintenance in FY00/01 and thereafter included NRs 3 million/year for road maintenance.
2/ Including NRs 4.11 million/year for operation and extension costs for the district agricultural extension offices.
3/ Costs in FY99/00 are mainly staff termination grant fund.
4/ Local costs are adjusted by SCF of 0.90 ana foreign costs by 1.00.
5/ Proportion based on benefited areas in each stages.
Source: 8LGW ill Project office.



68
NEPAL                             Table 26
Bhairawa Lumbini Groundwater Irrigation Ill Project
(Cr 2144-NEP)
Implementation Completion Report
Economic Analysis- Stage I Area (5,760ha)
(NRs Million)
Incremental Incremental
Investment  O&M Costs    Agric. Total Costs    WOP-Net  WP-Net   Net Prod.    Net
Costs 1/      4/      Extension           Prod. Value  Prod. Value  Benefds   Benefits
5/                           6@
Yearl                14.79        0.00      0.00     14.79        0.00      0.00      0.00    -14.79
Year2                26.35        0.00      0.00     26.35        0.00      2.53      2.53    -23.82
Year3                30.53        0.00      0.00     30.53       19.66     19.66      0.00    -30.53
Year4                43.20        0.00      0.00     43.20       55.06     58.79      3.73    -39.47
YearS                66.76        0.00      0.00     66.76      121.91    136.09      14.18    -52.58
Year6                78.43        0.00      0.00     78.43      228.09    265.41     37.32    -41.11
Year7                41.90        0.00      0.00     41.90      253.96    316.56     62.60      20.70
Year8                43.09        0.00      0.00     43.09      253.96    361.33     107.37     64.28
Year9                21.15        0.00      0.00     21.15      253.96    406.12     152.16    131.01
Yearl0                            0.00      0.00      0.00      253.96    447.17     193.21    193.21
Yearl1                            7.67     21.03     28.70      253.96    481.50    227.54    198.84
Year12                            7.67      5.82     13.49      253.96    503.14    249.18    235.69
Year13 21             4.21        7.67      3.36     15.24      253.96    504.63    250.67    235.43
Year14                7.58        7.67      3.36     18.61      253.96    504.63    250.67    232.06
Yearl5               14.30        7.67      3.36     25.33      253.96    504.63    250.67    225.34
Year16               21.89        7.67      3.36     32.92      253.96    504.63    250.67    217.75
Yearl7                1.68        7.67      3.36     12.71      253.96    504.63    250.67    237.96
Year18                            7.67      3.36     11.03      253.96    504.63     250.67    239.64
Yearl9                            7.67      3.36     11.03      253.96    504.63    250.67    239.64
Year2O                            7.67      3.36     11.03      253.96    504.63    250.67    239.64
Year2l                            7.67      3.36     11.03      253.96    504.63    250.67    239.64
Year22                            7.67      3.36     11.03      253.96    504.63    250.67    239.64
Year23                4.21        7.67      3.36     15.24      253.96    504.63    250.67    235.43
Year24                7.58        7.67      3.36     18.61      253.96    504.63    250.67    232.06
Year25               14.30        7.67      3.36     25.33      253.96    504.63    250.67    225.34
Year26               21.89        7.67      3.36     32.92      253.96    504.63    250.67    217.75
Year27                1.68        7.67      3.36     12.71      253.96    504.63    250.67    237.96
Year28                            7.67      3.36     11.03      253.96    504.63    250.67    239.64
Year29                            7.67      3.36     11.03      253.96    504.63     250.67    239.64
Year3O 3/           -20.79        7.67      3.36     -9.76      253.96    504.63     250.67    260.43
NPV=NRs       567.56 million       ERR =       32.9%
1/ Investment expenditures included O&M expenditures, farmer organization and agncultural supports (Table 24).
2/ Replacement of pump sets (economic life of 10 years) in Year 13 onwards.
3/ Residual values.
4/ Estimated at NRs 1,3311ha/year (Table 14).
5/ Table 25.
6/ Incremental benefits in WP have been assumed to be achieved over 7 years.



69
NEPAL                             Table 27
Bhairawa Lumbini Groundwater Irrgation IlIl Project
(Cr 2144-NEP)
Implementation Completion Report
Economic Analysis- Stage If & ill Areas (9,417 ha)
(NRs Milion)
Incremental Incremental
investment  O&M Costs    Agrc. Total Costs    WOP-Net  WP-Net   Net Prod.    Net
Costs 11     4/       Extension           Prod. Value  Prod. Value  Benefts   Benefts
51                            61
Yearl               106.58        0.00      0.00    106.58        0.00      0.00       0.00   -106.58
Year2               104.12        0.00      0.00    104.12        0.00      0.00       0.00   -104.12
Year3               207.89        0.00      0.00    207.89        0.00      0.00      0.00   -207.89
Year4               192.05        0.00      0.00    192.05        0.00      0.00       0.00   -192.05
Year5               147.12        0.00      0.00    147.12        0.00      0.00       0.00   -147.12
Year6               270.65        0.00      0.00    270.65        1.16       1.16      0.00   -270.65
Year7               220.15        0.00      0.00    220.15       31.09     31.52       0.43   -219.72
Year8               201.71        0.00      0.00    201.71       61.26     73.75      12.49   -189.22
Yearg               109.88        0.00      0.00    109.88      151.79    188.05      36.26    -73.62
Yearl0                            0.00      0.00      0.00      175.00    270.11      95.11     95.11
Year11                            8.84     34.32     43.16      175.00    410.98    235.98    192.82
Year12                           12.53      9.50     22.03      175.00    507.15    332.15    310.12
Yearl3                           12.53      5.49     18.02      175.00    602.87    427.87    409.85
Yearl4                           12.53      5.49     18.02      175.00    687.00    512.00    493.98
Year15                           12.53      5.49     18.02      175.00    759.41    584.41    566.39
Year16                           12.53      5.49     18.02      175.00    796.72    621.72    603.70
Year17 21             9.30       12.53      5.49     27.32      175.00    825.02    650.02    622.70
Year18               10.10       12.53      5.49     28.12      175.00    825.02    650.02    621.90
Year19               30.30       12.53      5.49     48.32      175.00    825.02    650.02    601.70
Year2O                7.60       12.53      5.49     25.62      175.00    825.02    650.02    624.40
Year2l               24.40       12.53      5.49     42.42      175.00    825.02    650.02    607.60
Year22                           12.53      5.49     18.02      175.00    825.02    650.02    632.00
Year23                           12.53      5.49     18.02      175.00    825.02    650.02    632.00
Year24                           12.53      5.49     18.02      175.00    825.02    650.02    632.00
Year25                           12.53      5.49     18.02      175.00    825.02    650.02    632.00
Year26                           12.53      5.49     18.02      175.00    825.02    650.02    632.00
Year27                           12.53      5.49     18.02      175.00    825.02    650.02    632.00
Year28                9.30       12.53      5.49     27.32      175.00    825.02    650.02    622.70
Year29               10.10       12.53      5.49     28.12      175.00    825.02    650.02    621.90
Year3O 3/            -8.10       12.53      5.49      9.92      175.00    825.02    650.02    640.10
NPV=NRs       365.05 million       ERR =        15.0%
1/ Investment expenditures included O&M expenditures. farmer organizaton and agncultural supports (Table 24).
2/ Replacement of pump sets (economic life of 10 years) in Year 17 onwards.
3/ Residual values.
4/ Estimated at NRs 1,331/halyear (Table 14).
5/ Table 25.
61 Incremental benefits in WP have been assumed to be achieved over 7 years.



70
NEPAL                            Table 28
6hairawa Lumbini Groundwater Irrgation IlIl Project
(Cr 2144-NEP)
Implementation Completion Report
Economic Analysis- Stage i,III & Ill Areas (15,177 ha)
(NRs Million)
Incremental Incremental
Investment  O&M Costs   Agric. Total Costs    WOP-Net  WP-Net   Net Prod.    Net
Costs 11     41    Extension            Prod. Value Prod. Value Senefits   Benefds
51                           6/
Yearl     121.37      0.00      0.00    121.37       0.00       0.00     0.00   -121.37
Year2     130.47      0.00      0.00    130A7        0.00       2.53     2.53   -127.94
Year3     238.42      0.00      0.00    238.42       19.66     19.66     0.00   -238.42
Year4     235.25      0.00      0.00    235.25      55.06      58.79      3.73   -231.52
Year5     213.88      0.00      0.00    213.88      121.91    136.09     14.18   -199.70
Year6     349.08      0.00      0.00    349.08     229.25    266.57      37.32   -311.76
Year7     262.05      0.00      0.00    262.05      285.05    348.08     63.03   -199.02
Year8     244.80      0.00      0.00    244.80      315.22    435.08    119.86   -124.94
Year9     131.03      0.00      0.00    131.03     405.75    594.17    188.42      57.39
YearlO     0.00       0.00      0.00      0.00      428.96    717.28    288.32    288.32
Yearl1      0.00     16.51     55.35     71.86      428.96    892.48    463.52    391.66
Year12     0.00      20.20     15.32     35.52      428.96   1010.29    581.33    545.81
Year13     4.21      20.20      8.85     33.26      428.96   1107.50    678.54    645.28
Year14      7.58     20.20      8.85     36.63      428.96   1191.63    762.67    726.04
Year15     14.30     20.20      8.85     43.35      428.96   1264.04    835.08    791.73
Yearl6    21.89      20.20      8.85     50.94     428.96   1301.35    872.39    821.45
Year17 2    10.98    20.20      8.85     40.03      428.96   1329.65    900.69    860.66
Year18     10.10     20.20      8.85     39.15      428.96   1329.65    900.69    861.54
Yearl9     30.30     20.20      8.85     59.35      428.96   1329.65    900.69    841.34
Year2O      7.60     20.20      8.85     36.65      428.96   1329.65    900.69    864.04
Year2l     24.40     20.20      8.85      53.45     428.96   1329.65    900.69    847.24
Year22      0.00     20.20      8.85     29.05      428.96   1329.65    900.69    871.64
Year23     4.21      20.20      8.85     33.26     428.96   1329.65    900.69    867.43
Year24      7.58     20.20      8.85     36.63      428.96   1329.65    900.69    864.06
Year25     14.30     20.20      8.85     43.35      428.96   1329.65    900.69    857.34
Year26     21.89     20.20      8.85     50.94      428.96   1329.65    900.69    849.75
Year27      1.68     20.20      8.85     30.73      428.96   1329.65    900.69    869.96
Year28      9.30     20.20      8.85     38.35      428.96   1329.65    900.69    862.34
Year29     10.10     20.20      8.85     39.15      428.96   1329.65    900.69    861.54
Year3O 3   -28.89    20.20      8.85      0.16      428.96   1329.65    900.69    900.53
NPV=NRs      932.61 million      ERR =       18.3%
1/ Investment expenditures included 0&M expenditures, farmer organization and agricultural supports (Table 24).
2/ Replacement of pump sets (economic life of 10 years) in Year 13 onwards.
31 Residual values.
4 Estimated at NRs 1,331/ha/year (Table 14).
51 Table 25.
6/ Incremental benefits in WP have been assumed to be achieved over 7 years.



71
NEPAL                                                 Table 29
Bhairawa Lumbini Groundwater Irrigafion Ilil Project
(Cr. 2144-NEP)
Implementation C.ompletion Report
Parameters and Results of Financial and Economic Analysis of 20 Subprojects Under ILC
Command                     Cropping Intensity (%)      Yields (t/ha)                Yields (tlha)      ERR (%)
Area (ha)         Pre-Project     WP                      Paddy                      Wheat
FY96/97   Prcgected Pre-Project    WP          Pre-Poject       WP
A. Surface lnig. rehab. Subprqects-Hills                                     Full Dev.         FY96197   Projected          FY96197   Projected
Full Dev                   Full Dev
Ohundure                                 50                 112       137      180      1.76      1.70      2.80      -        -         *        9.07
Marang Ghat                              40                 160       185      190      3.07      3.39      3.40     1.08      1.17     2.20     21.94
Satasaya Phant                           60                 180       180      208      2.50      3.39      3.50     2.00      1.50     2.20     13.39
Taunswara                                150                132       132      180      1.64      Z00       280      1.26      1.26     2.20     *5.02
Lower Lahachok                           90                 112       152      170      1.50      2.20      2.50  *  1.00      1.04     2.00     15.13
Lamage Phant                             74                 162       224      224      2.50      3.01      3.20     2.02      2.21     2.40     16.98
Sota Phant                               35                 243       280      280      3.00      3.20      3.32     2.00      1.19     2.25     25.85
Chherdung Lower                          56                 159       270      278      2.25      2.50      3.00     1.50      2.20     2.20     16.84
Naubise Phant                            30                 190       217      227      200       200       2.40     1.40      1.20     2.00     17.65
Ghum Khahare                             98                 190       190      236      2.30      3.29      3.30     1.45      1.40     2.20     24.99
Kachita Kachuli                          200                159       161      181      2.20      3.65      3.50     1.50      1.14     2.20     2683
Pohi Bazar                               265                133       186      194      1.50      1.70      2.50     1.20      1.27     2.10     12.43
B. Surface Img. rehab. Subprolects-Terar
Inguna                                   100                144       147      166      2.20      2.76      3.40     1.50      1.73     2.20     30.88
Jacai Sangkuna                           700                133       157      157      1.40      2.08      2.20     0.80      0.69     1.60     16.68
Chisapani Naubasta                       300                127       180      182      9.60      3.58      3.50     1.60      2.52     2.50     30.73
Machhab                                  40                 149       171      178      1.80      2.39      2.50     0.90      0.92     1.60     19.37
C Tumover Surface 1mg. renab. Subpmlects-HiiIs
Chheptar                                 60                 120       150      160      2.40      2.77      2.77     1.20      1.05      1.80    24.92
O Tumover Surface Img. rehab. Subprojects-Hills
Kopwa MTW 4                              17                 124       141      206      1.60      2.25      3.00     1.30      1.29     2.30     16.28
KopwaOTW3                                32                 127       196      200       1.60     3.45      3.50      1.30     0.08     2.30      17.95
Kopwa STW                                107                162       157      174       1.50     2.90      3.00      1.00     1.73     2.00     25.66
E. Net Farm Incomes (NRslha in 1997 Prices)                Appraisa Estimates       ICR Estimates
Pre-prolect  WP                WP
Surface lmgathon Subprojects                             l0,550-1Z625,320-31,650     17,270-24.925
Groundwater Subprojects                                  10,550-12,625,320-31,650   20,639-27,186



72
APPENDIX 3
Implementation Completion Report
Bhairahwa Lumbani Ground water Project
(Credit No. 2144 - NEP)
Borrowers Evaluation Report
Introduction:
Nepal is a land locked Country with a total area of 147000 sq km situated between India & China. Most
of its population depends on agriculture. Agricultrue, largely rainfed, dominates the Country's economy.
Agriculture in Nepal is mainly small - scale subsistence farming most cultivation is bylabour. Therefore
in general agricultural sector has been slow to adopt improved practice.
To develop mechanized agricultural practice, crop yield, crop variation etc. Bhairahwa Lumbani Ground
water Irrigation Project (BLGWP III) in part of Rupendehi district was fornulated. BLGWP III was
financed under World Bank Credit No. 2144 NEP. of SDR 36.6 million.
Objectives:
The main objective of the project were (a) to raise agriculture production and farm incomes and increase
food security through expansion of on-going deep tube well (DTW) irrigation program and through
construction and rehabilitation of private Farmer-Managed Irrigation Schemes (FMIS); (b) promote
privatization and increased farmer participation to turn irrigation development into a demand-driven
process, reduce government costs, improve operation and maintenance (O & M), and ensure sustainability
of irrigation schemes; and (c) strengthen Nepal's irrigation institutional capacity, particularly the
Department of Irrigation (DOI), to implement His Majesty's Government of Nepal's (HMGN) new sector
program approach to irrigation development by shifting from public-managed irrigation systems to
beneficiary participatory management systems.
Project Components:
The BLGW III comprised three separate components: (a) construction of new tube wells in stage III area,
and completion and O&M transfer of previously funded DTW systems in the Stage I, and II areas in
Rupandehi district; (b) expansion of Irrigation Line of Credit (ILC) Pilot Project testing the Government's
Irrigation Policy; and (c) continued Institutional Development Support (IDS) for DOI. Part (b) and (c)
components were originally conceived under Mahakali irrigation II Project (Credit Number 1 924-NEP).
Part A: BLGW Component:
(a) construction of about (73 nos.) new DTWs serving some 8,600 ha in the Stage III area;
(b) completion of 16 DTWs serving nearly 2,000 ha implemented in the Stage II area and
turnover to farmers of all completed Stage II DTWs (38 nos);
(c) modification of 64 DTWs in the Stage I area serving some 7,680ha and turnover tofarmers;
(d) provision of maintenance of project facilities including staff quarters, vehicles, equipment,
spare parts and materials:
(e) Provision of agricultural support services;
(f) provision of farmer organization support;and
(g) provision of technical support, training and studies.



73
Part B: ILC Component
This component was aimed to further test the Government's Irrigation Policy (IP-1988) of
demand-driven approach to irrigation development in the country. The testing was planned to be
implemented in 30 months. The project activity targeted three types of subprojects and covering
6.600 ha of irrigable land in 8 hill districts and 5 terai districts in the three Westem Development
Regions. As per the IP-1988, the capital costs were to be contributed and upon completion
operation and management to be undertaken by farmer-beneficiaries in:
(a) carrving out rehabilitation of existing farmer-owned and managed small and medium-sized
irrigation sub-projects in selected districts of three Western Regions of Nepal;
(b) turnover to farmers of rehabilitated small and medium-sized public irrigation schemes for
O&M: and
(c) construction and improvement of groundwater schemes to be managed bv farmer groups.
Part C : IDS Component
This component ,which was for assistance to DOI in developing the institutional capacity to
support a long-term irrigation sector program, comprised:
(a) strengthening of the Planning, Design and Research (PD&R) Division of DOI by providing
office and engineering equipment, transport vehicles, training and consultant services for sub-
project identification and feasibility studies, development of DOI management information
system. and farmers' organization support;
(b) strengthening of DOI Region and District Offices by providing buildings, equipment and
vehicles, and providing funding for staffing, training, equipment and operation of Mobile
Irrigation Teams; and
(c) DOI Headquarters renovation and construction and strengthening through human resources
development, including financing assessment of DOI and its capacities, resources and
training requirements and assessment of its administration.
Project Cost
The costs of the project were estimated at NRS. 1,533.42 million (US$52.69 million equivalent),
including NRs 1,154.55 million (US$39.67 million) for the BLGW III component, NRs. 308.29
million (US$ 10.59) for the ILC component and NRs. 70.58 million (US$2.43 million) for IDS
component. Expressed in Nepali Rupee, the actual project expenditures as of 30 June 1999 are
estimated at NRs. 3,1 13.37 million, which is 203% of the appraisal total project costs estimated.
Substantial increases in project expenditures were attributable mainly to increase in the total
number of DTWs drilled under BLGW III component, and increased scope of the total number of
rehabilitation of irrigation schemes and construction of new groundwater tube wells under the
pilot ILC.



Physical Progress:
Key indicators of Physical Progress (Till June 1999)
Project Works                          Units    Appraisal Revised  Achievement Achievement as % of
Target   Target                  Appraisal           Revised
Modification of Stage I Systems
Irrigation Systems                    No.              64        64            64                  100      100
Additional Watercourse Lining          km              140      140          139.5                 100       100
Completion of Stage II System
Drilling and Testing of Tubewells      No.               8       22            22                  275      100
Sealing of Artesian Tubewells         No.               0        22            22                    0      100
Pumphouses                             No.              16       22 31 a/                          194      141
Control Chambers                       No.              16       22            22                  138      100
Distribution Systems                   No.              16 195km    195km                          100      100
Pumps:Provide/Install                  No.              16       22 31 a/                          194      141
Power Lines                            System           16       22            22                  138      100
11/33 KV Substation                   No.               0         1             1                   0       100
Roads                                  km                0       1.5           1.5                   0      100
Drainage works                         km                0       19            17                    0       89
Buildings                              No.               0         1            1                    0      100
Redrilling and testing tubewells(failure  No.            0        0      9:00 AM
wells)
Note:
a.Including redrilling 9wells (1 in Stage II/Phase I and 8 in Stage 11/Phase2)
Construction of Stage III Systems
Land Acquisition                       ha                                      76
Drilling and Testing of Tubewells      No.              73       79            79                  108      100
Pumphouses and Control Chambers        No.              73       79            77                  105       97
Distribution Systems                   No.             73        79            77                  105       97
Drainage works                         km              38        10             4                   11       40
Pumping Units Installed               No.              72        79            77                  105       97
Power lines                            km              118      134           117                  99        87
33/11 kv Substation                    No.              0         1             1                  100      100
Roads                                  km              92       123           118                  128       96
Subcenters                            No.               2         2             2                  100      100
Inputs Storehouses                     No.               5        5             0                    0        0
JTA quarters                           No.              6         6           4.5                  75        75



75
Project Impact:
BLGW III component. A total of 140 DTWs are operational in end May 1999, including 60
modified DTWs in the Stage I area, 31 new DTWs in the Stage II areas and 49 DTWs in the Stage III
area. The project has completed a total of 169 DTWs covering total command area of about 20,300 ha,
against the appraisal targets of 175 DTWs and total command area of about 21,040 ha respectively.
The agricultural production impact, based on the actual achievements of farmers in the Stage I
and II areas, cropping intensity increased substantially reaching to about 209% and 198% respectively,
which is around 20% higher than the appraisal estimate.
ILC Component. As noted earlier, a total of 281 surface irrigation schemes covering 29,155 ha
were rehabilitated and 217 groundwater tube wells covering 4,210 ha were constructed. Total command
area would be 33,365 ha, 506% of the appraisal estimates of 6,600 ha. The cropping intensities increased
by 40%-45% to 157%-280% for the surface irrigation schemes, and by 40%-50% to 174%-206% for the
groundwater tube wells.
Project Sustainability
Bhairawa Lumbani Irrigation Project: The sustainability of the Project depends mainly on
attitude and capacity of beneficiary farmers to operate and maintain the tube well equipment. Their
motivation to do so will depends on benefits they derive from the development and private O&M
facilities available in the project vicinity. Experience with the irrigated agriculture in the completed Stage
I and Stage II/Phase I reveals that increased farm incomes were achievable with the use of appropriate
inputs, not only water, and suitable marketing outlets. Cursory analysis showed that the net incremental
agricultural production values vary from NRs 45,000/ha to NRs 13,000/ha under full to partial irrigation
conditions. The average O&M expenditures including preventive (every three year) regular O&M costs
vary from NRs 3700 to 1700 per hectare. Regarding the availability of O&M facilities in the area, private
workshops in the vicinity which are capable to repair pump and motor equipment of the system.
However, farmers of the some Stage III systems which come into operation quite recently still require
technical guidance and assistance that should be given beyond the closing date for a reasonable duration.
With all these arrangement and future technical support provided by the regional Groundwater Field
Office, the project is likely to be sustainable.
Irrigation Line of Credit: Almost all of the ILC schemes under this project are farner
developed, owned and operated systems is expected to be sustainable.
Future Operation and Maintenance
BLGWP III: The maintenance of Tubewell Irrigation system is the part of beneficiaries as they are doing
in Stage I & 11. In the same way the Stage III farmers will be doing this operation & maintenance through
the trained private workshops in the vicinity of Bhairahwa and Butwal.
Groundwater Field Office (GFO) will take care of future technical support activities, NEA for operating
new sub-station and electric transmission line, Department of Agriculture for extension and training, and
private sector work shops for tube well equipment maintenance. DDC /VDC should look after the
maintenance of the road network with the help of WUA / RCC / CCC.
Irrigation Line of Credit: Future operation, is entirely the responsibility of the water users.
Improvements to the systems made during the project will have made operation in many wayseasier.The
private workshops are available in the local vicinity for the maintenance of such equipment.



76
HMGN's Performance:
Bhairahawa Lumbini Groundwater Project (BLGWP), stage III with the termination of IDA Loan on June
1999, have almost achieved the targeted works. Under BLGWP Credit 2144-NEP component, the stage
III completed 160 nos. of Deep Tubewells (DTWs) systems inclusive of modification of 60 irrigation
systems in Stage I, redrilling and rehabilitation of 22 DTWs systems in stage II and 78 new systems with
drilling in stage III. This is, of course, 110% of appraisal target of 145 DTWs.
The actual achievement in the agricultural production is notable with the cropping intensity in stage I and
stage 11 achieving 209% and 198% respectively. Again, the yield of paddy and wheat have increased
substantially reaching upto 4.5 ton/ha and 3.0 ton/ha, which are higher than the appraisal estimate of 3.8
ton/ha and 2.7 ton/ha respectively. Similar, production in agricultural products can be foreseen in stage III
in future once the agricultural extension service with other facilities will be provided for this purpose. The
project will retain four divisions namely, O&M division, Agricultural division, Farmer's Organization
Division and Administration Division till July 2001.
The project has taken a right track while forming a Central Coordination Committee, four Regional
Coordination Committee to assist or coordinate 169 water users Croup (WUGs) formed in each DTW
irrigation system. The numbers of WUGs registered till June 1999 has reached 163 with only 6 numbers
requiring formal registration.
The project has taken two way strategies to solve the question on sustainability one by making the system
satisfactory functional and at the same time improving the knowledge and skills to the beneficiaries.
Again prime objective of encouraging farner's participation was to instill a feeling of ownership of
irrigation system among farmers users that would induce and enhance their cooperation in operation and
maintenance of project systems and thereby sustain the systems operational capacity. The project has
handed over almost all the systems excepting 16 DTWs till June 1999. The remaining 16 DTWs systems
would be handed over once these wells will be energized and completed the requisite maintenance which
may be observed later.
Lacking of synchronized planning as well as coordination within line agencies has been observed. Again,
a lot of deficiencies in implementation of project also have been observed, specially
.For the allotment of fund required to be released for completing the project even in the last year of
completion period.
* Timely approval of the forest clearance required for electric transmission line
* Pending in turnover of new electric substation and transmission line to NEA despite the Ministry's
approval
* Inadequate attention paid in the selection of transmission line thus resulting in delay of functioning of
New sub station as well as delivering energy in eastern sector.
* Lack of quality control and supervision or defects in design of DTWs thus requiring redrilling of the
DTWs despite the deployment of International Consultant. More attention is required to be given in
this regard for future projects. Possibility of deploying the private parties should be thought in future
so that such mistakes could be minimized.
* Though the project was conceived to run pumps for 1200 hours per annum on average only 400 hrs
average in operation event in the stage I area. So, a serious thought required to be taken to increase
the pumping hours so that more benefits would be achieved.
v Requirement of timely formation of water users group in all levels so as to enable optional
cooperation between executing authorities and the beneficiaries.
* Though the importance of gravel roads connecting all the pump houses and villages have been filled,
no prior thought for the maintenance of the road has been given after the completion of the project.
As Department of Irrigation is not the concerned line agency for the operation and maintenance of the



77
gravel roads, the long term benefit from the roads due to lack of maintenance is still a mark of
question. Same thing has been repeated in case of electric transmission line too.
* Lack of coordination with the beneficiary farmers in regards to the contribution required for the
construction of the irrigation system. Effective means required to be drawn for timely completion of
the works and prepare against the claims that may be countered from the contractors.
* Field to field irrigation in rather difficult as well as costly due to percolation and evaporation losses.
More efforts are required to provided to introduce the field channels as conceived.
*  In general, outlets (alpha-alpha valve) provided for irrigation purpose is not uniformly distributed.
Some standard in this regard is also required to be fixed so as to minimize the demand or conflict for
outlets.
* Using of diesel powered pumps should be thought as an alternate in future project, if the transmission
line has to stretched for quite a long distance. This would lesson the hurdles, which may be created
due to uncontrolled theft to conductor as well as problems in stringing the transmission through rural
and forest area.
* More efforts are required to mobilize the beneficiaries as well as the concerned government agencies
to minimize the theft of conductor of electric transmission line.
* Advice on marketing required to be intensified from the beginning of the project. Again introduction
of marketable crops rather than crop diversification would have been justified so as to gain the
confidence of farmers and get used than in proper irrigation. Similarly, transfer of knowledge in
regards to basic cost of production to farmers is equally important so as to divert farmers' interest in
using quality seeds as well as the requisite quantity of fertilizers.
* The command area of 120 ha seems quite big in respect of managing the irrigation schedule as well as
maintenance of electro-mechanical equipment.
Thus a requirement of synchronized planning would lead to fully completed project in the shortest
possible duration. So good understanding as well as commitment within the ministry as well as the line
agencies are the requirements for the timely completion and easily commencement of the benefit from the
project. Again the performance of the project development in all phases inclusive of pre planning design
implementation and operation should be incorporated in similar future protects. Lastly, keeping in view of
cost of agricultural products in nearby boarder market, the requirements of subsidy in electricity for
irrigation, fertilizers etc. required to be studied properly and implement accordingly.
The performance in completion of projects under ILC in noteworthy. Only around 6,600 ha were
estimated to be implemented under this component, but in contract nearly 55,000 ha area have been
developed or rehabilitated under 345 surface irrigation and 260 tubewells. 69 numbers of surface
irrigation systems and 43 groundwater irrigation systems remained uncompleted have been carried over to
complete under NISP. Such practice to required to be monitored closely at central level, which directly
affects the other project.
Bank Performance:
The project under credit 2144 NEP was based on the technical advice and suggestion of IDA at the time
of preparation, specially, for raising agricultural production and increase food security and incomes
through expansion of ongoing DTW irrigation systems and rehabilitation as well as upgrading of Farmer
Managed Irrigation Schemes (FMIS). In addition, this project strengthen Nepal's Irrigation Institutions'
capacity particularly the Department of Irrigation to implement His Majesty's Government of Nepal's
irrigation development by shifting from public managed irrigation systems to mandatory contribution
from the beneficiaries, that is, participatory management.
Bank assisted in modification on DTWs irrigation system constructed under Stage I and redrilling as well
as rehabilitation works for DTWs constructed under state 1I so as to enable smooth transfer of the system
to the beneficiary farmers.



78
Bank's mission almost right from the beginning of the project on average twice a year have been effective
to some extent to complete the works in all respect in due time, that is, June 1999.
The appraisal for the project through carried by the bank for implementation it is clear that bank also
could not suggest for the synchronized implementation of the project and also for coordinating the line
agencies for smooth implementation.
Bank mission was not effective in terms of cost control of different categories. The projects in terms area
as well as numbers, of course, exceeded beyond the scope of BLGWP component Credit 2144 NEP in
case of ILC . This additional or increment in cost have direct affect in BLGWP's budget allocation thus
inviting difficulties for the completion of the project resulting incompleteness in turn over of the systems
to the WUGs.



IBRD 22125
Fro   '       83tl10 '                               83'20'   8; a3025,                                         6i 83830'                                             8320'                                 83>40'                               r       >8      -
'N\            ~CHINA
27N50'                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        V '0 =
Approrob,i      4 ,rt   e  K.Ih-',
INDIA        ernooteor        '-'
OBH.nsehi
0 PaharewaO                                                Maia  Nhic
. 4.z.in24!,9>L!S                                                                 / IRRIATION11POJC
83~~~~~55' ~~~~83'50'
2730'~ ~ ~   ~       ~ ~ ~ ~ ~~ACI ''~ . '                                                                                                                                            oSen il;n--.ololC \ (   i  /2ooca      HIAAUMIITGIIPOETRE                                                    73'
LumbiF ,  ' / t    g--._Soru.jpra                                     '1has e    1   Net   A        roa 1 h
/I !0Ho              ./ .                                                                                   av 7W9,e 
,'  5~Cl~rPIss              5,->*Ht|                                                                                                                                                                                                        tg   1 Poe2   e Ae    ,0   a
BhagwonpuF                       '      r . C_   I   A             t g            7,NtAe ,0 a
27"35' ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~  ~    ~     ~    ~    ~     ~    ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~~'1k
\        /      '~                    .     -            .                                     /,-                                                                                                                                                - WtrTbeDptZpeaerc(
h 3:nsi   '\   {'   Rudropuro         >         >                                                                                                                                                          t  |  s CanAls~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~5  300
I.                                                                                                                    naNIr                                                                                                      NEPAL
Schniya,                                                              ar                                                                                                                                                                    BHAIRAWA LUMBINI GROUNDWATER
IRRIGATION III PROJECT
27-30'            83'BHAIRAWA  LUMBiNI STAGE  III PROJECT AREA                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        278300 -
L     Baha0                     aPk.,bh!4I                            0haira    umbini  rond-ter Pro eoMh
oSogoura                                                      Stage I, Not A,e. 7,600  ho.
's,', Stage II, Phase 1, Net Area 1,900 hk.
I    N DI    A                                                                                 ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~Stage II, Phase 2, Net Area 2,600 ha.
*  ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~     ~      ~      ~     ~      ~      ~     ~      ~     ~     ~     ~     ~     ~     ~     ~    ~     ~    ~ ~ ~ j  ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~Stage III, Net Area 8,600 h..
Water Table Depth, pieceeretric Ire.)
27-25" ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~*S.rlace Water Ga-ging Stai-r                                                                                                                                                               27 25'
EJ     Meteoroloical Stations
T. 8-a Bbai                                                              ,           J                                                                                                                                                                Tohe-cils
0 hr.. Rodrapuro                       e                                                                                                                                                                  Canals
oP      M.rend          ,                                                                                                                                                                                Rives -ed Strea.
0          * >                                                             0                       5                     10
INDIA  2                                                                                                                KILCMSIEtS                                                                       a~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~    To-ns and Villages
  National Capital
SookwS,h,oo,o,ooJsOooCoroorm  rt,6.mdooroooSwa                           -  - - Internationa  Roondaries
MAY 1990



