Document of
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
C8Z~~~ 4 Z- - A/ L"/ _       -:J6
Reporn No. 8411-NEP
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
NEPAL
BRAIRAWA LUMBINI GROUNDWATER IRRIGATION III PROJECT
MAY 7, 1990
Agriculture Operations Division
Country Department 1
Asia Region
lbhs document has a restkitd ditibuton an may be used by r.dIpnb ody in he perdonmae of
thei ofllciu duies Its contens way not otwr-ue be diosed wihot Word Eank autrzatin.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
Currency Unit Nepali Rupee (NRs)
US$1 = NRs 28.6 al
NR I - US$O.035 al
WEIGHTS AND MEASURES (METRIC SYSTEM)
1 meter (m)                          = 3.28 feet (ft)
1 kilometer (km)                     = 0.62 miles (mi)
1 hectare (ha)                       = 2.47 acres (ac)
1 million cubic meters (Mcu m)       - 810 acre-feet or 35.3 M cubic feet
1 cubic meter per second (cu m/sec) = 35.31 cubic feet per second (cfs)
1 cubic foot per second (cfs)        = 0.028 cubic meters per second (cu m/sec)
1 kilogram (kg)                      = 2.2 pounds (lb)
1 metric ton (t)                     = 2,205 pounds (lb)
ACRONYMS AND ABBREVIATIONS
ADBN  - Agricultural Development Bank of Nepal
ACC   - Approval and Coordination Comittee
BLP   -  Bhairawa Lumbini Project
DAO   -  District Agriculture Office
DIO   -  District Irrigation Office
DG    -  Director General (DOI and DOA)
DOI   - Department of Irrigation
DOA   - Department of Agriculture
DTW   - Deep Tubewell
ERR   - Economic Rate of Return
FIA   -  Farmer Irrigation Association (for private schemes)
HMGN  -  His Majesty's Government of Nepal
HYV   - High-Yielding Variety
ICB   -  International Competitive Bidding
IDA   -  International Development Association
IDS   -  Institutional Development Support
ILC   -  Irrigation 'Line of Credit' (Pilot Project)
ISSP  -  Irrigation Sector Support Project
LCB   - Local Competitive Bidding
LIB   -  Limited International Bidding
M&E   - Monitoring and Evaluation
MIS   - Management Information System
NEA   - Nepal Electricity Authority
O&M   -  Operation and Maintenance
PDRD  -  Planning, Design and Research Division (DOI)
RID   - Regional Irrigation Directorate
T&V   -  Training and Visit system of agricultural extension
WUA   - Water User Association (for HMGN schemes)
HMGN FISCAL YEAR
July 16 - July
a/ The (official) exchange rate at the time of appraisal (December 1989).



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
NEPAL
BHAIRAWA LUMBINI GROUNDWATER IRRIGATION III PROJECT
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
Credit and Proiect Summary
Borrower:          Kingdom of Nepal
Amount:            SDR 36.6 million (Uo$47.2 million equivalent).
Terms:             Standard IDA terms, with 40 years maturity.
Description:       The objectives of the project are to:  (a) raise
agricultural production and farm incomes through expansion
of irrigated area; (b) promote privatization and farmer
participation in irrigation development to reduce Government
costs and improve operation, maintenance and sustainability
of irrigation schemes; and (c) strengthen irrigation
subsector institutions. The project would comprise:
(a) the Bhairawa Lumbini Groundwater Irrigation Project
Stage III for construction of an additional 73 deep
tubewells serving some 8,600 ha in the Bhairawa Lumbini
area, completion of 16 tubewells under the Stage II project,
and modification of 64 Stage I tubewells to accommodate
farmer management; (b) expansion of the irrigation *line of
credit" (ILC) pilot project to cover an additional 6,600 ha
in the Western, Mid Western and Far Western Regions; and
(c) institutional development support for DOI to strengthen
internal management and administrative functions and
capacity to implement and manage the irrigation sector
program, and to prepare for future irrigation sector
projects. The project would not include institutional
credit.
Benefits:          At full development, agricultural production is expected to
increase by some 54,000 tons annually, mainly cereals and
oilseeds. Some 42,000 people would directly benefit.
Risks:             Overall project risks are moderate.  Implementation risks
for the major component, Bhairawa Lumbini Stage III, are low
as it will benefit from experience gained during Stages I
and II. The requirement to establish a Water User
Association at each DTW before construction begins could
slow implementation. Prolongation of the trade and transit
impasse with India could also cause delays. Risks for ILC
are somewhat higher, as ILC schemes are scattered over a
large area and are often inaccessible. However, DOI has
extensive experience constructing schemes similar to the
type of subprojects proposed.
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance
of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



Estimated Costs
(Ua '000)             X Total
X Foreign 8ae.
Local    Forelgn    total    Exchange Costs
A. Shairawa Lusbint Stag. St!
1. Construction of Stg tIII Syst.     6,150.8   12,307.1  20,51?.9    00      4C
2. Completion of Stag. U Systtos       1,242.8    1,457.4   2,699.7    64      0
8. Modificatlon of Stage I Systew     1,685.7      684.6   2,528.8    88       0
4. Operation end Maintenance Support    492.2      921.0   1,418.8    es       8
5. Agricultural Support Sorvice         404.0      860.6      814.8    48      2
6. Farmer Organization Support          251.9      406.1      680.1    62      1
7. Groundwater Investigations         1,406.8    1,689.8   8.095.6    65       7
Sub-Total Shairewa Lusbini Stago rIU    13,06.4   16,028.8  81,725.2    57    71
S. Irrisation 'Line of Credit'            7,189.7    8,454.6  10,694.2    88      24
C. Institutional Dovolonmnt Support       1,414.2    1,011.4   2,425.6    42       5
Total Bass Costs                         22,250.2   22,494.7  44,744.9    s0    100
Phyeical Contlngeniess                  928.6      804.6   1,726.2    47       4
Price Contingencies                   4.771.4    1.4505S   6 222.0    28      14
Total Project Costs                                 24,749.8  52,6 i'7ur         ii  I
Notes Totals may not sum due to rounding.
Financing Plan:
Local   Foreign   Total
Financiers                (US$ million)
IDA                  22.4    24.8        47.2   (90Z)
HMGN                   5.0      -         5.0    (9Z)
Farmers                0.5      -         0.5    (1Z)
Total                27.9    24.8        52.7
--m=    =m==8      =8
Estimated Disbursements:
1991   1992   1993   1994   1995   1996   1997   1998   1999
(US$ million)
Actual           6.9   10.8       8.3   6.9    5.0    3.7          2.4   2.2       1.0
Cumulative       6.9   17.7    26.0  32.9   37.9   41.6    44.0   46.2   47.2
Rate of Return:    241
gaps:
1. Bhairawa Lumbini Groundwater Irrigation III Project Locations (Map 22124)
2. Bhairawa Lumbini Groundwater Project Stage III (Map 22125)



NEPAL
BHAIRAWA LUMBINI GROUNDWATER IRRIGTION III PROJECT
STAPF APPRAISAL REPORT
Table of Contents
Pate Co.
I. BACKGROUND  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .  . . . . . . . . .    1
Agriculture in Nepal  . ..................   .    1
Background on the Irrigation Subsector  . . . . . . . . . . .    1
Irrigation Development Prospects and Constraints  . . . . . .    2
Past Bank Support for Irrigation Development  . . . . . . . .    4
Performance of Bhairava Lumbini Stages I and II . . . . . . .    5
Rationale for IDA Involvement . . .  . . . .   . . . . . . . .   .    6
Lessons Learned from Previous Projects  . . . . . . . . . . .    6
II.  THE PROJECT AREA . . . . . . . . .. .  .  .  .    .  .  .  . *. *  .    7
Bhairava Lumbini Groundwater Irrigation Component ... .  .    .    7
Climate and Soils  ....  .  .  .  .  .  .    ......*...       7
Groundwater Resources  ....  .  .  .    . ........            7
Agricultural Support Services  . . . . . . . .   . . . .    7
Population, Farm Size and Land Tenure  . . . . . . . . . .    8
Irrigation 'Line of Credit, Pilot Project Compcnent . . . . .    a
III. THE PROJECT.                        . . . . . . . . . .  *.    9
Project Scope and Objectives  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .    9
Bhairawa Lumbini Groundwater Irrigation Component   . . . . .    9
Stage III Irrigation and Drainage Facilities . . . . . . .   10
Completion of Stage II Facilities  . . . . . . . . . . . .   11
Modification of Stage I Tubewells  . . . . . . . . . . . .   12
Maintenance Vehicles and Equipment . . . . . . . . . . . .   12
Agricultural Support Services  . . . . . . . . . . . . *    12
Farmer Organization Support  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .   12
Training and Studies ..........    .......    13
Consultant Services  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .   14
Design, Construction and Covmissioning . . . . . . . . . .   15
Farmer Cost Sharing  .. . ..*..........  .                   1S
Implementation Schedule  ..........  ....  ..   .   16
This report is based on the findings of a November 1989 appraisal mission
comprising Messrs. R. Reidinger and Y. K. Choi (IDA), and Messrs. D. Campbell
and F. Peacock (Consultants). The mission was assisted in the field by
Messrs. L. Rijk, J. Samama, J. Stout, and A. Manzardo (Consultants).
Mr. W. Barber (Consultant) and Ms. M. Gutierrez (IDA) assisted the appraisal.
Ms. C. Anbiah (IDA) assisted with project processing and preparation of the
appraisal report.



t    - ii -
Irrigation 'Line of Credit' Pilot Project Component . . . . .   16
Irrigation Subprobects . . . . . . . . . .  . . .  . . . . .   16
Strengthening Regional, District and Field Offices . . . .   18
Farmer Organization Support  . . . . . . . . . . . .   .    I8
Agricultural Extension Support . . . . . . . . . . . . . .   18
Preparation, Studies, Research and Training     . . . . .   19
Technical Support  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .   19
Subproject Credit Support  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .   20
ILC Implementation Schedule  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .   20
Institutional Development Support . . . . . . . . . . . . . .   20
Planning, Design and Research Division Support . . . . . .   20
Administration Support . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .   21
Participatory Management Pilot Projects  . . . . . . . . .   22
IV.  PROJECT COSTS, FINANCING AND DISBURSEMENTS  . . . . . . . . .   23
Project Cost Estimates .  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .  23
Financing .... .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .   .   24
Procurement .... .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .   ........  .  .  .   .   24
Disbursements .         .       . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .  26
Accounts and Audits ....  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .   .   27
V. ORGANIZATION AND MANAGEMENT . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .   29
Bhairava Lumbini Groundwater Irrigation Component . . . . . .   29
General    .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  29
Institutional Responsibilities . . . . . . . . . . . . . .   29
Bhairava Lumbini Project Authority . . . . . . . . . . . .   30
Farmer Organization and Participation  . . . . . . . . . .   30
DTW Operation and Maintenance  . . . . . . . . . . . . . .   32
Project Coordination . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .   33
Monitoring and Evaluation and Reporting  . . . . . . . . .   34
Irrigation 'Line of Credit' Pilot Project Component . . . . .   34
Ministry of Water Resources  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .   34
Department of Irrigation . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .   35
Department of Agriculture  .....  ..........   .   35
Agricultural Development Bank of Nepal . . . . . . . . . .   36
Farmer Irrigation Associations . . . . . . . . . . . . . .   36
Technical Support for Groundwater Subprojects  . . . . . .   37
Institutional Development Support . . . . . . . . . . . . . .   37
VI. AGRICULTURAL PRODUCTION, BENEF_2TS AND COST RECOVERY . . . . .   38
Bhairawa Lumbini Groundwater Irrigation Component . . . . . .   38
Cropping Patterns  .......  ...........   .   38
Crop Yields  ...................  ..                      38
Production  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  38
Market Prospects and Prices  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .   39
Farm Incomes and Impact on Poverty . . . . . . . . . . . .   39
Labor  ...... . ................    40
Cost Recovery  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .   40
Irrigation 'Line of Credit' Pilot Project Component ....   .   42



- iii -
VII.  ECONOMIC ANALYSIS AND JUSTIFICATION . . . . . . . . . . . . .   43
Bhairawa Lumbini Groundwater Irrigation Component . . . . . .   43
Project Benefits . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .   43
Economic Analysis  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .   43
Environmental Impact . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .   44
Irrigation wLine of Credit' Pilot Project Component . . . . .   45
Project Benefits . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .   45
Economic Analysis  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .   45
Environmental Effects  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .   45
Project Risks . . . . . . . ..         ..     ..      .         46
Bhairawa Lumbini Groundwater Irrigation Component  . . . .   46
Irrigation 'Line of Credit' Pilot Project Component  . . .   46
VIII. AGREEMENTS REACHED AND RECOMMENDATION   . . . . . . . . . . .   47
TABLES
1. Climatic Data
2. Office, Design, Survey, Transport and Construction Equipment
3. Summary Accounts by Project Component
4. Project Components by Year
5. Summary Accounts by Year
6.  Financing Plan by Summary Accounts
7. Procurement Methods
8. Estimated Disbursement Schedule
9. Credit Allocation
10.  Bhairawa Lumbini Cropping Patterns
11.  Bhairawa Lumbini Production Inputs and Output Data
12.  Financial and Economic Prices
13.  Derivation of Economic Prices for Traded Commodities
14.  Cost Analysis for Model ILC Subprojects
15.  Economic Analysis--ERR Calculations
ANNEXES
1. Performance of Bhairava Lumbini Stage I %nd II Projects
2. Summary Description of Bhairawa Lumbini III Irrigation Facilities
3. Irrigation "Line of Credit" Implementation Guidelines
4. Terai Groundwater Investigations
5. Organization of the Bhairawa Lumbini Project Authority
6. Farmer Organization Development at Bhairawa Lumbini
7. Economic Analysis, Financial Analysis and Cost Recovery
8. Selected Documents in the Project File
CHARTS
1. Organization of Department of Irrigation
2. Implementation Schedule
3. Organization of Planning, Design and Research Division
4. Organization of Bhairawa Lumbini Project Authority
5. DTW Water User Association Organizational Structure
6. Composite Cropping Pattern for Bhairawa Lumbini



- iT -
1. Shairava Lumblni Groundwater Irrigation III Project
Locations (Map 22124)
2. Ihairawa Lumbini Groundvater Project Stage III (Map 22125)



NEPAL
BHAIRAWA LUMBINI GROUNDWATER IRRIGATION III PROJECT
STAFP APPRAISAL REPORT
I. BACKGROUND
1.1      Nepal is a landlocked country with a total area of 147,000 sq km
situated between China and India. Its population in 1990 was about 19
million, of whom 94 percent live in rural areas. Population growth is high,
averaging 2.6 percent annually between 1970 and 1986. The country has three
broad ecological zones -- Mountains, Hills and Terai. Although the Terai
plain comprises only 23 percent of the total area, it constitutes over SO
percent of the area currently under cultivation. Over 80 percent of Nepal's
irrigable land is in the Terai.
Agriculture in Nepal
1.2      Agriculture, largely rainfed, dominates the country's economy.  In
1986/87, it accounted for 60 percent of Gross Domestic Product and provided
employment to over 90 percent of the labor force. Only about one sixth of the
total land area is under cultivation, of which about 35 percent is irrigated.
About 90 percent of the cropped area is in foodgrains, predominantly rice
(half of cropped area) followed by maize, wheat, other cereals, and pulses.
Although crop production has grown at about 1.6 percent annually over the last
decade, rapid population growth (2.7 percent annually) has led to stagnation
in per capita food production, and food self sufficiency now depends on better
than average rainfall. National Planning Commission targets for agricultural
production call for an annual growth rate of about 5 percent. This goal would
appear to be difficult to achieve.
1.3      Agriculture in Nepal is mainly small-scale subsistence farming.  Most
cultivation is by labor and bullock power.   In general, the agricultural
sector has been slow to adopt improved practices. Crop yields are generally
low, but could be increased considerably with effective irrigation, use of
improved seeds, proper fertilizer and pesticide application, and improved
farming methods. In recent years, fertilizer consumption has averaged about
15.0 kglha and only about 35-40 percent of the foodgrains area was under
high-yielding varieties (HYVs). The National Plauning Commission has
estimated that if Nepal's agricultural growth rate is to continue at
acceptable levels, irrigation needs to expand by about 45,000 ha annually.
Background on the Irrigation Subsector
1.4      Nepal has abundant surface and groundwater irrigation resources.
Discharge of the major rivers totals about 150 billion cu mlyr, enough for
about 8-iO million ha of irrigation. However, considering both land and water
resources, irrigation potential totals only some 1.6 million ha. Of this
potential, only about 930,000 ha (58 percent) is currently utilized, of which
670,000 ha is in farmer managed schemes with the remainder in government
schemes. The estimated upper limit on irrigation from groundwater sources
alone is 350,000 ha; a further 150,000 ha within existing government schemes
could benefit from conjunctive use of surface water and groundwater.
I



- 2 -
1.5      Development of surface water irrigation in Nepal was initiated
centuries ago by farmers who built temporary weirs to direct river flows into
ungated intakes. Most farmer schemes were in the Hills until the 1920s, when
development started to expand into the Terai. Many such schemes are in
operation today, accounting for about 70 percent of the total irrigated area
in Nepal, and some have been improved through government assistance. Although
they are generally managed effectively by farmer groups, these schemes often
face technical constraints which are beyond the farmers' traditional
technology but yield high returns with the application of improved technology.
1.6      The Department of Irrigation (DOI) under the Ministry of Water
Resources of His Majesty's Government of Nepal (HMGN), established in 1951 and
headquartered i. Kathmandu, is responsible for irrigation development
throughout Nepal. DOI is headed by a Director General and is currently
structured with central divisions for Small Projects and Water Utilization,
Medium and Large Projects, Groundwater Utilization, River Training and
Environment, and Planning, Design and Research, each headed by a Deputy
Director General (Chart 1). DOI Regional Directorates are located in each of
the five development regions of the country. In late 1987, the irrigation
development units of the Ministry of Panchayats and Local Development and the
Farm Irrigation and Water Utilization Division of the Ministry of Agriculture
were both merged into DOI, and their responsibilities for assistance to farmer
manages schemes were taken over by DOI. To handle this new responsibility,
DOI is now establishing District Irrigation Offices under the Regional
Directorates and building capacity to more effectively work with farmers and
promote farmer initiative and participation.
Irrigation Development Prospects and Constraints
1.7      Subsector Strategy.  Overall HMGN and IDA irrigation strategy
emphasizes: expansion of irrigation through investment in quick, high yielding
projects and expansion or rehabilitation of existing irrigation systems;
improvement in the efficiency of existing irrigation facilities, .articularly
through more effective operation and maintenance (O&M) and increased farmer
participation; provision of adequate agricultural support services to gain the
maximum benefit from irrigation investments; and institutional development to
strengthen the capacities of key implementing agencies, especially skills in
system management and in organizing water user groups to take responsibility
for O&M. Recent HKGN policy initiatives have focused specifically on
establishing an 'irrigation sector program' based on demand-driven local
initiative and active farmer participation from the initial stages to provide
a framework for long-term sector lending for irrigation. The Bank's recent
Agricultural Sector Review reviewed this strategy in the context of HMGN's
overall agricultural program; and the recently completed Irrigation Master
Plan, funded by UNDP and executed by the Eank, provides a p.ioritized lo.g-
term investment program for its implementation.
1.8      The proposed project would support the above policy through expansion
of deep tubewell irrigation under the ongoing Bhairawa Lumbini Groundwater
Irrigation Project, and through expansion of the irrigation 'line of credit'
Pilot Project ongoing under the Mahakali Irrigation II Project (Cr. 1924-NEP)
which finances HMGN assistance to farmer managed irrigation schemes. Specific
sector program objectives of the pilot project would be to:



-3-
(a) establish a sector program approach to irrigation development, in
place of the 'project-by-project' approach of the past, and enable
donors to provide large-scale, long-term support to small schemes
which are individually too small to justify their involvement;
(b) make the program as demand driven 4s possible, based on local felt
needs and dt..ands, in contrast to traditional "supply driven"
projects;
(c) develop, test and establish effective subproject selection criteria
and implementation procedures which would provide the basis for
operating the subsector program; and
(d) reduce the burden of irrigation cobts on HMGN's budget, particularly
for operation and maintenance (O&M), through increased farmer
participation to cover full O&M and a share of capital costs.
1.9      To meet these objectives, HMGN considers farmer participation in
irrigation planning, construction and management as especially important in
view of the limited budget resources available for government O&M of completed
projects. This has led HKGN to give priority to the development and
improvement of farmer-managed irrigation, and to adopt the sector program
approach to promote private sector irrigation. For this program to succeed,
DOI will need to gradually develop the appropriate project cycle procedures
and institutional capability to implement the program on a nationwide basis.
The proposed project aims to build the necessary capacities in DOI through a
'learning process" approach, drawing lessons from the ongoing Mahakali II
'line of credit' Pilot Project in order to refine and improve management
systems and field operating procedures. "Line of credit' refers not to the
provision of credit for borrowers in either Mahakali II or the proposed
project, but rather to the selection, implementation and financing of eligible
subprojects according to criteria and procedures agreed between HMGN and IDA
until IDA funds available under the 'line of credit' component are exhausted.
1.10     Constraints.  The constraints to developing the country's remaining
irrigation potential, which is mainly in the Terai, include:
(a) Cost of Headworks. The main sources of reliable perennial water
supply are provided by eight major or medium-sized rivers, but they
require large investments in headworks relative to the small areas
that can be commanded;
(b) Siltation. Most Nepali rivers carry heavy sediment loads which cause
operational problems and high O&M costs for irrigation systems;
c;)  Finarncial Constraints.  A l arge proport40n of tlhe Terai surface
irrigation potential must be developed by the public sector because
of the size and technology involved, system management requirements,
and high capital investment costs.   The rate of development is
therefore limited by government budget constraints which are severe;
and
(d) Riparian Considerations. Riparian concerns limit development of new
surface irrigation projects in some cases. This is one of the most
serious constraints facing HMGN's long-run irrigation strategy.



- 4 -
1.11     In recent years, groundwater development, mainly through shallow
tubewells owned by individual farmers, has become an important source of
irrigation. It is currently the least-cost option for expanding irrigated
area, yields quick returns, and moreover is not a burden on HMGN's budget.
However, prospects for future growth in individual farmer demand for tubewell
development are limited due in part to small and fragmented land holdings.
Expanding private groundwater development through group owned and managed
facilities, however, has good possibilities. The main component of the
proposed project, Bhairawa Lumbini Stage III, will expand the area irrigated
under the successful Bhairawa Lumbini Stage I (Cr. 654-NEP which closed in
1984) and Stage II (Cr. 1316-NEP which will close on October 31, 1990), and
will develop farmer group management of deep tubewells following sector
program principles.
Past Bank Support for Irrigation Development
1.12     IDA became involved in irrigation development in Nepal in 1973.  To
date, IDA has supported nine major irrigation projects, of which five have
been completed. Together, they provide improved surface water irrigation
facilities in about 36,000 ha and groundwater irrigation for about 6,000 ha.
In addition to irrigation projects, IDA has financed three rural development
projects with irrigation components. IDA also serves as Executing Agency for
two related UNDP-financed projects: (a) the Irrigation Sector Support Project
(NEP/89/006) in conjunction with a similar ADB-executed UNDP project; and
(b) the Irrigation Planning and Design Strengthening Project (NEP/85/013)
which has supported the Irrigation Master Plan, Design Criteria and Human
Resources Assessment studies for DOI.
1.13     Four IDA-assisted irrigation projects are ongoing: Bhairawa Lumbini
Groundwater Irrigation II Project (Cr. 1316-NEP, US$16.0 million, 1983) which
finances the completion of Stage I works, O&M of the completed wells, and
introduction of improved designs for construction of new tubewell systems, and
which is due to close on October 31, 1990; Narayani Irrigation III Project
(Cr. 1715-NEP, US$24.5 million and Swiss Government Grant US$7.5 million,
1986) which is designed to complete the development of the irrigation and
drainage system of the 37,000 ha Nepal Eastern Canal Command; Sunsari Morang
Irrigation II Project (Cr. 1814-NEP, US$40 million, 1987) which will extend
irrigation to an additional 16,700 ha and provide initial desilting facilities
for Stages I and II; and Mahakali Irrigation II Project (Cr. 1924-NEP, US$41.3
million, 1988) which will add 6,800 ha to the Mahakali command, support HMGN's
irrigation sector program to assist farmer managed irrigation, and assist DOI
institutional development. None have faced any serious special problems
related to procurement, disbursements, etc., although Bhairawa Lumbini has
encountered difficulties in operation of the project's special account; under
the proposed project, HMGN would develop plans to rectify these difficulties.
Institutional performance by the implementing avency ^  b?s  tbfact
1.14     Bhairawa Lumbini is one of the Bank's most successful agricultural
projects in Nepal and has established an effective model and capacity for
groundwater development using improved deep tubewell technology. Narayani III
and Sunsari Morang II are in the early stages of civil works construction.
Both face special problems, Narayani in obtaining a reliable water supply from
the main supply canal located in India which was severely damaged by floods in
1986, and Sunsari Morang in finding a solution to a severe siltation problem
at the project headworks. For Narayani, repair of the main delivery canal by
India is now nearing completion, and normal water deliveries are expected to



resume in JunelJuly 1990. For Sunsari Morang, a special Panel of Experts was
convened in January 1990 to consider alternative solutions, and has
recommended to proceed with dosilting facilities based on dredging and
relocation of the system intake about 1.3 km upstream; discussions are now
underway on the details of how to implement, schedule and finance these
changes. Mahakali I was highly successful, and Mahakali II is now under
start-up. The initial 'irrigation line of credit" Pilot Project component of
Mahakali II was the first project component specifically designed to support
development of HMGN's new sector program approach in irrigation; it has made
good progress and produced a number of lessons which have been incorporated in
the expanded pilot operation under the proposed project.
1.15     Several other IDA-financed projects include small-scale irrigation
components. The Third Rural Development Proiect (Cr. 1727-NEP,
US$19.1 million, 1986) includes construction of 28 small-scale irrigation
schemes and rehabilitation of 18 existing schemes in the Hill districts of
Rasuwa and Nuwakot in the Bagmati Zone, construction of four medium scale
irrigation schemes, and rehabilitation of two existing medium schemes. The
Hill Food Production Proiect (Cr. 1101-NEP, US$12.8 million, 1981) finances
improvement of small farmer managed schemes totalling about 3,000 ha.
Performance of Bhairawa Lumbini Stages I and I1
1.16     Stage I of the Bhairawa Lumbini Groundwater Irrigation Project was
completed in 1984 and has proven highly successful. Implementation of Stage I
proceeded approximately on schedule. However, cost overruns depleted the IDA
credit prematurely, necessitating final completion of Stage I DTWs under the
Stage II project. Stage II also included additional DTWs and arrangements for
reliable, dedicated power supply from the national power grid. The latter
contributed substantially to the excellent agricultural performance achieved
so far by the Stage I project. In only four years after completion, Stage I
DTWs are approaching full development, and yields, cropping intensity and
extent of crop diversification into high value crops have all exceeded
appraisal estimates (Annex 1). Along with irrigation from DTWs, provision of
electric power and roads under the project area have promoted general economic
activity, benefits and progress in the area that go far beyond the measured
increases in agricultural production from irrigation alone. Efficient and
controllable irrigation service with effective agricultural support built
directly into the project generates the necessary base of income growth.
Transport services, which developed spontaneously as a result of project
roads, provide access to markets and services. Electric power brought in for
DTWs also promotes village electrification and local private enterprise to
meet the growing demand for goods and services. Stage II of the project, now
nearing completion, has continued this model with substantial technical
improvements in the DTWs and irrigation distribution systems.
1.17     Bhairawa Lumbini Stage III is the main component of the proposed
project and will expand on the same basic technical and organizational model
for DTW irrigation, agricultural support, roads and power supply, adding
further DTW improvements based on experience with Stages I and II (and similar
DTWs in India). It will also support conversion of project DTWs to farmer
management, aiming to reduce the financial burden of operation for HHGN and
promote general sustainability and replicability of the model.



-6-
Rationale for IDA Involvement
1.18     IDA has played a primary leadership role in helping to design and
establish HMGN's new irrigation sector program policy and strategy, which have
been incorporated into the proposed project. IDA has also been instrumental
in increasing HMGN emphasis on groundwater development and on changing from
supply-side to demand-oriented irrigation development based on the close
involvement * farmers. Although these general principles are HMGN policy,
many agency staff still misunderstand them, and continued IDA support will be
required to ensure that these changes become irreversible. Promotion of
farmer participation is largely new to Nepal's irrigation establishment, and
it is essential to develop the necessary skills and capabilities to implement
the concept. Through the ongoing Bhairawa Lumbini Project, IDA has been
instrumental in helping to develop and apply an innovative and so far highly
successful technical model for groundwater development based on deep
tubewells. However, this model has in the past been based on extensive public
sector involvement, and IDA assistance is required to help modify this to a
more sustainable farmer-managed form. This is essential to reduce HMGN
budgetary requirements for O&M. Support under the proposed project to expand
the ongoing Mahakali II irrigation "line of credit' Pilot Project also would
help to develop HMGN's new sector strategy into an operating sector investment
program based on mobilizing local resources for irrigation development and
management. Finally, the Institutional Development Support component would
help strengthen DOI to implement a large-scale sector program, and especially
institutionalize farmer organization and participation as an integral part of
DOI operations.
Lessons Learned from Previous Prolects
1.19     The major lesson learned from previous projects is the need to
promote and include farmer participation as an integral part of the project.
Another important lesson is that efficient management and O&M of deep
tubewells is essential for their success, and that due to HMGN resource
constraints, recurrent budget allocations for O&M are likely to be inadequate.
The need for proper O&M of deep tubewells and active farmer participation was
emphasized in the Project Performance Audit Report (Report No. 5261) for the
first Bhairawa Lumbini Groundwater Irrigation Project, Stage I. In the
proposed project, farmer organization and participation and "privatization" of
O&M responsibility are central features and key objectives for both the
Bhairawa Lumbini Stage III component and the irrigation "line of credit' Pilot
Project. Nepal has a well-established tradition of farmer managed irrigation,
and Nepali farmers have proven their ability to manage even large irrigation
systems covering thousands of hectares without government involvement.



II. THE PROJECT AREA
Bhairawa Lumbini Groundwater Irrigation Component
2.1      The Bhairawa Lumbini groundwater development scheme is located on the
Terai in Rupandehi District in the Western Region of Nepal (Map 22124). The
project area consists of lands which have been provided with irrigation under
the Stage I and II projects (12,000 ha net) and lands which would be served by
the proposed Stage III project facilities (8,600 ha net) (Map 22125). The
above project areas form one contiguous block. Road communication is provided
by asphalt-surfaced roads connecting Bhairawa to Butwal on the East-West
Highway, and by a gravel-surfaced access road network (150 km) developed under
the Stage I and II projects which will be extended by 92 km under Stage III.
Regular scheduled airline flights connect Bhairawa to Kathmandu.
Climate and Soils
2.2      The project area has a subtropical monsoon climate with a warm wet
season from mid-June to September, a cool dry season from October to February,
and a hot dry season from March to mid-June. The mean annual rainfall is
about 1,700 mm of which some 85 percent falls in the wet season. The climate
is suited to year-round cropping if irrigation is provided during the dry
months.
2.3      The project area lies on a gently undulating plain which slopes from
north to south. The soils are alluvial, consisting mainly of silty loams and
clay loams which are non-saline, low in organic matter, and have varying
nitrogen, phosphate and potash contents. The area is well drained except for
some low-lying pockets with high water tables which are subject to flooding.
Most of the land is classified as irrigable.
Groundwater Resources
2.4      The area is underlain by more than 450 m of alluvial deposits.  Clean
sands and gravel form 30-60! of the section to a depth of 200 m, and these
materials form high yielding aquifers. Properly designed tubewells to depths
of 200 m or less yield about 300 cu mlha with modest drawdowns. In much of
the area, the water levels in production wells are permanently or seasonally
above ground levels and thus the wells yield artesian flows, though pumping is
generally necessary to sustain the design discharge. The groundwater quality
is suitable for irrigation. A recent reassessment of the groundwater
resources indicates that the lateral flow through the exploited part of the
aquifer system is sufficient to support the proposed abstraction of about 120
million cu miannum without causing unacceptable head decline in the system.
Agricultural Support Services
2.5      Agricultural extension in the project area would be provided under
the project and in the surrounding areas is provided through the District
Agricultural Office. Agricultural research is conducted at the Bhairawa
Agricultural Farm which serves as the regional research station for the
Western Region. The Agricultural Inputs Corporation is the main source of



quality seeds and also supplies fertilizers. The Nepal Food Corporation and
private traders have adequate warehouse capacity for cereals, and there is
2,500 tons of cold storage capacity in Bhairawa and Butwal. Sufficient cereal
m.lling and oil seeds pressing capacity is located in the project area or its
vicinity. Farm surpluses of grain are sold mainly in the local markets to
traders or middlemen, who sell on to the wholesale commodity markets or
directly to large millers. Vegetable and fish surpluses are disposed of in
village or town markets. Markets are generally free of government
intervention, and prices are determined by market forces.
Population, Farm Size and Land Tenure
2.6      The population of the Bhairawa Lumbini Stage III area totals an
estimated 42,000. Average family size is 7-8 persons, 3-4 of whom are
employed. Women participate in agricultural activities such as paddy
transplanting, harvesting and vegetable gardening. Most farms are
owner-operated, and only about 5-10 percent of the land is farmed by tenants.
Rents are controlled by legislation, paid in kind, and total some 20-30
percent of gross production value. In addition, the tenant pays all
agricultural input costs except water charges. Average farm size in Rupandehi
district where the project is located is about 1.64 ha. Holdings larger than
5.0 ha account for only 4 percent of the farms but some 19 percent of the land
area, while small holdings less than 1.0 ha account for about 52 percent of
the farms but less than 17 percent of the land.
Irrigation 'Line of Credit' Pilot Project Component
2.7      Subprojects under the expanded Pilot Project would be located in
selected districts of the Western, Mid Western and Far Western Development
Regions (see Map 22125). Districts covered would include those already under
the ongoing Pilot Project under Mahakali II, and exclude those in the Western
Region under the ongoing Dhaulagiri Irrigation Project funded by ILO and in
the Far Western Region under the Second Hill Irrigation Project funded by ADB.
The administrative centers of the selected districts are accessible by road,
but most irrigation schemes in Hill districts can only be reached by foot.
The potential subproject areas identified are shown below by region.
Region           -----       Identified Potential (ha)-----------
Surface/Terai Surface/Hills Groundwater/Terai
West                   8,300          7,800           30,000
Mid West              15,000          6,000           38,000
Far West               3,800          4,300           14,000



III. THE PROJECT
Proiect Scone and Obiectives
3.1      The proposed project comprises three separate components:  (a) the
third stage of the Bhairawa Lumbini Groundwater Irrigation Project;
(b) expansion of the irrigation "line of credit (ILC) Pilot Project; and
lc) institutional development support for DOI. The main objectives of the
proposed project are to: (a) raise agricultural production and farm incomes
and increase food security through expansion of an ongoing deep tubewell (DTW)
irrigation program and through construction and rehabilitation of private
farmer-managed irrigation schemes; (b) promote privatization and increased
farmer participation to turn irrigation development into a demand-driven
process, reduce government costs, improve O&M, and ensure sustainability of
irrigation schemes; and (c) strengthen Nepal's irrigation subsector
institutions, particularly DOI, as needed to implement HHGN's new sector
program approach to irrigation investment. The Bhairawa Lumbini Project (BLP)
Stage III component in particular represents a shift from the traditional
large scale irrigation project managed completely by DOI, to the sector
program approach based on demand-driven development and increased farmer
participation and management.
Bhairawa Lumbini Groundwater Irrigation Component
3.2      BLP Stage III is the major component of the project (76 percent of
base costs) and would include: (a) construction of 73 new DTW irrigation
systems and drainage facilities serving some 8,600 ha (net) in the Stage III
area; (b) completion of 16 DTW systems serving nearly 2,000 ha (net) in the
Stage II area; (c) modification of Stage I DTWs; (d) maintenance vehicles and
equipment; (e) agricultural support services; (f) farmer organization support;
(g) establishment costs; and (h) technical assistance, training and studies.
Stage III DTW facilities would include tubewells, underground pipeline
distribution systems, field channels, local drainage systems, main drain
improvements, electric service, and access roads following the model developed
and used successfully in Stage II. The Stage III project would be located in
three areas, one immediately south of the Stage I area, another west of the
Stage II area, and the third east of the Stage I area. The existing Bhairawa
Lumbini Project Authority would implement the Stage III project component.
3.3      The BLP Stage III component is designed as a transition project
between the traditional project approach and HMGN's new irrigation sector
program. Traditionally, irrigation projects have been planned, constructed,
operated and maintained by DOI with little or no direct farmer input or role.
This puts the entire burden of the project, especially for operation and
management, on the government's limited resources. The proposed Stage III
project would follow sector program principles. Farmer groups would:
(a) request their DTW facilities; (b) be involved from the earliest stages;
and (c) commit to: (i) form a Water User Association (WUA) for their DTW;
(ii) contribute to construction costs; and (iii) take over responsibility for
DTW O&M upon completion. During implementation of Stages I and II, DTW
management has gradually moved toward increased farmer participation, albeit
on an informal basis. Under the proposed Stage III project, direct farmer



_ 10 -
participation following the above principles would be built into the project
as an explicit objective and applied directly to Stage III DTWs and as much as
possible to Stage I and II DTWs. This is essential for the future
replicability and sustainability of the technical DTW model developed
successfully under Bhairawa Lumbini Stages I and II.
Stage III Irrigation and Drainage Facilities
3.4      Technical descriptions and design criteria for Stage III irrigation
and drainage facilities (US$20.5 million) are summarized below and detailed in
Annex 2. A WUA would be registered at each DTW before construction; WUAs are
associated with government irrigation schemes.
(a) Deep Tubewells. Each DTW unit would comprise the wells, pump unit,
pump house, and elevated control chamber. Most of the wells would
yield 300 cu m/hr, but medium and shallow depth tubewells of smaller
capacity would also be constructed. Many of the wells would yield
artesian flows, but provision of design discharge would require
pumping. DTW depths would range from about 120-200 m depending on
locality. Wells would be equipped with vertical line shaft or
submersible turbine pumps with electric motors of about 40-45 kW
capacity and pump motor protection equipment. A drinking water
outlet with valve would be provided at the tubewell.
(b) Pipeline Distribution Systems. Each DTW would be equipped with an
underground pipeline distribution system, with four pipeline loops
for 300 cu mlhr wells serving 120 ha and three loops for 225 cu m/ hr
wells serving 90 ha. Pipeline loops would be of 160 mm diameter PVC
pipe with a pressure rating of 2.5 kg/sq cm. Each loop would serve
about 30 ha, with outlets provided for approximately each 2.0 ha.
Approximately 68 m of buried PVC pipe would be required per hectare.
If requested by farmers, a drinking water outlet with cutoff valve
could be provided from the pipeline.
(c) Field Channels. Below the pipeline outlet, farmers would construct
their own field channels with an average density of about 100 m/ha
for water delivery to individual plots. Project engineers would
assist farmers with the design and layout of field channels.
(d) Drainage Facilities. The project would provide for both local and
main drainage systems. Local drainage networks would be constructed
as necessary for each DTW. Farmers would construct their own field
drains and connectors to the local networks. Local DTW drains would
connect to the main drainage system, which would include both new
construction (about 50 km) and improvement of existing drains (about
38 km). The drainage system would be designed to evacuate 4 1/s/ha
at the tubewell command area level.
(e) Electrical Service. The project would provide some 118 km of 33 kV
power distribution lines to DTW wellheads along with 33/0.4 kV
transformers and low tension connections for each well. This
eliminates the need for intermediate 33/11 kV substations, reduces
energy losses and permits better network selectivity. The project
would also upgrade about 12 km of existing 33 kV line from Butwal to
Bhairawa to the project connection point. The above arrangements for
electricity supply have been agreed with the Nepal Electricity



Authority (NEA) and implemented under Stage II; they would be
continued under Stage III. An understanding was reached at
negotiations that HMGN would ensure that BLP power is supplied on a
priority basis, dedicated feeder lines serve the project, and load
management measures match project needs.
(f) Access Roads. Access and service roads constructed under the project
would total some 92 km. Access roads (about 68 km) would have a
crown width of 5.0 m and 25 cm thick surfacing of compacted coarse
granular material. They would be designed to provide all-weather
rural transport as well as access to DTWs. Service roads (about
24 km) would have a crown width of 3.5 m and 15 cm thick compacted
gravel surfacing. Both types would be constructed on embankments
raised at least 0.5 m above the local land surface.
(g)  Ecuipment.  The project would provide vehicles needed for
construction, ancillary well construction equipment (well loggers,
welding machines and an air compressor) and spare parts for
maintenance of construction, drilling and transport equipment during
the life of the project.
Completion of Stage II Facilities
3.5      The proposed project would finance completion works for the Stage II
project (US$2.7 million). Due mainly to exchange rate savings, an additional
22 DTWs were added to Stage II, which now includes a total of 38 DTWs and will
close on October 31, 1990. Completion costs for the additional DTWs remaining
after project closure would include drilling of eight tubewells; construction
of pump houses, elevated control chambers, and buried PVC pipeline
distribution systems for 16 DTWs; installation of pump units for 16 DTWs; and
completion of power supply facilities. Statutory WUAs would be formed at
Stage II DTWs before commissioning of each DTW.
Modification of Stage I Tubewells
3.6      Several modifications of Stage I DTWs are necessary for farmers to
take over DTW management and pay full O&M costs, which are key objectives of
the project. Unlike later stages, the 64 DTWs in Stage I have open channel
distribution systems, and only about 35 percent of the total channel length of
each DTW is lined. This limited amount of lining leads to high water losses
and operational difficulties which hinder equitable and reliable distribution
of water. To enable farmers to take over direct responsibility for DTW
operation and pay the full costs of O&M, the project would include provision
for selective lining of an additional watercourse length totaling about 140 km
(US$2.5 million). Further, most Stage I pumps are oversized, resulting in
excessive power costs. In conjunction with lining, pump output would be
reduced. NEA has agreed to base the fixed portion of the power charge on
measured peak power use under the reduced water delivery, rather than on the
transformer (pump nameplate) rating, thus reducing power costs. Participation
would be based on farmer demand, the formation of a registered WUA by the DTW
farmer group, and commitment by the WUA to provide an agreed cash and/or labor
contribution to channel lining construction and take over responsibility to
pay full O&M costs. Because participation is voluntary, the actual amount of
additional lining for individual DTWs could vary from nothing to complete



- 12 .
lining. It is expected that the project would raise overall lined channel
length to about 70 percent of the total length.
Maintenance Vehicles and Equipment
3.7      Although farmers are expected to eventually take over responsibility
for O&M of DTWs, initially they will be responsible for routine maintenance,
and the Project Authority would retain overall responsibility for preventive
maintenance and major repairs during the project period. The project would
fund maintenance vehicles and equipment for 0&M of DTW irrigation facilities
and project roads (US$1.4 million). Although roads constructed under Stages I
and II are economically viable on their own, their maintenance would remain
under the Project Authority. The project includes procurement of maintenance
equipment and spare parts, inspection vehicles and spare parts, and imported
spare parts for pump units.
Agricultural Support Services
3.8      Extension services under Stages I and II, provided by the
Agricultural Division of the Project Authority, have worked well and follow
the pattern of DOA's Training and Visit System. The proposed project would
continue to fund these same arrangements and their expansion to cover the
Stage III area (US$0.8 million). To maintain extension support in the Stage
III area at about the same level as in Stages I and II, the project would
provide for two Subject Matter Specialists, two Junior Technicians, nine
Junior Technical Assistants and 90 Panchayat Level Agricultural Assistants to
be added to the Agricultural Division. Also financed would be two additional
agricultural subcenters to be established in the proposed Stage III areas,
housing for new staff, vehicles and equipment for the Agricultural Division,
and five storage units each about 100 tons capacity in selected local centers
to be operated and managed by sajhas for supply of agricultural inputs.
Extension activities would continue to focus on improvement of agronomic
practices for HYVs of major crops, introduction of cash crops (particularly
vegetables), on-farm water management, and improved land preparation
techniques for irrigation, using field demonstrations established on farmers'
lands. An understanding was reached at negotiations with NHGN that
agricultural extension support for BLP would continue under BLP responsibility
throughout the project period, unless DOA's extension service develops
sufficient capacity to fully meet the needs of the project. Efforts to
strengthen general agricultural extension are under way, and possible
provision of extension for the project through DOA would be assessed during
preparation of the national agricultural extension project proposed for IDA
support.
Farmer Organization Support
3.9      In contrast to earlier stages, the proposed project would include
specific provisions for a comprehensive farmer organization program and
establishment of formal Water User Associations (WUAs) under the new



- 13 -
Irrigation Regulation 2045.1' The proposed IDA credit would finance these
costs (US$0.7 million). Before construction of each DTW, the concerned
farmers would have to make a formal request for the DTW and agree to establish
a WUA, contribute to construction costs (through donated labor and/or cash
contributions), and eventually take over O&M and management in accordance with
sector program principles. Active farmer involvement would start at an early
stage beginning with DTW planning and distribution system layout, and continue
through to management of the DTW, including water allocation under rotational
water supply, payment of O&M costs, and gradual assumption of full DTW O&M
responsibility. Stage III farmer organization work would build on experience
with the informal water user groups established at DTWs under Stages I and II.
Between approximately 12 and 20 Association Organizers (AOs), two AO
Supervisors and one AO Coordinator at the project level would be provided
under the project. They would be key agents for establishing WUAs, developing
WUA decision making and resource mobilization capabilities, and motivating
efficient group action to accomplish specific construction, water allocation
and O&M tasks.
Training and Studies
3.10     Training.  The BLP component of the project would finance training
for BLP staff and farmers. This is needed both for implementation of the
project, especially for farmer organization, and to prepare for future
groundwater development. The BLP Consultant would assist in designing,
organizing and implementing most of the groundwater related training and
studies under the project. Training would include: (a) planning and design of
tubewell systems, preparation of bid documents and bid evaluation for
procurement of works and goods, supervision of contracted works, O&M of
commissioned tubewell facilities, agronomic and agricultural extension
practices, and farmer organization for engineering staff; (b) training on
farmer organization for Association Organizers, their supervisors and other
related project technical staff; (c) training in irrigation techniques, farmer
organization, on-farm water management, and other related activities for
agricultural technicians; and (d) training on organization and procedures for
WUAs, DTW operation and maintenance, rotational water supply (required for the
new systems), farm water management, and agronomic practices for selected and
lead farmers. Project staff training would include in-country training and
foreign study and fellowships. Farmer training would include special short
courses at agricultural subcenters, organizational meetings with farmer DTW
groups, farm walks to demonstrate practices on existing DTW systems to new DTW
farmers, and field demonstrations on farmers' lands. Most of the above
training, except as related to farmer organization, is already ongoing under
Stage II.
3.11     Studies and Investigations.  A number of special studies and
investigations are needed for BLP itself, and for planning and supporting
1/ Two types of farmer water user organizations are discussed in this
report. Irrigation Regulation 2045 provides for the establishment of
statutory Water User Associations (WUAs) of beneiciaries in government
irrigation schemes to assist, inter alia, with sys-em operation,
maintenance, management, water charge collection, etc. (see paras. 5.7-
5.10). Under the ILC component, Farmer Irrigation Associations (FIAs)
would be established as legal bodies at private, farmer-managed schemes
under the Registration of Associations Act 2034 (see para. 5.21).



- 14 -
future groundwater developments. The following special studies and
investigations related to groundwater development would be financed under the
project: (a) OUM Support Plan for Bhairawa Lumbini DTWs and ILC tubewells
operated and managed by farmers; (b) assessment study with regard to shallow
and deep aquifers and artesian conditions for Stages I, II and III;
(c) socio-agro-economic beuchmark survey for Bhairawa Lumbini Stage III,
including an initial rapid social inventory analysis of the area for planning
the farmer organization approach and requirements; (d) feasibility study
update for a possible future groundwater irrigation project, mainly in the
Birganj area; (e) specialized technical assistance for drilling investigations
for future groundwater development projects; and (f) strategy for future
groundwater development on the Terai, including analysis of groundwater
potential in the Inner Terai, development impact studies of the Stage I, II
and III projects, plans to promote privatization of DTW maintenance
capability, and groundwater power demand projections and arrangements to
coordinate groundwater requirements with power planning studies for NEA.
Items (a) and (b) would be done under the contract for the Bhairawa Lumbini
Project Consultant, and item (c) could be carried out by a local consultant
under supervision of the Project Consultant. Items (d), (e) and (f) would be
done under separate contract(s). The above studies would be carried out under
the responsibility of the Bhairawa Lumbini Project Authority or DOI's
Groundwater Division, as appropriate. Consultant services and costs for the
studies and investigations (US$2.2 million) would total about 180 person-
months of expatriates plus local consultants. Agreement was reached at
negotiations that DOI would by June 30, 1991 prepare the terms of reference
for tubewell O&M support plans, BLP environmental assessment (to follow-up and
supplement the assessment made during preparationlappraisal), a socio-economic
survey, a feasibility study and drilling investigations for future groundwater
irrigation projects, and a Terai groundwater strategy study, including
privatization of O&M support services for DTWs and power demand projections.
Consultant Services
3.12     The project would finance thr services of a qualified international
consultant firm as the Project Consultant for BLP to assist with engineering,
supervision and implementation of the Bhairawa Lumbini component
(US$4.6 million). The BLP Consultant would assist the Project Manager full
time in a staff function. They would, inter alia, advise and assist project
staff in: designing and implementing new tubewell irrigation facilities and
associated works proposed; completing Stage II and modification of Stage I
works; providing O&M of all operational facilities; providing agricultural and
farmer organization support, training of project staff and farmers; planning
work programs and budgets, preparing tender documents and evaluating bids;
evaluating project performance and preparing progress reports; developing a
computerized project management information system compatible with the system
to be developed for DOI; designing project training programs; and providing
continuous on-the-job training to project staff in their fields of
specialization. In addition to assistance for BLP and some of the above
studies, the Project Consultants could if necessary provide specialized
technical assistance for groundwateL development under ILC and undertake
feasibility studies. The credit also includes provision for use of local
consultants by Project Consultants and/or the Project Authority on a part-time
basis as needed for, inter alia, support of the agricultural externsion and
farmer organization activities of the project. It is estimated that about 284
person-months of expatriate consultancy services at an average cost of
US$12,500/person-month would be needed over the project period. To avoid



- 15 -
interruption of ongoing project activities, a condition of credit
effectiveness is the appointment of the expatriate Project Consultant firm
with qualifications acceptable to IDA for the Bhairawa Lumbini Stage III
component.
Design, Construction and Commissioning
3.13     Planning and Design.  Planning, design and siting of DTWs would be
based on 1:10,000 scale semi-detailed soil surveys, aerial photography and
topographic mapping completed for the Stage III area under the Stage I and II
projects. DTW design wouid be generally the same as in Stage II, except that
use of submersible pumps would be introduced. For each DTW, the concerned
farmers would have to officially request a DTW and be consulted from the
earliest stages of planning and development. DOI has substantially completed
aerial photography of the Stage III area.
3.14     Construction Methods.  Drilling, development and testing of the new
wells would be the responsibility of the drilling unit of the Construction
Division of the Project Authority which has developed expertise and is
equipped for these activities during Stage I and II. Construction of pump
houses and control chambers and laying of PVC pipe distribution systems may be
done by contractors as a complete package. Construction would be arranged to
facilitate active farmer participation in the supply of labor to the
contractors for opening and back-filling trenches and insta'ling pipelines.
Alternatively, farmers from the concerned DTW could carry out trenching and
pipe installation themselves with appropriate supervision of work and pipe
jointing and supply of materials by the Project Authority. Farmers would also
construct field channel systems. Installation of the power transmission
system, for which technical specifications have been agreed with NEA, would be
by contractors and supervised by the project staff; NHA would inspect and te..t
the network before taking over the facilities. Other buildings, such as the
agricultural subcenters and stores, would be constructed by local contractors.
3.15     Commissioning.  Upon completion, each DTW, and distribution system
would be tested against operational specifications, commissioned and formally
put into service and handed over to the concerned WUA. DTW commissioning
procedures would ensure that all facilities are in proper operating order, the
system can deliver water as designed, and farmers are fully informed of the
status of the system. Commissioning would be supervised jointly by the
Project Manager, the Project Consultant and the farmers' Water User
Association. The Project Authority assisted by the Project Consultant would
correct any deficiencies which develop.
Farmer Cost Sharing
3.16     For Stage III DTWs, each DTW farmer group would initially contribute
an 'earnest money' cash contribution equal to its estimated electricity bill
for the first season; this would be paid before construction of the DTW,
treated as prepayment of the DTW's power bill, and replenished by the farmers
at the end of each season. Farmers at each DTW would also contribute cash or
labor for installation of the buried pipeline distribution system for their
DTW and construction of their field channels. Because of the relatively high
level of technology required for DTWs, total farmer contributions to capital
costs, mainly labor, would be only about 2 percent of total DTW costs,
including electrification and roads. This is considered sufficient to ensure
farmer interest and responsibility for DTWs.



- 16 _
Implementation Schedule
3.17     The project is expected to start in October 1990 and is planned for
implementation in eight years (see Chart 2). During the first two years, the
project would concentrate on: (a) completion works for commissioning of 16
Stage II tubewell systems; (b) preparation of designs for Stage III DTW
irrigation facilities; (c) construction of the first Stage III DTWs;
(d) construction of roads and power lines for the Stage III area; and
(e) preparation, issue and evaluation of bid documents and securing contracts
for additional goods and works of the proposed Stage III project. The
critical activity to maintain the program schedule is construction and testing
of tubewells. Maintenance of commissioned facilities and provision of
agricultural services to farmers would be continuing activities throughout the
life of the project. An understanding was reached at negotiations that HMGN
would furnish to IDA before the beginning of each fiscal year detailed plans
for BLP implementation during the fiscal year.
Irrigation 'Line of Credit' Pilot Proiject Component
3.18     The proposed project would expand the ongoing irrigation 'line of
credit' (ILC) Pilot Project to cover some 6,600 additional hectares in the
Western, Mid Western and Far Western Regions.  The primary objectives of the
ILC Pilot Project are to expand farmer managed irrigation, promote farmer
participation and local initiative, and help develop DOI's capacity to
implement a sector program based on farmer participation in preparation for
future sector lending, including IDA's proposed Irrigation Sector Project.
Subprojects would be managed by farmer groups which would form Farmer
Irrigation Associations (FIAs) and contribute to capital costs. FIAs would be
formed at private, farmer managed irrigated schemes. Subprojects would be
selected and implemented according to agreed ILC criteria until IDA financing
available under the 'line of credit3 were exhausted. ILC would not finance
institutional credit.
Irrigation Subprolects
3.19     Location of Subprojects.  ILC subprojects would be located in about
eight Hill districts and five Terai districts of the Western, Mid Western and
Far Western Regions, including the districts currently covered by the first
ILC (Tanahu, Gorkha, Syangja, Lamjung and Kaske in the Hills and Nawalparasi,
Kapilvastu, and Dangdeokhuri on the Terai) and excluding districts covered by
the ILO-funded Special Public Works Project in the Dhaulagiri zone in the
Western Region and the ADB-funded Second Hill Irrigation Project in the Far
West. Other regions and districts could be added by mutual agreement between
HMGN and IDA.
3.20     Types of Subprojects.  The expanded ILC pilot project would finance
three general types of small and medium-sized irrigation subprojects
(US$7.1 million)s (a) rehabilitation of existing farmer managed surface
schemes; (b) 'turnover' rehabilitation schemes for conversion of selected DOI
surface schemes to farmer management; and (c) construction and improvement of
groundwater schemes to be managed by farmer groups. Rehabilitation
subprojects would not adversely affect the quality or quantity of cross-border
river flows. An understanding was reached at negotiations that HMGNIDOI would



- 17 -
by June 30, 1991 develop draft selection criteria, operational procedures,
work plans and a preliminary subproject list for turnover rehabilitation
subprojects proposed for ILC financing.
3.21     Implementation of Subgroiects.  Rehabilitation subprojects which
would have a total estimated cost of about NRs 1.0 million (in 1989 rupees) or
more each would be implemented under the direct responsibility of the Regional
Irrigation Directorate (RID). Minor rehabilitation of subprojects which would
comprise all other surface irrigation subprojects would be implemented under
the direct responsibility of the concerned RID through the District Irrigation
Office (DIO) or RID subproject establishments as appropriate. Groundwater
subprojects would be implemented by HMGN's ongoing Groundwater Resources
Development Project and its Groundwater Field Offices.   In addition to direct
responsibility for surface subprojects, RIDs have full administrative and
staffing control of D10s, and would assist, direct, supervise and guide them.
Groundwater Field Offices would be administered and supervised by DOI's new
Groundwater Utilization Division. All ILC subprojects would be implemented by
DOI RIDs as central projects.
3.22     Selection and Approval of Subproiects.  Subproject selection, design,
appraisal and approval would be according to agreed ILC principles and
criteria (Annex 3), which would generally follow those of the Mahakali II ILC
component. In particular, participating farmers would be involved from the
earliest stages of planning, make a direct request to DOI for their sub-
project, establish a FIA according to existing procedures for legal
associations (see para. 5.21), contribute to capital costs, and take over O&H
upon completion; each subproject would also be subject to a minimum 10 percent
ERR viability requirement. However, to simplify subproject screening and
selection, ceiling norms for per hectare construction costs could be used for
smaller subprojects in place of the ERR requirement. Cost ceilings would be
calculated to yield at least a 10 percent ERR. Similar to the ongoing
Mahakali II ILC, subprojects have to be appraised by the Regional Appraisal
Committee and approved at the Ministry by the Approval and Coordination
Committee (ACC). Minor rehabilitation subprojects estimated to cost NRs 1.0
million or less would not require appraisal and would be approved by the DOI
Director General. All subproject approvals would include certification that
environmental assessments had been completed (see para. 7.12) and that
appropriate environmental protection measures had been included. Agreement
was reached at negotiations that HMGN would ensure subproject selection,
preparation, approval and implementation following the principles and criteria
specified in Annex 3, Appendix 1.
3.23     Uniform Application of Sector Program Principles and Criteria.  For
long-run sustainability of the sector program and ILC, it is essential that
the agreed sector programlILC principles (see Annex 3) be applied uniformly
throughout the sector, and that DOI be responsible and able to control and
monitor implementation of those standards. Agreement was reached at
negotiations that HMGN would take suitable action to ensure uniformity of
approach for all irrigation schemes of the type financed under the project.
An understanding was reached that as far as practicable, the uniformity of
approach would follow HKGN's guideline paper titled "Working Policy on
Irrigation Development for Fulfillment of Basic Needs' (1988).
3.24     Prequalification of Regional, District and Field Offices for ILC.  To
ensure timely implementation of subprojects, the concerned RID, DIO, and/or
Groundwater Field Office would have to meet prequalification criteria agreed



- 18 -
with IDA to ensure that they have adequate installed capacity for subproject
planning, design and construction (see Annex 3, pars. 8 for details).
Agreement was reached at negotiations to that effect. An understanding was
also reached that these criteria would specify, inter alia, staffing,
formation of the regional ILC Units/ Mobile Irrigation Teams, buildings,
equipment, communications (by radio or telephone at the DOI office),
transport, subproject preparation terms of reference, and prequalification of
consultants (Annex 3, para. 8).
Strengthening Regional, District and 'ield Offices
3.25     To implement ILC subprojects and meet agreed office prequalification
criteria, the IDA credit would finance strengthening of RIDs, DIOs and
Groundwater Field Offices in ILC regions and districts. This would include
provision for: (a) building construction and/or rental; (b) office furniture
and engineering, computer, and communications equipment (including facsimile
machines and radios); (c) vehicles and motorcycles for staff transport;
(d) critical construction equipment and materials (e.g., cement and steel);
(e) operating and incremental staff costs; and (f) service contracts for
maintenance of construction equipment, vehicles, motorcycles, computers and
office equipment. Equipment required for the ongoing ILC under Mahakali II
and the proposed ILC extension is shown in Table 2. DIO offices would be
equipped with telephone or radio communications, and each DIO which is
accessible by road would have at least two motorcycles assigned to the office
at all times. Operating and incremental staff costs would be financed on a
declining basis. Understandings were reached at negotiations that HMGN/DOI
would ensure timely provision of 4-wheel drive vehicles and motorcycles for
the Vestern RID, and motorcycles for each DIO covered by the ongoing ILC. The
estimated requirement for efficient ILC operation would normally be at least
two 4-wheel drive vehicles and three motorcycles for the RID, and two
motorcycles for each DIO.
Farmer Organization Support
3.26     The proposed credit would finance incremental costs for staff,
consultants, equipment, travel, and training in support of ILC farmer
organization work on a declining basis. Farmer organization support would be
based on a three-tiered Association Organizer (AO) program, with AO
Coordinators attached to the RIDs, AO Supervisors at the DIOs, and AOs at the
at the field/subproject level. The program would address the specific
organizational requirements of both surface and groundwater subprojects.
Agricultural Extension Support
3.27     To advance project benefits, the proposed project would provide
intensified agricultural support by the Department of Agriculture (DOA) for
ILC subproject areas. The IDA credit would reimburse DOA directly on a
declining basis for incremental ILC support costs for office space, vehicles,
equipment, and operating costs at the regional and district levels, and
specialized technical assistance and training on irrigation for extension
staff. Increased agricultural support is also important because DOA extension
workers will be the primary source of continuing contact with ILC farmers
after subproject completion. Agricultural support under ILC would be designed
to integrate with DOA's present operations at regional and district levels as
well as DOI's ILC activities. The project would support: (a) appointment of
a DOA Senior Agricultural Engineer at the regional level who would be



_ 19 -
responsible overall for regional coordination between DOI and DOA for ILC
activities; (b) an additional Assistant District Agricultural Development
Officer assigned in ILC districts to work directly with ILC; (c) intensi-
fication of agricultural extension coverage for ILC subprojects, including the
assigntaent of at least one Junior Technician to Agricultural Subcenters
specifically to cover ILC subprojects and undertake farm level demonstrations
and trials at selected ILC subprojects in conjunction with DOI Association
Organizers; (d) operation of the District Agriculture and Irrigation Project
Planning Committee, and the joint DOAIDOI District Agricultural Production
Teams; and (e) orientation and irrigation training for agricultural staff.  An
understanding was reached at negotiations that DOA would in consultation with
DOI prepare its detailed program to support ILC operations satisfactory to
IDA, which would be incorporated into DOA's 1990/91 budget request.
Preparation, Studies, Research and Training
3.28     The project would finance subproject preparation, specialized
studies, training and research related to implementation of ILC and the sector
program, to be administered through the concerned RID for surface irrigation
and DOI's Groundwater Resources Development Project for groundwater.
Subproject preparation would include identification and feasibility studies to
be followed by appraisal and detailed engineering designs. Specialized
studies would include baseline, monitoring and impact studies, and other
project cycle support. Research would include testing of specialized
engineering materials under Nepalese conditions such as geotextiles and glass
reinforced concrete, use of vegetative erosion control techniques such as
vetiver grass, and development of management information and communications
systems. Training would cover engineering, agriculture and farmer
organization. At present, DOI has only limited training capacity at Pokhara
and at some project sites such as Mahakali. It is essential that adequate
training facilities be available to DOI, especially those operating at DOI
projects. An understanding was reached at negotiations that DOI training
would be given the priority use of the facilities at DOI projects, including
Mahakali.
Technical Support
3.29     The project would finance local consultants to supplement DOI staff
and assist RIDs, DIOs and groundwater field offices with investigations,
preparation and feasibility studies, designs and engineering for subprojects,
and training and farmer organization support. Where local consultants are
used as the "engineer's representative" to prequalify regional, district or
groundwater field offices for ILC, this would also include, inter alia,
preparation of tender and petty contract documents, bid evaluation, construc-
tion scheduling and supervision, quality and quantity control, and progress
and cost monitoring. At present, DOI staff capacity is weak in a number of
areas critical to ILC, particularly with regard to timely assignment and
continuity of key field personnel, farmer organization, subproject planning/
design and feasibility assessment, procurement, and contracting. The
UNDP-financed Irrigation Sector Support Project (ISSP) will help DOI develop
these capacities. ILC consultants under the project would be retained by DOI
to provide direct implementation support; they would complement ISSP
assistance and operate under the advisory supervision of DOI's Sector Program
Implementation Unit in coordination with ISSP. An estimated total of about
200 person-months of local consultancies would be needed. Specialized ILC



- 20 -
groundwater technical support would be provided by the Bhairawa Lumbini
Project Consultant, coordinated and guided by DOIIISSP (see para. 3.12).
Subproject Credit Support
3,30     ADBN would provide credit to farmer groups to help finance farmer
contributions to ILC subproject capital costs. ADBN loans to FIAs for
subprojects would be financed directly from the ongoing Mahakali II Project or
from ADBN resources, not under the proposed IDA credit. Under the Mahakali II
ILC, estimated subproject credit requirements currently total only about
US$0.3 million compared to US$1.2 million allocated for subloans. However,
ILC farmers have chosen to contribute labor for subprojects rather than take
subloans, due in part to ADBN lending terms, procedures and operating
practices. ADBN has adequate resources available to cover lending under the
proposed project, and therefore refinancing of ADBN subloans is not included
in the project. Agreement was reached at negotiations that HMGN would cause
ADBN to provide adequate credit to FlAs for ILC subprojects under the proposed
project. In addition, an understanding was reached that ADBN should provide
credit to FIAs with lending terms suitable for farmer groups and adapted to
the special needs of ILC.
ILC Implementation Schedule
3.31     ILC would be implemented as a program over about 30 months from
July 1990 to December 1992. It is intended to help establish a "pipeline* of
subprojects in preparation for a possible Irrigation Sector Project.
lnsti,tutional Development Support
3.32     The project's Institutional Development Support (IDS) component would
provide general assistance to improve DOI facilities and staff capabilities,
administration and management functions, and information management in
preparation for a future Irrigation Sector Project proposed for IDA financing.
It would support strengthening of DOI's new Planning, Design and Research
Division (PDRD), improvement of DOI administration and facilities, and
implementation of selected participatory management pilot projects
(US$2.4 million). IDS activities would coordinate with specialized technical
assistance for DOI institutional strengthening and IDA project preparation
provided under the UNDP-financed Irrigation Sector Support Program (NEP/891006
and NEP/891007).
Planning, Design and Research Division Support
3.33     DOI's recent reorganization established PDRD to provide essential
staff functions for central DOI (see Chart 3). The proposed project would
finance establishment and operation costs of PDRD, including office and
engineering equipment, furniture, computers, vehicles, motorcycles, start-up
and operating costs, allowances, consultancy services, training, fellowships,
and studies. Support for the Planning and Design Units would include
installation of capability to manage and supervise the continuous review and
updating of Master Plan and Design Criteria work on a continuous basis (as
follow-up to the Master Plan and Design Criteria Studies under the
UNDP-financed Planning and Design Strengthening Project NEP/851013), and would
include funding of project identification and feasibility studies for



- 21 -
irrigation and flood protection. Training and Research Unit support would
include local and overseas training and applied research on, for example,
glass reinforced concrete, geotextiles, vetiver grass erosion control, and jet
barge transport. As agreed under the IDA-financed Second Structural
Adjustment Credit (Cr. 2045-NEP), the Irrigation Management Unit of PDRD would
be responsible for system O&M, cost recovery, system turnover, system
performance monitoring, water management for DOI schemes, and farmer
participation and organization for all schemes; the proposed project would
support these areas of work, especially farmer organization for the sector
programlILC, cost recovery, and implementation of HMGN's new Irrigation
Regulation 2045. Support for research, training and irrigation management
would be coordinated with ongoing USAID support for irrigation management and
training. The project would also support development of DOI's internal
information services, including development and installation of a
comprehensive management information system (MIS) consistent with HMGN's
Program Budgeting and Project Monitoring System now under implementation by
the Ministry of Finance, monitoring and evaluation, and operation and
expansion of the Technical Library established under NEP1S/5013.
3.34     DOI has already prepared:  (a) a prototype MIS module for the sector
program/ILC; and (b) preliminary plans for specialized techrical assistance to
install a Master Planning and Design Criteria capability in DOI. At
negotiations, an understanding was reached that follow-up to install the
Master Planning capability in DOI was necessary, and that this must fit within
the overall context of development plans for PDRD and related technical
assistance being provided to DOI. Agreement was reached that by June 30, 1991
DOI would provide to IDA for its review and comment: (a) a draft plan and
timetable for installation of a comprehensive MIS for DOI; (b) detailed terms
of reference and a long-range development and operating plan for PDRD; and
(c) a draft plan and timetable for the execution of Regulation 2045.
Agreement was also reached that HMGN would, during the project implementation
period, establish and thereafter maintain an Irrigation Management Division
within DOI with terms of reference satisfactory to IDA. An understanding was
reached that the action plan specified for the Irrigation Management Division
in the Second Structural Adjustment Credit would lead to establishment of the
Division by December 31, 1991.
Administration Support
3.35     Strengthening of central DOI operational and administrative
performance and efficiency is essential for successful long-run implementation
of HMGN's sector program. The proposed IDA credit would finance provision of
vehicles, motorcycles, computers, engineering equipment, buildings and
facilities, office equipment and furniture, training, allowances, operating
costs, service contracts and studies needed to improve DOI's operational
efficiency and the effectiveness of DOI management in planning, assisting,
supervising and monitoring agency operations. Administration support would
include, inter alia: establishment of a support services and word processing
unit for central DOI, operated on a contract basis if necessary; inventory and
contract maintenance support for DOI computers and office equipment; an
administration study to identify potential efficiency gains from changes in
DOI administration and procedures; a departmental equipment study covering
inventory, use rationalization and maintenance program needs; and a
performance incentives study which would include design of a possible
performance incentives pilot project. Support would also include construction
by DOI of selected regional, district and field offices not yet covered by ILC



- 22 -
in preparation for future expansion of the sector program, and completion
works and equipment for DOI's new headquarters building. HMGN is required to
provide DOI with an adequate headquarters building under Mahakali II, but
funding was based on rehabilitation of an existing building which is not
available. Further, DOI hat not yet been provided with a suitable site for
the building, or with adequate budget to procure such a site. Agreement was
reached at negotiations that DOI would provide to IDA for its review and
comment: (i) draft terms of reference for an administration study which would
cover, inter alia, support work requirements, departmental equipment inventory
and use, and options to increase staff motivation and incentives, by December
31, 1990; (ii) general architectural plans, cost estimates and timetables for
construction of the new DOI headquarters building and a technical evaluation
indicating that a satisfactory site for the building had been provided to DOI,
by December 31, 1991.
Participatory Management Pilot Projects
3.36     These pilot projects would provide for essential structural
improvements, farmer organization, and consultancy services and technical
assistance based on the current Action Plan for Participatory Management
Programs, to field test and improve the process and make necessary
improvements before wider application. Agreement was reached at negotiations
that by December 31, 1991 DOI would review and revise the Participatory
Management Action Plan, prepare pilot projects based on the Action Plan
including all necessary plans and timetables, and thereafter implement the
pilot projects.



- 23 -
IV.  PROJECT COSTS, FINANCING AND DISBURSEME':TS
Project Cost Estimates
4.1           Estimated project costs with contingencies total US$52.7 million,
including taxes and duties of about US$1.4 million. The estimated foreign
exchange cost is about US$24.8 million or 47 percent of total project costs.
Project cost estimates are detailed in Tables 3-5, and summarized below.
(WRS '000)                     (USS '000)                     I Total
------  Z Foreign   Base
LGcal   Foreign    Total        Local  Foreign   Total   Exchade    Costs
A. BSNAI      - LNINI STAGE III
1. CNSTRUCtION OF STAGE III SYSTEMS            237,187.9 359,882.1  597,070,0   8,150.8 12367.1 20,517.9             60       46
2. COWlEtION OF STAGE II SYSTEMS                36,151.5  42,409.7    78,561.2  1,242.3  1,457.4  2,699.7            54        6
3. lODIFICATION OF STAGE I SYSEMS               49Pl42.4  24,285.6    73,428.0   1,688.7    834.6  2,523.3           33        6
4. OPERAtTIN AND MAINTEN    StlPORT              14,323.5  264819.3   41,142.8    492.2    921.6  1,413.8            65        3
5. ARICULTlRAL SIPPORT SERVICES                 13t503.2  10,207.2   23,710.4       464.0    350*8    814.8          43        2
6. FARMER ORGANIZATION SUPPORT                    74330.8  11i877#1    19P207.9    251.9    408.1   660.1            62        1
7. GRONUATER INVEST6ATINS                       40,924.7  49,157.5   90082.2   1,406.3  14689,3  3,095*6            55        7
Sub-Total BHNIRAMA - LUNtINI STAGE III            3984564.0 524,638.4  9239202.4  13,696.4 18,028.8 31,7252             57       71
B. IRRIGATION LINE OF CREDIT
1. LINE OF CREDIT PILOT PROJECt                1929514.3  96481.5  288995.8  6,615.6  3W315*5 9,931,1                33       22
2. AGRICULTURAL DELOT  SlPOT                      3,609.8  1,135.6      4,745.4     124*0      39*0   163.1          24        0
3. ENIRONIIENT                                   119640,0   2,910.0    14,550.0    400.0    100*0    500*0           20        1
Sub-Total IRRIGATION UtlE OF CREDIT                207,764.1 100,527.2   308,291.3   7,139,7  39454.5 10594.2           33       24
C. INSTITUTIONIL DEVELPMENT SUPPORT
1. PLANNING , DESIGN AND RESERC                 16,620.5  11241.7   27,862.2       571.1    386.3   957.5           40        2
2. AD1INISTRATION AND INCENTIVES                 13,569.2  15448,5   29,017.7       466.3   530,9   997.2            53        2
3. PARTICIPATORY  MAENt                          10,962.4   21740.6    13M703.0     376.7    94,2   470.9            20        1
Sub-Total INSTITUTIOQNAL DEVELOPENT SUPMORT         41,152.0  29,430.8    70,582.8   1,414.2  1011.4  2,425.5           42        5
Total BASLIE COSTS                                   647t480.2 6544596.3 1,3029076.5  22,250.2 229494.7 44#744,9          50      100
Phnsical Contienlmcies                             26w876*7  23.413.5   50,290.3      923.6   804.6  1,728.2           47        4
Price Continsencies                               138,848.5  42,210.7   181,059.2   4,771.4  1,450.5 6,222,0           23       14
Total PROJECT COSTS                                  813,205.4 720,220.5 1,533,426.0  27,945.2 249749.8 52,695,1          47      118
April 24t 1990 17:53



- 24 -
4.2      Cost estimates are based on December 1989 prices escalated to March,
1990. Physical contingencies on average represent about 4 percent of hase
costs or 3.5 percent of total project costs. Price contingencies account for
about 13 percent of total project costs and are based on annual rates of: 2.3
percent in FY91, 4.9 percent in FY92-95, 4.3 percent in FY96, and 3.7 percent
in FY97-99, for foreign costs; and 9.0 percent in FY91, 7.0 percent in FY92,
6.8 percent in FY93, and 6.6 percent in FY94, 6.5 percent in FY95, 6.3 percent
in FY96, 6.1 percent in FY97, and 6.0 percent in FY98-99 for local costs.
Financing
4.3      The proposed IDA credit of US$47.2 million would finance about 90
percent of total project costs, including 100 percent of foreign exchange
costs of US$24.8 million and about 86 percent of local costs. The credit
would finance a declining proportion of Bhairawa Lumbini Stage III incremental
recurrent costs during the project period. The balance of the recurrent costs
and capital expenditures would be met by farmers and by HHGN from its annual
'budget. Under ILC it is estimated that farmers could contribute about 10
percent of overall subproject construction costs in voluntary labor. although
they have the option of borrowing from ADBN to finance their share of costs.
The IDA credit for the project would be channeled by HMGN through DOI.
Overseas training and fellowships would also be financed. HHGN would provide
resources and funds to execute the project in accordance with the agreed
implementation program and expenditure schedules over the implementation
period. The summary project financing plan is presented below and detailed in
Table 6.
Local   Foreign   Total
Financiers              (US$ million)
IDA                22.4    24.8      47.2
HHGN                5.0      -        5.0
Farmers             0.5      -        0.5
Total              27.9    24.8      52.7
SZMZ    =22===
Procurement
4.4      Procurement arrangements and the cost of project components are
summarized in the table below and detailed in Table 7.



- 25 -
PROCUrEMENT METHOD
ICD  LID  LCB  OTHER*/  MA   TOTAL
Work                                         18.0   4.0           22.6
(17.1)  (8.6)        (20.7)
Goods                            108.  0.6   8.0   0.2             14.1
(10.3) (0.0)  (2.9)  (0.2)       (14.0)
Land Acquisition                                             0.8   0.8
(0.0) (0.0)
Studios, Training end Consultant                      7.4          7.4
(7.4)        (7.4)
Incremental Statt and 0&M Costs                              8.8  8.8
(5.1) (6.1)
TOTAL PROJECT COSTS             10.8  0.6  21.0    11.0    8.0  52.7
(10.8) (0.6) (20.0)   (11.2)   (5.1) (47.2)
pi Includes piceework contracts, domestic shopping, and consultancy services.
Figures In parenthesis are the amounts to be financed by IDA.
4.5      Works.  The total works under the three components of the credit
would cost approximately US$22.6 million (45 percent of project cost),
including physical and price contingencies. Works for the Bhairawa Lumbini
Stage III component are estimated to cost US$14.4 million and involve mainly
roads, pumphouses and distribution systems. All works under this component
would be too small (under US$0.5 million each) to be of interest to foreign
contractors and would be let through LCB procedures. All the works for the
ILC and IDS components (US$7.5 million) are small (under US$0.5 million each),
scheduled at various times over the three-year project cycle, scattered over
the entire project area and therefore would not be of interest to foreign
contractors. Approximately US$S.9 million (51 percent of the work in the
components) would be contracted using LCB procedures. The LCB work consist
mainly of the diversion structures, hydraulic structures, excavation and the
regional and district office buildings. The remaining works under these two
components (US$3.7 million) are very small (under US$20,000 each) and would be
scattered in remote locations, so they would not even lend themselves to
normal LCB procedures. They will be let through either piecework contract,
awarded on the basis of three quotations, or if that is not practicable, by
departmental force account.
4.6      Goods.  The total goods under the three components of the credit
would cost about US$14.1 million including price contingencies. The goods
under the Bhairawa Lumbini Stage III component would cost about
US$11.0 million. This consists primarily of pipe (US$4.6 million), pumps and
valves (US$2.7 million), transmission lines and materials (US$2.1 million),
and vehicles (US$0.8 million). These would be combined into about seven
packages for a total of US$10.2 million and let under ICB procedures. The
remaining goods under this component consist of: (a) small and varied
equipment including computers (US$0.1 million) which would be procured at
various times through LCB procedures; and (b) special drilling equipment and
spare parts (US$0.7 million) which would be procured through LIB procedures.
Equipment, materials, vehicles and motorcycles for the ILC and IDS components
worth about US$2.9 million would be grouped and consolidated into about five
procurement packages and let under LCB procedures. Computer equipment for ILC
and IDS worth about US$80,000 would be procured through LCB procedures.
Office equipment, furniture, engineering, design construction and survey



- 26 -
equipment and materials, and spare parts and other equipment, worth about
US$127,000 would be packaged and procured through LCB procedures.
4.7      Consultants, Services and Training.  All consultants would be
selected and employed according to IDA guidelines. Consulting services under
the Bhairava Lumbini Stage III component (about US$2.4 million) would be for
implementation of Stage III construction, completion of Stage II and
modification works for Stage I, technical support for O&M of Stages I, II and
III, agricultural intensification, farmer organization, and studies related to
implementation of Bhairawa Lumbini Stage III, and would also provide
specialized technical support for ILC groundwater activities. Consultant
services under separate contract(s) would cover general groundwater studies
and investigations, including feasibility studies for Groundwater II and for
the Terai generally. Under the ILC component, consultancy services worth
about US$0.5 million would be required in the identification, preparation,
engineering design and supervision of subprojects, training and studies; this
would include both long-term expatriate consultancy services and local
consultants (individuals and firms). Under the IDS component, consultancies
and service contracts worth about US$0.4 million would be required for the
engineering and supervision services for buildings, Master Plan installation,
training, M&E and management information system installation, pilot projects,
studies and research, and maintenance of DOI computers and office equipment.
4.8      Contract Review.  All contracts for consultancies, training and
studies, plus works estimated to cost at least US$200,000 and goods estimated
to cost at least US$100,000, would be subject to standard IDA pre-action
review. Such packages would account for about 65 percent of the total
estimated value of the goods, works and consultancy services being procured.
For subproject preparation and supervision under ILC, standard contracts for
use with prequalified consultant firms would be based on agreed terms of
reference and contract documents, and would be pre-approved by IDA. Any
remaining contracts would be subject to post-action review by IDA. Standards
and procedures specified in the Bank's "Guidelines for Procurement' would be
followed. HMGN has developed draft standard ICB and LCB bidding documents for
both works and goods. These documents, once approved by IDA, would be used '.
for procurement under the project. Standard IDA procurement preferences would
be given to domestic contractors and mandfacturers when ICB procedures were
used.
Disbursements
4.9      For the Bhairawa Lumbini III component, disbursements under the
credit would be made against: (a) 90 percent of expenditures on civil works,
including buildings; (b) 100 percent of foreign expenditures for imported
goods; (c) 100 percent of expenditures for local goods, ex-factory cost;
(d) 70 percent of local expenditures for all other goods procured locally;
(e) 100 percent (declining to 60 percent) of incremental staff salaries,
allowances, and other operating costs for Bhairawa Lumbini, including DTW
operating costs; and (f) 100 percent of expenditures for consultant services,
local and overseas training, and studies. Reimbursements for Bhairawa Lumbini
staff, allowances and operating costs would average about 85 percent of
cumulative costs over the project period. However, actual disbursements for



- 27 -
these costs would be made on a declining scale of percentages reflecting in
part increased farmer participation in payment of DTW operating costs as
follows:
100 percent of expenditures for FY91, 92 and 93;
90 percent of expenditures for FY94 and 95;
80 percent of expenditures for FY96 and 97;
60 percent of expenditures thereafter.
4.10     Disbursements for the ILC and IDS components would be the same as for
Bhairawa Lumbini except that 100 percent of expenditures on civil works would
be financed. This is needed in view of the pilot and specialized nature of
the operations, their focus on program development, and the high degree of
technical assistance and on-the-job training involved.
4.11     Itemized Statements of Expenditure would be used for all civil works
contracts under ILC and for all other civil works contracts each costing less
than US$200,000 equivalent (including force account), contracts for goods,
equipment and vehicles less than US$100,000. project establishment, operating
costs, and maintenance carried out by force account. Documentation supporting
these statements would be retained by the Bhairawa Lumbini Project Authority;
by the RIDs (for ILC subprojects and activities); and by central DOI (for
expenditures under the IDS component). They would be made available for
inspection by IDA during review missions and by the auditor during the annual
review. Conditions of disbursement against expenditures incurred by DOI under
ILC would be: (a) establishment of the concerned Regional Appraisal
Committee; and (b) approval by ACC for any subproject or subproject cluster
exceeding ?Rs 1.0 million in cost, and by the DOI Director General for all
other subprojects. The approval would include certification that the approved
subproject and concerned regional and district offices meet the agreed
criteria.
4.12     The estimated disbursement schedule for the !DA credit is given in
Table 8 and allocation of the credit in Table 9. The expected disbursement
period is eight years, which is typical for the Nepalese irrigation sector.
Disbursements are expected to be completed by June 30, 1999. A Special
Account of US$0.5 million would be established in the Nepal Rastra Bank and
would be used for expenditures of less than US$20,000 equivalent, both foreign
and local, under all categories, and it is anticipated that most payments
would be financed through this account. All expenditures from the Special
Account would be promptly reported to IDA. All other expenditures, above
US$20,000, would be submitted directly to IDA for payment.
Accounts and Audits
4.13     The Auditor General would be responsible for auditing all accounts.
HMGN seeks to ensure that all accounts are maintained according to sound
accounting principles and that the scope of the audit is sufficient to
evaluate the economy, efficiency and effectiveness of public expenditures.
However, the performance of HMGN in fulfilling IDA accounting and audit
requirements has been weak, and in most projects audits of accounts have been
late. This is partly because expenditures related to IDA-financed projects
are audited by the Auditor General as part of the overall financial records of
the implementing department, and the Auditor General does not release the full



- 28 -
audit report until it is cleared through several steps. To ensure timely
compliance with covenants related to auditing requirements in IDA-supported
projects, IDA has been helping project accounting staff to prepare separate
project accounts in the detail and format required. IDA has also proposed the
draft format and content of the auditor's report on accounts that can be
prepared by an independent auditor acceptable to IDA, without waiting for the
full audit report of the Auditor General on the concerned department's overall
annual financial accounts. Similar procedures are being instituted for
specific audit certification of all withdrawal applications based on
statements of expenditure.  Agreemen: was reached at negotiations that HMGN
would cause DOI, the Bhairawa Lumbini Project Authority, RIDs, and DOA to:
(a) maintain separate records and accounts for all project expenditures, by
individual project component and subcomponent, and in accordance with
appropriate accounting principles; (b) furnish to IDA the report on the
Special Acccunt, audited by an independent auditor acceptable to IDA in
accordance with sound auditing principles; (c) forward to IDA such accounts,
together with the auditor's reports, within 12 months after the end of each
fiscal year; (d) include in the annual audit reports submitted to IDA a
separate opinion from the auditor as to whether the disbursements made on the
basis of statements of expenditure were for goods and services received and
incurred for the purposes of the project; and (e) furnish to IDA such other
information concerning audits and accounts as IDA shall from time to time
reasonably request, including unaudited project accounts and financial
statements for each fiscal year, certified as to their accuracy and
authenticity by an independent auditor acceptable to IDA not later than six
months after the end of each fiscal year.



- 29 -
V. ORGANIZATION AND MANAGEMENT
5.1      DOI would have overall responsibility for project implementation  and
be the lead agency for all components of the project. For the Bhairawa
Lumbini Stage III component, the Groundwater Resources Development Board would
be responsible. For the ILC Pilot Project component, DOI's Western, Mid
Westerr. and Far Western Regional Irrigation Directorates would have general
responsibility for ILC implementation and activities in their region. Central
DOI would be responsible for the IDS component and would provide overall
coordination, supervision, policy guidance, and monitoring.
Bhairawa Lumbini Groundwater Irrigation Component
General
5.2      Under Bhairawa Lumbini Stage III, the Groundwater Resources
Development Board would direct implementation, and provide oversight and
coordination among the concerned agencies, mainly DOI and MOA. The Bhairawa
Lumbini Project Authority, which is managed by a Project Manager (PM) who
reports to the Board, would handle day-to-day implementation. The general
organization of the Project Authority has proven satisfactory at the project
level for the Stage I and II projects and would be retained for the proposed
Stage III project. However, in contrast to Stages I and II, Stage III would
include specific provisions to support increased farmer participation,
including establishment within the Project Authority of a Farmer Organization
Unit. In addition, a special ILC Groundwater Unit would be established in
DOI's Groundwater Utilization Division under the ongoing Groundwater Resources
Development Project. The ILC Groundwater Unit would be located in the
Bhairawa Lumbini area for technical support.
Institutional Responsibilities
5.3      Ministry of Water Resources.  The Secretary of the Ministry of Water
Resources as chairman of the Board would retain responsibility for major
policy matters, approval of contract awards above NRs 10.0 million, approval
of annual budget proposals for project implementation, and ensuring necessary
coordination with departments in other HMGN Ministries.
5.4      Groundwater Resources Development Board.  The Groundwater Resources
Development Board was responsible for BLP Stage I and II implementation and
would be fully responsible for Stage 1II. The Board makes all decisions
necessary for speedy project implementation, and provides coordination and
linkage between the project, DOI, the Secretary to the Ministry of Water
Resources, the Department of Agriculture, the National Electricity Authority,
ADBN, and the Ministries of Finance, Home Affairs, and Local Development. It
approves key project staff appointments, long-term contracts for temporary
staff and consultants, annual budget proposals for project execution, and
award of large contracts and consultancy agreements. It also conducts
semi-annual reviews of implementation programs and progress reports on the
project.



- 30 -
Bhairawa Lumbini ProJect Authority
5.5      Organization.  Under the Stage III project, the Project Authority
would comprise five divisions: Construction, Operation and Maintenance,
Agriculture, Farmer Organization, and General Administration and Finance (see
Chart 4). Existing divisions would retain the same responsibilities as in
Stage II. The new Farmer Organization Division would be responsible to
promote farmer participation, explain the DTW program to farmers including
cost sharing and O&M requirements, assist farmers to form groups and request
DTWs, help farmer groups establish legal associations for DTWs and make
agreements with the Project Authority/DOI, train and assist farmer groups in
O&M of DTWs, and monitor operation of farmer DTW associations. The functions
of the divisions are summarized in Annex 5. Most of the senior officers of
the Project Authority are already in place, together with many of their
subordinate staff. Additional staff needed would be mainly in the Farmer
Organization Division. Agreement was reached at negotiations that before
effectiveness DOI would establish and thereafter maintain in the Project
Authority a Farmer Organization Unit with objectives, functions and staffing
acceptable to IDA. An understanding was also reached that by June 30, 1991,
the Unit would be reviewed on the basis of its experience and tne needs of the
project, and a report on the Unit would be provided to IDA for its review and
comment, and on the basis of the review, the Unit would be strengthened and
upgraded to a Division as necessary.
5.6      Project Management.  The chief executive officer of the Bhairawa
Lumbini Project Authority is the PM, who is responsible for day-to-day project
administration and management, work programming and supervision, budgeting,
and financial control, and to whom all heads of project divisions report in
order to coordinate project activities. For Stage III, he would be
appointed/confirmed by HMGN in consultation with the Ministry of Water
Resources and would be based at the project headquarters in Bhairawa. He
would: (a) ensure implementation of the project in accordance with the agreed
time schedule; (b) prepare annual implementation programs and progress reports
for review and approval by DOI; (c) prepare the project's annual budget
proposal for approval by the Ministry; (d) manage all project staff and
consultants; (e) authorize project works to be implemented by force account
and works and materials procured under contracts up to the value of
NRs 5.0 million; (f) supervise preparation of tender documents, issuance of
calls for tender and evaluation of bids for procurement of works, goods and
services; and (g) ensure coordination of all project activities at the project
and district levels. The PM would be assisted in these functions by the
Project Consultant. An understanding was reached at negotiations that before
credit effectiveness HMGN would appoint the Project Manager for BLP Stage III
satisfactory to IDA.
Farmer Organization and Participation
5.7      DTW Water User Associations.  Under the project, a statutory body
called a Water User Association (WUA) of farmers would be established under
Irrigation Regulation 2045 (1988) for each DTW. The Project Authority's
Farmer Organization Division would be responsible to plan and assist in the
establishment and operation of WUAs, assisted by specialist consultant support
provided through ISSP and the Project Consultant. WUA development would build
on the experience with informal water user groups successfully established and



- 31 -
operating at Stage I DTWs; these groups have performed well in organizing and
assisting rotational water supply, constructing field channel systems,
maintaining canal systems, and collecting water charges which have been
imposed since FY87188. VUAs would be established during planning and layout
for Stage III DTWs, before construction if possible and certainly before
commissioning into service for Stage II DTWs, and as soon as possible at
existing Stage I DTWs. Stage III WUAs would assist DTW planning and layout
and would have the additional functions of organizing their members'
contributions (earnest money and labor for installation of the buried pipeline
distribution system) for their DTW. After completion, WUAs would gradually
take over responsibility for operation of their DTWs including payment of
electricity charges. Before negotiations, HMGN officially gazetted and
notified Irrigation Regulation 2045 for the Bhairawa Lumbini project area.
5.8      Formation of WUAs would follow sector program principles (farmers
would request their DTW, and commit to form a WUA, contribute to construction,
and take over O&M of the DTW after its completion). Establishment would be
based on Regulation 2045. WUAs would be structured in an hierarchy, per
Regulation 2045. For each DTW, small farmer groups on each turnout would
comprise water user groups on each of the (three or four) DTW pipeline loops
which would comprise in turn the WUA for the DTW.  All farmers served would be
members of the WUA.  Each loop group would elect member(s) on the DTW WUA
executive committee, which would select its chairman and officers. At the
project level, one or more apex Project Coordination Committee(s) would be
formed (based on contiguous project areas) comprised of a representative from
each DTW. The Committee(s) would assist with project-wide issues, such as
electricity supply for project DTWs and cost recovery, and assist in providing
coordination and information feedback for the Project Authority. Agreement
was reached at negotiations that by December 31, 1990 HMGN would prepare,
provide to IDA for comment and thereafter implement plans to constitute WUAs
at Bhairawa Lumbini DTWs as statutory bodies pursuant to Irrigation Regulation
2045, with specific rights and duties to include distribution of water among
members, system operation and maintenance, and collection from members of O&M
costs (and water charges if applicable). Agreement was also reached that WUAs
at all BLP Stage I DTWs would be constituted and operative by June 30, 1991,
and that for each Stage II and III DTW, to the extent practicable, a WUA would
be duly constituted and operative before start of DTW construction but no
later than DTW commissioning.
5.9      Farmer Participation.  For Stage III DTWs, farmer groups would make a
written request for a DTW and agree to form a WUA under Regulation 2045, make
an earnest money cash contribution. contribute to construction, and take over
responsibility for O&M. Unlike surface subprojects under the sector program,
however, for DTWs the farmers' earnest money contribution would be considered
as a *prepayment' of their electricity bill rather than a contribution to
construction costs. Their earnest money contribution would be deposited in a
joint account managed by the DTW WUA and the Project Authority which would be
used as a revolving fund to pay the monthly electricity bill. The fund would
be sized to cover the first season or year of estimated DYW power costs, and
would be replenished by the farmers after each harvest. The earnest money
criterion would be considered met when 75 percent or more of the farmers had
contributed. For construction costs, the possibilities for direct farmer
contribution would be limited because of the highly technical nature of DTW



- 32 -
investments, and would comprise mainly the labor and/or cash payments for
installation of the buried pipe distribution system. The remainder of DTW
investment costs would be met by HMGN and the IDA credit.
5.10     For Stage II DTWs, most of the construction is complete, and under
the previous project approach farmers were not given the option to participate
before construction. Although it may not be feasible to require a direct
contribution to construction at this stage, farmers would be required as soon
as possible to agree to form WUAs, make their earnest money cash contribution,
and take over O&M as a condition for completion and commissioning of their
DTW. Stage I DTWs would be eligible for additional channel lining under the
project where farmers agree to form WAUs, provide labor and land for
construction of channel lining, and take over responsibility for O&M. This
would provide an incentive for farmers to take over DTW management. An
understanding was reached at negotiations that before credit effectiveness DO!
would prepare and provide to IDA for its review and comment draft plans,
procedures, guidelines and timetables for farmer organization and
participation at Stage I, II and III DTWs, including WUA establishment and
registration.
DTW Operation and Maintenance
5.11     Responsibility for O&M Support.  With the relatively high level of
technology required for DTWs, adequate maintenance of the pumping equipment
and DTW facilities is critical for project success and would be the
responsibility of the Mechanical Engineering and O&M Divisions of the Project
Authority. DTW management activities of the project would cover the 64 DTWs
completed under the Stage I project, and the 38 DTWs under Stage II and the 73
DTWs proposed under Stage III as they are completed and commissioned. DTW
management would include system water management and distribution, operation
and maintenance, with the objective of providing a reliable, timely and
equitable water supply to all farmers served by each DTW. DTW WUAs would be
closely involved in these activities and would be trained and supported to
gradually take an increased role in DTW management, particularly DTW water
distribution and operation. However, due to the critical technical
requirements of DTWs for maintenance, the Project Authority would continue to
have primary responsibility to (a) ensure proper maintenance of DTWs after
completion and turnover to farmers, and (b) promote local private sector
technical support capabilities for DTW maintenance and repair. Plans to
establish WUAs at Bhairawa Lumbini DTUs would include plans and procedures to
ensure adequate O&M support of DTWs after turnover to farmers.
5.12     Conversion of DTWs to Farmer Management.  Although the Project
Authority would have primary responsibility to ensure that O&M is adequate,
farmer WUAs would take responsibility for partial (and eventually full)
payment of O&M costs starting from the inception of service in both Stage TT
and Stage III areas. For Stage II and III DTWs, buried pipe distribution
systems would facilitate farmer operation, as they would provide a high degree
of efficiency and accountability in water management and economy of water use
and pumping costs. Conversion of DTWs to farmer management is essential for
long-run sustainability of the project and replicability of the Bhairawa
Lumbini DTW model. This would be a condition of participation/construction
for Stage III DTWs and for completion/commissioning of Stage II DTWs, and
could be implemented on an agreed schedule over several years until full O&M



- 33 -
costs are covered by farmers. The Project Authority would begin introducing
this new approach to Stage II and III farmers as soon as possible.
5.13     In comparison to Stages II and III, Stage I DTWs represent a lower
level of technical development, with less technical accountability for water
and power used by individual farmers. Under the proposed project, farmers at
Stage I DTWs would be given two options: (a) form a WUA and take over
responsibility for DTW operation (mainly payment of electricity costs), phased
in over a period of five years, with DOI technical assistance and a provision
for additional channel lining if WUA members request it and provide land and
labor; or (b) continue Project Authority operation as at present with
increasing water charges to cover full O&M costs within about five years.
Upon completion of lining under (a), the possibility of initiating full
management by the farmer groups and payment of electricity bills directly by
WUAs should be considered and introduced if feasible. Under (b), costs would
continue to be recovered, as far as possible, through conventional water
charges based on area commanded as in the case of gravity irrigation projects,
per Regulation 2045. The desirable level of water charges should, however, be
periodically reviewed to ensure that full O&M costs are covered. Plans for
organizing farmers and establishing WUAs at Bhairawa Lumbini DTWs would
include conversion of Stage I, II and III DTWs to farmer management.
Proiect Coordination
5.14     Coordination at the central level would be the task of the Secretary,
Ministry of Water Resources and of DOI. For inter-agency coordination at the
field level, the Rupandehi District Agricultural Coordination Committee meets
at intervals of about a month and provides a forum for local working level
coordination. The committee is chaired by the District Agricultural
Development Officer; members are the District Managers of ADBN and
Agricultural Inputs Corporation, District Veterinary Officer, District
Cooperative Officer, District Development Officer, and representatives of the
sajhas. The Project Manager and the Project's Senior Agricultural Officer
would be members of the District Committee since it would be appropriate to
use this forum for coordinating agricultural activities relating to the
project. To strengthen coordination between the district Agricultural
Extension program and the project-directed extension service, an Assistant
Agricultural Development Officer from the District Agricultural Office would
if necessary be seconded to the BLP Agriculture Division.
5.15     In addition to agency coordination arrangements as above, one or more
Project Coordination Committee(s) for the project would be formed to assist
implementation and operation and to provide direct coordination between WUAs,
farmers and the project. The Committee(s) would comprise the Project Manager
as chairman and appropriate senior project officers including the Association
Organizer Coordinator, a representative each of ADBN and the Agricultural
Inputs Corporation, and farmer WUA Chairmen from the concerned DTWs. It would
meet regularly to review proposed works, the construction program as it
affects local farmers, and O&M of completed works. A major function of the
Committee is communication (via WUAs and water user groups) between farmers
and project staff. Association Organizers and district officers would
specifically assist in informing farmers of works and responsibilities, and in
providing feedback from the farmers to the committee. Farmers through the
committee(s) would participate in certain project decisions, which should help
them identify with the project, develop a sense of ownership of DTWs, and



- 34 -
commit to O&M tasks which will be essential. Following completion of
construction, the committee(s) would continue as an integral part of the
project, as through the WUAs and water user groups it would be linked with
every farmer served. Agreement was reached at negotiations that the Project
Coordination Committee(s) would be established by December 31, 1990 and
thereafter maintained, chaired by the BLP Project Manager and including
representatives of the concerned WUAs.
Monitoring and Evaluation and Reporting
5.16     Monitoring and evaluation under the project would cover the following
functions: (a) monitor progress and expenditures on the construction of DTW
systems under the project; (b) monitor DTW and water utilization, O&M costs,
development impact, and economic benefits of the operational DTWs and of the
project overall; (c) monitor the formation, establishment and operation of
WUAs; (d) monitor the effects of groundwater withdrawals by project DTWs on
the groundwater system of the area by regular measurements of water levels in
the established networks of shallow and deep observation wells, including
free-flowing artesian wells; and (e) provide evaluations and feedback to
project management on the results of the above monitoring activities. An M&E
Unit under the Project Manager was formed under the Stage II project to
perform the above functions, and has operated successfully with the assistance
of the Project Consultant. This arrangement would continue under the Stage
III project. It should be noted that the M&E Unit does not collect data
itself, except in the case of aquifer system monitoring by water level
monitoring team which forms part of the Unit. Otherwise, the Unit relies on
information collected and provided by the various divisions of the Project
Authority which is then assembled, analyzed, formatted and presented in
reports by the Unit to the Project Manager. The Unit would produce regular
reports as needed by the Project Manager, DOI and IDA. Within six months
after the completion of the project, DOI would submit a project completion
report to IDA in a format agreed with IDA. Agreement was reached at
negotiations that, starting on January 1, 1991, DOI would furnish to IDA
during the project period semiannual project progress reports. In addition, a
suitable project completion report would be provided to IDA within six months
of project completion. As part of the review process, HMGN, the implementing
agencies and IDA would also carry out a mid-term review of the project before
FY95 to assess project progress and performance and identify the need for
changes in the project and reallocation of project funds if necessary.
Irrigation 'Line of Credit' Pilot Project Component
Ministry of Water Resources
5.17     Under the Mahakali Irrigation II Project, an Approval and
Coordination Committee (ACC) was formed at the Ministry of Water Resources,
chaired by an Additional Secretary. ACC reviews and approves proposed
Mahakali II ILC subprojects prepared by the Western RID and appraised by the
Regional Appraisal Committee. It is responsible to ensure that all
subprojects which are financed meet the agreed ILC selection criteria. It
also facilitates coordination among participating HKGN agencies. Members are
the Director Generals of DOI and DOA, and representatives from the National
Planning Commission, MOF and ADBN. The ACC has approved all ILC subprojects



_ 35 -
to date, but it is cumbersome and unnecessary for many rehabilitation and
smaller subprojects. Under the proposed project, ACC would continue this
role, but its approval would be required only for larger subprojects costing
NRs 1.0 million or more and any new subprojects. All other surface
subprojects would be approved by the concerned Regional Director. As with the
Mahakali II ILC, the first two subprojects of each type in the Mid and Far
Western Regions would be subject to IDA review and approval.
Department of Irrigation
5.18     Each RID would have a Regional Appraisal Committee (RAC) chaired by
the DOI Regional Director with Regional Directors of DOA, ADBN, and National
Planning Commission or their representatives as members. RACs would appraise
larger subprojects costing NRs 1.0 million or more, and the District
Agriculture and Irrigation Planning Committee would appraise all other
subprojects. Subprojects would be submitted for appraisal to the concerned
RAC or District Agriculture and Irrigation Planning Committee by the concerned
RID or DIO for surface schemes, and by the concerned Groundwater Field Office
for groundwater schemes. Following appraisal, larger subprojects would be
submitted to ACC for approval, and smaller subprojects to the Regional
Director. Within each RID, an ILC UnitlMobile Irrigation Team headed by a
senior Divisional Engineer would be responsible for day-to-day coordination of
ILC. He would be assisted by engineers from the Small Irrigation, Groundwater
and Feasibility sections, an AO Coordinator, and AO Supervisors. The DOI
Regional Directors for the Western, Mid Western and Far Western RIDs would
serve as the ILC Project Managers for their respective subprojects and would
be responsible for all activities under the ILC component; a suitably
qualified officer from DOI's Groundwater Division would be the ILC Project
Manager for groundwater. In central DOI, a Sector Program Implementation Unit
would be formed to monitor and coordinate project components as necessary,
coordinate ILC and the sector program, ensure agreed criteria and principles
for ILC subprojects are followed, report on ILC and sector program progress,
and assist with IDS implementation; the Unit would be headed by a suitably
qualified officer as Sector Program Coordinator, who would be empowered on
behalf of ILC Project Managers to submit progress reports and withdrawal
applications to IDA. Understandings were reached at negotiations that before
Board Presentation HMGN would: (a) appoint/confirm ILC Project Managers for
the Western, Mid Western and Far Western Regions and for groundwater; and (b)
confirm establishment of the central Sector Program Implementation Unit headed
by a suitably qualified officer as Sector Program Coordinator for ILC.
Department of Agriculture
5.19     DOA has overall responsibility for agricultural extension throughout
the country, and District Agriculture Offices have field responsibility for
providing general extension services in ILC districts and subproject areas.
Under the project, an ILC agricultural support program would be set up,
selected DOA staff would be assigned at the regional and district levels to
coordinate and work directly with DOI staff on ILC, and District Agriculture
Offices would work in close coordination with the DIOs. The DOA Regional
Director would serve as the Project Manager for ILC agricultural support in
his region. Based on DIO requests, District Agriculture Offices would
intensify extension services in ILC subproject areas under their ongoing
extension programs, organize areas of responsibility for extension workers to
correspond to subproject hydraulic units, coordinate as much as possible the



-36 -
work program of extension agents with District Irrigation Office activities,
and provide special training and guidance to extension staff and farmers on
improved water management. At the subproject level, DOA Junior Technicians
would be directly responsible for the implementation of the required extension
services. As part of the subproject approval process. DOA would participate
in the District Agriculture and Irrigation Planning Committee, the Regional
Appraisal Committee and the central Approval and Coordination Committee.
Agricultural Development Bank of Nepal
5.20     ADBN provides credit to individual farmers, farmer groups, and small
scale industries for agricultural development. In each region, ADBN is
represented by two zonal offices and branch, subbranch and depot offices at
the district and village levels. Under the project, ADBN would provide
construction credit through it branch banking system to FIAs to help finance
the farmers' agreed contribution to subproject capital costs. Participating
FIAs would apply for loans to ADBN branch or subbranch offices. Applications
would be supported by a recommendation from the concerned District or Regional
Irrigation Office. ADBN staff would also participate on the District Mobile
Irrigation Team as necessary and assist FIAs to set up suitable financial
accounts for subproject implementation. At regional and central levels, ADBN
would be represented on the Regional Appraisal Committee and Regional Mobile
Irrigation Team, and on the central Approval and Coordination Committee.
Farmer Irrigation Associations
5.21     FIAs would be the primary building blocks for ILC subproject imple-
mentation and for O&M of completed facilities. At present, FIAs are being
established and registered before subproject construction according to
standing procedures under the Registration of Associations Act 2034 (1977).
Each FIA comprises all beneficiaries in the FIA subproject area, and organiza-
tion of FIAs and their committees for construction/rehabilitation and O&M to a
large extent follows existing arrangements and traditional practices among the
beneficiaries. In general: (a) in small subprojects less than 100 ha, the
FIA directly elects a Construction/Rehabilitation Committee, and after
subproject completion an O&M Committee; and (b) in larger subprojects, the
total command area is divided into blocks, usually an area served by a major
branch canal, and FIA members in this area elect a Block Committee.   The
Block Committee then appoints Construction/Rehabilitation and/or O&M
Committees. Upon formation, participating subproject FIAs are constituted and
registered with the Chief District Officer as legal Associations with the
necessary powers to undertake agreements and commitments required for ILC
subprojects. The established procedures above would be satisfactory for the
project. An understanding-was reached at negotiations that HMGN would
continue to follow the established procedures for formation of FIAs, which are
satisfactory to IDA, including FIA constitution and registration as legal
bodies under the Registration of Associations Act 2034.
5.22     Responsibilities of the FIA would be defined in a formal written
agreement with DOI, and would always include shared responsibility for
subproject construction and full responsibility for O&M. After completion of
construction, each subproject would have a development and commissioning
period, during which time, for new and turnover subprojects, O&M
responsibilities would be gradually handed over to the FIA. FIAs and their
O&M committees would receive guidance and training through the local DIO and



-37 -
the Mobile Irrigation Teams. To assist district-level staff, central DOI as
well as the RIDs would form special farmer organization sections, along with
the Mobile Teams, to deal exclusively with the promotion of farmer
participation and follow-up. These sections would guide, assist and supervise
district staff in orienting farmer groups on the conditions and procedures for
participation in ILC and in the formation and training of FIAs.
Technical Support for Groundwater Subproiects
5.23     Groundwater irrigation development is technically more highly
specialized than surface irrigation. DOI's main source of groundwater
expertise is the Bhairawa Lumbini Project and the Groundwater Division; DOI
regional and district offices have little groundwater capability at present.
Under the project, a special ILC Groundwater Unit would be established under
the Groundwater Division and the Bhairawa Lumbini Project. The Unit would
provide specialized technical support for ILC groundwater subprojects. The
consultant for the Groundwater II preparation/feasibility and Terai
groundwater studies would also work with the Unit to provide specialized
technical assistance for ILC groundwater subprojects, in coordination with and
guided by technical support provided to ILC under ISSP. The IDA credit would
fund establishment and operating costs, including vehicles, equipment,
motorcycles, and staff for the Unit, which would be located in the
Butwal/Bhairawa Lumbini area under DOI's Groundwater Division for access to
specialized groundwater technical support at Bhairawa Lumbini. The Unit would
include three sectionss (a) a farmer organization section which would
organize ILC subproject farmer groups, help them request subprojects and form
legal FIAs, help train FIAs in proper O&M of tubewells, and monitor the
functioning of FIAs and tubewells; (b) a feasibility, planning and
construction section which would develop (with assistance from other sections)
preparation and feasibility studies for groundwater subprojects, plan and
design groundwater subprojects, construct ILC tubewells on behalf of FIAs (or
supervise and monitor their construction), and commission ILC tubewells
jointly with FIAs; and (c) an O&M section which would assist FIAs with
tubewell O&M, including establishment of operating plans and procedures,
provision of maintenance support, and monitoring of O&M. Agreement was
reached at negotiations that before credit effectiveness DOI would establish
the ILC Groundwater Unit with functions and staffing acceptable to IDA.
Institutional Development Support
5.24     IDS implementation would be coordinated mainly by DOI's Planning,
Design and Research Division, and would be carried out in collaboration with
the UNDP-financed Irrigation Sector Support Project (NEPl891006) and Planning
and Design Strengthening Project (NEP 85/013), and the redesigned
USAID-financed Irrigation Management Project. An understanding was reached at
negotiations that before credit effectiveness HMGN would appoint a Project
Manager for the Institutional Development Support component.



- 38 -
VI. AGRICULTURAL PRODUCTION, BENEFITS AND COST RECOVERY
Bhairawa Lumbini Groundwater Irrigation Component
Cropping Patterns
6.1      Based on the cropping patterns adopted in the Stage I area, average
cropping intensity in Stage III is expected to increase from 124 percent at
present to 187 percent at full development. This will come from increased wet
season paddy, hot season (February to June) paddy, wheat and oilseeds in the
dry season, and diversification into vegetables in all seasons. As in Stage
I, the increased intensity will be due to irrigation coupled with more direct
farmer involvement in planning and management of DTWs and intensive
agricultural extension. Without the project, there would be little or no
change in cropping patterns.
6.2      Cropping patterns for the "Future Without Project" and 'Future With
Project" are detailed in Table 10 and Chart 6. Cropping patterns have been
estimated for three representative farm models based upon the median sizes in
each farm size group: small (0.8 ha), medium (2.1 ha), and large (5 ha); each
is assumed to have a mix of upland and lowland conditions. Cropping
intensities vary inversely with farm size; i.e., 249 percent for small farms,
189 percent for medium farms, and 160 percent for large farms.
Crop Yields
6.3      Projected yields based on actual experience in Stage I are estimated
to increase substantially at full development; e.g. by 300 percent for both
paddy and wheat. This is due to irrigation, agricultural extension and
varietal changes, and improved market access with project roads. Table 11
details the estimated yield increases. Without the project, only small
increases in yields would occur.
Production
6.4      Area, production and yields for major crops, and incremental
production as a result of the project, are summarized below:
Future Without           Future With        Incremental
Area   Yield   Prod.      Area  Yield   Prod.   Production
(ha)  (t/ha)  (tons)    (ha)  (t/ha)  (tons)        (tons)
Paddy          7,310      1.25  9,116    8,514    3.75  31,888       22,772
Wheat          2,064      0.80  1,651    2,666    2.70   7,198        5,547
Maize               -        -      -       860    2.80   2,357       2,357
Pulses           258      0.50    129       258    0.70     181          52
Gram              258     0.40    103    1,462    0.80   1,616        1,066
Mustard           774     0.50    387    1,376    0.90   1,238          851
Potatoes            -        -      -       258   25.00   6,450       6,450
Vegetables          -        -      -       688   22.00  14,964      14,964



- 39 -
Market Prospects and Prices
6.5      Incremental food grain and oilseed production projected from the
project at full development will easily be absorbed into the Nepalese markets,
given the rapid population growth of 2.6 percent annually. Improved access
from project roads will aid marketing and is essential for diversification
into vegetable production. Although production of some 20,000 tons of
potatoes and vegetables is estimated at full development, increased vegetable
production is unlikely to present a marketing problem. Experience with
vegetable production in Stage I indicates a strong market for vegetables, with
wholesalers sending trucks from large market centers like Pokhara to purchase
them. In addition, resolution of the trade and transit dispute with India
will open trade with markets across the border.
Farm Incomes and Impact on Poverty
6.6      Overall, the impact of Bhairava Lumbini Stage III will be to greatly
reduce the incidence of poverty within the area. In the Stage I area, small
farmers have been the most responsive to opportunities generated by the
project, and have shifted rapidly into very intensive cultivation of high
value crops, mainly vegetables. Although large farmers continue to gain the
most in absolute terms, the greatest relative income gains in Stage I have
accrued to small farmers. This pattern is expected to continue in Stage III,
with the 52 percent of farmers who are small making the largest relative
income gains from project investments. Gains in net farm income for three
representative size farm models are shown below:
---------------  Net Farm Income  --------------
Farm             Estimated       Future        Future
Size           Poverty Level    without        with      Increment
(NRs)        (NRs)            s        (NRs)
Small   (0.8 ha)    13,680         6,649        67,255      60,606
Medium  (2.1 ha)    23,940        14,164        95,436      81,272
Large   (5.0 ha)    27,360        30,994       184,971     153,977
6.7      For Stage III, farm model analysis shows significant income gains for
all size farms, which reflects increased cropping intensity, diversification,
and improved yields. The poverty line is currently estimated at NRs 3,420 per
capitalyear. Allowing for family size, which increases with farm size, medium
farms below 2.1 ha in size and all of the small farms in the project area
produce a farm income below the poverty level at present. With the project,
all three farm models show incomes well above the poverty line. However, 29
percent of the holdings in the Bhairawa Lumbini Project area are below 0.5 ha
with an average size of 0.3 ha. The analysis indicates that farm income for
those farms and an average sized family would still be below the poverty line.
However, with the introduction of irrigation, these farmers are more likely to
find off-farm employment to supplement their incomes (para. 6.8).



- 40 -
Labor
6.8      At full development, the project will generate a 70 percent increase
in labor demand with person-days worked increasing from 960,000 person-days to
1,600,000. Although much of this represents greater utilization of family
labor, especially on the smaller farms, there will also be a significant
increase in demand for hired labor, mainly on large farms. As providers of
hired farm labor, the poorer segments of the population would be the main
beneficiaries of the increase in labor demand.
Cost Recovery
6.9      Background.  Overall, there is no cost recovery issue for 70 percent
of the irrigated area in Nepal, as it is under farmer-managed irrigation
schemes (para. 1.5). HMGN policy, supported by IDA and other donors, is to
privatize irrigation, or otherwise to maximize farmer participation in the
remaining 30 percent and recover full costs of O&M born by the Government.
The main sources of cost recovery are land taxes and water charges. Indirect
agricultural taxes are virtually non-existent. Taxes on farm land have
remained unchanged since 1967/68 and range on the Terai from NRs 44 to NRs 80
per hectare. Water charges for BLP Stage I were first levied in 1987/88 and
were NRs 200/ha/yr until 1989190. The collectioi rate was 69 percent in
1987/88, and 60 percent in 1988/89.
6.10     HMGN recently raised the water charge for Bhairawa Lumbini DTWs to
NRs 400/ha/yr applied to each ha under DTW command, whether irrigated or not,
to take effect in the 1990/91 season. It is estimated that typical DTW O&M
costs under Project Authority management total about NRs 1,OOO/ha/yr in real
1989 values, comprising about NRs 650 for electricity, NRs 200 for
maintenance, and NRs 150 for the pump operator (see Annex 7). The cost
recovery action plan under the proposed project will include measures to
increase rates and collection efficiencies (para. 6.14). Furthermore, the
recent gazetting of Irrigation Regulation 2045 in the BLP area will give DOI
direct responsibility and authority for water charge collection and should
improve collection efficiency (see para 5.7).
6.11     Stages I and II.  For Stage I DTWs, all of which are already in
operation, farmers would be offered additional channel lining and modification
of their tubewells to reduce power costs as an incentive to take over DTW
management (para. 3.6). Participating DTW WUAs would meet about 90 percent of
power costs increasing to full coverage of all O&M costs (power, operator and
maintenance) within five years, or sooner if DTW production warrants it.
Stage I farmer groups which do not take over DTW management would not have
further channel lining and will pay water charges at a flat rate of NR8
1,000/yr in real 1989 values, for each hectare under command, to cover full
O&M costs. Stage II DTWs would not be commissioned and put into operation
until DTW farmers commit to form a WUA and take over full responsibility for
O&M costs. Similar to Stage I DTWs, Stage II DTW WUAs would pay 90 percent of
power costs during initial years, moving to full O&M cost coverage within five
years, or as soon as DTW production warrants it.
6.12     State III.  An important difference between Stage III and Stages I
and II is that Stage III DTWs will be constructed only after farmer groups
commit in advance to undertake management of their systems. Full financial



_ 41 -
responsibility to meet O&M costs will be phased in for Stage III DTWs over a
five-year period as above commencing, for each DTW, from its commissioning
date.
6.13     Farmers Abilitl to Pay.  Financial analysis based on the above farm
models shows that project investments generate large increases in income for
all groups of farmers (see Annex 7). This provides adequate incentives and
income for farmer groups to participate as WUAs and take over direct
responsibility for O&M, or the financial capability to pay to the Project
Authority higher water charges covering full O&M costs. Estimated DTW O&M
costs can easily be met from incremental farm income as shown above, and
represent only 1 to 3 percent of the economic rent from project investments,
depending on farm size. In absolute terms it is small compared to net
incremental farm income.
6.14     O&M Cost Recovery under the Project.  In line with HEGN policy, it is
a project objective to move from the present situation of low water charges to
full O&M cost recovery, through either increased direct farmer management of
DTW systems or increased water charges. Agreement was reached at negotiations
that HMGN would prepare by June 30, 1991 and thereafter implement an action
plan satisfactory to IDA to achieve at least full O&M cost recovery for
Bhairawa Lumbini DTWs by increasing water charges to about NRs l,OOO/halyr (in
1989 constant rupees), or by turning over OWM responsibility to the duly
constituted WUA, or by any other method acceptable to IDA. An understanding
was also reached that the cost recovery action plan would for each DTW lead to
full coverage of O&M costs by about five years after commissioning. The cost
recovery action plan would include provisions to: (a) develop and follow a
schedule of payments by farmers and/or WUAs to achieve full O&M cost recovery
within five years of completion for each DTW (this may require two different
schedules); (b) use the Project Authority as an intermediary for payment of
electricity bills by farmers if necessary; (c) review DTW operating costs
annually and revise payments by farmers as necessary; (d) increase water
charge collection efficiencies; and (e) review annually the farmers' ability
to pay for various farm size classes. Any decisions on whether to reduce or
forgive water charges would be made by DOI based on recommendations by the
Project Manager. The action plan would also be consistent with farmer
participation plans under the project (see paras. 5.8-5.14). Although the
target cost recovery rate of NRs 1000/ha annually seems very high, it will
clearly be well within the farmers' ability to pay.  Furthermore, it is
expected to apply to only the few Stage I DTWs where farmers opt for continued
management by the Project Authority.  At those DTWs, non-payment by any farmer
would be grounds for suspension of Project Authority services to the DTW,
including electricity supply.
6.15     Capital Cost Recovery.  Farmers at Stage III DTWs would provide a
contribution in labor for installation of DTW buried pipe distribution systems
equivalent to around 1.4 percent of total Stage III costs. They would also be
responsible for construction of field channels.



- 42 -
Irrigation Line of Credit' Pilot Project Component
6.16     Cropping Patterns, Yields and Production.  The present agricultural
situation in potential subproject areas varies significantly depending on
local conditions and irrigation facilities. For a typical subproject,
however, average cropping intensity is expected to rise from about 140 percent
at present to 190 percent at full development, and cropping patterns are
expected to change as follows:
Future Without       Future With
(Z)                 (X)
Paddy                         50                    60
Spring Paddy                  10                    20
Millet                        20                    20
Wheat                         20                    40
Oilseeds                      10                    15
Maize                         30                    35
6.17     Without irrigation development, agricultural production is expected
to increase by only 4 percent over the project period. With the project, crop
yields for paddy, wheat and maize are expected to increase by approximately 60
- 70 percent, while yields for millet and oilseeds would generally remain
unchanged.
6.18     Farm Income and Impact on Poverty.  Providing reliable irrigation
facilities together with the necessary agricultural services and inputs would
increase average net farm income from an estimated NRs 5000 - 6000/ha at
present to NRs 12,000 - 15,000/ha at full development for the individual
subprojects. The minimum farm size required under the pilot project to
achieve a per capita income level above the NRs 23,120 poverty line, assuming
an average family size of 6.8 persons, is 1.5 - 2.0 ha. Without the project,
the required farm size would be about 4 ha. The average landholding is 1.1 ha
in the HiUls and 1.9 ha in the Terai. Thus, although the proposed irrigation
facilities would not eradicate poverty in subproject areas, they would reduce
the number of households living below the poverty level.
6.19     Cost Recovery.  Farmer groups receiving assistance from DOI for ILC
subprojects would be required to make a contribution to the capital costs
(ranging from 7-40 percent) in terms of cash, land, and labor. The level of
contribution should be high enough to enhance the farmers' sense of ownership
of the completed facilities, but not so high as to discourage farmer
participation in irrigation development. If desired by farmers, part of their
cash contribution could be provided through ADBN loans which would not exceed
their repayment capacity. Annual amortization of farmer loans for subprojects
would range from 2-12 percent of net farm income and 5-24 percent of
incremental benefits, depending on the type of subproject. The results of
cost analysis for each of the representative subproject models are given in
Table 14. With regard to O&M cost recovery, farmer groups would have to agree
to take over O&M to participate in ILC. Recovery of O&M costs through water
charges therefore is not an issue for ILC subprojects.



- 43 -
VII. ECONOMIC ANALYSIS AND JUSTIFICATION
Bhairawa Lumbini Groundwater Irrigation Component
Project Benefits
7.1      The Bhairawa Lumbini Stage III project component would generate
incremental food productio.i valued at some NRs 280 million/yr at full develop-
ment, and create 700,000 rperson-days/yr of on-farm employment, thus reducing
the incidence of unemploynent and underemployment in the project area. It
will reduce poverty by raising both farm incomes and employment opportunities
and improve health and nutrition by increasing vegetable production and
consump-tion, which improve diets. By introducing both farmer management of
the DTW systems and full O&M cost recovery, it will also promote replication
and make possible the sustained growth and development of DTW irrigation
throughout the Terai.
Economic Analysis
7.2      The economic rate of return (ERR) for the Bhairawa Lumbini Stage III
component is 24 percent. and the net present value (NPV) at 10 percent is
NRs 783 million. Cost and benefit streams are shown in Table 16. Sensitivity
analysis was carried out to assess the impact of variations in incremental
cost and benefit streams on project viability. Switching values (evaluated at
10 percent) for various combinations of increased costs, reduced benefits and
delays indicate that the project could tolerate a large increase in costs,
reduction in benefits or delay in implementation and still remain viable;
details are summarized below and detailed in Annex 7. Changes in electricity
costs within the foreseeable range (say a 5 percent real annual increase over
the next ten years) would have virtually no impact on the above analysis.
Change                               Switching Values at 1O0
Cost Increase                                150Z
Completion Delay                               8 years
Benefit Reduction                             602
Cost Increase and Benefit Reduction           456
Cost Increase and Completion Delay            502 and 5 year delay
Cost Increase, Benefit Reduction, and Delay  30S and 3 year delay
7.3      Assumptions.  Assumptions used in the economic analysis are detailed
in Annex 7 and are summarized below.
(a) Prices for agricultural outputs and fertilizer are valued on the
basis of September 1989 IBRD price projections. Prices used in the
analysis are projected 1995-99 prices, valued at constant 1989190
dollars, with appropriate adjustments made for freight, processing
and handling. Nontraded goods were adjusted using a standard con-
version factor of 0.9. The shadow wage rate was calculated to be
NRs 16.88 per day. The opportunity cost of capital was assumed to be



- 44 -
10 percent for Nepal.  The summary of prices is shown in Table 12,
and the derivation of economic prices is shown in Table 13.
(b) The 'future without" cropping patterns and yields were based on
cropping patterns and yields from field surveys and data collected
within the project area by project agricultural extension workers.
The 'with project, data is based on data collected from the Bhairawa
Lumbini Stage I project area. It was assumed that Stage III would
achieve production levels similar to those achieved in Stage I.
(c) The increase in agricultural production for each DTW was assumed to
build up over five years after receiving irrigation water; Stage I
DTWs have achieved this intensity and yields projected in about four
years. Project implementation is assumed to take eight years.
(d) The economic cost stream included the costs of land, civil works and
maintenance (including all roads), consultant services, project
staffing, operation, (including power), replacement for all vehicles,
equipment and machinery, agricultural support, and farmer organi-
zational activities. A project life of thirty years is assumed.
Environmental Impact
7.4        The drawdown of the deep aquifer by DTWs could affect the shallow
aquifers which support existing shallow wells used for both village water
supply and small scale irrigation. However, Stage I DTWs indicate that
drawing down of the deep aquifer has no impact on either the shallow artesian
aquifer or the phreatic aquifer; shallow and deep aquifers appear to be
essentially unconnected. Water table levels would be monitored continuously
by the Project Authority during the project, and remedial measures taken as
necessary.
7.5      In some areas, the more likely impact of irrigation with water pumped
from the deep aquifer is increased recharge into the shallow aquifer with
possible rising water tables and water logging as a consequence. Where
necessary, this would be controlled through construction of surface drainage
facilities under the project. In addition, development of shallow tubewells
in the project area would be promoted under ILC to provide 'vertical
drainage'. Under the project existing and future private wells (mostly
shallow wells) in the project area would be regularly surveyed to monitor
changes in the water table.
7.6      Most of the project area is unirrigated at present, but the provision
of controlled irrigation is unlikely to cause erosion. There is some possi-
bility of minor erosion along the drainage canals that are to be constructed,
but this should be controllable by the planting of vegetative cover like
vetiver grass along the banks. Nurseries for the vetiver are already
established at the agricultural subcenters in Stage I of the project and will
be extended and used as needed. The project will not open new land to
cultivation.
7.7      As with most irrigation systems, the increase in standing water
provides potential breeding sites for mosquitoes. The use of buried pipe



. 45 -
delivery systems and provision for drainage facilities as proposed in the
project would overcome this problem.
Irrigation "Line of Credit' Pilot Project Component
Pro3ect Benefits
7.8      The ILC Pilot Project component is targeted to reach farmer managed
irrigation schemes that are individually too small for normal project funding
by a donor. The benefits of the component will be increased agricultural
output, increased food consumption by the farm families involved, and
increased on-farm employment. In addition, the component will perform an
important institution building function at DOI, encouraging the adoption of a
participatory approach to irrigation development together with improvements in
procedures and criteria for subproject identification, selection, implementa-
tion, and post-construction development, and generally will assist in
developing a country-wide irrigation sector program.
Economic Analysis
7.9      ILC is a pilot project and is based on a sector program approach.
Specific subprojects to be financed will only be identified during the
project. ILC has therefore not been included in calculating the overall
project ERR. However, nine types of typical subprojects have been identified
as suitable for financing. Costs and benefits have been estimated for these
typical subprojects, and give the following ERRs:
Net Present Value ERR
(NRsIha)       (Z)
Subproiect Type
Major Rehabilitation (Hills)                 59,458         23
Minor Rehabilitation (Hills)                 11,703         14
Major Rehabilitation (Terai)                 45,285         24
Minor Rehabilitation (Terai)                 12,041         15
Turnover Rehabilitation (Year-round)         36,200         35
Turnover Rehabilitation (Monsoon)            21,205         27
Shallow Tube Well                            32,567         18
Medium Tube Well                             32,008         18
Average                               31,308        24
Environmental Effects
7.10     The majority of the work proposed would represent improvement of
existing schemes with new construction being confined to those areas which do
not pose a riparian issue. Forest clearing for expansion of irrigated areas
is not proposed nor is access road construction. Access to Hill irrigation
areas would generally be by foot along existing trails rather than through
construction of roads which could cause ecological damage in the mountainous
terrain.



- 46 -
7.11     A significant ecological benefit of the proposed work is substitution
of permanent intake and diversion structures for the present brushwood and
cobble diversions. The latter are frequently washed out, and annual
rebuilding requires fresh supplies of brushwood, often in large quantities,
which denudes adjacent forest of secondary growth. The project will make this
unnecessary. A further benefit is that, as the productivity of existing
irrigated land is increased, pressure for expansion of agriculture into
adjacent forest land is reduced.
7.12     Proposed and future developments under ILC will require criteria and
procedures for environmental assessment and protection for subprojects
according to Bank guidelines as part of subproject preparation. Specialized
technical assistance may be provided through sources administered by the Bank.
An understanding was reached at negotiations that HMGN/DOI would by June 30,
1991 develop and thereafter implement criteria and procedures for
environmental assessments of proposed subprojects under ILC.
Project Risks
Bhairawa Lumbini Groundwater Irrigation Component
7.13       Project risks are moderate.  For Bhairawa Lumbini most of the
technical risk factors have been dealt with in Stages I and II and are
incorporated into the proposed project. However, continuation of the trade
and transit dispute with India could cause implementation delays which could
increase costs. In addition, farmers may be unwilling or slow to participate
to the degree envisaged, especially with regard to O&M. This would
necessitate: (a) planning and programing more DTWs than will actually be
installed; and (b) changing the terms for farmer participation. If necessary,
the Project Authority could revert to the methodology of Stages I and II which
has proven successful but would leave responsibility for O&M with DOI.
Irrigation "Line of Credit' Pilot Project Component
7.14      Risks are moderate.  DOI has extensive technical experience from
previous HMGN programs in constructing schemes similar to the subprojects
proposed, and has already gained considerable experience from the Mahakali II
ILC from which lessons have been incorporated into the proposed project. In
addition, in preparation for a future Irrigation Sector Project, specialized
advisory technical assistance is already in place and operating under the
sector program under the Irrigation Sector Support Project (NEP/89/006) funded
by UNDP. Given the spatial spread of subprojects under this component,
failure of any individual subproject due to unanticipated risk would not
threaten the overall viability of the component. However, the component
requires an effective farmer organization capability in DOI which is still in
the early stages of development. This way slow implementation.



- 47 -
VIII. AGREEMENTS AND RECOMMENDATIONS
8.1      During negotiations, agreements were reached with Government that
HMGN/DOI woulds
(a) by June 30, 1991 prepare the terms of reference for tubewell O&M
support plans, BLP environmental assessment, a socio-economic survey,
a feasibility study and drilling investigations for future
groundwater irrigation projects, and a Terai groundwater strategy
study, including privatization of O&M support services for DTWs and
power demand projections (para. 3.11);
(b) ensure subproject selection, preparation, approval and implementation
following the principles and criteria specified in Annex 3, Appendix
1 (para. 3.22);
(c) take suitable action to ensure uniformity of approach for all
irrigation schemes of the type financed under the project
(para. 3.23);
(d) ensure that, before a subproject is selected for financing under ILC,
the concerned Regional, District and/or Groundwater Field Office
meets specified prequalification criteria agreed with IDA
(para. 3.24);
(e) cause ADBN to provide adequate credit to FIAs for ILC subprojects
under the proposed project (para. 3.30);
(f) by June 30, 1991 DOI would provide to IDA for its review and comment:
(i) a draft plan and timetable for installation of the comprehensive
MIS for DOI; (ii) detailed terms of reference and a long-range
development and operating plan for PDRD; and (iii) a draft plan and
timetable for the execution of Regulation 2045 (para 3.33);
(g) during the project implementation period establish and thereafter
maintain an Irrigation Management Division within DOI with terms of
reference satisfactory to IDA (para 3.34);
(h) provide to IDA for its review and comment: (i) draft terms of
reference for an administration study which would cover, inter alia,
support work requirements, departmental equipment inventory and use,
and options to increase staff motivation and incentives, by
December 31, 1990; (ii) general architectural plans, cost estimates
and timetables for construction of the new DOI headquarters building
and a technical evaluation indicating that a satisfactory site for
the building had been provided to DOI, by December 31, 1991
(para. 3.35);
(i) by December 31, 1991 DOI would review and revise the Participatory
Management Action Plan, prepare pilot projects based on the Action



- 48 -
Plan including all necessary plans and timetables, and thereafter
implement the pilot projects (para. 3.36)s
(j) cause DOI, the Bhairawa Lumbini Project Authority, RIDs and DOA tot
(i) maintain separate records and accounts for all project
expenditures, by individual project component and subcomponent, and
in accordance with appropriate accounting principles; (ii) furnish to
IDA the report on the Special Account, audited by an independent
auditor acceptable to IDA in accordance with sound auditing
principles; (iii) forward to IDA such accounts, together with the
auditor's reports, within 12 months after the end of each fiscal
year; (iv) include in the annual audit reports submitted to IDA a
separate opinion from the auditor as to whether the disbursements
made on the basis of statements of expenditure were for goods and
services received and incurred for the purposes of the project; and
(v) furnish to IDA such other information concerning audits and
accounts as IDA shall from time to time reasonably request, including
unaudited project accounts and financial statements for each fiscal
year, certified as to their accuracy and authenticity by an
independent auditor acceptable to IDA not later than six months after
the end of each fiscal year (para. 4.13);
(k) provide to IDA by December 31, 1990 for comment and thereafter
implement plans to constitute WUAs at Bhairawa Lumbini DTWs as
statutory bodies pursuant to Irrigation Regulation 2045, with
specific rights and duties to include distribution of water among
members, system operation and maintenance, and collection from
members of O&M costs (and water charges if applicable) (para 5.8);
(1) WUAs at all BLP Stage I DTWs would be constituted and operative by
June 30, 1991, and that for each Stage II and III DTW, to the extent
practicable, a WUA would be duly constituted and operative before
start of DTW construction but no later than DTW commissioning
(para. 5.8);
(m) the Project Coordination Committee(s) would be established by
December 31, 1990 and thereafter maintained, chaired by the BLP
Project Manager and including representatives of the concerned WUAs
(para. 5.15);
(n) starting on January 1, 1991, DOI would furnish to IDA during the
project period semiannual project progress reports (para. 5.16); and
(o) prepare by June 30, 1991 and thereafter implement an action plan
satisfactory to IDA to achieve at least full O&N cost recovery for
Bhairawa Lumbini DTWs by increasing water charges to about
NRs 1,OOO/ha/yr (in 1989 constant rupees), or by turning over O&M
responsibility to the duly constituted WUA, or by any other method
acceptable to IDA (para. 6.14).
8.2      As a condition of credit effectiveness, HKGN/DOI would:
(a) select and appoint the international Project Consultant firm for
Bhairawa Lumbini Stage III (para. 3.12);



- 49 -
(b) establish and thereafter maintain in the Project Authority a Farmer
Organization Unit with objectives, functions and staffing acceptable
to IDA (para. 5.5); and
(c) establish the ILC Groundwater Unit with functions and staffing
acceptable to IDA (para 5.23).
8.3      Agreement was also reached that conditions of disbursement against
expenditures incurred by DOI for ILC subprojects would be: (a) establishment
of the concerned Regional Appraisal Committee; and (b) approval by the ACe for
any subproject or subproject cluster exceeding NRs 1.0 million in cost, and by
the DOI Director General for all other subprojects (para. 4.11).
8.4      With the above conditions and agreements, the project is suitable for
an IDA credit of US$47.2 million equivalent to the Kingdom of Nepal on
standard terms with 40 years maturity.



NEPAL
DHAIRAWA LWAINI RONDWATER  RIGATION III PROJECT
Table 1. Climtic Data
Mean       Men
Rl. Humidity      Doi ly      Wind
month           RL7ntl I 1971-rl    Lar tu                (1971-87l 119?1-8.     Sunshino   Velocity   Calculated
Inn           Ibrn  min max                  Mn Min Ibx    (198C-86)   195-9 86 ETO tP_n)en
January            14       12.3        15.6  13.8  17.0       85  79   92        6.9          2.1         1.9
February           12       10.6        17.4  15.2  19.7       79  09    87       8.0          2.7         2.9
March              1i       14.1        22.2  19.3 23.6        se  63   90        8.8          4.3         4.0
April              23       20.3        27.6  26.4  29.0       66  40   87        8.7          6.4         5.9
may                56       48.5        29.6  27.9  81.0       64  40   69        9.6          0.6         6.3
June              291      258.6        30.0  26.5  81.0       73  66   96        8.3          6.2         0.1
July              518      452.3        29.1  27.4  30.3       64  76  90         4.4          0.8         6.0
August            132      292.7        29.4  27.6  31.0       64   n    94       0.0          4.0         4.6
S ptember         320      297.4        20.0  24.2 29.0        64  68    94       6.8          3.0         4.0
October            87       70.7        26.1  24.1  29.2       82  72   90        7.2          2.1         3.6
Noemb er             6       4.4        22.1  20.1  27.9       79  70    93       9.1          1.0         2.9
De eber             16       13.2        10.9  14.4  19.8      8a  70   94        7.1          1.9         1.8
Annual    1,680  1,489
Source: Shairawa A.ricultural Station
II3 



Table 2
- 51 -
NEPAL
BHAIRAWA LUMBINI GROUNDWATER IRRIGATION III PROJECT
Table 2s Office, Design Survey, Transport and Construction Equipment
Bhairawa Lumbini III ILC Mahakali II ILC
Item                                     No. of Units           No. of Units
Office Equipment
Office furniture                         lot                      lot
Storage cabinets                          20                       20
File cabinets                             20                       20
Typewriters (electric/manual)             30                       30
Desk computer/printer/UPS/supplies         4                        2
Laptop computer                            3                        2
Voltage stabilizers/Voltguard              3                        4
Photocopiers                               2                        1
Air conditioners                           4                        4
Design/Survey Equipment
Drafting set                              10                       30
Drafting board                            10                       30
Drawing Cabinet                            5                       12
Duplicating machine                        2                        2
Ammonia printer including supplies         2                        1
Scientific calculator                     50                       50
Theodolite with tripod and 2 staffs        6                        2
Level with tripod and 2 staffs            25                        -
Measuring tape                             50
Abney Level                                 S                        -
Transport Equipment
4WD pickup truck (double cab)              4                        4
4WD jeep (long wheel base)                 2                        -
Motorcycles 125cc                          10                      10
Bicycles                                  15                       30
Construction Equipment (surface irrigation)
Portable rock drill with supplies         10                       20
Dewatering pump                             5                       10
Concrete vibrator                           5                       10
Shotcrete equipment                        1                         1
Concrete mixer                              5                       10
Compressor (transportable in Hills)         1                        2
Generator set                               5                        5
Welding machine with supplies               1                        2
Handtools                                 lot                      lot
Construction Equipment (groundwater)
Drill rig (reverse rotary)                  1
Compressor with pump                        1                        1
Movable storage tank                        2                        2
Welding machine with supplies               3                        2
Well logger                                 2                        2
Spare parts for existing equipment       lot                       lot
Tools                                     lot                      lot



NEPAL
BHAIRAWA LUMBINI GROUNDWATER lERIGTION III PROJECT
Table 3. Summary Accounts by Project Component
(NRs '000)
Ofw- 01010101 K tit 10!Btt 11611                                                 a11( amii           11U11ONK ICRW 9EOT 1
-~~~~~~~~~~~- - .---------  --------------- --------- ....   ......     .....--                                                   ....- -...............   . . ....
51Wf tit      STOOl It   NMMAM*i   or  661001 SO         95931    093052*13   SWJIBl    11111t M1et 0101300                          KSa5 mS  oarnutslnm  mu03011-
A. od  Asost;au                              5.076.9             -                                      73.5                                                                                                             NMA  --- 5*5.  10.    11.2
8. IwiUts                                  26.9'37.0      2*9520-                                                             0,9.0                                      -----                                         401084.0  16.0 4,011.4
C. CIVIL 935s                              170,539.9      08-. 10.        46,000.0                   8#6,45.0                              186,427.9           -                      -        21.500.0      11,994.0   446*317.2  4.1 19*247.2
0,    C00AL MS                               74519.0       2.1266.0             -                                                                  ----                                                                     .13.   3.8   376, 
1. 11IMCC11C   MS                            00115.0       2,639.5              -                                                                                          ---                                           0*5.   3.6   39.2
F. 31183                                    205.592.?     37.109.6                                                                                                                                                      M    ----  M -- 22*8.   7.2 107446.2 
S. C113fl3O (iFIfIO  60 Wootaxs             13.044.0             -              -      1,462.0       4,024.0      0,57.         3,93.0      720279.5      1*538                 142.            402650                  1 27.989.3  0.0    0.0
B. ClISkIM  ISOICIS AN0 10810006            100sm0.0             --                                       -      01,94.4       383.2.    134.0o.                                 55.            2.329.?       tonc0.    105426.   0.0      6.M
1. PSiTi 939M003 AN) 5103115                       -                                                                                          ,6.                                2.650.0             -                   5,80.0  0.0      0.0
.1. isla m .                          -~~~~~.........  .......             ....... .......  - ----          - -      ------       --      --   ----  -  --   ------- ---.--       -------- --  -----           -  -  -  -455. - 6 -0.- -
tow. iiWior cats                              538,602.6      63,695,6       40.00.0.      MM,02        12*242.3    13.450,4       12A22.      2760.764      1,153.6    14*506.0   106428.5       2804.          3,606.0  1,416,994.9  3. 0 440.2
0. 0110*9M  me 661h15C1                    44.894.1      24,865.6       25*4216.0      9410.3       3,929.5       914.6              -      2.155.0        265.7          -    2*501.7          922.            MO.   0565,75.4  7.0 0-.390
,8139                                       03*632                                    13,749.4      7,546.3      4,04.9        17.460.0     00,99.7      3.325.9          -    I9.0                               -    72,575.5  0.0      0.0
C. 61M1 vm.11     M0t                                                                                                                        Md ---    - 06,  -                  d376.0                                 40.006   0.0      0.0
IOU)0         CMo 9558,457.4                                 14,61.6        25*426.0      23*460.61    11,467.      5,757.5       17.460.0     12,219.5     3*591.6           -    9433.7           RV2.$          07.9   163,66.6  4.5 6*2M0.
9ol 0 11.3O I   013 5m97,070.0                                76*561.2       73,428.0      41.042,3    23.710.4     19.207.9       90.M6.2    26,99.6        4,745.4    10445.0   27.002?         29.017.7      13,703.0  Io.302.6.5  3.9 0*280.3
SbaInt Cmtlmrles                             36~356.1       5,552.5        7,342.8                       7.4                     100,029.          --                                  -              -             -    50,29.3  0.0      0.6
I'MV   tliamuw,                              136.666,2      6,056.7       13.384.2       9*121.6      7,196.0     3,057.3        5,51.                                                                                   MOM---    6,69    LI8 10,405.
1.4. PamC  cam                                 770,096.3      90,164.3       94155.0      50*264.5     30,913.7     22.265,22      9,692.8    28811.990      4,745.4    W4.50,    M827*.2         21077          S73M.0  IPU053.6.0  4.040,738.
~~.Ut .                                                          fl*-t....Pa                             . ,t....... -  ...  . ....e....n....n..........  -1.1 ...-             -
22,76.9      2.990,5         4,707,7        3201.2       740.?       104.0        1,5.5.       3,564.2         70.0       045.    1M0M.           1,4150.3     1*37.3    41400.7  W.  2.404.
F""*S  WRI                                  402,976.6      45,6n10.       PAM03,        NAM,         00,456.3     02,070.5      50,222.2     96,400.5      0.035.6    2*910.0   10,24.7        105448.5       2,740.6   72022.5  S-. 24,914.1
-           -.... ...   .. .. .. ... ... .... ... .. .... ......... .....----... .. ... . .. .... . .--- --- -- -- --- ---- ----- -                                    - ------ -------- --- ---- -        ---- ----
bodno no*8 07r53



NEPAL
BAIRASWA LU SINI GROUNDWATER IRRIGATION III PROJECT
Table 4: Project Components by Year
N am  'm                                                                 *  ",a
92/9     92/9    934    9815    95/96   9/7   97/9    98/99    Ttea             9/2   92 3  13/94  915  t59    89    79   989   Ttal
A. _121    - lUTMI ITNE  tit
I. Po    'eTOU V LIII Me                  1*6.876.1 4h,7. 133.m,9 157.9 142,575.9 lW. 44.5 70.46 65,120.9  M2.0.t3  4.501*.4 1,28.4 4599.0 4319.9 4#94.t 2439.9 2,437.9 b2V.. 2h4636
2. aWUUU er ST IE 11 5It1Me                54,012.6 22.60.6  3,983.9  4,2"4.3  4.514.t       -        -       -   90144.3  103.   7.9   2.9  1.9    .2               -       -      - 34
3. IrFiCrTOF ST4E I MlEt 19457.? 2h44 2.2V57 23n42.4  7,2.9                                  -       -       -   94,55.0    807  7t9.   7.2  8142  24                -      -       - 3.23.8
4. &W3 N 3*1 o3 8T     W     m              1,343.8  12#255-6  S.l564   5.7*6.?  437.  6on04.0 62.90.0 8615.4   50284.5        46.2  42t.2  177.2  *96.4  14.2  274.6  21*6.   27.3 t.2J
5. 61CULR     I  S91 01ES                    329.8  2,242.?  5.2.4  29564.9  3,321.5 7*399.1 19M.2 4079.1   309L?             20.5  111.4  190.9    .I1  14.1  2.3  *204   140.2 1 .3
6. rim  UIZ*T*3   93                        86404.3  6.23.5   1563.0  1,16.9  1.77s.5 1596.3 1tft.  184.7   22.265.2    227.0  2*5.8   I?7  40.1   81.2   54t    54.?   57.    45.
7. _tEII ZilTSAT1IS                        4.1322,2 25.032.2 22,23.2        -        -       -       -       -   9692.8  1. E? 37.7  711.4             -      -      -      -      - 3,32.8
SWtaI 3SI        - Luoirt UAWE III           248,107.2 137,220.8 195,355.7 163,095. 164.1524 9 008.8 824511.9 77500.1 1.154.51.9  8,524.0 4,715.5 8.7*3.3 5 S4. S48*t. 2. 65.6 2.8.5 2.43.2 3NM.d3                    1
0. I1R8*TI1 LIK ff aENt
1. Lim e 3E3i PILT NA I                   *35227.2   299.4  46,489.3        -        -       -       -       -  28,"S.8  4,47.0 3,000.0 2 204.2        -      -      -      -      - *99l.
2. AWIM .t OmEElEl St  12".9  2.00617  1,48.9                              -                                 -    4.745.4     3.5   0.0  45.5         -      -      -      -       -   143.1
3. h                                       14.50.4                                                   -       -   145510.0   500.0       -      -              -      -      -           10o0.
S-TtA     l       ilK U  MIT               *51,044.0 89,360.0 67,939.2       -        -       -       -       -  36b29.s  5,190.5 3.09.0 2,4.7         -       -      -      -      - te4*.2
C. 1I3M1O11311    I1E1193l
1. flI_  *83 3 8MUB                        861 I27m.5 l  4.256   4 963e     -        -       -       -       -   27,342.2   519.2  227.7  170.6        -      -      -      -      -   457.5
2. _t11TI NM IDC8MTIWS                     26427.6  1,25.0  1,2i5.0         -        -       -       -        -   29P017.7    9e0.2   44.5   44.5      -      -      -      -       -   97.2
3. "tIP*3tA   WIAN"                         4,579.0  4,542.0  4.562.0                    -       -           -   13#703.0    157.4  156.8  158.8       --        -          -      -   470.
Si-Ttal Dl6StuDt*   lQE~lt SU. 47210.1  12.462.7 tOS201                        -        -       -       -       -   70t.2.8  1.t24?  42.0  37.0          -       -             -      - 2.425.
Ttad Raw C0    t                              446,431.3 239.0t1.5 274.115.0 *43.095.1 144M.5213 36,.00. 82,518.9 77.5018t533.426.0  *5.341. 0213.5 9.4*9.8 5   .6 5I.6 29955.6 2,835.5 2.43.2 5.45.1
C:s...,,. ntttf  ee#tDnst *5#54 astEr  eutea  .tns  stan,a.eee   ntsnn clat..., 5::e   teas  nes  tune.X cas  ane,  sa.
btil 24. I90 1753
COl



NEPAL
BRAIRAWA LUMBINI GROUNDWATER IRRIGATION III PROJECT
Table 5. Summary Accounts by Year
totlos tleludinO CtAlttio                                                   Tolto  IbI:l Ctuimtnits
*l 92/#3    9/94    94/9             95 /96   96/ m   97/9  9sn9 t .. WI             192   99 s3n 4 s49 su  n                      /m   9       7.163
Kfl*fl,tt ,tf strrt *nran n -trr .tlfn  waSf... s ..ft flfs*   ann,,  n,nn   nfl,, tnnaw B Sn.  wnfl   swum*wa put.5,,, fin  Snanm
1- IitNSIit COStS
A. LAISW O3ITI5                            485.6    930.5  1290.4  13263.1  13351.6 3874.6   321.4   191.7           68.9      16.7   32.0   44.0   43.4   4.4   64.4   11.0    6.6   264,6
P. IUEUlS                                806.U    9251.9  9459.2 s   551R.8  586.4 64 .0  6W5075             -   50953.9    277.0  37.9  325.1  192.1  22.3  213.0  221.6             - 145I.0
C. tiVit MIlKS                         117,60.2 121.816.0 2X75.9  6.008.s 4*8318.6 DMIN. 2441.0 25.9)1.5  559MU5M4   4.044.3 486.1 4424.6 2a234.0 1,660.4   m.9  841.6    0.6 t9T213,
D. Eac2c K &s                            13736.5    7)3.0  1,625.1  t.04   It85.6  t.970.S  20M.1 a2223-.   149094.1           59.7   24.5   55.8   64.6   63.6   67.?   72.0   76.4   484.3
E. C.tECTC1  MiS                         2050.6  2.183.1  1.812.2  1#075.6  1,643.3 3,363.9 13784.0          -   14.712.8      70.5   75.0   42.3   64,5   56.5  335.6   41.3         -   105.I
F. 3I110l                              l137t81.9  9,204.3 52.443.3 41.951.3 55,782.2  I33.9                      276707t.9  4026.9  316.3 3802.2 S1.4*6 1,916.9    4.7                 - 945086
S. CONSIUCTIP 3J391f61 ISE OM  LUES    92*63.4  141)6.2  4P903.2  3224.8  3373.5 5475  2421.7    60.1  13048234  3183.5  622.5  168.4  U0.-8  135.9  380.6   83.2   72.7 4*45.7 
H. CSSI,T   SERIWCES H  TR780110        49.637.4  4946f.4  413132.7 tSe1779.4  34652.0 35,569.9 13u.4  1,580.6  213.379.2  1t705.8 1,707,0 1#413.5  521.6  583.5  535.0  479.3  467.0 7m32,6
1. INECT W11080110 08 STUDIFS            265.0  2.850.0    399.0           -                                 -    5.840        88.1   97.9   13.7       -      -       -       _      -   19.8 
J. EIWIuMt                              14550-.0                 -         -                                      1 0-  -   345.0    500.0  -    -      -       -      -       -           500O0
Total I3ESIIETT COSTS                     406,5.0 214.737.* 24130.9 35972. 132.858.2 6plm.0 Sl36.6 42580.9  .2 .8 2.6  23,.43 7,3 9.3 309.6 467n.6 4.s,6 2322.0 i.7m2   ,463.3 44255.8
--------- -----  .np ..... .a.a  aanfl .*  ltl# .....WP#   iffi finS nf4~
it. latm COSTS
A. 0611U 0    RA E                      3127.7  12.625.0 17,90.7  20,360.3 24590.9 16309.8 229101.3 25#38.0  3S50 .5    39.7  4339  635.5  69.7  845.0   56.4  759.5  872.4 5,75.0
8. STfAF                               26683.6  10.036.0  2.900.)  6.761.9  7,303.3 8.08.1  8F,43.) 9,531.2   90,159.2    917,0  344.9  443.3  2M.4  251.0  278.3  303.9  327.  I.08.3
C. 0OM9 WITIfIl  COST                   3.72.3  I.6*0.3  3496.3           -        -       -        -       -    4,030.8      59.3   55.3   52.4       -       *      -       -      -    66.0
T. UCNt COSTS                              3935.6  24.274.1 32,306.1  27,122.3  31894. 24287.9 3e944.3 34.919.2  245,583.4  3,68,.9  834.2 3.13042  932.0 3.4960  634.6 lo063.4 1.200,0 o 4*9-3
Ttd  mIcRtECS                              446,431.3 239*011.5 274315.0 163.o0951 164752.3 86,006.8 82,511.9 700.1 1.33.426.0  35,42.3 0,13.5 94)9.8 5604.6 s5 18 2.5.6 28M.S 2,6e3.2 $52495.l
.._..._       *-*_..........     _^ _.... __._..._.___........ . . ____^"*^  _-**-_....... .............................................. I----------  -..... ------------ .. - ------- - ---
"Il 24. 1990 37:53
I'



- 55 -
Table 6
NEPAL
BRAIRAWA LUK4RINI GROUNDWATER IRRIGATION III PROJECT
Table 6. Financing Plans by Sumary Accounts
(US$ '000)
6WlWWT   FMR   6wi P
ASIATIU   CISIRtIUTTIOI       NEPM.         Tot
-Los (Sac. Dutn I
umt  2    Abit        2   Mont   2    Moot   I   for. Eac.    TaM)              Tos
1. IIESIIEII  COT
0. LM  A                                     -   -        -    -   264.6 100.0    264.6  0.5            -        264.6
6.    LS                                I.575.? S0.0      -    -   175.1 10.0  I?SI.0  3.3    I.03.4             5S.3    109.3
C. CIIL mm                             17,560.9 91.3   444.7  2.1 1181.0  6.2 19.213.6 36.5    4.08460      14.422.8    722.7
0.L- 11rAMM                               435.9 *n .o     -    -    4t.4  10.0    464.3  0.9         23.6        436.3     24.2
2. OLECMMICAL                            455.0 90.0       -    -    50.6  10.0    5056   1.0         2t.1        459.2     25.3
F. 6A11lM                               6,557.6 90.0      -    -   950.9 10.0  91506.6  18.0    S 5S6.0          7S9.4    133.3
6. C01CI EWNDW MS W ts                  4,322.1 96.1      -    -   17.6  3.9  4,495.7  8.5    3,452.5            99.4      53.7
--. C9TMIT SRICES MID 3AbNK             6,627.4 93.1      -    -   50f.3  6.9  7.332.6  13.9    5.997.9         1,249.2    65.5
t. PRO=  FREPMTIn   MM STUIES            190.0 95.1       -    -      9.8  4.9    199.6  0.4          4.9        165.1      9.6
J. EWIRUI                                495.0 9.o        -    -      5.0  1.0    500.0  0.9        100.0        35.0       5.0
Toaul I TM  COSTS                         40,440.0 91.4   444.7  1.0 33Ml  7.6 44H255.6 84.0   23,317.7          19,769.3  1.168.6
it.   a       caTS
A. WEPATI     D NONAINT E              4.509.0 67.1      -    -   666.1  12.9  5,175.0  9.8   1430.4          3,504.7    239.9
S. STFF                                240".6 67.5       -    - 1407.7 32.5  3.098.3  5.9              -       3,096.3        -
C. 018 WATIN         CtSt                163.7 91.6      -    -       2.3  1.4    166.0  0.3         1.0         162.0      2.3
TOal RECT COsTs                           6,763.3 60.1       -    - 1.676.0 19.9  6,439.3  16.0    1,432.2        6,764.9    242.2
otalisbuaOmt                              47,203.3 89.6   444.7  0.6  5p047*1  9.6 52,695.1100.0   24p749.8       26,534.2  1.411.0
April     IM   175=                                   2                          3
tri1 24. 1990 17:53



- 56 -
Table 7
NEPAL
BMAIRAVA LUMINTI GROUNDWATER IRRIGATION III PROJECT
Table 7: Procurement Methods
(US$ '000)
Category                      ICB    LIB    LCB    OTHERL&   V/A    TOTAL
Bhairawa Lumbini Stage III
Works                                      14.0      0.4                14.4
Goods                       10.3    0.6    0.1                          11.0
Land Acquisition                                               0.3       0.3
Consulting Services &
Training                                            6.5                 6.5
Staffing and O&M Costs                                         7.5       7.5
Irrigation Line of Credit
Works                                       3.9      3.2                 7.1
Goods                                       2.4      0.1                 2.5
Consulting Services & Training                       0.5                 0.5
Staffing and O&M Costs                                         0.4       0.4
Institutional Development
Support
Works                                       0.7      0.4                 1.1
Goods                                       0.4      0.1                 0.5
Consulting Services & Training                       0.4                 0.4
Staffing and O&M Costs                                         0.4       0.4
Overall Protect
Works                                      18.6      4.0                22.6   
(17.1)   (3.6)              (20.7)
Goods                       10.3    0.6    3.0       0.2                14.1
(10.3)  (0.6)  (2.9)   (0.2)               (14.0)
Land Acquisition                                                0.3      0.3
Studies, Training and                                7.4                 7.4
Consultants                                       (7.4)               (7.4)
Staffing and OWM Costs                                          8.3      8.3
(5.1)    (5.1)
TOTAL PROJECT COSTS         10.3    0.6   21.6    11.6          8.6     52.7
(10.3)  (0.6) (20.0)  (11.2)       (5.1)   (47.2)
la  Includes piecework contracts, shopping, and consultancy services
Figures in parenthesis are the amounts to be financed by IDA.



- 57 -
NEPAL
Table 8
BIAIRAWA LUMBINI GROUNDWATER IRRIGATION III PROJECT
Table 8. Estimated Disbursement Schedule
(US$ Million)
IDA fiscal year                            Disbursements
and semester                          Semester   Cumulative
1991
First                              0.0        0.0
Second                             6.9        6.9
1992
First                              6.9       13.8
Second                             3.9       17.7
1993
First                              3.9       21.6
Second                             4.4       26.0
1994
First                              4.4       30.4
Second                             2.5       32.9
1995
First                              2.5       35.4
Second                             2.5       37.9
1996
First                              2.5        40.4
Second                             1.2       41.6
1997
First                              1.2        42.8
Second                             1.2        44.0
1998
First                              1.2        45.2
Second                             1.0        46.2
1999
First                              1.0        47.2
Completion dates December 31, 1998
Closing date: June 30, 1999



- 58 -
Table 9
NEPAL
BUIRAVA LUMBINI GROUNDWATER IRRIGATION III PROJECT
Table 9s Credit Allocation
Amount of the               Percent of
credit allocated          expenditures to
Category                        (expressed in US$)            be financed
1. Civil Works
(a) Bhairawa Lumbini               10,400,000                    902
(b) Line of Credit
;i) Subprojects/Other          7,200,000                   1002
(ii) Environmental Protection    500,000                    1002
sc) Institutional Development       1,200,000                   1002
2. Haterials, Equipment, Vehicles
(a) Bhairawa Lumbini               10,000,000  100? of foreign expenditure,
(b) Line of Credit                  2,500,000  100? of local expenditure
sc) Institutional Development         500,000  ex factory, and 702 of other
locally procured items.
3.  Incremental Salaries, Allowances   5,800,000  1002 of incremental expendi-
and OEM                                       diture for FY91, 92 and 93;
90? for FY94 and 95; 802 for
FY96 and 97; and 602
thereafter.
4. Consultants, Training, Studies
(a) Bhairava Lumbini                6,100,000                  100?
(b) Line of Credit                    500,000                  1OO?
(c) Institutional Development         500,000                  1002
5.  Unallocated                         2.000,000
Total                           47,200,000
Notes At the time of negotiations (April 17-20, 1990) the SDR conversion rate
was US$1.29249/SDR.



- 59 -
Table 10
WL
IDAIRAWA LWSM   USIA DR               III POEeT
TabekL2  Crmleg Pattete
Present an future  itlhoub                 Futur  with
Small Fore MVdl. tfar  LaHO  Form  Sell Fe. Medum tero  Loa1  Fars
L0.0 hal    2.1 bhe       ha( )    0.1 be)    2.1 ha        ha)
Kherit
Paddy, Local           0.70        1.0        8.75                     0.11         0.85
Paddy, WVV                         0.11       0.26          0.70       1.35         4.88
Pusie                  0.02        0.06       0.16                     0.06         0.15
Vegetable.                                                  0.02       0.02         0.06
0.00       1.05       4.15           0.00      2.04          4.90
Rabi
Whet                   0.82        0.00       1.00           0.27        .0.8
Mae                                                          0.06       0.15         0.16
area                               0.06       0.15           0.12       0.27         0.26
Mustard                0.10        0.19       0.80           0.12       0.84         0.90
Potatoe"                                                     0.06       0.06          0.10
Vegptableo                                                   0.06       0.08          0.16
0.42       0.75        1.45          0.72       1."5          2.80
Hot
Paddy, HYV                                                   0.06       0.18
Matez                                                        0.18       0.08          0.08
aram                                                         0.10       0.10          0.12
Vegetable.                                                   0.14       0.09          0.10
0          0          0            0.47       0.40          0.80
Total                     1.22       2.00       6.00           1.90       8.99         0.00
Cropping Intenelt1 (X)    158        124        112            249       16            16o
Landhold1nq
"ohdins    Ara
Small Farmers         CZ    -l
Medium Fa  re         so5      451
L.roe Farmer.         1s       891



NEPAL
4AIRWA UJDUS  UORWABER   IIATIO      PROJECT
Table &1: Production Iput and Output Date - per heatr.
atop                                        Dns                                                  OUTPU
Seed   --  FertilIzer -     Maoure Labor    Bulloctk  Agrechemical Yield  By-product
N     P     K
SeaO#O    (Kg/a)  z(Kg/ha In nutrient)   t/ha   ad/ha    pd/ha    "no/h    -( t/hs)-
without projet
Paddy, local           wet         6o   10.00   5.00   0.00   0.5  108.00      30.00   40.00         1.2   2.4
ParWy, YW              wet         40   20.00   6.00   0.00   0.5  113.00     U3.00   00.00          2.0   2.0
Pulse                  wet         26    0.00   0.00   0.00   0.0   82.00      14.00    0.00         0.6   0.0
vheat                  dry        100   15.00   5.00   0.00   0.0   60.00      24.00   26.00         0.8   0.8
Ortm                   dry         25   0.00   0.00   0.00   0.0   82.00       14.00    0.00         0.4   0.5
Muaterd                dry          7    0.00   0.00   0.00   0.0   40.00      14.00    0.00         0.6   0.0
with project
PaJdy, local           wet         48  38.00  16.00   6.00   0.0  120.00       88.00   00.00         2.8   8.2
Paddy, HYV             wet         865   8.00  80.00  16.00   0.0  140.00      86.00  180.00         8.8    6.0
Pulee                  Wet         25   0.00   0.00   0.00   0.0   85.00       14.00    0.00         0.7   0.8
Vegetables (tomatoes)    wt         2   60.00  25.00  10.00   2.0  105.00      18.00  130.00        20.0   0.0
Wheat                  dry         90   60.00  25.00  10.00   1.5   05.00      22.00   50.00         2.7   2.7
Maize                  dry         25  06.00  80.00  16.00   8.0   00.00       13.00   70.00         2.8   8.0
Gr*m                   dry         25   0.00   0.00   0.00   0.0   86.00       14.00    0.00         0.6   0.9
Muhard                 dry          7   20.00   5.00   0.00   0.0   40.00     20.00   80.00          0.9   0.0
Potstoe                dry      2,000   65.00  85.00  10.00   4.5  182.00      8.00  106.00         25.0
Vegetable (caulitflowr)  dry        2   90.00  45.00  80.00   4.5  160.00      20.00  280.00        22.0   0.0
Paddy, HNV             hot          5   65.00  80.00  15.00   0.0  140.00      88.00  180.00         8.9   8.9
Maliz                  hot         25  06.00  80.00  15.00   3.0   00.00       16.00   70.00         2.0   8.0
a,rn                   hot         26   0.00   0.00   0.00   0.0   85.00       14.00    0.00         0.6   0.0
Vegetable (onion)      hot          2   86.00  40.00  20.00   4.0  156.00      20.00  210.00        22.0   0.0
:                        _                        _~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~
1.



- 61 -
Table 12
UEPAL
BHURAUUAN LUMBINI GROUNDWATER IURIGATION III PROJECT
Table 12s Financial and Economic Prices
Economic    Financial   By-Products
CROPS (NRs1kg)
Paddy (local)                                    6.2          6.7         0.20
Paddy (HYV)                                       5.6         6.2          0.20
Wheat                                             7.8         4.5          0.30
Maize                                             5.4         4.5          0.10
Mustard                                          13.8        11.2
Gram/pulses                                      14.2        12.1          0.10
Potatoes                                          4.5         5.0
Onions                                            4.9         5.5
Tomatoes                                          8.7         9.6
Cauliflower                                       7.5         8.3
FERTILIZER (NRiskg)
Urea                                             19.3        12.6
TST                                              20.2        10.6
MOP                                               8.4         5.0
Farm Manure (NRs/ton)                             0.5         0.3
SEEDS (NRs/kg)
Paddy (local)                                     9.1         7.1
Paddy (HYV)                                      10.7         8.1
Wheat                                            11.9         7.5
Maize                                            11.5         8.4
Mustard                                          35.4        24.9
Gram/pulses                                      24.0        22.9
Potatoes                                          6.2         6.9
Onions                                          225.9       265.3
Tomatoes                                        225.9       265.3
Cauliflower                                     225.9       265.3
OTHER INPUTS
______________________________
Labor                                           16.88       25.00
Draft Animals (NRs/pairday)                     40.50       50.00



NEPAL
BHAIRAWA LUMBINI GROUNDWATER IRRIGATION III PROJECT
Table 13. Derivation of Economic Prices for Traded Commodities
(In 1989 Constant Prices)
. .... ...... ...... ........ ............. ...................... .... ....    ............... ............................ .................. ------------------------------------------------... ... ....  .. .. .  . ...... .........
I ENS                                                Rose al         Naise at        Ila at Al      stard  ed a/ krmPulses Al   Uitrewe 11 Posphate bs/ Potassaus 6114
tat    GIll 19"    / 1 9    2 9 1MU         9 l 2 99"   2m     2995/99   /96   IM/            3    9 9   1969  / /           1999 im 995/9
P roKjecWteidbPc         It            U ue    320          213    1"       1M       202     too 13/                                            22   1 0        22       9        20
"ita  twjntwt    21                        t                                  IS     IS f                                               too     to       "e     too      to      teo
ProeKted PIrCe $4V lI1es1 PrOdKt         OIISMUI    20      244      I"      IIH0    192     Itl                                        145     221     140     22       9        2
/Ateratsotnal Sppiaaadd lemaKe   lWtmo               25      25      40       0      40       0                                          35      35      40      40      25      2n
FM  o Cti PFrce at Calcutit            w/t ne    31         271      144     150     252     231     440     414     4S      4*2        200     25A     200      249     124    /I
Calcutta  orer Psieces is Ns           Us/Toe   914        1781    4111    434      1330    47213304    20          3X23   126          620    1442     620    iSIS    30       422
tIrawst * faadImn  to Nepal  Xder 3/Us/Joue   2/40    2GW    1140    1140    It40    110             60    1630    6o6    Iwo           "I      "91    "9       "I    "I    "9
Ptice at  epa  oder                    Uk   oaoe /0246    90/I   5/7    1           6410    1657   1521U  /3611  /5S2   2421n          4/l    6439    A6l?   an2    4           s225
retceus aN e trantlu   tio                 I         iS      45      too     Il0     le      too     /00     t00o    to      to          44      44      44       44      Al *0
price of Conoitr                       asilow    6441    5041    $311    55 04 ?#1          Mls  I2U2/    lu11   15452   24213        14620   18345   1U29   191n    1nn4    8S010
Prsns/Aiaan. Costs Of A/C St           Us/Veu    -/15    -GIn         0        0       0       0       0       0       0       a        152      R2     652    I52       S1J     5t1
So/c lt Pic  of Coodty Ul s/l Na 446                       5U      51 S1   S0        410    M65t  U2u   13611  /52   14216            /512   19197   15412   2005/1231    9294 
traosport to/tr  faraIt                Us/1en       -0S     -4      -4    6 -6     -4        -4               4      -        4 S   *s s  ff  IS                  9    I
fare Sate  co       Price               s/lna    4401   5U0        5232   5420   0334    7M    ISS0    31M9          5 1 el 2416      1517   2922   25141   20144    94         931
Fr Sadoteemc Price                      Us/g       4.0    5.40    5.23    5.42    11.36    1.11   15.1S3   3.1t   5.51   14.16        15.11   19.29  /5.11   20./S    6.35    9.3n
fotntnt
a/ lmport % Sttute.
U/ trted
I/S11  d S   ,d   Sankd : hIc Prospets for bier Pr iaY CE dit/S.PrIces  epresSed Wr tOM   in cOstat /1 6     tre
[scot  ntrwd see  isch Is b"ad  N  the ubote1 price at  lh/h  for Nsterd sed orilasna           is A  Sirat State;
ad Gm  ad Plsen  ich we a/so baWse   pn mbibs"              le pricen for bIi g , lentils ad pige   Pe   ik          ral.
It 11efgts  the es/seted dal nc  ID qnuaity etuie  the trd   aSnd dlocAlly proucd ceslten.
St os powrt costs outside Nepal tak,     2OU      e    Ecatra ot,i                  ad processiag chren in Nepal assu           to be   501 foretsg  eachae.
4/  itroge  price bas  ed onrfa.
5  tePoat price  wa             Triple $uper plosphte.
6/ Ptassin  price hued  . brate of Potash.
I-



NEPAL
BRAIRAWA LUMBINI GROUNDWATER IRRIGATION III PROJECT
Table 14.: Cost Analvsis for Model ILC Subaroiects (Contd.)
Prject tnp: Major .bhba. Large Sebhewe (itlls)                                       project type.  imer Sehabilitati.. W8ll)
Itm,                Cost/ Ns.       untity                                           Iteum               c;t/ ma.       Qumtlty
ams m                                                                               us '000
_,                                                          __,_                                                                   . ___________..________--_ ________----------_---- -----  ------------------------------ .
ibfuilled Labour                 13.93               340 Ha days                     Unskilled Lhert                   a.*i                 *0 NM"4nUd
JJIiedLabu                       1.61                26 Ne-da"s                     filS d Labor                      6.3r                      U-r
Cemftt                            4.43                25 Sbg                         CeMt                              0.                     a
1Stee                             1.44                l2 1o.                         Steel                             0.0?                 3 B.
Othr Materials                    X."                                                Other Materials                   0
Tr_nsprt truk                     5.83                                                tranpot truk                       .
Tramport Sale                     3.02                                               Tranort Okle                      6.3J
trianport Porter                  0.42                 I Num-dais                    Trrneprt Porter                   0.0?                  1 _das
Overwhad a Ta                     *.?6                                               Overhead a &XT                    O.U
gu lpet O Tools                   0.15                                               KII_pmst & Tools                  S.lS
Project prewration                0.3?                                               Project prepwatles                0.6.
ProJect Katabellhmet              0.93                                               toject getabllboest               0.36
Physical contagencies             5.60                                               Physical coetiegcle               0."
Total                            44.95                                               Total                             1.63
Project tnye  Major Behab. Smll Seh_   (B11111)
Projoct tpe: new Costructlon (3ills)C
Item               cst, in.        uI_t ity
It"                 Cost/ me.      Quatity                                                             as '00
N        000                                           ------------------------------.-----_____.____________________- -
----__-----------_-------__---_------_-----------_------_---_--_--                   U"ki I led Leo r                   .24                I^3 N_tdp
Unskilled Labor                  35. 10              924 NM-daye                     Skilled Labowr                    0."                  15  ae-days
Skilled Laebr                     2.5                  41 Ma-days                    Cemt                              2.24                 13 Mop
Ceomt                             1.91                 34 Sage                       Steel                             0"                  40 4 .
Steel ^I8t                                            94 1                           Other Material.                   1.4I
steelIorl                         3.0?                                               Transport Truck                   LU8
Other Mteril.l                    4.8 UTransort Salel                                                                   I  5
tranport Trck                     1.52 5T                                                   rt  pll                     1.55
Traport NWle                      4.16                                               Trasort Pirter                    0.24                  4 Man-days
transport Porter                  0.53                 9 Ne-days                     Overhead & Tax                    2.26
Owerha  & T Us                    9.                                                 Kguipme & Tools                   0.36
lweNont & tool0                   l 4S                                               ProJect -rswrtien                 0 19
Project prepration                0.72                                               Project Istablibosnt              0.4?
Project Et ablishmt              1.82                                              P4ylical contiaeucies              2.82
Physical contimgesclea           10. 89                                              ---                          --                   - --
Total                            22.62
Trotal                           61.50                                               ------------------- --------------



NEPAL
BRAIRAWA LUM8INI GROUNDWATER IRRIGATION III PROJECT
Table 14: Cost Analysis for Model ILC Subprojects
PrjeCt t4w: Term-O'e  tleeti*l StrwturtI Vork* &Ift1all                                irject tie: Mimew 3.babilAtattee terci)
Item              Cant/ me         atitt                                                                   c..t/ lb y_tlIp
--__-___- - -------------------_ _ _----- ---- --------------                           ______________________gm____________
I  ledLebow4.s3                                                                                      -     - -        -    -     - -..  - - .-
Skilled Laor                      4.52                is o  1 W_ "                     Uille la                           .4?                 5 *_-da
mailed Labour   ~ ~ ~    20                  i sa                              mailted labour                   0. 32                  NMu-de"
Cemeet                            2.0t4              12 Ng                                                                                      bE4
steel                             0.1                 1 3                                  tee                           0.0?                  3gNo
Othet IatriAlW                    1.                                                   Other "aterale                    06S
traport Truc                       .                                                   Tr..wut f.ew                      0.34
trewpwort Nole                    0.00                            *rr ort male                               O              G0
tram_  trt Portr                  0.00                0 U""-dve                        tro _rt Porter                    0.00                 0 Mam-dan
o0w.bad   TIe                     1.32                                                 owb  o     Ta                     0.64
q _uipmet a Tcole                 0.24                                                 Jul _ t & twig                     t
Project pepaatlia                 0.12 la                                                PMt  rtol                      0.0
Project Istablis_meat                                                                  P 0roj ect l ewat imbl            0.10
fOysical coutiageocies            I."                                                  Pbrojictl btiablIet               0.13
*----------  ----------------------ial -t-----ie
Total                            14.34----                                                                - -------------------                  -----
t--                -  ---                 _ -                    ,-- -                 Total                             0.14                               3
.I
Pdroject type: Twrm-Ovwr" gestiel Structural works 40ill3)                             ProJect tnp   fajor Sobabilltatiom (terall
C                                                                   totm VS.  _ titt  Co en    O.      mamtity
01 'ODO                                                                               NW  "000
Uakiled Lb e_r                    3.51                n,  t-a ysilled lbor                                              I2.- 332 Nes-""
*illed laiour                     0.65                10 Ummdai                        mailled Liour                     2.00                32 inv-dep
ceseat                            1.42                 S USEB                          Cement                            4.*1                3 I
stel   i                          0. 16                    .                           St l                              1.20                 5 4.
Other WOrrisale                   1.62                                                 Othr llterlale                    3.2
tr_*epos  *ruc                    1.32                                                 Tremort Truc                      2.
Tr_asrt  Ae                       1.01                                                 Tr     rt m1le                    0.00
Trasort Porter                    0.15 I3 Nm-l57                                       Tranport Porter                   0.00                 0 NM-do"
Overbed a Tex                     1,43                                                 OverheA S Tax                     3.5J
E    _ipmt a teole                0.24                                                  qimt * Taole                    0.61
Projct prepration                 0.12                                                   ject pratl                     0.31
Project eatabl _ t                0.29                                                 Project   abltiaent              0.?1
Plyical costiagecien              1.10                                                 PhysIcal contilngcie             4.61
_.___________-   -                                               __-----_--____________------ -------.----_--_--_--_-___---- -- _----- ------- _---- __
total                           314-1                                                  total                           37.04
. ------------------ ----                                                                                                                       - -----------



NEPAL
GROUNDWATER IRRIGATION I PROJECT
Table IS: Economic Analysis - ERR Calculation
hmuCi inul N
1E8            t           2          3            4          s            4          7           0              9          10          tl          12          tS          14          IS          IS
Arlcultvsl htgt Uk ,OtOO
StOat projut                     31,932      31,932      31,932      Sl,932      3l,932      31,932      31,932      31,932        31,932      3l,932      31,932      31,932      Sl,sS2      31,932      3l,932       3,932
31t0 provet$                     31,952      31,932      33,651      41,243       7,025     109,001     154,441     191,41        243,155     21S,132      290,915     03t,Ss      303,503     X03,0       303,503     303,503
P     I 4t1                             0           0       1,19        9,311      35,e93      7,469      122,59      16,t75       211,223     247,220      246,9       271,571     271,511     271,571    271,571      271,571
IS .wo for lorart to reK*  full proWtio  after receivig irrigatlio
VW             1           2           3           4           5           6           7           8             9          1o          It          12          13          14          is          14
Cutr    cti. of Rep  III         11,433     101,147      41,19"      84,20       70,117      ",441       20,220      13,291                                                                                                                             0
tOmltat  rservst                 16,240      16,248      15,93       It,15 4     13,9        13,9S       13,98       13,906
Om iqpwt                            46       12,'00       2,11        3,4iS       2,4Os       4,076       2,823       2,931
agricultuarl epot                     0       3,170       4,591         475         002       3,458         475         475
Form  Cr.   port                    737         293         735         lot         571         209        11          1e
stap III g                            0         403       2,m         4,224       5,94i       7,02t      10,242      11,456        11,454      12,454        11,45     11,454      1,5         11,456      tt1.45      tt1.45
stop III tisti                    3,9         3,St345     3,551       3,70        3,942       4,155       4,3t5       4,430         2,900       2,9         2,90        2,900       2,990       2 900       2,0         2,900
rlcItornl _1wt S                      0          96         0S9         407         47          534         541         541           542         541         541         541         541         541         541         541
yrlcltvtnel hot Sa4#              1,130       I,m         1,220       I,455       1,503       1,54        1,7S36      1,736          ,7t36      1,          1,734       1,736        1,136      2'73        I,ISS       1,73
fPrw  Or. Stdffia                  54     *5 6115415                   415         62          62          74          749           74          74          749         74          749         7                       7
No bIt hipws)
g   ft1paeh (lOpI                                                                                                                                                       7,792
U  % Cles$ (4p)                                                                                                       2,761                                             2,212                               2,76S
i.  Id clee 4   ot. ("I                                                                                               3,237         I,SO3                     294         t70                               3,137       1,303
MAL   MIi CM                       37,7       139,454       2,1112    112,S63     100,62      136,992     55,2U7       55,02         20,65       t17,0       17,676      27,55       1,301       17,301      23,279      ii,m
n1  mom   telaits-coat)           t33,972)   1139,454     17t,093    MU3,M922    (44,749      (59,323)    47,242      111,075       192,53      229,939     249,307     244,016     254,109     254,'9      248,292    252
9t920          722.0  Or% ofllia
to                 2221t



NEPAL
GROUNDWATER IRRIGATION I PROJECT
Table 15: Economic Analysis - ERR Calculation (contd.)
McT NMI$
so             26           t7          to             I9           20           21          22           23          24           25          24           2t          22                          30
Artpctwal kwtt             ml 000
fitlst poeJd                       32,932       31,932      31,9S2         3t,92        S,M         3t,M         31,9n2       31,932      31,92        30,32       3t,m 32       1,2        31,932         31,932       31,932
ntht pnlsect,                     303,33       303,503       St,5t        303,503      303,3t 3     303,303     303,53       303,503     303,503      303,503     30,      3,50 3          303,503        303,503         503
Noai   IEStT                        271,52       271,571     271,5D1 21,571              271,571      271,371     21,571       21,572      272,571      271,51      272,51       271,571     27,572             ,        271,572
I5 perw  hr   Jan  to red fu1l pgrIitlos dtw  remvi    Ifti5tl.
VW5             26          Ii n          6             19          20           22          22           23          24           25           24          2            28             29          30
C"toctino d       r  11
Cowre tet  SoervIe      I
Om lcsltvlIt
ovrrltat          s
Furw or#. kpwt
Sap  f11               110           t,56      12,45         11,456         11,46       11,456       11,456      22,456       11,456       11.456      12,456       11,456      11,456       tt,456         12,456      11t,4
Stop fit Wil l                       2,900       2,S 0        2,900          2,900       2,0o0        2,9         2,900 2,,9O               2,90        2,90         2,900       2,900        2,900          2,900       2,900
itricoltvr     h S ortp W    5O4                   542          542            542         542          541         542          542         542          542          542         542          542            542         541
Alolttvrat Swrt stf                  l,l36       2,736        2,736          2,7 36        tS         1,736 1,736   1,731      173          1,73        2,73               13,76              2,736          1,3u6       2,73
f'r efreg. Stwfif I4                               749          749            749         149          749          149         749          749         749          149         7n9          749            n"
ftlKcult Cuts
Peep (hit (iwIl                                              17,615                     17,615                    16,206
Teells Q2Ors)                                                                                         4,325       4,686        4,325        4,325       4,325        4,323                                                ,7m2)
6IHI Eplput 4lO0                                                                                                 7,792
1122 vtlcds 2,s)                                                             2,212                                2,761                                              2.212                                                2664)
1g. Wkc1eli SEept. (Ws)              1,303                      294            170                                3,217        1,303                      294          1?0
tMTL. ItT COST                        18,685      17,14        35,290         19,763      34,996       21,707      51,962       23,010      21,707       22,001      24,068       17,321       17,382         2,31l        7,995
IE  IIEFITS Ibeefts-co,t)            252,686     254,219      236,280        252,66       236,575     24,64        219,609     248,561      249,864     249,570      247,463     254.169      254.69         254.189     263,575                        to
WVI 2Js        72S.09 ls s.e 1i2l
n                  221



- 67 -
ANNEX 1
Page 1 of 7
NEPAL
BHAIRAWA LUMBINI GROUNDWATER IRRIGATION III PROJECT
Bhairawa Lumbini Groundwater Irrigation Component
Performance of the Bhairawa Lumbini Stage I and II Projects
Stage I Proiect
1.       The Stage I project became effective in November 1976.  It
represented the first attempt to develop the groundwater resources of the
Terai Zone of the Western Region on a large scale through public tubewell
systems. The project aimed to develop about 7,600 ha of irrigation through
deep tubewell facilities, each serving about 120 ha. Water distribution was
through open channels which were to be mainly unlined. Power supply to
energize the pump motors was taken from the local grid. Other project
components included construction of 70 km of village roads giving access to
the tubewell systems, provision of 1,000 tons of grain storage facilities, and
strengthening of the agricultural extension services in the project area. The
estimated project cost was US$13.7 million and the IDA credit approved was
US$9.0 million (Cr. 654-NEP).
2.       The implementation of project works proceeded much slower than
planned, due mainly to technical problems in supply and installation of
pumping equipment, and construction of the open channel distribution system.
The delays incurred a cost overrun of about US$1.9 million (15X), and at full
disbursement of the credit in 1983, about 80Z of the planned works had been
completed. Many of the wells had yet to be equipped with pumps (though the
equipment had been procured), and the farmers had made little progress with
the construction of field channels. The power supply was not available to the
project until March 1982, and even then remained insecure. Thus, at the close
of the project, the crucial phase of properly operating and maintaining the
tubewell schemes was yet to be reached.
Stage II Project
3.       The Stage II project was appraised in March 1982 and became effective
in October 1983. The major tasks of the project were to: (a) commission fully
the 64 tubewell systems constructed under Stage I; (b) ensure that the systems
would be operated and maintained in accordance with sound engineering
standards; (c) ensure that there would be active farmer participation in the
operation of the systems; and (d) ensure that agricultural inputs and support
services would be made available to achieve the projected agricultural
production. In addition, the project included construction of 16 new tubewell
systems, each serving about 120 ha, which were to be provided with buried PVC
pipe distribution systems, an innovation which had been used in India and was
to be tested in Nepal as an improvement on the open channel distribution
system. The project was planned for completion over five years with an



- 68 -
ANNEX 1
Page 2 of 7
estimated cost of US$19.4 million, for which an IDA credit of US$16.0 million
Was provided.
4.       Full commissioning of the 64 Stage I tubewell facilities was rapidly
achieved. Moreover, the local power grid was connected to the national grid
in 1984, and the power supply and thus the tubewell water supply became
secure. The poor monsoon of 1985 taught the farmers in the tubewell commands
the value of the irrigation water supply, and from that time, agricultural
development progressed rapidly. Effective water user groups were formed at
all the tubewells, the farmers freely donated labor to maintain the canal
systems and constructed a dense network of field channel systems. Cropping
intensities and crop yields increased markedly, and the farmers began to
cultivate significant amounts of high value crops (particularly vegetables) in
all seasons. An interesting feature was the development of about 90 ha of
fish farms in the Stage I area, essentially at the farmers' own initiative and
within the first year of operation.
5.       The Stage II Project dealt with Stage I problems by installing
improved pumping equipment and modern underground pipeline distribution
systems, and by providing assured supply of electricity. However,
construction of the new DTW systems was slowed by procurement delays, mainly
as a result of operational procedures used by MHGN for the Special Account
which was set up under the project to facilitate the flow of IDA funds. (The
proposed Stage III project will incorporate Stage II technical improvements
and modify the Special Account as needed to facilitate release of IDA funds
for procurement). Project completion was further complicated by a fall of the
Nepalese rupee against the US dollar which resulted in large "savings" in
rupee expenditures. The scope of the project was expanded in 1987 to fully
utilize the credit by increasing the length of lined watercourses provided for
the Stage I systems and increasing the number of new Stage II tubewells and
with piped distribution systems to 38 units. Implementation of these works
required extension of the project period to October 1990. During 1989190, 22
of the new systems were essentially completed, leaving 16 planned systems
still requiring works for their completion under the proposed Stage III
project. Though the piped distribution systems have been tested under
operational conditions for only about one year, the indications are that they
are technically much superior to lined channel systems.
Conclusions
6.       Deep tubewells have an important role in Nepal's groundwater
development. Very large groundwater resources can be developed on the Terai
at relatively low cost and without the problems of water rights issues with
India which plague many of the potential surface water resource developments.
In some areas, deep tubewells offer the only technical solution for
groundwater, and in other areas like Bhairawa Lumbini they are needed for
optimum exploitation of the available groundwater resource. In the past, a
major problem with this type of development has been the high level of
government involvement that it has demanded, particularly for O&M of
commissioned systems and recurrent costs to the public purse.



- 69 -
ANNX 1
Page 3 of 7
7.       This problem will be addressed in the Stage III project by making the
project more 'demand driven* and by promoting increased farmer participation.
Farmers would have to make a written request for their DTW and make a small
but significant cash contribution as prepayment of initial electricity bills.
This will involve the direct involvement of the beneficiaries of a facility in
its development from the earliest stage in the project cycle through legally
established Water Users Associations. Moreover, the associations will be
structured and organized to take ovar full responsibility for O&M of the
systems from an early stage after commissioning, albeit with assistance and
guidance from the Project Authority. This would reduce the recurrent cost
burden on the government's budget, and provide increased sustainability for
the project, which would no longer be beholden to annual budget uncertainties.
Stage III
8.       Location and Communications.  The project area is located on the
Terai within Rupandehi District in the Western Region of Nepal. The area
consists of the lands which were provided with groundwater irrigation
facilities under the Stage I and II projects totalling about 12,000 ha (net),
and lands which would be served by irrigation facilities planned under Stage
III totalling about 8,600 ha (net), which together form one contiguous area
(Hap IBRD 22125). The proposed Stage III area covers three blocks lying to
the east of the Rohini River, immediately south of the Stage I area and west
of the Stage II area, respectively. An asphalt surfaced road from Butwal
through Bhairawa to the Indian frontier dissects the area from north to south
and connects with the East-West highway at Butwal. A second asphalt road runs
westward from Bhairawa to Lumbini through the project area. Most of the other
road communications in the project area are provided by the network of gravel
surfaced, all-weather access and service roads developed under the Stage I and
II projects, totalling about 150 km. The Stage III project will add an
additional 92 km.   Access to the project area is enhanced by daily scheduled
flights from Kathmandu to Bhairawa.
9.       Climate.  The project area has a subtropical monsoon climate with
three distinct seasons: a warm wet season from mid-June through September; a
cool dry season from October to February; and a hot dry season from March to
mid-June. The mean annual rainfall is about 1,689 mm of which about 852
occurs during the monsoon season. The lowest temperatures occur in January
with mean monthly values of about 150C, and the hottest month is June with
mean monthly temperatures of about 300C. The climate is suitable for
year-round agriculture provided that irrigation water is available in the dry
months. Irrigation is necessary to obtain high yields from monsoon crops
owing to the uncertainty of rain.
10.      Topography, Drainage and Soils.  The topography of the project area
is a very gentle undulating plain with a regional land slope from north to
south which slackens from about 1:400 to about 1:1000 to the south. The
larger rivers emanating from the Siwalik foothills are fairly deeply incised
as they cross the plain. The natural drainage of the area is generally fairly
good except in lower lying pockets, where the water table is also very near
the land surface and some flooding occurs. The soils are alluvial, moderately



- 70 -
ANNEX 1
Page 4 of 7
fine textured silty loams, silty clay loams and silty clays which are low in
organic matter. Nitrogen, and phosphate and potash content varies from low to
fairly high. The soils are non-saline, with a reaction varying from slightly
alkaline to slightly acidic. With proper irrigation and surface drainage, the
soils are suitable for growing a wide range of crops. Over 80Z of the area
has been classified according to U. S. Bureau of Reclamation standards as
either Class II or III.
11.      Hydrogeology and Groundwater Resources.  The Nepal Terai, of which
the project area forms a part, is underlain by a sequence of alluvial deposits
which thickens southwards onto the Ganges Plain. Drilling has proved a
thickness of unconsolidated alluvium in excess of 450 m in the project area.
The results of constructing some 100 production wells for implementing the
Stage I and II projects have shown that clean sand and gravel deposits form
30-60? of the section to a depth of about 200 m, and these materials provide
high-yielding aquifers. Properly designed tubewells to depths of 200 m or
less generally yield 300 m3Ih or more for drawdowns of only a few meters. In
about two thirds of the area covered by Stage I and the entire area covered by
Stage II the water levels in the production wells are permanently or
seasonally above ground level and thus yield artesian flows. Similar
hydrogeological conditions are expected in the Stage III extension areas.
12.      Groundwater abstractions by the Stage I tubewells over the past 10-12
years have induced pressure head declines in the exploited part of the aquifer
system in the range of 1-3 m, but this has caused no discernable decline in
the water table of the shallow aquifers. A recent reassessment (1988) of the
groundwater resources of the exploited part of the aquifer system underlying
the Stages I and II and the proposed Stage III extension area indicates that
lateral flow through the system could support annual abstraction of about 120
MCM without causing unacceptable declines of the artesian head in the system.
This is considered to be a conservative estimate of the exploitable resource.
It would sustain the withdrawals required for irrigation of the Stage I and II
tubewell command areas and the proposed development under Stage III with the
existing and proposed well field configurations. The quality of the water
produced from the aquifer system is generally suitable for irrigation of all
crops appropriate to the project area. Electrical conductivity values are in
the range of 300-500 mmhos/cm and sodium absorption ratios are generally less
than 1.0.
13.      Existing Irrigation.  The major source of irrigation water supply in
the overall project area now is the groundwater produced by the Stage I
project facilities and the completed Stage II facilities. Previously, parts
of these areas received some wet season irrigation supplies by farmer
constructed diversions from seasonal streams. Parts of the Stage III
extension area receive similar supplies, but they are not reliable in the wet
season or available for dry season irrigation. Other small-scale irrigation
supplies are obtained from shallow artesian wells located in depression areas.
14.      Agricultural Extension.  Rupandehi District is one of the six
districts in the Terai in which the Department of Agriculture (DOA) decided to



- 71 -
ANNE I
Page 5 of 7
introduce the T&V system of agricultural extension during the mid-1970s as
part of IDA-assisted irrigation projects, one of which was the Bhairawa
Lumbini Stage I project. The project employed a Senior Agricultural Officer
(SAO) to supervise extension activities, and appointed Subject Matter
Specialists (SMS), Junior Technicians (JT), Junior Technical Assistants (JTA)
and Panchayat-Level Agricultural Assistants (PLAM) to carry out the extension
work in the tubewell command areas. The extension activities concentrated ons
(i) introduction of new demonstration methods; (ii) introduction of improved
cultivation practices and irrigation water use technologies; and (iii) strict
adherence to programmed training and visit schedules. The project's
Agricultural Division was administered directly by the Project Authority, was
budgeted for under project funding, and the SAO reported to the Project
Manager.
15.      In 1985, the remaining part of Rupandehi District was organized for
agricultural extension under the T&V system as part of the IDA-assisted
Agricultural Extension and Research Project (Cr. 1100-NEP). The district
organization is under an Agricultural Development Officer (ADO) who controls
appropriate staff at all levels to operate the system. However, provision of
extension services to the tubewell command areas remained the responsibility
of the project's Agricultural Division. Nevertheless, the district extension
services under the ADO were available to provide technical advice to the
project's agricultural staff as required.
16.      The existing system has provided an efficient extension service to
the tubewell irrigated command areas developed under the Stage I and II
projects. The results are clearly apparent from the agricultural performances
of the areas as indicated by increased yielAs, high cropping intensities, and
the introduction of significant proportions of high value crops in all
seasons. Three well equipped agricultural subcenters have been established at
strategic localities in the Stage I and It project areas. The staffing of the
project's agricultural division now comprises 1 SAO, 6 SMSs, 10 JTs, 26 JTAs
and 80 PLAAs (four women have been recruited to positions at the PLAA level).
Each PLAA services one tubewell unit comprising about 80 farm families. The
Agricultural Division is very active in providing farmer training, in
establishing demonstration plots with the active participation of farmers on
their own land, and in training its field staff. The development of effective
water user associations (WUA) and properly operated systems for rotational
water supply on the commissioned tubewell command areas are largely
attributable to the activities of the project's extension service. Five
panchayat-level input stores have been established under the Stage I and II
projects to serve farmers in the project area. The project's Agricultural
Division estimates seed and chemical requirements for the project area in
advance of each season and liaises with the Agricultural Inputs Corporation
(AIC) to ensure such supplies are available in a timely manner.
17.      Agricultural Research.  Agricultural research on the important crops
of the project area is conducted at the Bhairawa Agricultural Farm which
serves as the regional research station for the Western Region. The National
Wheat Development Research Program, which is responsible for all aspects of
wheat improvement, conducts its research at this station. The station has 35



- 72 -
ANE 1
Page 6 of 7
ha on which to conduct experiments and trials, and 25 ha are used for wheat
research during the dry season and about the same area for rice research
during the wet season. Major areas of research aret (i) selection and
introduction of crop varieties suitable for the regiont and (ii) improved crop
cultivation practices including use of fertilizers, plant protection chemicals
and on-farm water management. The research station conducts training sessions
for extension workers, and the project staff have taken advantage of such
training in the past. The research activities at the station have been
strengthened by the support of the IDA-assisted Agricultural Extension and
Research Project (Cr. 1100-NEP).
18.      Agricultural Credit.  The major source of institutional credit is the
Agricultural Development Bank of Nepal (ADBN), which provides credit for
farmers and agriculture-based industries. Commercial banks provide
agricultural credit, but the volume is small, representing about 12 of the
total borrowing for agricultural purposes in the project area. The standard
terms of ADBN are 6-18 months at 16-182 annual interest for short-term loans,
1.5-7 years at 15-202 annual interest for medium-term loans, and 7-20 years at
15-18? annual interest for long-term loans. ADBN has zonal and branch offices
at Bhairawa.
19.      Agricultural Inputs Supply.  The Agriculture Inputs Corporation (AIC)
is the main source of quality seeds for farmers and is also responsible for
procurement and distribution of fertilizers and plant protection chemicals.
The corporation produces HYV wheat, paddy and maize through a contract system
with private growers. Foundation seeds are provided to the growers from,
among others, the Bhairawa Agricultural Farm. In recent years
(1983J84-1987/88), AIC supplied annually an average of about 18 tons of wheat,
2.5 tons of maize and 131 kg of various vegetable seeds to farmers in the
Rupandehi district. AIC supplied during the same period about 2,800 nutrient
tons of various chemical fertilizers per year in the district. Use of
fertilizers in the district is high, averaging 44.0 kg/ha of nutrient (30.6 kg
of nitrogen, 13.1 kg of phosphate and 0.3 kg of potash) per ha cropped. By
comparison, the national average of fertilizer consumption is 15.0 kg per ha
cropped. Plant protection chemical sales in Rupandehi District have
fluctuated between NRs 355,000 and NRs 449,000 annually, with no discernable
trend in amounts during 1983/84 to 1987/88. An average of about NRs 7.3/ha
has been spent by farmers to protect crops frem disease and insect damage.
About 802 of the value of the chemicals was for paddy protection, 152 for
wheat and the balance for vegetables. There is one pair of draft animals for
about 2.3 ha of cultivated land, which is considered adequate if farmers share
or hire out animals in peak periods.
20.      Storage, Processing and Marketing.  A large proportion of the
foodgrain production is consumed by farm households and never becomes part of
the trading process. The Nepal Food Corporation (NFC) has warehouse capacity
for about 3,000 tons in the general vicinity of the project area, mainly for
milled rice. Private traders also have significant warehouse capacity for
cereals. There is one cold storage facility in Bhairawa with a capacity of
2,000 tons, a second one in Butwal with 500 tons capacity. Storage facilities



- 73 -
ARM  1
Page 7 of 7
would not be a constraint to agricultural activities under the proposed
project.
21.      There are about 40 large rice mills (with capacities of 1-3 tonslhr)
and numerous small rice mills in the vicinity of the project area. 'Wheat
flour is milled by one large roller mill with a capacity of 1.6 tlhr and many
small flour mills. There are 15 motorized oil presses each capable of
processing up to 15 tons of source material per day and at least 40 small
presses with capacities of about 0.3 tonslday. These processing facilities
are adequate to meet the increased needs expected to be generated by the
proposed project.
22.      Farm surpluses in grain are sold mainly in local markets to traders
and middlemen who sell either in the wholesale commodity markets in the towns
or directly to large millers. The NFC also procures grain and intervenes to
set minimum prices (but these are generally below normal market prices).
Vegetable surpluses are disposed of in village or town markets and
increasingly to wholesalers who send trucks from Pokhara and other large
market centers. A few of these commodities, for example tomatoes, are
sometimes affected by gluts, but generally the markets for such produce
remain elastic.
23.      Population, Farm Size and Land Tenure.  The total population of the
Bhairawa Lumbini Stage III area is estimated to be about 42,000, and the
average family consists of about 7.5 persons of whom about 3.5 are available
for farm work. There are 18 villages within or near the project area. The
rural population lives in small villages and is entirely supported by
agriculture.
24.      The distribution of landholding by size in Rupandehi district is as
follows:
Size of                                Average
Holding      Holdings    Areas         Holding
(ha)          (2)        (X)            (ha)
<0.5           29.4        5.0          0.28
0.5-1.0        23.0       11.5          0.82
1.0-3.0        35.4       44.9          2.07
3.0-5.0         8.1       19.2          3.89
>5.0            4.1       19.4          7.72
The average farm size in Rupandehi district is about 1.64 ha. Some 4? of the
holdings are larger than 5.0 ha and farm 19.42 of the land; however, about 522
of the holdings have less than 1.0 ha and farm only 16.52 of the land.
Fragmentation of holdings is coamon. According to local statistics, only
about 5-102 of the land is farmed by tenants or owner-tenants. Rents, which
are controlled by legislation and are paid in kind, amount to 20-30Q of gross
production value; in addition, the tenant pays for all agricultural inputs
except water charges.



- 74 -
ANNEX 2
Page 1 of 5
NEPAL
BRAIRAWA LUMGINI GROUNDWATER IRRIGATION III PROJECT
Bhairawa Lumbini Groundwater Irri8ation Component
Summary Description of Bhairawa Lumbini III Irrigation Facilities
Summary of Stage III Facilities to be Financed
1.       The Stage III would finance over an eight-year period the following:
(a) planning, design, and installation of about 73 tubewell schemes
serving individual command areas in the range of 90 to 120 ha (for a
total of about 8,600 ha) through buried pipe distribution systems and
associated system level drainage networks;
(b) design, layout and construction supervision of about 1,000 km of
field channels to be constructed by the farmers;
(c) design and construction of approximately 118 km of 33 kV power dis-
tribution lines to the well heads of the facilities together with
33/0.4 kV transformers and low tension connections, and upgrading of
about 12 km of the existing 33 kV line from Butwal to Bhairawa up to
the project connection point;
td) design and construction of approximately 92 km of access and service
roads for the tubewell systems and to improve the rural road network;
(e) improvements to the main drainage system by constructing about 50 km
of new drains and improving about 38 km of existing drains;
(f) procurement of materials and equipment for construction of 73
tubewell irrigation facilities;
(g) provision of two agricultural subcenters, including staff housing, to
serve the new command areas;
(h) provision of five panchayat-level agricultural input storage
facilities in the new project area;
(i) staff required for design and supervision of construction of tubewell
systems, O&M of all operational systems, and O&M of the road network
in the total project area on a declining basis;
(j) staff required for the project extension service;
(k) provision of consultancy services in support of the development; and



- 75 -
ANNEX 2
Page 2 of 5
(1) a feasibility study for further groundwater development by public
tubewell systems in the Birganj area of the Terai.
Features of the Project
2.       General.  Most of the new tubewells are expected to yield 300 m3/h,
but discharges of 225 m3/h are foreseen for about 1lZ of the tubewells. Many
of the tubewells would yield artesian flows, but provision of the design
discharge would involve pumping. The facilities would be provided with buried
PVC pipe distribution systems with turnouts at about 2.5 ha into an earthen
field channel system. The proposed designs are based on experience gained
from implementing the Stage II project which included facilities with piped
distribution systems. The PVC pipe networks would consist of independent
loops originating at a central control chamber, each serving about 30 ha and
each delivering 75 m3/h from the total well discharge. Thus individual well
command areas would be about 120 ha for the 300 m3/h facilities and 90 ha for
the 225 m3/h facilities. The pumps would be energized by electric power taken
from the nat!-.al grid.
3.       The effect of DTW operation on piezometric levels in the lower
aquifer, and of DTW irrigation on the shallow water table, will be closely
monitored as development of Stage III proceeds. If it appears that either the
lower aquifer is being depleted unduly, or the water table is rising
undesirably, shal =t tubewells drawing upon the upper aquifer will be
substituted for some of the remaining DTWs planned.
4.       Planning.  The planning and design of the new tubewell systems would
be based on topographic mapping at scale l:lO,000 and on semi-detailed soil
surveys at scale 1slO,000. This mapping was completed for the selected Stage
III development areas during the Stage I and Stage II projects. The new
development would be distributed in three blockst (i) the Eastern Block lying
immediately to the east of the Rohini River where 26 systems serving about ,
2,800 ha are planned, (ii) the Central Block lying between the Rohini and Dano
rivers and to the immediate south of the Stage I project area where 35 systems
serving about 4,300 ha would be constructed; and (iii) the Western Block lying
immediately to the west of the Stage II area where 12 systems serving about
1,500 ha are planned (Map IBRD 22125).
5.       For each DTW, the concerned farmers would have to officially request
a DTW and be consulted from the earliest stages of planning and development.
Before construction begins, the farmer group would make an official request to
DOI for a DTW, form a WUA, make an earnest money cash contribution, and commit
to contribute to construction costs and take responsibility for O&M costs. As
it is impossible to program farmer group decisions ahead of time, this may
require that the Project Authority plan and prepare more DTWs than will
eventually be installed in case some farmer groups are unwilling to make the
necessary commitments.
6.       A low cost, gravel surfaced road network in planned to give access to
each new tubewell system. The network would also serve a rural transport
function and connect with the main road systems of the project areas. The



- 76 -
ANNEX 2
Page 3 of 5
planned roads follow existing tracks and established rights of way whenever
possible.
7.       Tertiary drainage systems would be constructed as necessary within
each of the tubewell command areas. These would connect to higher level
drains, which would be either new construction or improved natural channels.
These drains would outfall to the major streams of the project area. The
channels would be designed to evacuate 4 l/s/ha at the tubewell command area
level.
8.       It is planned to provide two additional agricultural subcenters to
serve the extended project area. These would supplement the three existing
subcenters established under the Stage I and 'I projects. Each subcenter
would include an office building, an input store, and housing for two senior
staff and six junior staff. The subcenters would be fully furnished and
equipped with transport, a radio communication system, and necessary
agricultural machinery. In addition, six agricultural input stores would be
provided for the new project areas.
Design Criteria
9.       Wells.  Well depths would range from 120 to 200 m depending on the
locility. The wells would be drilled using direct circulation rotary rigs and
u'i g bentonite mud appropriately weighted with barytes to control artesian
pressures. Casing materials would be of mild steel and the screen would be
stainless steel wire-wound slot screen. The pump chamber would generally be
of 350 mm or 400 mm diameter and the production string of about 250 mm
diameter with screen set to cover all suitable aquifer material and blank
casing covering all non-productive beds. The wells would be designed for
gravel packing except in areas where it is known that a naturally developed
well will produce sand-free water. The wells would be initially developed by
high velocity jet and finally developed with a turbine pump of higher capacfty
than the well design discharge. Each well would be pump-tested for 24 hours
to provide information for specification of the pump unit.
10.      Pump Units.  The wells would be equipped with submersible or vertical
line shaft turbine pumps with a 200 mm diameter rising main. The power units
would be electric motors with capacities in the range of 40-45 kW, depending
on the well characteristics and planned discharge capacity. The starting
mechanism would be a star-delta immersion starter. Pump motor protection
equipment would include a single phase preventor, a capacitor, and a motor
temperature controlled cut-out switch.
11.      Submersible pumps provide greater flexibility in operation  compared
to the vertical line-shaft pumps used in Stages I and II and are advantageous
for farmer operation of DTWs. Submersible pumps would therefore be installed
and evaluated in the final ten DTWs of Stage II and adopted for all Stage III
wells if indicated. They would be procured with the same type of service
warranty stipulated for the line-shaft pumps in Stage I and II.



- 77 -
ANNEX 2
Page 4 of 5
12.      Pump House.  The pump house wc-ild be a simple brick-built structure
with an elevated girder above a roof opening for lifting the pump unit for
maintenance. The house would include a room for the pump operator's
accommodation.
13.      Control Chamber.  The structure would be of reinforced concrete and
would have one inflow chamber and three or four outflow chambers depending on
whether it is intended to serve a three or four loop distribution system. The
discharge from the tubewell is delivered into the bottom of the inflow chamber
through a mild steel pipe which incorporates a float-controlled throttling
valve in the case of line shaft pumps. The throttling valve is not required
in the case of submersible pumps due to the greater flexibility in on/off
regulation. At the top of the inflow chamber are three or four V-notch weirs
dividing the pump discharge equally between outflow chambers which then
deliver to individual distribution loops through mild steel pipes. A drinking
water outlet with cutoff valve would be provided on the inflow channels.
14.        Pipe Distribution System and Outlets.  An important operational
feature of the piped distribution system is the assumption that the outlets
from any loop will be operated in rotation with only one outlet open at any
time. In this situation, the delivery stream to the loop of 75 m /hr (22 11)
is the same as the discharge at any outlet. The PVC connection pipe of 200 mm
diameter and 2.5 kg/cm2 pressure rating would link the steel pipe delivery
from an outflow chamber to the PVC looped pipeline of 160 mm diameter and the
same pressure rating. About 68 m/ha of buried PVC pipe line would be required
to provide turnouts at about 2.5 ha from a loop system serving 30 ha. The
outlets would be simple alfalfa type valves of mild steel construction with a
rubber seal, set in a brick-built outlet box which would be gated for delivery
to one or more field channel networks. One surge riser of 160 mm diameter PVC
pipe would be provided at a point furthest from the control chamber on each
loop. If requested by farmers, a drinking water outlet with cutoff valve
could be provided on a selected riser(s).
15.      Field Channel System.  The water distribution below the pipe outlets
would be earthen open channels to deliver water to each field within the 2.5
ha outlet command. Provision of such a system typically requires about 100
mlha of open channel.
16.      Drainage System.  Field drainage would be provided within the
tubewell conmmand areas as necessary to evacuate surplus rainwater. A drainage
duty of 4 1/s/ha is assumed at this level. The field drains would outfall
into a collector system of artificial and improved natural channels which
would outfall into major natural stream courses.
17.      Power Transmission and Transformation.  The power supply for the
Stage I and 11 project tubewell facilities is taken from a 132/33 kV
substation at Butwal through a 33 kV transmission line which was extended to a
33111 kV - 5,000 kVA substation at Amuwa for the Stage I project wells and
further extended to a 33/11 kV - 1,500 kVA substation at Ekla for the Stage II
project wells. All the Stage I tubewell facilities and 16 of the Stage II
facilities are connected to their respective substations through 11 kV lines



- 78 -
ANNEX 2
Page 5 of 5
with 11104 iv transformers and low tension connections at each well head.
However, 22 of the Stage II project tubewell facilities have 33 kV lines
extended to the well heads with 3310.4 kV transformers for low tension
connection at each well head. This practice would be continued under the
Stage III project as it eliminates the need for intermediary 33/11 kV
substations, reduces energy losses in the system, and permits better network
selectivity.
18.      Roads.  Two types of roads would be constructed:  (i) access roads
with a crown width of 5.0 m which also perform a rural transport function; and
(ii) service roads which primarily connect to tubewell sites and would have a
crown width of 3.5 m. Both types would be constructed on embankments raised
to a minimum of 0.5 m above the local land surface. The access roads would be
provided with a 25 cm thickness of compacted coarse granular material on the
crown width, and service roads would have a 15 cm thick compacted coarse
granular layer on the crown width.
19.      Buildings.  The buildings required for the agricultural sub-centers
and for the agricultural input stores would be built according to design
standards established for these facilities under the Stage I and II projects.
All the buildings would be of brick-built construction.
Construction Methods
20.      Drilling, development and testing of the new wells would be the
responsibility of the drilling unit of the construction division of the
project authority, which has developed expertise in these activities during
the course of the Stage I and II projects. The drilling rigs and ancillary
equipment for the work are available with the unit, though spare parts,
drilling materials and bits would be procured. Construction of pump houses,
control chambers and laying of PVC pipe distribution system would be by
contractors as a complete package including the supply of pipes and fittings.
Local labor would be employed by the contractors or contributed by farmers for
opening and back-filling the trenches and placing the pipes. The alternative
of having the farmers to be served by a well (the Water User Association)
carry out both trench excavation and pipe laying and back-fill, under
authority supervision, would also be tested. The field channel systems would
be constructed by the farmers. The supply and installation o! the power
transmission system would be by contractors, supervised by the pioject staff,
but the network would be inspected and tested by the National Electricity
Authority before taking over the facilities to deliver power to the tubewells.
Other buildings, such as the agricultural subcenters and stores, would be
constructed by contractors.



- 79 -
ANNEX 3
Page i of 13
NEPAL
BHAIRAWA LUMBINI GROUNDWATER IRRIGATION III PROJECT
Irrigation 'Line of Credit' Pilot Proiect
Implementation Guidelines
1.       General.  The Irrigation Line of Credit (ILC) Pilot Project is
intended as the first stage in establishing the framework for an irrigation
sector lending program. It would eventually cover all proven irrigation
investment options. The program could then be financed by various donors
under a coordinated, unified program of irrigation investment. Specific
subsector objectives of the ILC pilot project would be to:
(a) establish a 'subsector program' approach which would support national
objectives, in place of the 'project-by-project' approach of the
past, and enable donors to provide large scale, long term support to
small schemes which are individually too small to justify
involvement;
(b) make the program as 'demand driven' as possible, based on local felt
needs and demands, in contrast to traditional 'supply driven'
projects;
*c) help develop, test and establish effective subproject selection
criteria and implementation procedures which would provide the basis
for operating the subsector program; and
(d) reduce the burden of irrigation costs on HKGN's budget, particularly
for O&M of completed projects, through increased farmer participation
to cover full O&M and a share of capital costs.
2.       ILC would finance irrigation subprojects for construction and
rehabilitation of irrigation facilities, and specialized irrigation and
agricultural support services. The latter will require close coordination
between DOI and other agencies such as ADBN and especially the agricultural
extension service of DOA. DOA would be directly responsible for the
implementation of agricultural support activities in ILC subproject areas.
DOA involvement is particularly important, as its extension staff will be the
primary agency source of day-to-day continuing contact and support for farmer
water user groups after completion of each subproject.
Subproiect Types
3.       Surface Rehabilitation Schemes.  Rehabilitation of surface schemes
would range from selective minor improvements of small schemes to complete
reconstruction and expansion of large systems. Rehabilitation could involve
construction of a new irrigation infrastructure, replacing or combining
several smaller existing schemes, but would not require additional diversion



- 80 -
ANNEX 3
Page 2 of 13
from the river basin in which the subproject area is located. Greater
irrigation coverage would be achieved through a more efficient use of the
total quantity of water presently diverted. Three basic types of
rehabilitation have been identifieds
(a)  Major Rehabilitation of Medium and Small Schemes--The main problem in
many schemes is frequent interruption of main canal operation during
the monsoon because of the temporary nature of intake and other main
structures, high water losses, and (on the Terai) water logging.
Rehabilitation would comprise construction or improvement of (semi)
permanent intake structures, permanent side drainage and landslide
crossings, reexcavation-reshaping-lining of main canals, and
improvement and extension of the distribution and drainage systems.
These subprojects would be located in both the Terai and Hills, and
the average costs of civil works would be around NRs 45,000/ha.
(b)  Minor Rehabilitation of Medium and Small Schemes--In these schemes,
works would concentrate on elimination of bottlenecks through
reconstruction of headworks and essential main canal structures.
Located in both the Terai and Hills, such subprojects would cost no
more than about NRs 20,000/ha for civil works.
(c)  'Turnover' Rehabilitation Schemes--These subprojects would
rehabilitate medium DOI schemes for 'turn over' to private
management by the farmers. This would involve public sector schemes
with permanent structures in place but which currently are performing
poorly, often with reduced irrigated area because of deferred O&M and
consequent deterioration of intakes and main canals, lack of
facilities and channels for water distribution, and absence of
effective water management arrangements. The average cost of civil
works for these subprojects would range from about NRs 10,000 to
30,000/ha, depending on the extent of essential structural
improvements required.
4.       Groundwater Schemes.  All groundwater facilities would be designed
for group management and O&M. Each would comprise: a machine drilled
tubewell with casing and screen, a diesel or electric engine powered
ceutrifugal pump unit, and simple (brick) pumphouse and sump. Buried PVC pipe
distribution systems or open field channel systems may be used. The
individual facility would be small, about 4-30 ha (larger deep tubewells would
have, say, four unit service areas of about 30 ha each), to facilitate farmer
group formation and organization. Groundwater facilities would be planned and
developed in groups or clusters. This would permit optimum use of groundwater
resources, facilitate effective deployment of equipment and technical staff,
allow the construction of supporting infrastructural works, and enable
formation of effective FIAs. Farmers would form water user groups for each
STW, MTW, or DTW, and for groups or clusters of wells a FIA would be
established and registered at the District Office to obtain legal status. In
areas located near national grid substations, wells would be electrified. In
other areas, the use of simple diesel pumps would eliminate the immediate need
for rural electrification, and local skills for maintaining such pumps are



- 81 -
ANNEX 3
Page 3 of 13
available in the Terai. The piped distribution system would ensure efficient
water conveyance and equitable distribution. Wells would be developed in
groups or clusters to enable the construction of supporting infrastructure
such as roads and power lines. The type of wells in a group or cluster would
depend on the aquifer(s) in the subproject area. Estimated costs for
groundwater facilities would range from about NRs 25,000 to 35,000 per ha.
These costs would include construction of 3.5 m access roads, and if the
location of substations permit, construction of 11 KV and 400 V power lines
and transfo mers. The following groundwater facilities would be constructed
under ILC.T'
(a) Shallow Tubewells. Machine drilled, 4^ (10 cm) diameter, shallow
tubewells (STWs), with an average depth of 35-40m, equipped with 5 HP
diesel engine centrifugal pumps discharging about 14 lJsec and
serving command areas of 4-8 ha through open lined channels, or a
buried PVC pipe distribution system with turnouts at 1 to 2 ha and
earthen field channels to plot boundaries;
(b) Medium Tubewells. Machine drilled, 6' (15cm) diameter, tubewells
(MTV) of medium depth (up to about 80 m) with 10 HP diesel or
electric motor pumps discharging about 30 l/sec and serving command
areas up to 30 ha through open lined channels or a buried PVC pipe
distribution system with turnouts at 2 ha and earthen field channels
to plot boundaries; and
(c) Deep Tubewells. Machine drilled deep tubewells (DTWs) and
distribution systems with technical specifications similar to DTWs in
the Bhairawa Lumbini Project, Stages 1I and III.
5.       Additional Types of Subproiects.  By mutual agreement of HMGN and
IDA, and provided agreed subproject criteria are met, ILC may also support
other types of irrigation subprojects, and it could be expanded to other
areas. These new subprojects would be subject to standard ILC project cycle
procedures.
Subproiect Selection Criteria
6.       Subprojects would be selected, designed, appraised and approved on
the basis of principles and criteria specified in Annex 3, Appendix 1. These
principles and criteria concern location, farmer requests, economic viability
(ERR of at least 102), construction timetable, written agreement with the YIA,
registration of the FIA, members and officers of the FIA, environmental
assessment, funding through DOI as central projects, and cost sharing.
11   Areas with suitable aquifers for hand-drilled STWs (up to a depth of
20m) preferably would be developed under the ADBN Shallow Tubewell
Program.



- 82 -
ANNEX 3
Page 4 of 13
ILC Implementation
7.       Institutional Responsibility for Subproject Implementation.  At
present the only substantive technical capability for surface irrigation
development is installed at RIbs and DIOs of DOI. Groundwater development has
been directed from the central level by the Groundwater Resources Development
Board, through individual, large scale projects (e.g. hairawa Lumbini), or
through the Groundwater Resources Development Project&'. The Groundwater
Board and the Groundwater Utilization Division in the DOI will remain directly
responsible for all groundwater development in Nepal until suitable capability
is installed at the regional and district office level. The institutional
responsibility for ILC implementation will therefore be as followss
(a) For surface irrigation subprojects, the RID would be directly
responsible for all subproject implementation. For (minor)
subprojects estimated to cost NRs 1.0 million or less, RIDs could
delegate implementation responsibility to DIOs if adequate control by
RID and permanent staffing of these subprojects through DIOs can be
assured. In other cases. and for larger (major) subprojects,
implementation would be th. direct responsibility of the RIDs.
(b) For groundwater subprojects, under the direct supervision of the
Groundwater Board and the Groundwater Utilization Division, the
Groundwater Resources Development Project, through its field offices
in Biratnagar, Lahan, Mahottari, Birgunj, Butwal, Kapilvastu, Dang,
Nepagunj, and Dhangadhi, would be responsible for the implementation
of all groundwater subprojects. Selection of subproject areas would
be coordinated with the respective RIDs, who would also provide
technical support through the DIOs, for survey and layout of
distribution systems. For groundwater subproject planning, detailed
design, construction and setting up of O&M arrangements, the
Groundwater Resources Development Project would receive technical
assistance from the ILC Groundwater Unit to be established for the
project in the Butwal/Bhairawa Lumbini area under DOI's Groundwater
Division; specialized technical assistance would also be provided
through ISSP, the expatriate groundwater consultant firms engaged for
the groundwater feasibility and Terai groundwater studies, and/or the
project consultant for implementation of Bhairawa Lumbini Stage III.
8.       Institutional Capacity and Prequalification Criteria.  Before a
subproject can be selected for implementation under the ILC, the following
conditions and institutional prequalification criteria for DOI offices
21   This project is funded through the regular DOI budget, supplemented with
specific, foreign aided assistance. Activities includes hvdrological
surveys, exploration drilling, pump testing, groundwater monitoring
(with Japanese assistance), small groundwater development projects
(integrated rural development projects and Mahakali ILC component), and
shallow aquifer investigation program (UNDP).



- 83 -
ANNEX 3
Page 5 of 13
regarding organizational set up, staffing, equipment, and other support
facilities should be fulfilled:
(a) For surface irrigation development, RIDs and DIOs should have
installed adequate capacity for subproject design and construction,
and the RID should be able to exercise full staffing and
administrative control over the DIOs. For ILC implementation, RIDs
should haves (i) formed an ILC UnitlMobile Irrigation Team (MIT)
with a minimum staffing of a senior divisional engineer, three
experienced assistant engineers, an AO coordinator and two AO
supervisors; (ii) procured the required survey, design and office
equipment and vehicles; (iii) agreed on coordination with and inputs
from DOA at regional level; (iv) approved the TOR for subproject
preparation by local consultants; (v) and prequalified local
consultant firms for work on ILC. DIOs should have: ti) one
experienced assistant irrigation engineer, a junior assistant
engineer, a minimum of eight experienced overseers, an AO supervisor
and four AOs; (ii) arrangements agreed on coordination and inputs
from DAO; and (iii) adequate survey, design and office equipment,
building and facilities, vehicles and motorcycles, fuel, and
communications (by radio or telephone located at each concerned DOI
office). Before delegation of authority for subprojects to DIOs, the
concerned RID shculd have assured full administrative and technical
control over DOI staff involved directly in ILC implementation. If
these minimum requirements are not met, the RID may alternatively set
up subproject establishments at subproject sites or at central
locations in subproject cluster areas.
(b) For groundwater development, the ILC Groundwater Unit at the Bhairawa
Lumbini should be operational and should have sufficient vehicles and
supporting equipment to provide effective assistance to the GRDP
Groundwater Field Offices in ILC subproject areas. The Groundwater
Field Offices should have: (i) sufficient staff (irrigation
engineer, groundwater hydrologist, mechanical engineer, AO supervisor
and AOs, drill rig operating teams, and other support personnel);
(ii) drill rigs for STWs and MTWs; (iii) sufficient spare parts to
keep rigs operational; (iv) supporting equipment (compressors for
well development, welding equipment, well loggers, storage tankers,
tractors, pickup trucks for supervision, survey equipment, tools
etc.); (v) sufficient stock of well construction materials (casing,
screen, pumps and ancillary materials); and (vi) equipment, vehicles,
motorcycles, and communications as in DIOs. Detailed arrangements
for technical support from the DIOa should have been finalized and
approved by the concerned officials. If private companies are to be
involved in well drilling operations, standard contracts should have
been prepared and approved by IDA.
9.       Selection and Implementation Procedures.  Procedures for subproject
selection and approval would follow a "project cycle" comprising:
(a) reconnaissance, identification and farmer request; (b) preparation and
feasibility study; tc) farmer agreement; (d) appraisal and approval; (e)



- 84 -
ANNE 3
Page 6 of 13
implementation; and (f) development and commissioning. Direct participation
of farmers, with appropriate institutional support, would be built into all
phases of the project cycle except appraisal and approval.  DOI would be
responsible for overall operation of the project cycle (except approval), and
it would have to establish an effective management information system (MIS)
combined with monitoring and evaluation (M&E) and continuous feedback in
parallel with the project cycia. Subproject cycle activities would make full
use of available results from preiious studies and from the Master Plan and
Design Criteria studies recently completed under the UNDP-financed Irrigation
Planning and Design Strengthening Project (PDSP; NEP1851013).
10.      Staff Orientation and Training.  Compared to past practices, ILC
implementation and project cycle procedures would be different and would
require more coordination between DOI and other concerned agencies, especially
DOA and ADBN. Orientation and training activities would be organized at
regional and district levels for: (a) DOI engineers, overseers and AOs who
would be directly involved in the implementation of the pilot project; (b)
DOA, ADBN and District Treasury staff who would be providing services and
support to the project; and (c) district and village authorities who would
promote the project among farmer groups. Combined orientation and training
activities for DOI, ADBN and DOA staff would also be carried out to help
develop interagency teamwork. Activities would focus on elaboration of the
agreed ILC guidelines and procedures, taking into account the specific role
and interest of the different participants.
11.      Establishment of Investment Ceilings.  The economic viability
criterion for subprojects would be an ERR of at least 102. To determine the
economic viability of subprojects, investment ceilings in terms of
construction cost per ha and based on an ERR of 102 using standard subproject
models would be established for the following subproject types: (a) surface
irrigations (i) construction of irrigation facilities in the hills and terai
for year-round and monsoon irrigation conditions; (ii) rehabilitation of
existing surface irrigation schemes in the hills and terai for year-round and
monsoon irrigation conditions; (iii) essential structural improvements in FMIS
and *turn-over* schemes in the hills and terai for year-round and monsoon
irrigation conditions; and (b) groundwater development: (i) STWs; (ii) MTWs;
and (iii! DTWs. Investment costs for groundwater facilities would be based on
the development of clusters or groups of wells and would include the cost of
supporting infrastructural development such as access roads and
electrification. The initial investment ceilings would be prepared by the
Planning, Research and Management Division (PDRD) of DOI and would be based on
the data and findings contained in the Master Plan Second Cycle Report. The
ceilings would be updated and refined on a yearly basis to reflect changes in
prices and availability of more detailed data available from implementation of
ILC and the irrigation sector program.
12.      Subproiect Request Requigements. Requests for assistance in
construction or rehabilitation of irrigation schemes would be made by groups
of farmers directly benefiting from these facilities. The requests would be
signed by a minimum of two-thirds (67X) of the total number of beneficiaries
in the subproject area (all beneficiaries for STWs) and would have to contain



- 85 -
ANNEX 3
Page 7 of 13
the following minimum informations (i) description of the type and condition
of the present facilities, if any, and condition of the irrigation source
(year-round or monsoon only); (ii) type of works for which government
assistance is required; (iii) plans and modalities for providing the required
contribution to the capital cost specifying activities/type of works (cash,
loan, voluntary labor contribution, and linkage to the works for which the
contribution would be used); and tiv) detailed reasons why the required works
or facilities could not be constructed, completed, or maintained by the
beneficiaries themselves.
13.      Subproiect Preparation Requirements.  Requirements for subproject
preparation would differ between surface and groundwater development.
Preparation of surface irrigation subprolects would be carried out by DOI
staff (assisted by consultants as necessary) in two phases depending on the
level of complication. The first phase, which would apply to all surface
subprojects, would consist of: (i) establishing the subproject location on
1s50,000 topographical maps; (ii) a detailed discussion with the farmer group,
confirming and updating the information given in their subproject request;
(iii) a 'walk through' with representatives from the farmer group, to
determine in detail and by chainage the required works; (iv) collection of
data on the command area, irrigation source, water rights, catchment
condition, soils, land use, existing cropping patterns and yields, land tenure
and holdings, number of households, farmer attitudes and commitment; and
xv) environmental assessment, which would include detailed design and cost
estimates for vegetative and structural erosion control and soil conservation
along and in the vicinity of canals and within the command area. For
technically simple subprojects, the preparation report would be completed to
the level of 'good for construction drawings and with a detailed engineering
cost estimate. For technically complicated subprojects, preparation would go
on to a second phase. Preparation of such subprojects by the RID would
include a technical feasibility study following the requirements outlined in
the PDSP field design manual. After completion of the subproject preparation
reports, the Regional Director of the RID would approve the engineer's
estimate.
14.      For preparation of groundwater irrigation subproiects, suitable areas
for groundwater development should be identified in consultation with the
ADBN's shallow tubewell program, based on existing and ongoing groundwater
resources investigation studies and monitoring activities. Test drilling
results would determine the most suitable facility or combination of
facilities, and farmer requests accepted would be limited to those selected
facilities. Subproject preparation would include: (i) location of the
subproject area on ls50,000 map; (ii) detailed discussion with the farmer
groups to confirm their interest in the selected facilities and their
willingness to contribute towards the capital cost and assume responsibility
for OEM; (iii) collection of data on the command area, soils, land use,
existing cropping pattern and yields, land tenure and holdings, number of
households; (iv) interpretation of test drilling results for detailed well
design; (v) establishing the type and total numbers of wells to be drilled in
the subproject area; (vi) preparation of a layout for the wells in the
subproject area, including supporting infrastructure (access roads and power



- 86 -
ANNEX 3
Page 8 of 13
distribution); (vii) detailed engineering design of well facilities and
distribution system; (viii) detailed cost estimate preparation for the
tubewell facilities and the required supporting infrastructural development;
and (ix) environmental assessment, which would include detailed design and
cost estimates for vegetative and structural erosion control and soil
conservation along canals and within the command area.
15.      Farmer Organization.  After approval of a subproject the farmer group
would form a Farmer Irrigation Association (FIA) under the Registration of
Associations Act (2034), appoint a Subproject Construction Committee, and
approve the bylaws of the Association. For subprojects larger than 50 ha, or
for groundwater subprojects, water user groups would be formed for 50 ha
blocks, major branch canals or at each individual facility for STWs/MTVs. A
representative of each water user group would be a member of the Subproject
Construction Committee. The FIA would then be registered at the office of the
Chief District Officer. During the construction period the FIA would meet at
least once a month to inform the members of ongoing activities, arrange
resource mobilization, and invite comments or suggestions from the members.
Minutes of the proceedings would be made by the committee's secretary or
alternatively by the subproject AO. After completion of subproject
construction, the FIA would select an Operations Committee for the scheme.
16.      Cost Sharing.  The level of farmers' contribution to subproject
construction should be sufficient to ensure their commitment to;
(a) construction and ownership responsibility for their subproject; and
(b) O&M of the subproject. The farmer contribution for small and medium
irrigation developments could consist of an wup front' cash contribution and
an annual contribution of free labor, or its equivalent value in cash, during
the construction period. The size of the farmer's contribution should, to the
extent possible, be equitable across all irrigation development alternatives
and options. The requirement for an 'up front' cash contribution may be
partially or fully waived by the DOI Regional Director if the subproject area
is too economically depressed. With regard to the cost sharing arrangements,
the subproject preparation report would: (a) quantify the resources required
under the farmer contribution; (b) specify the proposed modalities for
resource mobilization; and (c) detail the works to be carried out under the
government and farmers contributions. For surface irrigation subprojects,
voluntary contributions would generally involve: (a) earthwork in ordinary and
boulder mixed soil in main canal and/or branch canals; (b) collection of
boulders and filling of gabion boxes; (c) procurement of handtools for
excavation works; (d) providing land for construction free of cost and
compensating farmers outside the command area affected by the construction
works. For construction of STWs, beneficiaries would provide the pump and
would construct the distribution system with materials provided by DOI. For
construction of MTWs, the farmers' contribution would consist of an 'up front'
cash contribution and labor and land contribution for the construction of the
distribution system. Beneficiaries would also provide land free of cost for
access roads inside the command area and arrange for compensation of affected
non-beneficiary farmers.
17.      Appraisal and Approval Requirements.  Subproject preparation reports
would only be appraised and approved if they include the following minimum
data: (a) all subprojects: (i) a signed subproject request; (ii) location on



- 87 -
ANNEX 3
Page 9 of 13
1sS0,000 map; (iii) command area size, land use, and soils; (iv) details on
source flow and catchment area, or test well results for groundwater
development; (v) approved cost estimates, showing the government and farmer
cost shares; and (vi) good for construction' drawings; (vii) proposed
division of works under the government and farmer contribution; and (viii) a
written endorsement of the preparation report by the farmers together with
their covmitment to form and register a FIA after approval of the subproject;
and (b) additional data for maior surface irrigation and groundwater
subproiects: (i) aerial photographs, and additionally for groundwater
subprojects a map showing the layout of the tubewells and supporting
infrastructure; (ii) agro-economic data; (iii) socio-organizational profile;
and (iv) proposed resource mobilization arrangements and agreements.
18.      Farmer-DOI Agreements.  For all subprojects, the degree of farmer
involvement, details of government and farmer contributions, and
implementation modalities would be spelled out in the subproject farmers'
agreement. All detailed features of individual subprojects would require
agreement of the farmers who would be directly involved during project
preparation, detailed design and layout. For construction, there could be two
alternative levels of direct farmer involvement: (a) construction under the
direct responsibility of the PIA assisted by DOI staff; or (b) Government
implementation under full responsibility of DOI, with farmers' direct
responsibility limited to specific construction of works identified under the
FIA subproject agreement. The first method would be suitable for
rehabilitation of small projects, while the second would be preferred for
implementation of larger surface subprojects and groundwater development.
FIAs may be given direct responsibility only for the implementation of "hose
works which can be carried out with skilled and unskilled labor or petty
contractors which are available locally. Hiring and supervising outside
contractors would remain the direct responsibility of DOI.
19.      Local Consultants.  Local consultant firms, prequalified by the DOI's
feasibility study project, could be retained for subproject preparation and
construction supervision. DOI would prepare standard terms of reference for
these tasks and contract documents, which would have to be pre-approved by
IDA. Local consultants interested in assignments under the ILC project would
have to familiarize their key staff with the participatory subproject
implementation approach and procedures, through visits to the WRID, one ILC
DIO and at least two subproject sites. This would be part of the consultants'
proposal preparation, and their full understanding of the participatory
approach and related procedures and requirements should be clearly reflected
in their proposals.
20.      Subproject Design.  Facilities for surface subprojects would be
designed for a useful life of at least 20 years with uniform annual
maintenance requirements; the design life of STWs and MTWs may be somewhat
shorter. The facilities would also be designed to be suitable for O&M by
local faimers. The level of design requirements would be determined by the
nature and complexity of the individual subprojects and would range from basic
measurements and sketch designs for minor rehabilitation, to detailed survey
and design for construction of new subprojects or major hydraulic structures.
Subprojects would be designed to facilitate farmer participation in both
construction and O&M. Construction would be based on optimal use of labor



- 88 -
ANNEX 3
Page 10 of 13
intensive methods to be carried out by small petty contractors or the farmers
themselves, depending on complexity and division of responsibility for work
specified in the subproject agreement with the farmers. Design standards and
construction procedures would be based on the Design Manuals from the Design
Criteria Study under PDSP (NEP/851013) and further developed during project
implementation.
21.      Key Design and EnRineerinR Problems.  In surface irrigation
development, the two most difficult and widespread problems in construction of
small and medium irrigation schemes are: (a) variable headwork conditions due
to unstable river conditions and large differences between winter and monsoon
flows; and (b) unstable main canal alignments, mainly in Hill projects. For
construction of headworks, side intakes with gabion or rock-fill diversion
weirs would be preferred. Low cost standard designs for such structures would
need to be further developed in close collaboratien with the results of the
PDSP Design Criteria Study. For main canals, construction would be phased to
reduce slope stability problems in new construction or major rehabilitation.
For example, during the first construction season, only the canal bench would
be cut into the hill side and left to weather and stabilize during the
monsoon. In addition, supervision would give special attention to avoid
excessive hill cutting and hard rock blasting, which worsens stability
problems. With regard to the development of groundwater irrigation
facilities, more detailed planning and guidance of farmers would be required.
Before requests could be considered, suitable areas for groundwater
development would have to be identified and appropriate type and number of
facilities or mix of facilities determined. For individual facilities, the
design and construction of buried pipe distribution systems would be given
special attention. In addition, the development of supporting infrastructure
would require detailed planning, especially concerning possible present or
future electrification of wells.
22.      Improved Technology.  Design and construction is presently based on a
narrow range of well-known construction materials and techniques with high
levels of material inputs (reinforced concrete, masonry and gabions). In
selected subprojects, performance and cost effectiveness of alternative
improved construction technologies would be tested, combining modern and
traditional materials and construction techniques. Possible examples of such
technologies are geotextile filter construction in combination with dry stone
masonry or gabions, UV stabilized geomembrane canal lining, open colloidal
concrete penetration for rock-fill weir construction, prefabricated wooden or
steel trusses for aqueducts, molded fiberglass water measuring flumes, and
ferro cement or glass fiber reinforced cement for small hydraulic structures.
These types of improved technologies appear appropriate to local conditions,
and offer considerable savings on construction and transport costs, which is
particularly important for Hill projects. Development and application of
these technologies for ILC subprojects would be implemented through the RIDs,
and monitored partly by DOI's Central Planning, Design and Research Division.
23.      Implementatimn of Individual Subprojects.  The total ILC Pilot
Project would be completed well within the eight year period of the Bhairawa
Lumbini III Project. However, the time required for each subproject would
vary.   Preparation would range from six months to one year, depending on the
complexity of the subproject and time required for farmer organization and



- 89 -
AMN=E 3
Page 11 of 13
agreement negotiation. The maximum subproject construction period permitted
under the project would be three years. Rehabilitation works would be
completed in two work seasons, and construction activities would be scheduled
in such a way that monsoon irrigation is not interrupt-4. The period required
for project development and commissioning would depend on the complexity of
the individual subprojects and the organizational strength of the FIAs, but
would not exceed three years in any event.
24.      Status of Preparation and Transition to Sector Program.  The ILC
Pilot Project is designed for implementation as a program rather than a
project, and for eventual conversion to a larger ILC (the proposed FY93
Irrigation Sector Project) covering about half the country. DOI has prepared
feasibility studies for a large number of potential subprojects, although the
quality of those studies is not uniform. Potential subprojects have also been
prepared under the UNDP-financed Medium Irrigation Program project, and for
the proposed Third Hill Irrigation Project. In addition, a large number of
small and medium schemes are being implemented under the HMGN-funded district
program. Annual budgets for the implementation of these schemes are very
limited, and their construction is therefore carried out on a piecemeal basis
and extended over a long period. This discourages active participation and
contribution by beneficiaries. To ensure uniformity in implementation of the
sector program, these district program suiprojects could be incorporated into
ILC, provided they met ILC criteria especially regarding farmer participation
and agreements. Completion of detailed design and (continuation of)
construction of these candidate subprojects could begin early, while
identification and preparation of other subprojects gets underway. Thus,
there are already sufficient subprojects prepared to begin implementation
during the first few years of the project, while DOI develops its pipeline of
subprojects under ILC procedures.
25.      ADBN Construction Loans.  Under the project, ADBN would, from
resources available under the Mahakali II subsidiary loan agreement for ILC,
provide credit to farmer groups to help finance the farmers' contribution to
subproject capital costs. The estimated credit requirements would not exceed
about US$0.5M. Eligible borrowers would be FIAs, and for the construction
loans the following terms and conditions would applys (a) for surface
irrigation subproiects, interest at a rate of 15 percent per annum and a
repayment period of up to 10 years, with a grace period of up to 2 years; and
(b) for groundwater subprojects, interest at a rate of 15 percent per annum
and a repayment period of up to 7 years, with a grace period of up to 1 year.
Subproject Cycle Procedures
26.      Identification and Farmer Requests.  Since irrigation subprojects
would only be carried out on direct request of farmer groups, subproject
reconnaissance and identification would focus on providing guidance and
assistance to these groups in formulating and/or updating such requests.
Farmer groups would provide information on present irrigation facilities
together with the required assistance, and would state their agreement with
the basic ILC conditions under which the assistance would be provided. For
surface irrigation development, RID and if available DIO technical staff would
assist the farmer groups with the preparation of these requests. At the
district level the requests would be screened and ranked by the District



- 90 -
ANNU 3
Page 12 of 13
Agriculture and Irrigation Project Planning Committee and the district
secretariat. For groundwater irrigation development, technical staff of the
Groundwater Field Offices, assisted by the ILC Groundwater Unit, would first
determine the most suitable facilities for the proposed subproject area. AOs
from the Groundwater Field Offices would then inform the beneficiary farmrs
and guide them in the preparation of requests.
27.      Subproiect Preparation.  All subprojects would be prepared to
feasibility study standards sufficient to show the proposals are technically
viable and that subproject Costs fall within the investment ceiling set for
the corresponding subproject type. For surface irrigation development, each
subproject would be prepared under direction of RID. RID would be directly
responsible for subproject preparation, but the first phase of subproject
identification and preparation may be carried out by the concerned DIO with
assistance from the MIT. Preparation work and feasibility studies would cover
technical, economic and social/institutional aspects, and would be adjusted in
scope and cost according to the expected cost of each subproject. For
groundwater irrigation development, preparation studies covering tec.mical,
economic and social/institutional aspects, would be carried out by the field
offices of the Groundwater Resources Development Project, under the overall
supervision of the Groundwater Utilization Division. Subproject preparation
would be guided and reviewed by the ILC Groundwater Unit.
28.      Farmer Agreements.  Agreements with farmer groups on participation,
cost sharing, and O&M responsibilities would be reached in three stages:
(a) when formulating or updating requests for assistance, farmers would agree
in principle to the conditions of ILC participation; (b) after successful
completion of their subproject preparation report containing the engineer's
estimate, farmers would agree in writing to form a formal FTA, provide their
contribution in cash, labor and land for construction of civil works as
specified in the preparation report, and assume full responsibility for O&M;
and (c) after subproject approval the FIA would enter into an agreement with
DOI confirming the responsibilities and detailing the contributions of both -
parties, stated as much as possible in physical works or quantities of work
and/or material and equipment inputs.
29.      Subprojiect Appraisal and Approval.  Based on the subproject
preparation report, a Regional Appraisal Committee (RAC), chaired by the RID
Director for surface irrigation subprojects and by Project Manager of the
Groundwater Resources Development Project for groundwater subprojects, and
comprising, in addition, regional representatives of the MOA, National
Planning Commission and ADBN, would review each subproject and recommend
approval if 4ustified. The Committee would assess the technical, economic,
and institutional feasibility of each candidate subproject, ensuring in
particular that the agreed selection criteria had been met. Responsibility
for approval to proceed with any given subproject would rest with the central
Approval and Coordination Committee (ACC) comprising representatives from DOI,
MOA, NPC, MOF, and ADBN, which has been established in MWR.  ACC approval of
subproject proposals would consider primarily the results of appraisal and
whether the agreed selection criteria and project cycle procedures had been
followed, particularly with regard to farmer involvement and participation,
and would be documented along with the RAC report and recommendations for each
subproject approved. An exception would be made for minor surface irrigation



- 91 -
ANNEX 3
Page 13 of 13
rehabilitation subprojects costing less than NR. 1.0 million. A full
appraisal would not be reQuired for these subProiects. and administrative and
technical approval would be done by the DOI Director General. For all
subprojects, a copy of the signed certificate of approval should be attached
to each withdrawal request for funding/payment under the IDA credit.
30.      Subproiect Implementation.  Subproject implementation vould involve
preparation of detailed engineering designs and organization/supervision of
construction for both the farmer and Government contributions. For
implementation of medium and larger surface irrigation subprojects, individual
subproject establishments would be set up under the direct supervision of the
RID. If so designated by the concerned RID, minor surface irrigation
subprojects could be implemented directly by DIOs, or alternatively by one of
the larger RID subproject establishments. Subproject establishments could
also be set up at subproject clusters. Groundwater subprojects would be
constructed on force account basis by the Groundwater Field offices or under
contract by private drilling companies supervised by the Field Offices. The
DIOs would provide assistance in the layout of distribution systems for
tubewells, and the ILC Groundwater Unit at Bhairawa Lumbini/Butwal would
provide overall guidance and assistance for construction supervision. For
each subproject or sub-roject cluster, temporary construction supervisors
would be hired from among the beneficiaries. They would assist the overseers
in day-to-day construction supervision and also assist the district AO with
farmer organizational activities. FlAs would form Construction Committees to
assist with implementation.
31.      Subproject Commissioning.  After completion of construction, the
local DIO or Groundwater Field Office would remain associated with the
subprojects for a period of between one to three years to rectify structural
works, train FIAs for O&M activities, and coordinate agricultural extension
and supplies with the DAO. Upon completion of physical works, each subproject
would be inspected jointly by the FIA Construction Committee, DOI staff and
the District Agricultural Production team. Any deficiencies would be noted
and corrected, and arrangements for extension support and agricultural inputs
supply would be finalized. The subproject would then be formally
commissioned, registered with DOI/RID (including issuance of a water use
license), and handed over to the FIA for O&M. Following completion, there
would be a "commissioning period, of up to three years when DIO or the
Groundwater Field Office would regularly monitor the subproject and, on
request of the subproject FIA, make modifications or repairs to major
structures necessary for design operation. After the commissioning period,
DIO or Groundwater Field Office would continue to monitor and provide
tech!lical guidance at a reduced level.



92 -                    ~~~~~~ANNEX 3
- 92 -                          Appendix I
NEPAL
BRAIRAWA LUMBINI IRRIGATION III PMOJECT
'Irrigation Line of Credit" Pilot Project
Principles and Criteria for Subprojects
1.          ILC subprojects shall be selected, designed, appraised and
approved on the basis of the following principles and criteriat
(a)   to be located in the administrative regions set forth in Section
1.02 (d) of the Development Credit Agreement (West, Hid-West, and
Far-West) as well as in other administrative regions or districts
which may be agreed by HEGN and IDA;
(b)   to respond to a request by a Farmer Irrigation Association (FIA);
sc)   to be economically viable on the basis of a suitable feasibility
study and provide for a rate of return of not less than 102 of the
subproject costs;
(d)   to include a timetable for the construction period;
(e)   to include a written agreement by the FIA benefiting from the
subproject providing, inter alia, that the FIA shall be involved
in the planning, design and construction of the subproject, and
shall be responsible for: (i) operation and maintenance of the
irrigation scheme under the subproject; and (ii) the required
contributions in cash or kind to the ctal    costs of the
subproject;
(f)   to require that:  ti) the FIA benefiting from the subproject be
duly established and registered pursuant to the provisions of the
Registration of Associations Act 2043 of HMGN, as amended;
(ii) the membership of the FIA consist of all the farmer
beneficiaries of the subproject; and (iii) all officers and
members of the concerned FIA be direct subproject beneficiaries;
(g) to include an environmental assessment, satisfactory to IDA, which
shall comprise, among other things, remedial measures for
environmental problems identified therein; and
(h)   to require that subprojects be funded through and implemented by
DOI as central projects.
2.          The cost of each subproject shall be met by M4GN, through DOI, and
by the respective FIA according to cost-sharing arrangements acceptable to
IDA. An understanding was reached at negotiations that the cost sharing
arrangements used for the ongoing ILC under the Mahakali Irrigation II Project
(Cr. 1924-NEP) are acceptable to IDA at present.



- 93 -
ANNEX 4
Page 1 of 2
NEPAL
BRAIRAWA LUMBINI GROUNDWATER IRRIGATION III PROJECT
Terai Groundwater Investigations
Obiectives of the Investigations
1.       In terms of the available water resources, it is considered that
there is scope for very large scale expansion of groundwater development for
irrigation in the Terai. Much of this development could take place in areas
which cannot be served by surface water under gravity flow. In areas where
surface water has been or could be made available, the effectiveness of the
irrigation development could be enhanced by the conjunctive use of groundwater
within the surface water command areas. The proposed project would undertake
a number of studies and investigations which are required to firm up long-term
plans for groundwater development in the Terai and to provide information for
detailed planning of specific groundwater development projects.
Proposed Studies and Investigations
2.       Updating the Feasibility Study for Groundwater Development in the
Birgani Area. A feasibility study for groundwater irrigation development by
deep tubewell facilities in the Birganj area of the Terai was made during the
preparation of the Birganj Irrigation Project (Cr. 373-NEP) in 1972. Only 28
tubewell systems serving about 2,800 ha were constructed under the project,
although a much larger irrigated area had been proposed in the study. Thus
the aquifer conditions in the project area are well defined, and extensive
networks of access roads and power lines already exist in the area. The
existing tubewell irrigation systems are operated and maintained from the
headquarters of the Narayani Irrigation Project which has a large office and
workshop facility.
3.       Completion of the originally planned Birganj groundwater irrigation
development using deep tubewell facilities is proposed as the first priority
to extend this type of development on the Terai. However, the original
feasibility study will require extensive updating to take account of the
changes that have occurred in the past two decades and the technical
developments in tubewell distribution systems that have resulted from
experience with the past Bhairawa Lumbini projects. A feasibility study using
foreign consultants of about 54 man-months over a period of 12 months for a
cost of about US$800,000 is proposed. The Groundwater Utilization Division of
DOI would have responsibility for directing the study which would commence in
1991. Completion of the study would be timed to enable implementation of the
project resulting from the updated feasibility study to start in about 1993 if
appropriate.
4.       Extension of the Bhairawa Lumbini Area.  There is potential for some
expansion of groundwater development in the Bhairawa Lumbini area, beyond
Stage III to the East or to the West. A limited amount-of additional



- 94 -
ANNEX 4
Page 2 of 2
exploratory drilling is required in order to permit extrapolation of aquifer
conditions from the Stage III area. Six to eight exploratory holes are
suggested. If the permeability values indicated by logging and mechanical
analysis of cuttings are marginal, conversion of two of the exploratory holes
to pumping would be desirable. The work would be included in the scope of the
Bhairawa Lumbini III component, and carried out by the project with the
assistance of the project consultant. This will require an additional 16 man-
months of consultancy services at a cost of about US$250,000.
5.       Exploratory Drilling to Determine Aquifer Potential for Deep
Tubewells in Sunsari and Japha Districts. The available evidence indicates
that there is good potential for development of groundwater by deep tubewells
in Sunsari, Japha and other districts of the Terai. However, the anticipated
potential must be proven by programs of exploratory drilling in the selected
areas. It is envisaged that it will be necessary to construct a total of
about 40 exploratoryltest production wells to prove the most promising areas
and to provide the information required for design of deep tubewell facilities
appropriate to the areas. The exploratory/test production wells will be
located and designed so that they can be used as future production wells if
they are successful. The results of the exploratory drilling will be used for
preparation of future deep tubewell projects on the Terai. The exploratory
drilling will be carried out under the direction of DOI's Groundwater
Utilization Division of DOI using drilling equipment and personnel presently
available to the division. The major expenditures will be on ancillary
drilling equipment and well construction materials. It is envisaged that the
program could be completed over about three years starting in October 1993 at
an estimated cost of some US$500,000.
6.       Groundwater Development Strategy for Irrigation in the Terai.  A
study was completed in 1987 which aimed to define strategies for development
of groundwater for irrigation in the Terai ("Study of Groundwater Development
Strategies for Irrigation in the Terai' (1987) financed under the Bhairawa
Lumbini Stage II Project and completed by Groundwater Development Consultants,
Cambridge, U.K.). However, the scope of that study was limited, particularly
with regard to the inputs available for field work for investigation of the
hydrogeology. In addition, the study area included only the main Terai zone,
omitting the inner Terai valleys of Dang, Surkhet and Chitwan. A recently
completed study which was supported by UNDP has compiled a large amount of
information on the groundwater conditions in both the main and inner Terai
which may modify some of the conclusions reached by the groundwater
development strategy study. It is therefore proposed to expand the original
strategy study by incorporating the information provided by the UNDP study
into the data base, and to increase the area and scope of the investigation to
include the inner Terai. Responsibility for direction of the study will be
with the Groundwater Utilization Division of DOI, and the study will be
carried out by a foreign consulting company. It is estimated that the
consulting services will total about 66 man-months and that the work will be
completed in a one-year period at a cost of about US$1.0 million. The work is
recommended to start in October 1991. The strategy study would be coordinated
with follow-up on the Irrigation Master Plan in DOI.



- 95 -
ANNEX 5
Page I of 2
NEPAL
BEAIRAWA LUMBINI GROUNDWATER IRRIGATION III PROJECT
Bhairawa Lumbini Groundwater Irrigation Component
Ornanization of the Bhairawa Lumbini Project Autnoritv
1.       Organization of the Project Authority.  Under the Stage III project,
the Bhairawa Lumbini Project Authority would include four divisionst General
Administration and Finance, Construction, Operation and Maintenance, and
Agriculture. Existing divisions would retain the same responsibilities as in
Stage II. A new Farmer Organization Unit in the Agriculture Division would be
responsible to promote farmer participation, explain the DTW program to
farmers including cost sharing and O&M requirements, assist farmers to form
groups and request DTWs, help farmer groups establish legal associations for
DTWs and make agreements with the Project Authority/DOI. train and assist
farmer groups in O&M of DTWs, and monitor operation of farmer DTW
associations. Functions of the divisions and the unit would be as follows.
2.       General Administration and Finance Division.  '-ais division would be
responsible for personnel administration, budget control and finance, stores
and inventory, procurement administration, collection of water charges, and
accounts and internal audit. The division would have the following sections:
administration, finance and accounts, stores, procurement, and water charges.
3.       Construction Division.  This division would be comprised of an
engineering subdivision and a geohydrology/drilling subdivision. The
engineering subdivision would have sections dealing with survey, planning and
design of project works (including pipeline distribution systems) and with
supervision of the construction of such works apart from well construction and
testing. The geohydrology/drilling subdivision would have responsibility for
well design and construction, and for well testing and interpretation of the
results of such tests for pump specification and regional hydrogeological
evaluation.
4.       Operation and Maintenance Division.  This division would consist of
two subdivisions. One would have responsibility for maintenance of civil
works (including irrigation systems, buildings and roads) and assisting
farmers with the layouts of field channel systems on existing and new
facilities. The second would deal mainly with the O&M of mechanical and
electrical equipment on the tubewell facilities and would also service the
project vehicles and the construction and O&M equipment including the drilling
rigs and ancillary equipment and the road maintenance equipment.
5.       Agriculture Division.  This division would have responsibility for
providing extension services to the project beneficiaries and farmer
organization (it also had responsibility for organizing farmers into water
user's groups for each facility under the Stage I and II projects). For
agriculture, the division would work through the three agricultural subcenters



- 96 -
ANE  S
Page 2 of 2
established under the Stage I and II projects and the two subcenters to be
established under the Stage III project. It would deliver extension according
to the T&V system and would be fully staffed with the hierarchy of positions
(SMS, JT, JTA and PLA) to implement this system.
6.       Farmer Organization Unit.  The new Farer Organization Unit to be set
up in the Agriculture Division would have direct responsibility for farmer
organization work under the project. Establishment of farmer organizations at
each of the tubewell facilities has previously been a function of project
management under the Stage I and II projects, and was carried out by the
Agricultural Division more or less on an ad hoc basis. In addition, the
farmer organizations at these earlier facilities were set up with relatively
limited objectives, primarily to organize equitable rotational water supply,
to arrange the construction of field channel systems, and later to take an
increasing responsibility for maintenance of the distribution systems.
However, it is now envisaged that the beneficiaries would contribute towards
the capital costs of the systems through donated labor for construction, in
addition to supporting the day-to-day O&M costs and eventually managing the
completed facilities. The Farmer Organization Unit would have responsibility
for liaising with farmers and assisting with creation of the farmer
organizations, developing cost sharing arrangements, and assisting the
organizations in developing O&M procedures. The operation and experience of
the Unit would be reviewed by June 30, 1991, and it would be strengthened or
upgraded to a Division as necessary.



- 97 -
ANNEX 6
Page 1 of 2
NEPAL
8HAIRAWA LUMBINI GROUNDWATER IRRIGATION III PROJECT
Bhairawa Lumbini Groundwater Irrigation Component
Farmer Organization Development at Bhairawa Lumbini
Farmer Organization
1.       The structure of Bhairawa Lumbini Project Stage II (BLP Stage II)
currently ties Agricultural Extension and Farmer Organization together through
extension staff hired directly under the project. Although the current system
does provide economy and an important direct linkage between farmer
or3anization activities and agricultural technical improvement, it is unlikely
that such a model can be permanent, as the Department of Agriculture is
expected to eventually have full responsibility for agricultural extension in
the irrigated sector. It is therefore important to develop a model for a
farmer organization development in Bhairawa Lumbini Stage III (BLP III) that
DOI can adopt and ope-ate on a wide scale in subsequent groundwater projects.
Separation of fatiwt group organization and agricultural extension has
therefore been adopted for BLP III. Although initially the Farmer
organization Unit would be established in the Agriculture Division, a full
Farmer Organization Division would eventually be established as necessary,
based on experience with the Unit.
organization, Staffing and Responsibilities
2.       Although BLP has adopted different titles for their farmer
organization support personnel compared to ILC, their terminology has been
retained for BLP III. The management structure, however, follows the same
three-tiered organizational structure developed for ILC, the Irrigation
Management Project and Mahakali II.  In the proposed BLP rystem, a Senior
Sociologist would be at the level of the ILC Regional Coordinator and two
Sociologists would be at the level of ILC Supervisory AOs. About 12-20
Association Organizers (AOs) would be included.
3.       The Senior Sociologist would oversee all farmer organization
activities, adjusting the program and retraining personnel throughout the life
of the project. He would supervise all levels of AOs and support their field
activities at critical periods of programming. The Senior Sociologist would
plan farmer crgZani!tion-al activities and programs and coordinate them with
the programs of the other BLP divisions.
4.       Two Sociologists would support the Senior Sociologist.  The
Sociologist would supervise the AOs at individual tubewell projects and would
be responsible for initiating farmer organization programs, implementing and
supervising activities, and establishing effective monitoring and reporting.



- 98 -
ANN=X 6
Page 2 of 2
S.       About 12-20 AOs would be required to provide continuous support to
the field-level farmer organization activities, reporting encountered
difficulties to the Sociologists for resolution at the project level. The AOs
would be rotated to new locations as their duties within an individual project
life-cycle have been completed. Although the AOs would be supported by both
the Senior Sociologist and the other Sociologists at certain key points of the
project life cycle, they in particular would provide the daily attention
needed to support farmer organizational activities. The decision of what
level of education to require (whether SLCs or IA9) for AOs would depend on
the outcome of a comparison of the two groups now being carried out at the
Mahakali Irrigation Project. Training of AOs will be continuous and periodic,
and frequent replacement of individual AOs may be necessary, at least
initially, until an optimal team is established.
Program and Training for Farmer Organization
6.       The development of operations for the farmer organization support
system of BLP III, as well as on-the-job training for the Senior Sociologist,
the two sociologists and a certain initial number of AOs, would be carried out
with the support of the ILC Regional Coordinator, in conjunction with the
on-going ILC Groundwater Project, before actual BLP III work fully comences.
The Senior Agricultural Officer and the Cooperatives Officer of BLP II will
also participate in these activities. Once the actual project begins, AOs
will be deployed, in rotation, starting with the 38 tubewells to be brought
into operation shortly under BLP II. Agriculture Extension staff will provide
post-organizational farm-level services to farmer Water User Organizations
once AOs are rotated out. Two AOs will remain in the Stage II area, however,
as 'trouble shooters' after all construction and formal farmer organization
activities have been completed.
7.       A second training cycle will increase the total complement of AOs to
20 once project demand increases. This group, as well as any necessary
replacements, will be trained by the Senior Sociologist and the two
Sociologists. This program, like that of ILC, will be subject to change as
the result of feedback from field experience, and the AOs would likely have to
be retrained periodically throughout the life of the project.



_ 99 _
ANE  7
Page 1 of 4
NEPAL
BHAIRAWA LUMBINI GROUNDWATER IRRIGATION III PROJECT
Economic Analysis, Financial Analysis and Cost Recovery
Economic Prices
1.       The economic farmgate prices of traded agricultural outputs and
inputs were derived from the World Bank Comodity Price Forecasts of September
1989. Prices used for the analysis are projected average prices for 1995199
at 1989190 constant dollars. An exchange rate of NRs 29.1 to the dollar is
used throughout. The exceptions to the use of World Bank Commodity price
projections are for mustard seed, and gram and pulses, where the Delhi
Wholesale Market price is used. In deriving the farmgate price, adjustments
have been made for quality, freight, insurance, handling, processing, and
inland transport.
2.       All traded commodities are assumed to be import substitutes based
upon Nepal's worsening food deficit position by the latter half of the decade.
3.       Vegetables are treated as non-traded commodities, although they are
in fact traded across the Indian border. The financial price is assumed to be
a fair reflection of the economic value but a standard conversion factor of
0.9 is used to bring financial prices to economic prices.
4.       A shadow wage rate has been used for farm labor.  The average market
wage within the project area is about NRs 25/day, but there is considerable
seasonal unemployment and underemployment. The market wage rate has therefore
been multiplied by 0.75 and the Standard Conversion factor of 0.9. This gives
a shadow wage rate for farm labor of NRa 16.88Iday.
5.       Traded components of the project investment costs are valued at their
foreign exchange cost minus duties and taxes.  Non-traded components have been
converted using the Standard Conversion Factor of 0.9.
6.       Construction labor has been valued at the market rate, not at the
shadow wage rate. The exception to this is where farm labor is being used for
construction of the distribution system. All farm labor is priced at the
shadow wage rate.
Economic Assumptions
7.       It is assumed that without the project there will be no change in
cropping patterns or intensities although there will be some small changes in
yields. With the project there is assumed to be a major change in cropping
patterns with a move into higher value crops, greater intensity of
cultivation, and increased yields. All of these assumptions are based upon
the observed changes within the completed Stage I area of the project.



- 100 -
ANNEX 7
Page 2 of 4
8.       A buildup period of five years has been assumed from the time of
first delivery of water to the fields to the full adoption of the projected
cropping intensities and yield increases. Coupled with an eight-year buildup
period for the project completion, full production within the project area
will not be reached until year twelve. Observed results in Stage I indicate
achievement of projected yields and crop intensities within about four years
of DTV completion.
9.       The replacement periods for project components are assumed to bet
Pump Units              15 years
Tubewells               20 years
Heavy Equipment         10 years
Vehicles                 6 years
Agricultural Equipment   6 years
10.      The discount rate used for the sensitivity analysis is 10 percent in
accordance with the ASICO memo of 21 November 1989.
11.      The economic analysis for BLP Stage III includes full costs of
agricultural and farmer organization, and normal project costs.
Results
12.      The benefit-cost analysis shown in Table 16 gives an ERR of 242.
Switching values and sensitivity analysis show that large changes in variables
are necessary before the project falls to an unacceptably low ERR, as follows:
NPV at 10    ER
(MRs H)       X
Base Case                                         728.09       24
Switching Values at 1O0
Cost Plus                            150?
Completion Delay                       8 yrs
Benefits Minus                        60z
Both Cost Plus and Benefits Minus    45S
Cost Plus                             502  and Completion Delay of 5 yrs
Both Cost Plus and Benefits Minus    302  and Completion Delay of 3 yrs
Cost Plus 202                                     682.06       21
Cost Plus 40X                                     580.88       18
Project Completion Delay of 2 yrs                 532.49       18
Project Completion Delay of 4 yre                 325.27       1S
Benefits Minus 20?                                525.41       20
Benefits Minus 402                                267.59       16
Cost Plus 20? - Benefits Minus 202                424.24       17
Cost Plus 40? - Benefits Minus 40?                 65.23       11
Cost Plus 20? - Project Delayed 2 yrs             431.32       16
Cost Plus 402 - Project Delayed 4 yrs              72.32       11
Cost +20Z, Benefits -20?, Delay 2 yrs             223.64       13
Cost +402, Benefits -40?, Delay 4 yrs            -209.55        7



- 101 -
ANX 7
Page 3 of 4
Financial Analysis
13.      Prices.  Financial prices used in the analysis are based on farmgate
prices collected in the project area by agricultural staff during the two
years prior to appraisal. Financial prices have shown a rising trend. But
with World Bank commodity projections showing a softening in world prices for
most agricultural products, the assumption used is that financial prices will
not continue to increase but will remain fairly stable in the medium-term.
14.      Three farm models were used in the financial analysis, one for small
farms, one for medium farms and one for large farms. These are assumed to be
0.8 hectares, 2.1 hectares and 5 hectares. Family sizes are assumed to be 4
persons for the small farm, 7 for the medium farm and 8 for the large farms.
Retained consumption under the 'without project' condition is equivalent to
NRs 1,000 per person; under the 'with project' condition this grows by 20
percent.
15.      O&M costs are based upon calculations for a single typical tubewell.
This is shown in Table 1 of this Annex. Calculated O&H cost is approximately
NRs l,000lha. This is based upon 1800 pumping hours a year. Under farmer
management, and with an incentive to keep operating costs low, these pumping
hours could be lowered. The Annualized Capital Cost of the tubewell is based
upon a life of 15 years and a discount rate of 10 percent. This is shown in
Table 2 of this Annex.
16.      The financial analysis shows very large income gains for all groups,
as shown in Table 3 of this Annex. The Table includes water charges of
NRs 1,000 ha, which is the proposed water charge rate under the project. Even
on the small farms, the models show a shift from almost pure subsistence
farming and a very small cash surplus without the project, to a situation with
the project of substantial cash generation. This is consistent with observed
results in Stage 1.
Cost Recovery
17.      The ability to pay water charges resulting from the project cannot be
in doubt for the majority of the farmers. There are, however, a number of
farmers within the project area who have such small landholdings relative to
family size that the gains in output will certainly go into improved family
consumption rather than for a marketable surplus. For these farmers, any
increase in cash payments will present a problem. Although these small
farmers represent a minority and cannot be used as a general argument against
increasing water charges, they do present a serious impediment to achieving
higher water charge rates.
18.      The main problem in increasing water charges is the willingness of
farmers to pay. Historically, HMGN has subsidized agricultural infrastructure
and services. Water charges were not introduced to Bhairawa Lumbini until
1987 and in the two years in which they have been levied (1988 and 1989), they
have been set at NMe 200 ha and collection has been 69Z in 1988 and only 54Z



- 102 -
ANNEX 7
Page 4 of 4
in 1989. The NRe 200 does not cover electricity costs for the well. For the
farmers this situation is the best of all worlds--reliable irrigation for a
purely nominal charge. Understandably there is some reluctance to chunge the
status quo. Hovever, the present situation is not sustainable. Neither the
project nor HMGN can continue to pay electricity charges indefinitely. If
groundwater development in the Terai is to be viable over the next decade, the
cost recovery hurdle must be overcome.
19.      One of the objectives of the proposed project is for farmers to take
over and run their own systems including the funding of O&M. Presented as an
alternative to the present situation, it is clearly unattractive to farmers.
It can only become attractive if there is no relative cost penalty associated
with it. This vauld require that all water charges for Bhairawa Lumbini DTs
be raised to cover full O&Ms that is, to around NR8 1,000/hectare. At that
level, there is an incentive for farmers to take over the systems, as with
farmer management, they could probably effect economies and bring about O&M
costs below the NRs 1,000 figure.  Given that the NRs lOOfha rate will
probably have to be phased in over a period of years, a short-term subsidy may
needed to encourage farmer groups to take over DTW management, to ensure that
what they pay is no more than farmers who are paying water charges, until such
time as water charges are brought fully into line with O&M costs.
Capital Cost Recovery
20.      The farmers in Stage III will be responsible for contributing labor
to install the PVC pipes in the underground systems, as well as having sole
responsibility for the construction of field channels. This is estimated to
represent around 4 percent of the capital cost of the DTW system. This
proposed level of contribution should be high enough to enhance farmers' sense
of ownership of the facilities, without being so high as to discourage their
participation in the development. No capital cost recovery beyond this is
proposed at this time.



- 103 -
ANNEX 7
Table 1
NEPAL
BHAIRAWA LUMBINI GROUNDWATER IRRIGATION III PROJECT
Estimated Operating Costs for 120 Ha Tubewell System
(NRs)
Well Specifications
Capacity of Tubewell                  300 m3/hr
Rating of motor                        45 kw
Annual pumping                       1800 hrs
Annual kwh (1800 45)                81000 kwh
Operating Costs
Electricity
Energy charge *70 paese/kwh                      56,700
Capacity charge INRs 40/kw/month                 2,1600
Annual Cost of Electricity                       78,300
Operation Costs
Tubewell Operator                                 9,000
Assistant Operator                                6,000
Annual Operation Costs                           15,000
Maintenance and Repair
Maintenance of Distribution System                3,000
Maintenance of Pump                              21,300
Annual Maintenance Costs                         24,300
Total Annual Operating Cost                           117,600
Total Annual Operating Cost (per ha)                      980
Note: Actual capacity charges for Stage I DTWs are substantially
above that shown above due to oversizing of pump motors and
transformer. That would be rectified under the proposed
project. The above costs therefore apply to Stage I DTWs to
be converted to farmer-group management.



- 104 -
ANNEX 7
Table 2
NEPAL
BHRIRAWA LUM ! GROUNDWATER IRRIGATION III PROJECT
120 Ha Tubewell Cost Sumary
Base Cost   Physical Cant.  Cost+Cont.
(NRs ,000)       (1)         (NRs ,000)
Preliminary (Survey & Design)        85              0            85.0
Land (includ. roads/drainage)        69             10             75.9
Well Materials                      341             10           375.1
Well Construction                   250             10           275.0
Well Developing and Testing         119             10           130.9
Pump Unit                           706              5           741.3
Pump Unit Spares (152)              106              5           111.2
Pump Unit Installation              103              5           108.2
Artesian Sealing                     56              2             57.1
Pump House                          165              2           168.3
Steel Pipe (250 mm)                 170              2           173.4
Control Chamber                     214              2           218.3
Pipeline Material                   877             10           964.7
Pipeline Installation               223             10           245.3
Alfalfa Valves                       49              2             50.0
Construction of Outlets             166              2           169.3
Surge Risers                         42              2            42.8
Unit Drain Earthwork                 35             15            40.3
Unit Drain Structure                  9             15            10.4
Main/Secondary Drain Earthwork      110             10           121.0
Main/Secondary Drain Structure       27             10            29.7
L. T. Connection Material            18              0            18.0
L. T. Connection Work                25              0            25.0
Transformer 33/0.4 kv.              125              0           125.0
Erection of Transformer              10              0            10.0
Drinking Water Connection            40             10            44.0
Field Channels                      110             10           121.0
Engineering and Admin. (7.5Z)       319                          340.2
Total On-Site Cost                4,560                        4,876.0
Total per Hectare                                             40,636 NRs
Infrastructure
Proportion of 33 kv Line         416               5          436.8
Proportion of Access Roads    1,643               10        1,807.3
Total Infrastructure              2,059                        2,244
Total per Hectare + Infr.                                     59,337 NRs
Annualized Capital Cost a/                                     9,657 NRs
a/ At 101 for 15 years (expected life of the pump).



- 105 -
ANE 7
Table 3
NEPAL
SKAIRAWA WUBNI OROUWIOATER nRGATION II PROCT
Fare Budget and Cost Reovery (MR*)
0.6 ha Fare        2.1 he Fars             S ha Fare
without     with    without   with      without       with
project    project  projoet  projet   project        project
Gross valuo of outut         9,086      73,488   19,685   107,485   42,802        209,676
On form Inputs               2,436       6,212    5,194    12,049   11,$08         24,706
Net value of output          6,649      67,255   14,164    96,436   30,004        1s4,9l
Land tax/1                      60          60       1s5       18        375          37S
Water charge /2                            800               2,100                  5,000
Loan  ervicinl                             230       120       600       285        1,480
Raplacment- o tools             76          76       300       30        700          700
Total fixed cost               186       1,16        5s      3,15      1            7,S05
Farm Income                  6,514      60,090   13,566    92,278   20,63         177,460
On form consumption /3     4,000       4,600    7,000      8,400    8,000         9,600
Not cash Income (NRa)        2,514      61,200    6,566    s3,876   21,684        167,866
Net cash Income  (3)            el       2,113       227     2,892       746        5,766
/1 Land taxes set at 75 NR* per ha
/2 Water chrgs set at 1000 NRs per ha
i8 Consumption assumd at NRa 1,000 per capita incrasing by 201 as Income Increase.
Fastly size-on 0.8 he farm, 4 persons; on 2.1 ha tfrms, 7 persons; and on the 5 he farm, 8
persons.



- 106 -
ANNEX 8
NEPAL
EHAIRAWA LUMBINI GROUNDWATER IRRIGATION III PROJECT
Selected Documents in the Proiect File
1.    Bhairawa-Lumbini Groundwater Irrigation Proiect:  Uadated Feasibility
Study for Stage III. Tahal Consulting Engineers Ltd. (Israel). November,
1988.
2.    Comparative Evaluation of Shallow, Medium and Deep Tubewell Irrigation
Systems (Draft Report). Prepared by J.H. Harrosh, Tahal Consulting Engineers,
Ltd. (Israel). August, 1989.
3.    Bhairawa Lumbini Groundwater Irri8ation Project:  Plan for Increased
Farmer Participation in Project Cycle. Prepared by M. Olin, Tahal Consulting
Engineers, Ltd. (Israel). August, 1989.
4.    Farmer Organization in Irrigation Line of Credit II and Bhairava-Lumbini
Groundwater Irrigation III. Prepared by A. Manzardo, FDS International
Development Consultants (US). October, 1989.
5.    Irrigation Line of Credit Groundwater Subprojects:  Proposal for
Consulting Services. Tahal Consulting Engineers, Ltd. (Israel). June, 1989.
6.    Report on Nepal Groundwater III Preparation Mission.  Prepared by
G. Radosevich, Resources Administration and Development International, Inc.
(US). August, 1989.
7.    List of Potential ILC subprojects.  Prepared by DOI, Kathmandu (Nepal).
January 1990.
8.    Bhairawa Lumbini Groundwater Irrigation III Project (Irrigation Sector
Support Proiect), Rapid Environmental Assessment and Mission Aide Memoire and
Report (Draft). Prepared by D. E. Campbell, A. Manzardo and G. Radosevich.
(US). February, 1990.
9.    Farmer Organization in the Mahakali Irrigation Projects  Development of
Associations and Field System Management (Revised Draft). Prepared by A.
Manzardo and Rajan Subedi.  Sir William 8alcrow & Partners Consulting
Engineers and FDS International Development Consultants. (Nepal). December
1989.



NEPAL
BHAIRAWA LUMBINI GROUNDWATER IRRIGATION III PROJECT
Organization of Department of Irrigation
[   Ministry of Water Resources   1
Secretary
Department of Irrigation
Dlrector General
Smal lIrrigatlon and           Medium aid Large                 Groundwater                Planning Design and               RivrTraining
Water Utilization             Irrigation Division            Utilization Division          Research Division                   Dision
Deputy Director General       Deputy Director General        Deputy Director General        Deputy Director General        Deputy Director Generai
0
Central Levei and Board 
Far Wetem Reoal               Mid Westem Regional   |  |    Westem Regional    1               Central Regional    1  r      East Regional
Irigation Directorate         Irrigation Directorat          Irrigation Directorate         Irrigation Directorate        Irrigatfon Directorate
ZZZLZZ ZIZIZZI IZIZZI  ZIZZ
District -rigation             District Irrigation            District Irrigation  1  1      DIstrict Irigation  1  1      District irrigation   1I
Offices-s9 O                         -15                     Olfices- 16        J  [        Ofices--9        .    [        Offices -16        JJt
I  l                     I  IrbimSSl



NEPAL
BHAIRAWA LUMBINI GROUNDWATER IRRIGATION III PROJECT
Implementatlon Schedule
Oandorear    1990        1991       1992     1 993    1  1994       M199       1996       1997       1998
Rnncmic Year        90/91      91/92      92/93      93/94     94J95      9596       96197      9798
Rciectr                1 Ye2                 3         4    i                6    i               a
Quarteis
lxhawa Lumbn Component
O and M Skael               6
Completion Stage H
Wfl DlDlWnaJetng8
I and   vstem            1 6          0 0|
Completion Tmransmsson
O and M Stage I
construction stage INl
Procurement
Drlling and TestIn       73
I and D Systems          73 
Roads                131 km
Transmission         1I8km
o and M Stage IM
ConsrucIo Ag. Support BldgL
Agdculture Sub-centres    2
Ro3nchact Stores6
Procuement O&M Equip.
procuement Ag. EAt, Equip.
Agriultue Extension
Farmer AwocOcIto Formation
oor1saritoV~ Services B. Lumtbinu    ---            
Groundwater Inwestgations
Uirganul Extension Area
Shaiawa Extension Area                                                                                                           r
LC Component
Shallow TubeweNs
Farfmers Schemes HI4Utl                                                                                                    __rd
0- I6OA



NEPAL
SHAIRAWA LUMBINI GROUNDWATER IRRIGATION Ill PROJECT
Organization of Planning, Design and Research Division
Diracor General
Dept of irgatio
wlanning, Design &
Research Dbslon
Depu"y Director General
Unit                         Traning Unit                     management Unit              Ev aluaion unit 
Manager G I                       ManagGr G I                      Manager G I                        Maenr G I.                   anagera I 
8n   .         8~~sedon                                                                                    0 Sc9ln 
HOWd 13 "    e                     eJo"        H                        oU       Ha                    " 3U       Na           HeadW    I
L"e&mwwa  - 1-nu at pomln daa at or                                                                                                           I _



NEPAL
BHAIRAWA LUMBINI GROUNDWATER IRRIGATION III PROJECT
Proposed Organization Chart for Bhairawa Lumbini Project Authority
WRD8
L III~~~~~~~~~~~ ~~PAOJECT MNG
R.
~~~~~~~~~~~~_~~~~~~neac                                                          _ __nern                    }__               _     __ -- &  Peen.
con               - -         -  -  -  -  -  ---             i -  -  -  -_
we~~~~~~wl
A=                                                                                                         ENHyC                 e         _           Pr_ ..  .-
I ~ ~   ~ ~~~                   ~          ~~~~~~~~~~               cm   I                                f- w
L]OI1 } UIJZ          Tumover                                    M|pak..
Pmgtun                                    Sub-Cente                WoAabos              Consructi
Accounin g             WSter
SUPPOIt       Ma"naeent                                    Sbetr             ~g
Orientation   ater Chage                                      ai
a           snd Treabnin  oc              aChfldai =un y                                             .        |j
1~~~~~Meac
Nole: Tb Farmer O0_izto Sub-Dvibn to be esaiatd w de    Aqlci*ureI OMaton.
may. en snd _be neay. be uprd   to aeaprbbbeln dredi under th Pre Mnger.



NEPAL
BHAIRAWA LUMBINI GROUNDWATER IRRIGATION 1II PROJECT
DTW Water User Association Organizational Structure
|Chairman
{  Pro ect Staff  l            l      DTW Executive Commitee       |                         Operator
PrtmbSer           .....                Four GIroup Loaders 44DWOeao
(Ex Officio)                         plus three members at large                     (Enaed by WUA)
Fanne. ~  Uit 2       nit  ~ [III]               Loop I
GroupL ZUm                                deivey uit
LoopUt            Lutpe To L    2
(approx. ha)p o nm              alve 
La(
Leade ~  ~      ~     (3ou    nrLae                                                     edrI         Lae
Fatmers In  Unft 2  Un-f-t- 3T                                   LoopeI    ,      oo
II~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~... iji     I
Unit I                                                                    deliveryUuntt
LAnh I= UI                    n 
Delivery UNt                        ulnt4           To Loop 4
aprox .  ha)Val" 0 h
Tubowt E  t  <  t S  j g  dellver,Y units
Unit 6           Unft 2          Unit 43oLo 
| (approx.Srox.a3 ha 0    ||   Vivew



NEPAL
BHJRAWA LUMBIN GROUNDWATER IRRIGATION il PROJECT
ComposHte Cropping Patern for Shalrawo Lumbinr
MAY   JUN    JlL   AUG    SEP   OCT   NOV   DEC   JAN    FEB    MAR   APR               TOTAL
IM'   %Pta  rinfall  49    257    432    293    267    77        4      13    12      t      t1 14    20    1489mm
E    l mm (ltol)   207    170    145    143    122    116    104    78       70    93    155   181         1590 mm
O ha
Who e31 ho
Pbddv 155 ho
Whelt31 ha
Nursery 5 ha                                           M/ Ustrdll ho I 
i3d Po HYV 11I Oha      i              srd 
Mhoze 5ha                                                   U2Rdbi 7 ha           M Whze NN3 ha
Veg M ha                                                               R*~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~fttao  2C. 75
Gram 4x ha                  Fod L osods 2t.5 hangMh
Gram 4ho
Spring Paddy 4 ha
100 ho                                    *WPulse3hcrSing Podcty 6 ho



MAP SECTION



-                                                                                                                                                                                                        IBAD 2212~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~IR   2
Second Hill                            i                                                              e                                                               86                                                             iI
Irrisatio  Project Ae
.v_s lAD8l \                 _                                                                                                                                                                         NEPAL
BHAIRAWA WMBINI GROUNDWATER
f                              _5_                                                                                                                                                                                    IRRIGATION NIII PROJECT
PROJECT AREAS
MM    MOUNTAIN REGION                          WORID 8ANK PR0JECIS
C,                                                                  ~            ~           ~         ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~Ea REINPROPOSED RIRARAWA LUMRRNI STAGE II
TEEAI AND INNER EREAP                  ONGOiNG IRRIGATION PROJCTS
4                                     C                                    E AT1JAANES VASUY                        AND tIC AREAS
ONGOING AND POTENTIAl ILC AREAS
-RELATED PROJECTS PINANCSD
/    ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~~ ~~~~~~~~~~~~YOTHER SONORS
--a:== RFVERS                     ~~~~~~NATIONA&CAPPITA,
Dhoulagiri    tV                                  D~~~~~~~EZELOYMENT REGION ROUNDAJEES  (I    REGON H4EADUARTER
.~~~ ~~ITOUIGgIrI  N ~~~~~~~~~ASEI?STEAEVW ZONE 8OJINDARES                               0D   ZONE tEADOSARTERS
Projec Area---- DISTRICT BOUNDARIES                                                         0    SEtECTE TOWNS AND, VILAGES
Al                 INTUENATTONAI ROIJNEIAJEES    ~     ~~- PRIMARY ALl-WEAGeR REGHIWAYS
ISSIGATION    ECT
SE'~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~7
___________________________________________R IRRIGATION  AND
06  1   MILES                                                                   ~~~~~~~~~~ROJECT 
BA reB                                                                                                                                            26'
MA  EA



MUD22125
Buw o,                                                                                                                   CHINA
V-40             WX a^e<0 '-'-;-
I    7        ' 0                              I          -,                                                                                                               274            "'N/n,ry A .,,,,-.      
INDIA             ,a-1-5
hooansehi       0h 0                                     IRRiaTIN 11RE
gShopwor,Spuaprra >                           6    '3 ,7~                   00 J7 I                                                                                                                             27  m SwlPhs2Nr    ,Xo
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~  4 ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~~~~~~~~~84
/~~~~~~~~~~~~                                      ~ ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ 1,411 Nko 00 Ho.o., 
\9 a                                    f ('   9                                   j                                                        --- WNhr3,0ODHlhlpiiclsK o
Surai    0puro                                                 5      oL alsls
0            0 0                              ,s                                         Nacha _ t bS                                                        oiNECPiAl
27o3f2                                                            i \                                                      3
Larhbimin0pr
IRRIGSTeIONPhs 1,I NePROEaCT90 a
0                                                                         '-  ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ ~~~~~Stage II,iPhase2, Net Area 2,900 ha.
Bhaewari,ssr                            I  NDI  A                                                                                       l~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~it.II, W Am 8,600 ha..
Water Table Depth, piezasMeet (m.)
oPharendara~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~0                         to                                       U~~~~~~~~~~~~~ Surface WateGasging Stations-2 
roe-I~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~E eerlgclSain
River and Stems
L                                                   ~ ~~~~~~~- Roads
INDIA          /                                                     ~0   Townsand YiIoges
* National Capital
~~b,~o..ooAo,w4oaue~~~ooO.p.soIn.o~~~ddoo,4               taitermational Boundasies
27'20'       83t9S                                                 832'                        301'5                                                 l0 8348 ln83'W
AMA see.



