Page  1
                                                    CONFORMED COPY
                                            CREDIT NUMBER 2144 NEP
       (Bhairawa-Lumbini Groundwater Irrigation III Project)
                              between
                         KINGDOM OF NEPAL
                                and
               INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
                     Dated September 21, 1990
                                            CREDIT NUMBER 2144 NEP
                   DEVELOPMENT CREDIT AGREEMENT
      AGREEMENT, dated September 21, 1990, between KINGDOM
OF NEPAL (the Borrower) and INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT
ASSOCIATION (the Association).
      WHEREAS the Borrower, having satisfied itself as to
the feasibility and priority of the Project described in
Schedule 2 to this Agreement, has requested the
Association to assist in the financing of the Project;
      WHEREAS the Association has agreed, on the basis,
inter alia, of the foregoing, to extend the Credit to the
Borrower upon the terms and conditions set forth in this
Agreement;
      NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as
follows:
                             ARTICLE I
                  General Conditions; Definitions
Page  2
      Section 1.01. The "General Conditions Applicable to
Development Credit Agreements" of the Association, dated
January 1, 1985, with the last sentence of Section 3.02
deleted (the General Conditions) constitute an integral
part of this Agreement.
      Section 1.02. Unless the  context otherwise
requires, the several terms defined in the General
Conditions and in the Preamble to this Agreement have the
respective meanings therein set forth and the following
additional terms have the following meanings:
      (a)   "Special Account" means the account referred to
in Section 2.02 (b) of this Agreement;
      (b)   "Project Area" means the aggregate area of Part
A Project Area and Part B Project Area;
      (c)   "Part A Project Area" means the areas covering
Stage I and Stage II as defined under the Bhairawa-
Lumbini Groundwater Project financed by the Association
under a Development Credit Agreement dated March 6, 1983
and the area called Stage III implementation area
covering about 8,600 ha net in three areas, mainly of
Rupandehi District, in the Western Region of Nepal;
      (d)   "Part B Project Area" means selected cultivable
command areas in the Western, Mid Western and Far Western
Development Regions of Nepal;
      (e)   "ADBN" means the Agricultural Development Bank
of Nepal, a development bank wholly owned by the
Borrower, established and operating pursuant to the
Agricultural Development Bank Act, 2024 (1967) of the
Borrower, as amended to the date of this Agreement;
      (f)   "Sub-project" means a specific irrigation
development project in the Part B Project Area,
comprising of either rehabilitation works of existing
surface irrigation schemes, or new groundwater irrigation
schemes, including pipeline conveyance and distribution
systems, which meet the principles and criteria set forth
in Schedule 6 to this Agreement;
      (g)   "Nepal Rastra Bank" means the central bank of
the Borrower, established and operating pursuant to the
Nepal Rastra Bank Act, 2012 (1955) of the Borrower, as
amended;
      (h)   "Water User Organizations" mean the farmer's
organi- zations established or to be established pursuant
to paragraph (f) of Schedule 4 to this Agreement,
respectively, for purposes of assisting in the carrying
out of the construction, operation and management of
government irrigation systems, including the groundwater
irrigation systems under Part A of the Project;
      (i)   "Farmer Irrigation Associations" mean the
farmer's organizations established or to be established
pursuant to paragraph (f) of Schedule 6 to this Agreement
for purposes of construction, operation and maintenance
of private irrigation systems, including the Sub-
projects;
      (j)   "DOI" means the Department of Irrigation of the
Borrower's Ministry of Water Resources;
      (k)   "DOA" means the Department of Agriculture of
the Borrower's Ministry of Agriculture;
      (l)   "NRs" means Nepalese Rupees, the currency of
the Borrower;
Page  3
      (m)   "BLP" means the Bhairawa-Lumbini Groundwater
Project;
      (n)   "GRDB" means the Groundwater Resources
Development Board established pursuant to the Borrower's
Groundwater Resources Development Board (Establishment)
Order 2031 (1974), as amended to date of this Agreement
issued under the Borrower's Development Board Act of 2013
(1956), as amended to the date of this Agreement;
      (o)   "DTW" means deep tubewell; and
      (p)   "FY" and "fiscal year" mean the fiscal year of
the Borrower which extends from July 16 to July 15.
                            ARTICLE II
                            The Credit
      Section 2.01. The Association agrees to lend to the
Borrower, on the terms and conditions set forth or
referred to in the Development Credit Agreement, an
amount in various currencies equivalent to thirty six
million six hundred thousand Special Drawing Rights
(SDR 36,600,000).
      Section 2.02. (a) The amount of the Credit may be
withdrawn from the Credit Account in accordance with the
provisions of Schedule 1 to this Agreement for
expenditures made (or, if the Association shall so agree,
to be made) in respect of the reasonable cost of goods
and services required for the Project described in
Schedule 2 to this Agreement and to be financed out of
the proceeds of the Credit.
      (b)   The Borrower shall, for the purposes of the
Project, open and maintain in dollars a special deposit
account in Nepal Rastra Bank on terms and conditions
satisfactory to the Association. Deposits into, and
payments out of, the Special Account shall be made in
accordance with the provisions of Schedule 5 to this
Agreement.
      Section 2.03. The Closing Date shall be June 30,
1999 or such later date as the Association shall
establish. The Association shall promptly notify the
Borrower of such later date.
      Section 2.04. (a)  The Borrower shall pay to the
Association a commitment charge on the principal amount
of the Credit not withdrawn from time to time at a rate
to be set by the Association as of June 30 of each year,
but not to exceed the rate of one-half of one percent
(1/2 of 1%) per annum.
      (b)   The commitment charge shall accrue: (i) from
the date sixty days after the date of this Agreement (the
accrual date) to the respective dates on which amounts
shall be withdrawn by the Borrower from the Credit
Account or cancelled; and (ii) at the rate set as of the
June 30 immediately preceding the accrual date or at such
other rates as may be set from time to time thereafter
pursuant to paragraph (a) above. The rate set as of June
30 in each year shall be applied from the next payment
date in that year specified in Section 2.06 of this
Agreement.
      (c)   The commitment charge shall be paid: (i) at
such places as the Association shall reasonably request;
(ii) without restrictions of any kind imposed by, or in
the territory of, the Borrower; and (iii) in the currency
Page  4
specified in this Agreement for the purposes of Section
4.02 of the General Conditions or in such other eligible
currency or currencies as may from time to time be
designated or selected pursuant to the provisions of that
Section.
      Section 2.05. The Borrower shall pay to the
Association a service charge at the rate of three-fourths
of one percent (3/4 of 1%) per annum on the principal
amount of the Credit withdrawn and outstanding from time
to time.
      Section 2.06. Commitment charges and service charges
shall be payable semiannually on April 15 and October 15
in each year.
      Section 2.07. (a) Subject to paragraphs (b) and (c)
below, the Borrower shall repay the principal amount of
the Credit in semi-annual installments payable on each
April 15 and October 15 commencing October 15, 2000 and
ending April 15, 2030. Each installment to and including
the installment payable on April 15, 2010 shall be one
percent (1%) of such principal amount, and each
installment thereafter shall be two percent (2%) of such
principal amount.
      (b)   Whenever: (i) the Borrower's gross national
product per capita, as determined by the Association,
shall have exceeded $790 in constant 1985 dollars for
five consecutive years; and (ii) the Bank shall consider
the Borrower creditworthy for Bank lending, the
Association may, subsequent to the review and approval
thereof by the Executive Directors of the Association and
after due consideration by them of the development of the
Borrower's economy, modify the terms of repayment of
installments under paragraph (a) above by requiring the
Borrower to repay twice the amount of each such
installment not yet due until the principal amount of the
Credit shall have been repaid. If so requested by the
Borrower, the Association may revise such modification to
include, in lieu of some or all of the increase in the
amounts of such installments, the payment of interest at
an annual rate agreed with the Association on the
principal amount of the Credit withdrawn and outstanding
from time to time, provided that, in the judgment of the
Association, such revision shall not change the grant
element obtained under the above-mentioned repayment
modification.
      (c)   If, at any time after a modification of terms
pursuant to paragraph (b) above, the Association
determines that the Borrower's economic condition has
deteriorated significantly, the Association may, if so
requested by the Borrower, further modify the terms of
repayment to conform to the schedule of installments as
provided in paragraph (a) above.
      Section 2.08. The currency of the United States of
America is hereby specified for the purposes of Section
4.02 of the General Conditions.
                            ARTICLE III
                     Execution of the Project
      Section 3.01. (a) The Borrower declares its
commitment to the objectives of the Project as set forth
in Schedule 2 to this Agreement, and, to this end, shall
carry out the Project with due diligence and efficiency
and in conformity with appropriate engineering,
agricultural, financial and administrative practices, and
shall provide, promptly as needed, the funds, facilities,
Page  5
services and other resources required for the Project.
      (b)   Without limitation upon the provisions of
paragraph (a) of this Section and except as the Borrower
and the Association shall otherwise agree, the Borrower
shall carry out the Project in accordance with the
Implementation Program set forth in Schedule 4 to this
Agreement.
      Section 3.02. Except as the Association shall
otherwise agree, procurement of the goods, works and
consultants' services required for the Project and to be
financed out of the proceeds of the Credit shall be
governed by the provisions of Schedule 3 to this
Agreement.
                            ARTICLE IV
                        Financial Covenants
      Section 4.01. (a) The Borrower shall maintain or
cause to be maintained records and accounts adequate to
reflect in accordance with sound accounting practices the
operations, resources and expenditures in respect of the
Project of the departments or agencies of the Borrower
responsible for carrying out the Project or any part
thereof.
      (b)   The Borrower shall or shall cause its
departments and agencies carrying out the Project or any
part thereof to:
            (i)   have the records and accounts referred to
                  in paragraph (a) of this Section
                  including those for the Special Account
                  for each fiscal year audited, in
                  accordance with appropriate auditing
                  principles consistently applied, by
                  independent auditors acceptable to the
                  Association;
           (ii)   furnish to the Association, as soon as
                  available, but in any case not later than
                  twelve months after the end of each such
                  year, a certified copy of the report of
                  such audit by said auditors, of such
                  scope and in such detail as the
                  Association shall have reasonably
                  requested;
          (iii)   furnish to the Association, as soon as
                  available but in any case not later than
                  six months after the end of each such
                  year, unaudited Project accounts and
                  financial statements for each fiscal year
                  certified as to their accuracy and
                  authenticity by an independent auditor
                  acceptable to the Association; and
           (iv)   furnish to the Association such other
                  information concerning said records,
                  accounts and the audit thereof as the
                  Association shall from time to time
                  reasonably request.
      (c)   For all expenditures with respect to which
withdrawals from the Credit Account were made on the
basis of statements of expenditure, the Borrower shall:
            (i)   maintain or cause to be maintained, in
                  accordance with paragraph (a) of this
                  Section, records and accounts reflecting
Page  6
                  such expenditures;
           (ii)   retain, until at least one year after the
                  Association has received the audit report
                  for the fiscal year in which the last
                  withdrawal from the Credit Account or
                  payment out of the Special Account was
                  made, all records (contracts, orders,
                  invoices, bills, receipts and other
                  documents) evidencing such expenditures;
          (iii)   enable the Association's representatives
                  to examine such records; and
           (iv)   ensure that such records and accounts are
                  included in the annual audit referred to
                  in paragraph (b) of this Section and that
                  the report of such audit contains a
                  separate opinion by said auditors as to
                  whether the statements of expenditure
                  submitted during such fiscal year,
                  together with the procedures and internal
                  controls involved in their preparation,
                  can be relied upon to support the related
                  withdrawals.
      Section 4.02. The Borrower shall cause ADBN, for
purposes of Part B of the Project, to provide adequate
credit to the Farmer Irrigation Associations.
                             ARTICLE V
                    Effective Date; Termination
      Section 5.01. The following events are specified as
additional conditions to the effectiveness of the
Development Credit Agreement within the meaning of
Section 12.01 (b) of the General Conditions:
      (a)   that a Project Consultant for Part A of the
Project with qualifications acceptable to the Association
has been appointed;
      (b)   that a farmer organization unit with
objectives, functions and staffing acceptable to the
Association has been established under BLP; and
      (c)   that a unit for implementation of groundwater
development under Part B of the Project with functions
and staffing acceptable to the Association has been
established.
      Section 5.02. The date ninety (90) days after the
date of this Agreement is hereby specified for the
purposes of Section 12.04 of the General Conditions.
                            ARTICLE VI
             Representative of the Borrower; Addresses
      Section 6.01. The Secretary, Ministry of Finance of
the Borrower is designated as representative of the
Borrower for the purposes of Section 11.03 of the General
Conditions.
      For the Borrower:
            Ministry of Finance
            His Majesty's Government of Nepal
            Kathmandu, Nepal
            Cable address:                Telex:
Page  7
                  ARTH                      2249-NEP Kathmandu
                  Nepal
      For the Association:
            International Development Association
            1818 H Street, N.W.
            Washington, D.C. 20433
            United States of America
            Cable address:                Telex:
                  INDEVAS                   197688 (TRT)
                  Washington, D.C.          248423 (RCA)
                                             64145 (WUI) or
                                             82987 (FTCC)
      IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting
through their duly authorized representatives, have
caused this Agreement to be signed in their respective
names in the District of Columbia, United States of
America, as of the day and year first above written.
                        KINGDOM OF NEPAL
                        By /s/ Mohan Man Sainju
                                         Authorized Representative
                        INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
                        By /s/ Attila Karaosmanoglu
                                           Regional Vice President
                                                              Asia
                            SCHEDULE 1
             Withdrawal of the Proceeds of the Credit
1.    The table below sets forth the Categories of items
to be financed out of the proceeds of the Credit, the
allocation of the amounts of the Credit to each Category
and the percentage of expenditures for items so to be
financed in each Category:
                           Amount of the
                         Credit Allocated                 % of
                           (Expressed in         Expenditures
      Category            SDR Equivalent)        to be Financed
(1)   Civil works:
   (a)  under Part A                8,050,000         90%
        of the Project
   (b)(i) under Part B (1)          5,580,000         100%
          through (4)
          of the Project
     (ii) under Part B (5)            390,000         100%
   (c)  under Part C                  930,000         100%
        of the Project
Page  8
(2)   Materials, equipment                            100% of foreign
and vehicles:                                         expenditures,
                                                      100% of local
   (a)  under Part A                7,740,000         expenditures
        of the Project                                (ex-factory
                                                      cost) and
   (b)  under Part B                1,940,000         70% of local ex-
        of the Project                                penditures for
                                                      other items
   (c)  under Part C                  390,000         procured locally
        of the Project
                           Amount of the
                         Credit Allocated          % of
                           (Expressed in        Expenditures
   Category               SDR Equivalent)       to be Financed
(3)   Salaries and            4,500,000         100% of expendi-
      allowances for                            tures for FYs 91,
      incremental staff,                        92, and 93; 90%
      and operations                            of expenditures
      and maintenance                           for FYs 94 and
      cost of the                               95; 80% of ex-
      Project facilities                        penditures for
      and other incre-                          FYs 96 and 97;
      mental operating                          and 60% of ex-
      costs under the                           penditures there-
      Project                                   after
(4)   Consultants, training
      and studies:
   (a)  under Part A                4,720,000         100%
        of the Project
   (b)  under Part B                  390,000         100%
        of the Project
   (c)  under Part C                  390,000         100%
        of the Project
(5)   Unallocated                   1,580,000
                                    __________
      TOTAL                        36,600,000
                                    ==========
2.    For the purposes of this Schedule:
      (a)   the term "foreign expenditures" means
expenditures in the currency of any country other than
that of the Borrower for goods or services supplied from
the territory of any country other than that of the
Borrower;
      (b)   the term "local expenditures" means
expenditures in the currency of the Borrower or for goods
or services supplied from the territory of the Borrower;
and
      (c)   the term "incremental staff" means the staff
retained by the Borrower after the date of this Agreement
for purposes of carrying out the Project;
3.    Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1 above,
no withdrawals shall be made in respect of expenditures
under Category 1(b) of the table in paragraph 1 of this
Schedule until: (1) the concerned Regional Appraisal
Committee has been established; and (2) the Sub-project
has met the agreed criteria and has been approved by: (i)
Page  9
the Approval and Coordination Committee for each Sub-
project or cluster of Sub-projects exceeding NRs
1,000,000 in cost; and (ii) the DOI Director General for
other Sub-projects.
                            SCHEDULE 2
                    Description of the Project
      The objectives of the Project are to: (a) raise
agricultural production and farm incomes; (b) improve
operation and maintenance, and cost recovery of the
irrigation systems in the Project Area; and (c)
strengthen the Borrower's irrigation subsector.
      The Project consists of the following parts, subject
to such modifications thereof as the Borrower and the
Association may agree upon from time to time to achieve
such objectives:
Part A:     Completion and Operation and Maintenance of
            Tubewell Systems in the Stage III
            Implementation Area.
      (1)   Construction of about 73 new deep tubewells
            irrigation systems and drainage facilities in
            the Stage III Project Area.
      (2)   Completion of the construction of 38 Stage II
            deep tubewells systems.
      (3)   Construction of about 140 Km of channel lining
            for Stage I Project Area.
      (4)   Provision of maintenance of Project's
            facilities including vehicles, equipment,
            parts and materials.
      (5)   Provision of agricultural support services.
      (6)   Provision of support for organizing farmers.
      (7)   Carrying out of training, technical assistance
            and studies.
Part B:     Irrigation Line of Credit
      (1)   Carrying out of Sub-projects in Part B Project
Area.
      (2)   Provision of support for Regional and District
            Irrigation Offices.
      (3)   Provision of support for organizing farmers
            for the carrying out of Sub-projects,
            including training for Project staff and
            farmers.
      (4)   Provision of agricultural extension support
            for Sub-projects.
      (5)   Carrying out of environmental protection for
            Sub-projects.
Part C:     Institutional Development Support
      (1)   Strengthening of DOI, including construction
            and equipping of offices.
      (2)   Development for DOI of a comprehensive human
            resources plan, project cycle capability, and
            farmer organizing capability.
Page  10
      (3)   Development of comprehensive management
            information systems, and monitoring and
            evaluation of the various activities
            undertaken by DOI.
      (4)   Provision of training and fellowships for DOI
            staff.
      (5)   Carrying out of studies and applied research
            and development, including preparation of
            feasibility studies for future irrigation
            investments including hydrology studies to
            determine their impact on river flows;
            detailed inventory of farmer managed
            irrigation schemes for river basins; studies
            on cost recovery and cost sharing; and studies
            on improved management and technologies for
            irrigation facilities.
                         *    *    *    *
      The Project is expected to be completed by December
31, 1998.
                            SCHEDULE 3
               Procurement and Consultants' Services
Section I.  Procurement of Goods and Works
Part A:     International Competitive Bidding
1.    Except as provided in Part C hereof, goods shall be
procured under contracts awarded in accordance with
procedures consistent with those set forth in Sections I
and II of the "Guidelines for Procurement under IBRD
Loans and IDA Credits" published by the Bank in May 1985
(the Guidelines).
2.    To the extent practicable, contracts for materials,
equipment and vehicles shall be grouped into bid packages
estimated to cost the equivalent of $1,000,000 or more.
Part B:     Preference for Domestic Manufacturers
      In the procurement of goods in accordance with the
procedures described in Part A.1 hereof, goods
manufactured in Nepal may be granted a margin of
preference in accordance with, and subject to, the
provisions of paragraphs 2.55 and 2.56 of the Guidelines
and paragraphs 1 through 4 of Appendix 2 thereto.
Part C:     Other Procurement Procedures
1.    Items or groups of items for civil works estimated
to cost the equivalent of $500,000 or more per contract,
up to an aggregate amount equivalent to $20,000,000, may
be procured under contracts awarded on the basis of
competitive bidding, advertised locally, in accordance
with procedures satisfactory to the Association.
2.    Items or groups of items for civil works estimated
to cost the equivalent of $20,000 or more per contract up
to an aggregate amount equivalent to $3,700,000 may be
procured by piece work contract awarded on the basis of
three quotations or by departmental force account.
3.    Items or groups of items for materials, goods,
equipment and vehicles estimated to cost the equivalent
of $50,000 or more per contract, up to an aggregate
amount equivalent to $600,000 may be procured under
Page  11
contracts awarded on the basis of competitive bidding
awarded locally in accordance with procedures
satisfactory to the Association.
4.    Specialized drilling equipment and spare parts
estimated to cost the equivalent of $50,000 or more per
contract, up to an aggregate amount equivalent to
$700,000, may be procured under contracts awarded through
limited international bidding procedures on the basis of
evaluation and comparison of bids obtained from at least
three qualified suppliers eligible under the Guidelines
and in accordance with procedures set forth in Sections
I and II of the Guidelines (excluding paragraphs 2.8,
2.9, 2.55, and 2.56 thereof).
5.    Items or groups of items related to the carrying out
of institutional development, training, research and
development and studies estimated to cost the equivalent
of $10,000 or more per contract, up to an aggregate
amount equivalent to $250,000, may be procured under
contracts awarded on the basis of prudent shopping, in
accordance with procedures acceptable to the Association.
Part D:     Review by the Association of Procurement
Decisions
1.    Review of invitations to bid and of proposed awards
and final contracts:
      (a)   With respect to each contract for materials,
equipment and vehicles estimated to cost the equivalent
of $100,000 or more, and to each contract for civil works
estimated to cost the equivalent of $200,000 or more, the
procedures set forth in paragraphs 2 and 4 of Appendix 1
to the Guidelines shall apply. Where payments for such
contract are to be made out of the Special Account, such
procedures shall be modified to ensure that the two
conformed copies of the contract required to be furnished
to the Association pursuant to said paragraph 2 (d) shall
be furnished to the Association prior to the making of
the first payment out of the Special Account in respect
of such contract.
      (b)  With respect to each contract not governed by
the preceding paragraph, the procedures set forth in
paragraphs 3 and 4 of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines shall
apply. Where payments for such contract are to be made
out of the Special Account, such procedures shall be
modified to ensure that the two conformed copies of the
contract together with the other information required to
be furnished to the Association pursuant to said
paragraph 3 shall be furnished to the Association as part
of the evidence to be furnished pursuant to paragraph 4
of Schedule 5 to this Agreement.
      (c)   The provisions of preceding subparagraph (b)
shall not apply to contracts on account of which the
Association has authorized withdrawals on the basis of
statements of expenditure.
2.    The figure of 15% is hereby specified for purposes
of paragraph 4 of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines.
Section II.  Employment of Consultants
      In order to assist the Borrower in carrying out the
Project, the Borrower shall employ consultants whose
qualifications, experience and terms and conditions of
employment shall be satisfactory to the Association. Such
consultants shall be selected in accordance with
principles and procedures satisfactory to the Association
on the basis of the "Guidelines for the Use of
Page  12
Consultants by World Bank Borrowers and by the World Bank
as Executing Agency" published by the Bank in August
1981.
                            SCHEDULE 4
                      Implementation Program
      The Borrower shall:
      (a)   by June 30, 1991, furnish to the Association,
for its review and comments, draft terms of reference
under Part A of the Project for: (i) an operation and
maintenance support plan for those DTWs under farmer
management;       (ii) a study on the environmental impact
of the Project and of the two previous irrigation
projects in the Project Area financed by the Association
under two Development Credit Agreements dated July 9,
1976 and March 6, 1983, respectively; (iii) a socio-
economic benchmark survey of the Project Area, which
survey shall include a rapid social inventory of the said
Area; (iv) a feasibility study and drilling
investigations for future groundwater irrigation
projects; and (v) a strategy study on future groundwater
development in the Terai area which shall assess, inter
alia, the privatization plans of the DTW operation and
maintenance support services.
      (b)   by June 30, 1991, furnish to the Association
for its review and comments: (i) a draft plan and
timetable for development and installation of a
comprehensive Management Information System in DOI; (ii)
detailed terms of reference and a long-term development
plan for and operation within DOI of the Planning, Design
and Research Division; and (iii) a draft plan and
timetable for the execution of Irrigation Regulation
2045, an irrigation regulation issued by the Borrower on
April 3, 1989;
      (c)   during Project implementation period, establish
and thereafter maintain  the Irrigation Management
Division within DOI with terms of reference satisfactory
to the Association;
      (d)   furnish to the Association for its review and
comments, (i) by December 31, 1990, draft terms of
reference for an administration study relating to Part C
of the Project which shall cover, inter alia, support
work requirements and departmental equipment inventory,
and shall include recommendations to improve staff
motivation; and (ii) by December 31, 1991, the general
architectural plans, cost estimates and timetables for
the construction of the new DOI headquarter building and
a technical evaluation indicating that a satisfactory
site for the building has been provided to DOI;
      (e)   by December 31, 1991, review the Participatory
Management Action Plan, prepare pilot projects based
thereon,  and prepare all such plans and timetables as
shall be necessary to establish and implement
participatory management under the said pilot projects,
then, thereafter, start their implementation;
      (f)   by December 3l, 1990, furnish to the
Association, for its review and comments, and thereafter
implement, a plan to constitute the Water Users
Organizations under Part A of the Project as statutory
bodies pursuant to Irrigation Regulation 2045 with
specific rights and duties to include, inter alia: (i)
the distribution of water among their members; and (ii)
operation and maintenance (O&M) of the irrigation
facilities and the collection of O&M costs from members;
Page  13
      (g)   take all necessary measures to ensure that, by
June 30, 1991, all Water Users Organizations under Part
A of the Project shall be duly constituted and validly
operative in areas where DTWs are already in place, and
that, for areas where DTWs are not yet constructed, the
said Organizations, to the extent practicable, shall be
duly constituted and validly operative prior to the date
on which DTW construction shall have commenced, but not
later than the date on which the DTW construction works
shall have been declared to be fully operational and in
conformity with design standards;
      (h)   by December 3l, 1990, establish and thereafter
maintain one or more Project Coordination Committee(s)
for Part A of the Project which shall all be chaired by
the Project Manager and include in their membership,
among others, representatives of the concerned Water User
Organizations;
      (i)   without limitation to the provisions of Section
9.06 of the General Conditions, commencing on January 1,
1991, and thereafter on a semi-annual basis, prepare and
furnish to the Association progress reports on the
carrying out of the Project;
      (j)   by June 30, 1991, prepare and thereafter
implement a plan satisfactory to the Association for the
full recovery of DTW operation and maintenance costs
under Part A of the Project by increasing water charges
to a level estimated at NRs 1,000 per hectare annually in
1989 prices or by turning over operations and maintenance
to the duly constituted Water User Organization,
Association, or by such other method as shall be
acceptable to the Association;
      (k)   in connection with Part B Project Area, take
suitable action to ensure uniformity of approach for all
irrigation schemes, of the type contemplated under Part
B of the Project.
      (l)   ensure that each Sub-project shall be selected,
prepared, approved and implemented pursuant to the
principles and criteria set forth in Schedule 6 to this
Agreement; and
      (m)   ensure that prior to selecting a Sub-project to
be financed under Part B of the Project, the concerned
Regional, District and Groundwater Field Offices shall
meet specific prequalification criteria acceptable to the
Association.
                            SCHEDULE 5
                          Special Account
1.    For the purposes of this Schedule:
      (a)   the term "eligible Categories" means the
Categories set forth in the table in paragraph 1 of
Schedule 1 to this Agreement;
      (b)   the term "eligible expenditures" means
expenditures in respect of the reasonable cost of goods
and services required for the Project and to be financed
out of the proceeds of the Credit allocated from time to
time to the eligible Categories in accordance with the
provisions of Schedule 1 to this Agreement; and
      (c)   the term "Authorized Allocation" means an
amount equivalent to $500,000 to be withdrawn from the
Credit Account and deposited in the Special Account
Page  14
pursuant to paragraph 3 (a) of this Schedule.
2.    Payments out of the Special Account shall be made
exclusively for eligible expenditures in accordance with
the provisions of this Schedule.
3.    After the Association has received evidence
satisfactory to it that the Special Account has been duly
opened, withdrawals of the Authorized Allocation and
subsequent withdrawals to replenish the Special Account
shall be made as follows:
      (a)   For withdrawals of the Authorized Allocation,
the Borrower shall furnish to the Association a request
or requests for a deposit or deposits which do not exceed
the aggregate amount of the Authorized Allocation. On the
basis of such request or requests, the Association shall,
on behalf of the Borrower, withdraw from the Credit
Account and deposit in the Special Account such amount or
amounts as the Borrower shall have requested.
      (b)   (i)   For replenishment of the Special Account,
                  the Borrower shall furnish to the
                  Association requests for deposits into
                  the Special Account at such intervals as
                  the Association shall specify.
            (ii)  Prior to or at the time of each such
                  request, the Borrower shall furnish to
                  the Association the documents and other
                  evidence required pursuant to paragraph 4
                  of this Schedule for the payment or
                  payments in respect of which
                  replenishment is requested. On the basis
                  of each such request, the Association
                  shall, on behalf of the Borrower,
                  withdraw from the Credit Account and
                  deposit into the Special Account such
                  amount as the Borrower shall have
                  requested and as shall have been shown by
                  said documents and other evidence to have
                  been paid out of the Special Account for
                  eligible expenditures.
      All such deposits shall be withdrawn by the
Association from the Credit Account under the respective
eligible Categories, and in the respective equivalent
amounts, as shall have been justified by said documents
and other evidence.
4.    For each payment made by the Borrower out of the
Special Account, the Borrower shall, at such time as the
Association shall reasonably request, furnish to the
Association such documents and other evidence showing
that such payment was made exclusively for eligible
expenditures.
5.    Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 3 of
this Schedule, the Association shall not be required to
make further deposits into the Special Account:
      (a)   if, at any time, the Association shall have
determined that all further withdrawals should be made by
the Borrower directly from the Credit Account in
accordance with the provisions of Article V of the
General Conditions and paragraph (a) of Section 2.02 of
this Agreement; or
      (b)   once the total unwithdrawn amount of the Credit
allocated to the eligible Categories, less the amount of
any outstanding special commitment entered into by the
Association pursuant to Section 5.02 of the General
Page  15
Conditions with respect to the Project, shall equal the
equivalent of twice the amount of the Authorized
Allocation.
      Thereafter, withdrawal from the Credit Account of
the remaining unwithdrawn amount of the Credit allocated
to the eligible Categories shall follow such procedures
as the Association shall specify by notice to the
Borrower.  Such further withdrawals shall be made only
after and to the extent that the Association shall have
been satisfied that all such amounts remaining on deposit
in the Special Account as of the date of such notice will
be utilized in making payments for eligible expenditures.
6.    (a)   If the Association shall have determined at any
time that any payment out of the Special Account: (i) was
made for an expenditure or in an amount not eligible
pursuant to paragraph 2 of this Schedule; and (ii) was
not justified by the evidence furnished to the
Association, the Borrower shall, promptly upon notice
from the Association: (A) provide such additional
evidence as the Association may request; or (B) deposit
into the Special Account (or, if the Association shall so
request, refund to the Association) an amount equal to
the amount of such payment or the portion thereof not so
eligible or justified. Unless the Association shall
otherwise agree, no further deposit by the Association
into the Special Account shall be made until the Borrower
has provided such evidence or made such deposit or
refund, as the case may be.
      (b)   If the Association shall have determined at any
time that any amount outstanding in the Special Account
will not be required to cover further payments for
eligible expenditures, the Borrower shall, promptly upon
notice from the Association, refund to the Association
such outstanding amount.
      (c)   The Borrower may, upon notice to the
Association, refund to the Association all or any portion
of the funds on deposit in the Special Account.
      (d)   Refunds to the Association made pursuant to
paragraphs 6 (a), (b) and (c) of this Schedule shall be
credited to the Credit Account for subsequent withdrawal
or for cancellation in accordance with the relevant
provisions of this Agreement, including the General
Conditions.
                            SCHEDULE 6
             Principles and Criteria for Sub-projects
1.    Sub-projects shall be selected, designed, appraised
and approved on the basis of the following principles and
criteria:
      (a)   to be located in the administrative regions set
forth in Section 1.02 (d) of this Agreement as well as in
other administrative regions or districts which may, from
time to time, be selected by agreement between the
Borrower and the Association;
      (b)   to be responsive to a specific request by a
Farmer Irrigation Association;
      (c)   to be economically viable on the basis of a
suitable feasibility study and provide for a rate of
return of not less than 10% of the Sub-project costs;
      (d)   to include a timetable for their construction
period;
Page  16
      (e)   to include a written agreement by the Farmer
Irrigation Association benefitting from the Sub-project
providing, inter alia, that the Farmer Irrigation
Association shall be involved in the planning, design and
construction and be responsible for: (1) operation and
maintenance of the irrigation scheme under the Sub-
project; and (2) the required contributions in cash or
kind to the capital costs of the Sub-project;
      (f)   to require that: (i) the Farmer Irrigation
Association benefiting from the Sub-project to be duly
established and registered pursuant to the provisions of
the Registration of Associations Act 2034 of the
Borrower, as amended; (ii) the membership of the Farmer
Irrigation Association consists of all the farmer
beneficiaries of the Sub-project; and (iii) all officers
and members of the concerned Farmer Irrigation
Association be direct beneficiaries under the Sub-
project;
      (g)   to include an environmental assessment,
satisfactory to the Association, which shall comprise,
among other things, remedial measures for environmental
problems identified therein; and
      (h)   to require that Sub-projects be funded through
and implemented by DOI as central projects.
2.    The cost of each Sub-project shall be met by the
Borrower, through DOI, and by the respective Farmer
Irrigation Association, according to cost-sharing
arrangements acceptable to the Association.
