Document of
The World Bank
Report No: 21909-CHA
PROJECT APPRAISAL DOCUMENT
ON A
PROPOSED LOAN
IN THE AMOUNT OF US$100 MILLION
TO THE
PEOPLE'S REPUBLIC OF CHINA
FOR A
THIRD INLAND WATERWAYS
PROJECT
May 24, 2001
Transport Sector Unit
East Asia and Pacific Region



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
(Exchange Rate Effective January 1, 2001)
Currency Unit = Yuan
Yuan 1.00 = US$0.12
US$1.00 = Yuan 8.30
FISCAL YEAR
January I -- December 31
ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS
CNAO       China National Audit Office      MBD      Model Bidding Document
CQ         Consultants' Qualification       MERR   Modified Economic Rate of Return
EA         Environmental Assessment         MOC      Ministry of Commnunication
EAP        Environmental Action Plan        MOF      Ministry of Finance
EIA        Environmental Impact Assessment   NCB     National Competitive Bidding
EPO        Environmental Protection Office  NPV      Net Present Value
EPS        Environmental Protection Sections   OED   Operations Evaluation Department
ERR        Economic Rate of Return          PAP      Project Affected Person
FIRR       Financial Internal Rate of Return    PHRD    Policy and Human Resources
GDP        Gross Domestic Product                    Development
GOC        Government of China              PIP      Project Implementation Plan
GPN        General Procurement Notice       PRC      People's Republic of China
HPCD       Hunan Provincial                 QCBS    Quality and Cost-Based Selection
Communications Department       RAP       Resettlement Action Plan
HPFB       Hunan Provincial Finance Bureau    RIB    Resettlement Information Booklet
HPEPC      Hunan Provincial Electric Power    SDPC    State Development Planning
Company                                   Commission
HXNCDC  Hunan Xiangjiang Navigation         SOE      Statement of Expenditure
Construction and Development     SOE      State-owned Enterprises
Corp. Ltd.                      SPN       Specific Procurement Notice
ICB        International Competitive Bidding    TA   Technical Assistance
IWT        Inland Waterway Transport        TOR      Terms of Reference
IWW        Inland Waterway                  WBOB   World Bank Office in Beijing
Kwh        Kilo-watt-hour
Vice President:   Jemal-ud-din Kassum, EAPVP
Country Director:   Yukon Huang, EACCF
Sector Director:   Jitendra N. Bajpai, EASTR
Task Team Leader/Sr. Port Engineer:   Toshiro Tsutsumi, EASTR



CHINA
THIRD INLAND WATERWAYS
CONTENTS
A. Project Development Objective                                                          Page
1. Project development objective                                                          2
2. Key performance indicators                                                             2
B. Strategic Context
1. Sector-related Country Assistance Strategy (CAS) goal supported by the project         2
2. Main sector issues and Government strategy                                             3
3. Sector issues to be addressed by the project and strategic choices                     4
C. Project Description Summary
1. Project components                                                                     5
2. Key policy and institutional reforms supported by the project                          6
3. Benefits and target population                                                         7
4. Institutional and implementation arrangements                                          7
D. Project Rationale
1. Project alternatives considered and reasons for rejection                              8
2. Major related projects financed by the Bank and other development agencies             8
3. Lessons learned and reflected in proposed project design                               9
4. Indications of borrower commitment and ownership                                       I 0
5. Value added of Bank support in this project                                           10
E. Summary Project Analysis
1. Economic                                                                              10
2. Financial                                                                             I1
3. Technical                                                                             11
4. Institutional                                                                         12
5. Environmental                                                                         1 3
6. Social                                                                                15
7. Safeguard Policies                                                                    17
F. Sustainability and Risks
1. Sustainability                                                                        17
2. Critical risks                                                                        18
3. Possible controversial aspects                                                        19



G. Main Loan Conditions
1. Effectiveness Condition                                                              19
2. Other                                                                                19
H. Readiness for Implementation                                                            21
I. Compliance with Bank Policies                                                           21
Annexes
Annex 1: Project Design Summary                                                            22
Annex 2: Detailed Project Description                                                      26
Annex 3: Estimated Project Costs                                                           32
Annex 4: Cost Benefit Analysis Summary                                                     34
Annex 5: Financial Summary                                                                 42
Annex 6: Procurement and Disbursement Arrangements                                         53
Annex 7: Project Processing Schedule                                                       61
Annex 8: Documents in the Project File                                                     62
Annex 9: Statement of Loans and Credits                                                    64
Annex 10: Country at a Glance                                                              68
Annex I1: Summary of Environmental Assessment and Action Plan                              70
Annex 12: Summary of Resettlement Action Plan                                              80
Annex 13: Review of Financial Management System                                            84
Annex 14: (Draft) Terms of Reference for Study of Containerization Development Along       91
Xiangjiang River
Annex 15: The Power Demand Assessment                                                      94
Annex 16: Poverty Alleviation Impact                                                       96
MAP(S)
IBRD 31205, May 2001
IBRD 31206, May 2001



CHINA
Third Inland Waterways
Project Appraisal Document
East Asia and Pacific Region
EASTR
Date: May 24, 2001                                Team Leader: Toshiro Tsutsumi
Country Director: Yukon Huang                     Sector Director: Jitendra N. Bajpai
Project ID: P056199                               Sector(s): TP - Ports & Waterways
Lending Instrument: Specific Investment Loan (SIL)  Theme(s): Transport
Poverty Targeted Intervention: N
Program Financing Data
[X] Loan    [ ] Credit    E ] Grant      ] Guarantee     [ Other:
For Loans/Credits/Others:
Amount (US$m): $100.00
Proposed Terms (IBRD): Variable Spread & Rate Single Currency Loan (VSCL)
Grace period (years): 5                           Years to maturity: 20
Commitment fee: 0.75%                             Front end fee on Bank loan: 1.00%
Financing Plan (US$m): Source                                Local         Foreign         Total
BORROWER                                                      120.22           0.00        120.22
IBRD                                                            0.00         100.00        100.00
Total:                                                        120.22         100.00        220.22
Borrower: PEOPLE'S REPUBLIC OF CHINA
Responsible agency: HUNAN PROVINCIAL GOVERNMENT
EXECUTED BY HIUNAN XIANGJIANG NAVIGATION CONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
CORPORATION LTD. (HXNCDC)
Address: 286 West Wuyi Road, Changsha, Hunan
Contact Person: Mr. Li Jun
Tel: 0731-2252233                 Fax: 0731-2252299                 Email: Hxncdl@Sina.com
Estimated disbursements ( Bank FY/US$m):
FY         2002       2003       2004       2005      2006       2007       2008
Annual    2.50       10.00      21.00      28.00      21.00     15.00       2.50
Cumulative    2.50       12.50      33.50      61.50     82.50      97.50     100.00
Project implementation period: May 2001 - June 30, 2007
Expected effectiveness date: 11/21/2001  Expected closing date:  12/31/2007
DCS -A -Rl RV  -aE 200



A. Project Development Objective
1. Project development objective: (see Annex 1)
The objective of the Third Inland Waterways Project is to reduce transport and energy bottlenecks by:
(a) improving market access of the remote inland areas of Hunan Province;
(b) providing more efficient and economic inland waterway transport (IWT); and
(c) generating power to supplement the needs of the remote areas.
2. Key performance indicators: (see Annex 1)
Key perfornance indicators are proposed in accordance with the project's major objectives:
Project Objectives        Outcome/Impact Indicators             Performance Indicators
1. Improve market access The freight tariff for IWT is lower than for    Waterway Traffic ('000) (Zhuzhou
of remote inland areas railway and highway. IWT will remain  Section)
competitive mode and the traffic will increase.
Container Traffic (teus)
2. Provide more efficient Economic and financial costs in ton-km will   Average Barge Size (dwt) at the
and economic inland   decrease with the increase of inland water  Zhuzhou Shiplock Section
waterway transport   vessel size along the Xiangjiang River.
Inland Waterway Agency, Hunan Xiangjiang   Financial Performance
Navigation Cconstruction and Development   (a) Working Ratio (%)
Corporation Ltd. (HXNCDC), is financially   (b) Self-financing Ratio (%)
sustainable.                           (c) Debt Service Coverage Ratio (%)
3. Generate power to    Annual power output and sales: (a) Output    Power Output of Zhuzhou Dam (MWh)
supplement the needs  640.5 million kwh/year; (b) Utilization 4,575
of the remote areas    hours/year; and (c) Sale price 0.27 Yuan/kwh.
B. Strategic Context
1. Sector-related Country Assistance Strategy (CAS) goal supported by the project: (see Annex 1)
Document number: R98-107 (CAS Progress Report)              Date of latest CAS discussion: 05/28/98
The CAS, which reflects the Bank's strategic goal to foster growth and reduce poverty, identifies
infrastructure improvement as a key area to support China's development agenda, particularly in inland
provinces. The proposed project, a combination of navigation and hydropower, aims to ameliorate the
economic well-being of the majority of families along Xiangjiang River in Hunan Province (5.9 million
inhabitants) with below dollar per day average income (Annex 16). The project will remove dangerous
shoals, upgrade 157 km channel, create a deeper channel along Xiangjiang River to enhance safety and
productivity of the IWW system. These improvement will facilitate transition to a more efficient mix of
vessel sizes using the waterways (from 40-300 dwt to 1000 dwt), and reduce their travel time by up to 2.5
hours. In addition, almost 640.5 million kwh power will be produced annually for Hunan Province to
reduce the incidence of outage.
-2 -



The sector specific goals supported by the project are:
* to promote growth by reducing infrastructure bottlenecks in transport and power deliveries;
* to improve transport accessibility of inland poor regions; and
*   to strengthen governance and competitiveness of IWT through improved waterway management
and planning.
2. Main sector issues and Government strategy:
The main issues and Government strategy in China's inland water transport are as follows:
(a) Competitive development of IWT sector
Investment in waterways infrastructure over the last half century has been insignificant compared with the
investment in other transport modes. The waterways infrastructure is presently inadequate, and thus it
prevents IWT from contributing fully to support economic development. Railway and highway
infrastructure have steadily improved, and is now close to allowing these sectors' operations to be
cost-effective and user-friendly. In contrast, waterways infrastructure has improved little, and in the last
three Five-Year Plans, its share of investment has been significantly less than its share of ton-kms.
Although some waterway services are efficient, most are operated by inefficient companies that have small
vessels with high operating costs.
(O) Decentralization and institutional reform of IWW
Although the inland waterways sector has been significantly decentralized, and some institutional
responsibilities have been commercialized, further restructuring and commercialization are needed to make
the agencies that oversee inland waterway transport more responsive to users' needs. Lack of coordination
between agencies representing different users of the waterways (irrigation, power generation, water supply,
and transport) has seriously impeded development of waterway transport. In addition, separation of
responsibilities for waterway and railway transport between different ministries impedes the cooperation
and coordination needed for both sectors to fulfill their roles. Because most potential inland waterway
freight requires another mode of transport at the beginning or end of its journey, greater facilitation of
multimodal freight transport is necessary for waterways to increase their share of traffic.
(c) Deregulation offreight tariff
A long period of controlled tariffs that lasted until 1998 hampered the competitiveness of the IWT sector.
Under the regulated tariff, operators had no significant advantage in operating larger and more
cost-effective vessels, so they had also no incentives to replace smaller vessels with larger ones. Most
waterway vessels are powered barges that operate as independent units rather than in convoys. The lack of
serious competition between waterway transport companies and the lack of cost-consciousness by users
have contributed to the failure of waterway operations to become more efficient. The greatest impediment
to increased operating efficiency and increased modal share has been the lack of any incentive to increase
vessel sizes and therefore reduce costs. Since most freight tariffs were deregulated, there is a growing
awareness of the advantages of larger, more cost-effective vessels and in particular of push-tow convoys
(especially the push tow convoys that have proved so effective in other parts of the world which are used
little in China).
-3 -



(d) Provision of investment funds
Most provinces with large waterway systems have implemented some form of direct user charges, typically
including a channel maintenance fee, a channel construction fee and charges for use of shiplocks. The
revenues from channel maintenance and construction fees were expected to cover the amortization of
charges of loans for waterway development. A new system is being considered to replace these charges
with a uniform fuel price surcharge. Under this system, the fees would be collected by the company
supplying the fuel, then passed on to the agency responsible for admninistering the charge. The Government
of China (GOC) utilizes loans from the World Bank for waterway investment and then lends the funds to
the provinces to cover about 40 percent of project costs. The remainder comes from the provinces' own
resources. The resulting level of cost recovery from users is one of the highest cost-recovery levels for
waterway investment and maintenance in the world. (In comparison, in the United States which is
considered a good example, cost-recovery levels are 20 percent overall -- 100 percent for new investment
and 0 percent for maintenance.)
(e) Policy guidelines for modernization of IWTfleet
While waterway transport has the potential to provide the lowest transport cost for a wide range of
products over a range of travel distances, these low costs are very dependent on vessel size. There are many
family-owned barges in operation -- in some provinces, more than 90 percent of all vessels are individually
owned. Family businesses do not have access to sufficient financing to invest in larger and more efficient
vessels and are too small to implement the integrated logistics systems that are necessary to take advantage
of the lower operating costs that come push-tow operations allow. The few commercial fleets presently in
operation are owned mostly by companies in which provincial or municipal governments have a controlling
interest. Until now, these companies have had little incentive to become more efficient. MOC has realized
the critical importance of vessel size on operating costs and is undertaking studies to find the best way to
bring about a rapid increase in average vessel size.
3. Sector issues to be addressed by the project and strategic choices:
(a) Competitive development of IWT sector
Modal competition exists in the Xiangjiang River corridor. Generally, high-value cargo is transported by
highway or railway, while low-value bulk cargo is transported by waterway. It is important for cargo to be
transported by larger vessels to enable IWT to become more economic and efficient. Under the proposed
project, a section of the waterways will be upgraded from Class V - (3) to Class III - (3). This upgrade will
allow 1,000-dwt vessels (four barges, in two lines of two barges, plus one push tow unit) to navigate year
round from Hengyang to the confluence of the Xiangjiang and Yangtze Rivers, and upstream to Chongqin,
and downstream to Shanghai.
(b) Decentralization and institutional reform of IWW
Hunan Province has benefited from MOC's decentralization of waterway transportation responsibilities and
has evolved institutional systems for dealing with the joint use of waterway facilities for transport and
energy purposes. But these institutions continue to suffer from lack of coordination with other transport
agencies. This lack of coordination prevents the stimulation of multimodal transport, permits the building
of bridges over the waterways that inhibit the passage of large vessels, and makes extracting water for
irrigation accessible. Under the proposed project, Hunan Province will strengthen its decentralized
waterway transportation agencies, expand the use of commercial incentives in the operation of their
- 4 -



subagencies, implement better coordination measures with other provincial transport agencies and seek to
work more closely with agricultural users of the waterways.
(c) Provision of investmentfunds
The previous under-investment in the waterways will be vigorously addressed by the investments proposed
under the project. Hunan Province has already begun to address the problem of under-investment in its
waterways and has almost completed the first Bank-financed IWW project in China (IWW1--Loan
3910-CHA). The IWWl project also involves the construction of a dam/shiplock with power generating
capability. The state-owned enterprise (SOE) responsible for project (HXNCDC) is eventually expected to
become financially sustainable; it will provide part of the investment funds for the proposed project. A
second dam/shiplock will contribute to the faster realization of provision of investment funds, while
allowing large vessels to use an extensive part of the provincial waterway network.
Dayuandu (Hunan) Shiplock under IWW 1       Dayuandu Dam under IWW I
(d) Policy guidelinesfor modernization of IWTfleet
The principal transportation benefit from the upgraded waterways will be realized by the use of larger
vessels. At the present rate of replacement of vessels, however, these benefits will take a long time to be
realized. To address a similar situation in Jiangsu Province, a vessel modemization study is being
implemented under the Second Inland Waterways Project. This study will indicate the measures necessary
to accelerate the replacement of vessels to maximize the benefits of the project. During the preparation of
the proposed project, support was given to MOC to develop guidelines for provinces nationwide on how to
build up and maintain a database of vessels and the freight they transport, how to implement a waterway
management system, and how to stimulate a rapid evolution of vessel fleets.
C. Project Description Summary
1. Project components (see Annex 2 for a detailed description and Annex 3 for a detailed cost
breakdown):
The proposed project will include:
A. Construction of Zhuzhou Shiplock;
B. Construction of Zhuzhou Dam and Powerhouse (a dam about 15 m high) with a capacity of 140
megawatts of hydroelectric power generation primarily to increase upstream water depth for
navigation and power supply, and to provide a highway bridge over the Xiangjiang River in Hunan
Province;
C. Construction of access roads;
-5 -



D. Construction of river bank protection;
E. Upgrading the Xiangtan - Zhuzhou channel section by dredging;
F. Strengthening of sector management and further commercialization of HXNCDC, the IWT agency,
through: (a) training, (b) technical assistance, and (c) enhancement of its financial capacity; and
G. Resettlement.
Indicative            Bank-      % of
Component                  Sector        Costs     % of    financing   Bank-
(US$M)   Total    (US$M)  financing
A. Construction of Zhuzhou Shiplock   Ports &        23.34       10.6     11.81      11.8
Waterways
B. Construction of Zhuzhou Dam and   Hydro          117.52       53.4     76.82      76.8
Powerhouse
C. Construction of Access Roads   Highways            6.97        3.2      3.27       3.3
D. Bank Protection                Ports &            31.54       14.3      5.51       5.5
Waterways
E. Channel Improvement (Zhuzhou -   Ports &           2.00        0.9      0.00       0.0
Xiangtan Section)                 Waterways
F. Technical Assistance and Training   Institutional  9.78       4.4       1.59       1.6
Development
G. Resettlement                   Resettlement        9.75       4.4       0.00       0.0
Total Project Costs                200.90      91.2      99.00      99.0
Interest during construction               18.32       8.3       0.00       0.0
Front-end fee                    1.00       0.5      1.00       1.0
Total Financing Required                  220.22     100.0    100.00      100.0
2. Key policy and institutional reforms supported by the project:
The project will support the following GOC policy of making IWT more efficient:
Modernization of inland water vessels. During the preparation and implementation of the ongoing
Bank-financed IWW projects, MOC became aware of the importance of grea.ter average vessel size to
making transport by waterway competitive with transport by rail and road. IWT has a long history in
China, but its evolution has stagnated because of the under-development of the waterways and the
consequent continuing use of very small and inefficient vessels. MOC has begun to develop a policy to
stimulate an increase in average vessel size. The proposed project will support the development and
implementation of the recommendations of this policy study.
Commercialization of IWT agencies. Through the two ongoing IWT projects, the Bank has supported the
GOC's policy of commercializing IWT agencies by creating financially autonomous entities supported by
revenue-generating dams and shiplocks that provide electrical energy and make IWW transportation more
efficient. The proposed project will build on the experience gained in these projects to extend the same
strategy to inland waterways and land-locked provinces.
Improvement of navigational channels. The project will support policy to make IWT more efficient by
improving a 157-kin section of Xiangjiang River to enable four 1,000-dwt barges up to navigate to
Hengyang City, 439 km upstream of the river.
- 6 -



Increasing the competitiveness ofIWTfor multimodal transportation. Container transport on the
Yangtze River and other waterways has recently emerged as a potentially competitive transport mode.
Zhuzhou port downstream of the proposed dam/shiplock is no exception. Zhuzhou port (see picture below)
is investing in container terminal construction utilizing private sector financing. HXNCDC would like to
assess further development potential of IWW transport, including interrnodal transportation, under the
project. The Bank's involvement to support and assist the proposed technical assistance will be essential.
(Container Operation at Zhuzhou Port)
3. Benefits and target population:
The project will have an indirect impact on the poverty dimensions of Hunan Province. It will directly
influence the earning potential of vessel operators, shipping companies, and those manufacturers and
producers in the nearby cities and counties that are within the project service area. Increases in wages and
profits of navigation community and other waterways dependent businesses will raise their consumption
and in turn stimulate the economic life in counties adjacent to the Xiangjiang River. In addition, future use
of large size vessels will provide a better living environment for families of small vessel owners and crew
(See Annex 16), who presently live aboard small vessels and are deprived of any formal education and
decent social life.
It is expected that the population that will benefit from the project comprises 5.89 million inhabitants with
less than one dollar per day average income of Zhuzhou, Hengyang, Chanzhou and Leiyang Cities, and
Zhuzhou, Hengdong, Hengshan and Hengnan Counties (please see Annex 16 for details). And about 62.6
rnillion inhabitants of Hunan Province will experience indirect benefits of the project.
4. Institutional and implementation arrangements:
The proposed project will be carried out by Hunan Province. The implementing agency will be HXNCDC
in accordance with the Subsidiary Loan Agreement between Hunan Province and HXNCDC. HXNCDC is
a State-Owned limited liability company, established in November 1994 by HPCD and authorized by
Hunan Province to implement IWWI.
Financial management and disbursement. The financial management aspects of the project are to be
handled by the Finance Department of HXNCDC and by Hunan Provincial Finance Bureau (HPFB).
Specifically, the HXNCDC finance department will be responsible for bookkeeping, collecting and
maintaining supporting documents, preparing withdrawal applications, monitoring project payments and
preparing project financial statements. HPFB will be responsible for maintaining, monitoring and
reconciling the special account to be set up for the project, and reviewing, verifying and approving
withdrawal applications prepared by HXNCDC before submitting them to the Bank for withdrawal
processing.
-7 -



In terms of disbursement technique, the project will disburse using traditional disbursement techniques and
will not be using Project Management Report- (PMR) based disbursements, in accordance with Bank and
MOF policies.
Auditing Arrangements. As with other Bank-financed projects in China, the Foreign Investment Audit
Bureau of the China National Audit Office (CNAO), established in 1983 under the name of the State Audit
Administration, will have overall responsibility for auditing project accounts. The Hunan Provincial Audit
Bureau will conduct the fieldwork and issue audit reports. The Bank currently accepts audits performed
under the supervision and responsibility of CNAO. Audits of the financial statements of the project, and the
audit of the Special Account and Statement of Expenditures will be submitted to the Bank within six
months of the end of the financial year. The audit reports of the project will also include opinions on
whether the project was in compliance with financial covenants, if any.
D. Project Rationale
1. Project alternatives considered and reasons for rejection:
To make the river navigable by I ,000-dwt vessels, the altemative to building dams with shiplocks would
have been to deepen the river through dredging, then to maintain the new depth by continuous maintenance
dredging. This would have been very difficult technically because of the solid-rock river bed, and much
more expensive as well. Dredging also would have limited river flow in dry season, and would not have had
the revenue-generating capability of the dams.
What is more, given the projected shortage of generating capacity in Hunan, the altemative to the
hydroelectricity generated by the dam (totaling 140 MW) would have been coal-fired power stations in
other provinces. This altemative would have been more expensive and much less reliable and would have
involved emission of pollutants.
2. Major related projects financed by the Bank and/or other development agencies (completed,
ongoing and planned).
Latest Supervision
Sector Issue                     Project          I       (PSR) Ratings
I (Bank-financed projects only)
Implementation   Development
Bank-financed                                                  Progress (IP)   Objective (DO)
Remove transport bottleneck by    IWW I and IWW2                    S            S
improving IWT facilities
Construct dam/shiplock with power   IWW I                           S            S
generating capability
Commercialization of IWW agency    IWW 1 and IWW2                   S             S
Other development agencies
Develop intermodal transportation  Netherlands Technical
along the Yangtze River           Assistance
IP/DO Ratings: HS (Highly Satisfactory), S (Satisfactory), U (Unsatisfactory), HU (Highly Unsatisfactory)
- 8 -



3. Lessons learned and reflected in the project design:
Although the proposed project will be the third IWT project in China (the First and Second projects are
ongoing), Bank experience in this subsector is very limited. China's two projects are progressing
satisfactorily both in physical and institutional terms. Short-term financial viability for the cross-subsidy
from the power generation and sale of electricity has been proven, but long-term sustainability has not yet
been tested. Major contracts for both civil works and procurement of equipment have been awarded without
any significant delays. Implementation is also being carried out close to schedule. This is due mainly to the
strength of China's executing agencies in preparing engineering design and handling the bidding process.
The major institutional reform has been achieved by establishing SOEs for damlshiplock operation and by
separating these SOEs from the Provincial Communication Departments (in Hunan and Guangxi
Provinces). Implementation of resettlement action plans and environmental action plans has also been
satisfactory. Executing agencies pay close attention to the conditions of resettlement, as well as to progress
achieved.
In terms of dam construction under IWW agencies, however, engagement of experienced consultants with
particular expertise in designing and constructing dam will be essential. Drawing on experience gained
from the first two projects, the IWW agency identified and appointed qualified consultants to carry out the
preparation of the proposed project. Because China has greater expertise in waterway and small hydro-dam
design and construction than other countries, and because the experience from the first two projects was
satisfactory, local design will be used for the proposed project. Local experience in waterway construction
and dredging from the previous projects was also satisfactory. Although Hunan Province used international
competitive bidding (ICB) to contract its dam construction under the first project, Guangxi Province used
domestic national competitive bidding (NCB) financed locally. Both results were satisfactory, although the
Hunan outcome was slightly better. Local supervision consultants for all civil works components (financed
locally) have been satisfactory and will be used again in the proposed project. Power generators were
procured under ICB and installed locally. This proved acceptable to the provinces and the Bank and had a
satisfactory outcome, and this course of action will be followed again.
The Operations Evaluation Department's (OED) analysis of 35 Bank-financed projects completed between
1980 and 1992 in the port subsector (not only in China) indicated two major problems: (a) long
implementation periods due to the underestimation of the time needed for procurement and civil works
construction; and (b) lower-than-expected benefits due to over-optimistic traffic projections. To minimize
the first of these problems in the proposed project, engineering design has been substantially completed, and
procurement procedures have been agreed and are similar to those used before. Because the project does
not include complicated or unfamiliar civil works, delayed project execution is unlikely. The Bank has
carefully reviewed the provinces' traffic forecasts and reduced them to levels compatible with current Bank
expectations of national, regional and provincial economic development.
China's highway experience in some Bank-financed projects indicates: (a) inadequate quality of
construction, and (b) cost overruns. Although the proposed project would not require advanced technology
for civil works construction, the project will take into account the need to use experienced and competent
contractors and supervision consultants, as well as careful determination of project cost estimates.
-9-



4. Indications of borrower commitment and ownership:
The State Development Planning Committee (SDPC), Ministry of Finance (MOF), and MOC fully support
the proposed project. SDPC has authorized the final feasibility study. Provincial project components have
already been included in the 10th Five-Year Plan. HPCD has committed to providing counterpart funds as
a grant to HXNCDC.
The Provincial Power Bureau agreed in principle to include Zhuzhou dam in its network, which indicates
its commitment to purchase generated power from the proposed project. Zhuzhou City has already
committed to purchase electricity from the proposed project.
5. Value added of Bank support in this project:
Bank involvement in the project will provide further IWT policy reform. Through preparation of the
project, the Bank is assisting MOC in developing and implementing national policy guidelines for
modernizing the IWT fleet. The Bank, under the ongoing second Inland Waterways project, is also
assisting Jiangsu Province in drawing up a provincial policy for modernizing the IWT fleet. It is expected
that the proposed project will integrate China's policy guidelines on fleet modernization.
The proposed project will also assist commercialization of HXNCDC. The IWW I project implementation
provided inland provinces, including Hunan Province, opportunities to learn competitive and transparent
procurement processes, as well as institutional capacity development. The proposed project will assist
HXNCDC in providing a development strategy for Xiangjiang IWT, including containerization of
waterway transportation. In addition, the proposed project will assist institutional development of
HXNCDC, including strengthening its financial management to ensure that the proposed project is
financially sustainable.
E. Summary Project Analysis (Detailed assessments are in the project file, see Annex 8)
1. Economic (see Annex 4):
e Cost benefit    NPV=US$225 million; ERR = 18.8%, MERR 14.5 % (see Annex 4)
o Cost effectiveness
O Other (specify)
This is a multi-purpose project, with quantified benefits coming from deferring the need to build a
coal-fired power station, reducing the costs of navigation on the Xiangjiang River, reducing road transport
costs for vehicles that will cross the bridge to be built over the dam, reducing irrigation costs, increasing
agricultural output, and increasing output from fishing in the Xiangjiang River. The quantified benefits are
distributed among the various sources in the following proportions:
Navigation:                       69.2%
Energy:                           18.3%
Agriculture and fisheries:         7.1%
Road transport:                    5.5%
The benefits were assessed using the avoided investment and operating costs of the best alternative
investment (for the energy component of the project), the cost savings to transport activities that would
accrue whether or not the project were to be completed, the net value added of additional agricultural and
fishing activity, and the reduced cost of irrigation compared with what would be incurred without the
project.
- 10-



Additional, unquantified benefits come from a reduced risk of vessel navigation and flooding for residents
of communities close to the river banks, and increased potential economic output from the regions of Hunan
Province along the upper Xiangjiang River resulting from improved waterway access.
2. Financial (see Annex 4 and Annex 5):
NPV=US$ 18 million; FRR = 6.8 % (see Annex 4)
The financial analyses will focus on the consolidated financial capacity of HXNCDC as well as the
financial impact on HXNCDC of the proposed Zhuzhou dam/shiplock. HXNCDC's main revenue will
come from the sale of power from Dayuandu and Zhuzhou dams/powerhouses. The company is planning
to use the revenue to cover its operating costs, including loan amortization charges. Although the company
will generate enough total revenue over the loan period, with a standard amortization schedule, it will have
cash deficits from 2002 to 2005 when it begins to repay the first Bank loan in 2001. These annual deficits
can be covered by transferring reserve funds from previous years. The financial internal rate of return
(FIRR) for the project is expected to be 6.8 percent. The expected financial net present value (NPV) of
excess revenue after all maintenance and operating costs and loan repayments have been met is equivalent
to Yuan 149.1 million (US$18.0 million) at a 5.9-percent discount rate. A detailed assessment is provided
in Annex 5.
Fiscal Impact:
The project task team determined that counterpart funds for the project will certainly be available because
the expenditures for the proposed project constitute only a small fraction of GOC, HPCD and HXNCDC's
funding flow. The successful implementation of the similar, larger IWW1 project has confirmed
counterpart fund availability. The risk of lack of counterpart funds therefore is assessed as negligible.
3. Technical:
The task team carefully and thoroughly reviewed the technical aspects of the project, including the
waterway channel, dam/shiplock, and power generation design, and found them sound. Experienced,
first-class consultants were engaged to prepare the project. Technical coordination among the Central and
Provincial Governments, Municipalities, related dam operators (in particular upstream of the Xiangjiang
River), stakeholders (shipping companies, port operators, Zhuzhou city and others) and HXNCDC has
been established. The consultants to prepare the technical aspects of the project are:
(a) Hunan Provincial Communication Planning, Survey and Design Institute (for the shiplock design);
(b) Mid-South Design and Research Institute for Hydraulic Projects (for the reservoir design and
resettlement);
(c) Hunan Environmental Protection Research Institute (for environmental assessment);
(d) Hunan Provincial Water Resources and Hydropower Design Institute (for the dam and powerhouse
design);
(e) Changsha Communications University (for overall model tests); and
(f) Tianjin Research Institute for Water Transport Engineering (for the hydraulic laboratory model
test for the shiplock).
China has extensive experience in designing and constructing large hydraulic dams. The size and scale of
the proposed dam is small for China. HXNCDC has successfully implemented a similar project, including
a larger dam (the Dayuandu Dam/Shiplock complex) under the IWW1 project. No technical difficulties are
- 11 -



expected. In addition, a dam safety panel has been established, according to the terms of reference
reviewed by and acceptable to the Bank, to ensure safety in design, bid tendering, construction, operation
and maintenance. The panel of experts held its first meeting on February 20, 2001. About half of the
experts have participated in IWW 1.
4. Institutional:
4.1 Executing agencies:
HXNCDC will be the executing agency. It is a wholly-owned state company under HPCD. HXNCDC has
proven its capacity by conducting a highly satisfactory implementation of the IWWI project. The team
detemnined that HXNCDC has sufficient capacity to prepare and implement the proposed project, which is
similar in nature to IWWI and somewhat smaller. HXNCDC has four departments -- General
Administration, Technical, Dayuandu Operation, and Port Construction and Administration. The General
Administration department has four sections -- Administration, Personnel, Finance, and Security/service;
the Technical department has three sections -- Environment, Planning and Development, and Reservoir; the
Dayuandu Operation department has five sections -- Administration, Navigation, Power Generation,
Hydraulic, and Maintenance; and the Port Construction and Administration department has two sections --
Zhuzhou and Hengyang.
Forty staff members are currently assigned to the Dayuandu Operation department. About 40 staff
members are being recruited to create a new department, the Zhuzhou Dam/Shiplock department, to
implement the proposed project. Experience from the IWW1 project will be shared and put to use.
4.2 Project management:
HXNCDC will be responsible for the implementation of the proposed project. It has carefully prepared
and will follow the Project Implementation Plan (PIP), in which all implementation arrangements and
responsibilities have been clearly defined. HXNCDC will select an experienced local consulting firm, of
which qualification satisfies the Bank, for construction supervision. The same arrangement was carried out
under the IWW I, and the result was satisfactory.
Implementation of resettlement will be carried out by municipal and county governments, which have
sufficient experience in resettlement. To ensure that resettlement follows the agreed resettlement action
plan (RAP) policy, the task team worked very closely with the government agencies carrying out this work
before appraisal, as well as with the relevant department of HXNCDC.
The selected dam safety panel of experts will ensure safety in design, bid tendering, construction, operation
and maintenance.
Environmental monitoring will be entrusted to municipal and county environmental protection offices,
which are staffed with experienced and capable staff.
4.3 Procurement issues:
A procurement assessment, a summary of which is presented in Annex 6, was performed during project
preparation. HXNCDC has highly satisfactorily implemented the Hunan component of the IWW1 project
and has proven its strong capability in managing procurement. HXNCDC is familiar with Bank
procurement guidelines, its improved capacity is reflected in the preparation of the proposed project.
- 12 -



HXNCDC has been registered SOE to implement the project. The responsibility and ethics code for each
level of the agency and its staff are spelled out in job descriptions for the proposed project. HXNCDC
will retain the procurement staff from IWW1 for the proposed project. HXNCDC is expected to fulfill its
procurement function and administer procurement in an efficient and transparent way. HXNCDC has
committed to strictly follow the Bank's procurement rules, policy and guidelines. All works and equipment
will be procured through competitive bidding. There will be no force account.
HXNCDC has appointed China National Chemical Construction Corporation International Tendering
Company (CNCCCITC) and CMC International Tendering Company for ICB civil works and goods,
respectively. Both companies have extensive experience in carrying out international competitive bidding
under Bank-financed projects, as well as projects financed locally or by other international institutions.
4.4 Financial management issues:
The task team has conducted an assessment of the adequacy of the project financial management system
(see Annex 13). The assessment concluded that the project meets minimum Bank financial management
requirements. The task team will continue to be attentive to financial management matters during project
supervision. The project will produce project financial management reports in line with the format and
content agreed to between the Bank and China. See Annex 13: Project Financial Management System,
Section IV: Financial and Accounting System, and Section VI: Reporting Requirements, for details.
No audits or audit issues are outstanding with the executing agency involved in the proposed project. See
Annex 13: Project Financial Management System, and Section VII: Audit Arrangement, for further
informnation.
5. Environmental:                 Environmental Category: A (Full Assessment)
5.1 Summarize the steps undertaken for environmental assessment and EMP preparation (including
consultation and disclosure) and the significant issues and their treatment emerging from this analysis.
The project complies with the requirements of OD 4.01. The project is classified Category A since it
includes involuntary resettlement, channel dredging and construction of a dam.
Preparation of EIA and EAP. After the pre-feasibility study report for Zhuzhou Navigation and
Hydropower Project was completed, the environmental assessment works for this project started in 1999
with the appointment of the Hunan Environmental Protection Research Institute as Environmental
Assessment (EA) consultant. The EA was prepared according to the Chinese national procedures and the
World Bank's OP 4.01. The Environmental Impact Assessment (EIA), Environmental Action Plan (EAP)
and EA Summary reports for this project were reviewed by the Bank and discussed with HPCD during the
pre-appraisal mission in December 2000. The final draft EIA, EAP and EA Summary were submitted to
the Bank in January 2001, and were found satisfactory. During the EA work, the local people in the project
area were intensively consulted, and their opinions have been reflected in the project design and
environmental mitigation measures, as appropriate. The relevant information and documents were provided
before each consultation. The final EA reports were disclosed locally on January 19, 2001 with an
advertisement in the local newspaper, and were sent to the World Bank's InfoShop for disclosure on
January 22, 2001. The major findings and discussions are sumrnarized below. More detailed information
is given in Annex 11.
Potential Impacts and their Mitigation Measures. Major potential impacts during the construction phase
include: noise, air and water pollution due to construction works; vegetation loss; soil erosion; and pollution
due to dredging. Potential impacts during the operation phase include: inundation of land; impedance of
fish migration; and water pollution in the reservoir.
- 13 -



Two options for the dam site were studied to minimize the adverse impacts at the design state, and no
distinct differences in environmental impacts were found except for the inundation of farmland. The site
selected for the dam provokes inundation of 30 percent less farmland and generates 30 percent more
electricity than the other site. In addition, this project, compared with the no-project option, will provide
environmental benefits in two ways. First, the dam's generation of hydropower will emit fewer air
pollutants than a thermal power plant, which would be built in a no project scenario. Second, the project
will relieve traffic congestion on highways by shifting cargo transport from highway to inland waterway.
The EA has ascertained that the area affected by the project has no critical natural habitat, no
environmentally protected areas, no rare fauna or flora, and no cultural relics. To minimize the inundation
of farmland, project design includes construction of drainage channels downstream, the raising of the level
of farmland, and construction of pump stations. These measures will reduce the inundation area by 86
percent to 186 ha. What is more, given that the release of fry at Dayuandu Dam, located 96 km upstream
and constructed under IWWI project, has been successful in mitigating the dam's impact on fishery
resources, this project will also employ the same measure.
5.2 What are the main features of the EMP and are they adequate?
The major aspects of the EAP include the integration of appropriate mitigation measures in the engineering
design and technical specifications for the project. The EAP involves practical and cost-effective measures
necessary to mitigate the project-related impacts by incorporating them in the design and by implementing
them during the construction and operation phases. The EAP specifies the appropriate mitigation
measures, environmental monitoring plans, training, institutional arrangements, implementation schedule,
and budget needs necessary to implement it.
To mitigate environmental impacts during construction, the EAP identifies certain measures, including
prohibiting blasting at night, watering construction roads, and collecting and treating wastewater and solid
waste in construction sites and camps. In particular, to prevent pollution from dredging, the quality of
dredged sediments will be monitored beforehand. The disposal plan will be developed, reviewed and
approved by local environmental protection authorities Dredged sediments will be disposed of on land, and
the disposal sites will be covered with soil and planted with trees and grasses.
To mitigate the deterioration of water quality in the reservoir after the dam is put into operation, the
relevant environmental protection authorities with prime responsibility for water quality protection will
enforce comprehensive pollution control measures. In support of these activities, the Waterway Navigation
Bureau will also implement measures to minimize water pollution from navigation activities, including: (a)
strictly enforcing national regulations preventing disposal of oily water and other wastes from vessels; (b)
establishing waste oil processing facilities and garbage collection stations at all dock sites along the
Xiangjiang River to collect waste oil and domestic garbage from vessels; and (c) establishing contingency
plans and units to handle accidental leakage of toxic substance from vessels.
5.3 For Category A and B projects, timeline and status of EA:
Date of receipt of final draft: January 2001
The Bank reviewed the terms of reference (TOR) of the EIA in March 2000. The first draft of the EIA and
EAP were submitted to the Bank and reviewed in October 2000. During the pre-appraisal mission in
December 2000, the Bank reviewed the second draft of the EA reports. The Bank received the third and
final draft of the EIA, EAP and EA Sumrnary in January 2001, and found them to be satisfactory. These
were sent to the Bank's InfoShop for disclosure on January 22, 2001.
- 14 -



5.4 How have stakeholders been consulted at the stage of (a) environmental screening and (b) draft EA
report on the environmental impacts and proposed environment management plan? Describe mechanisms
of consultation that were used and which groups were consulted?
Project-affected people, local villagers, were intensively consulted. A two-stage public consultation was
carried out according to the World Bank's guideline: (a) shortly after environmental screening and before
the terms of reference for the EA were finalized (July 1999); and (b) after the draft EA report was prepared
(July 2000). The consultation was conducted by meeting with local people at project-affected towns and
analyzing the public opinion questionnaire.
5.5 What mechanisms have been established to monitor and evaluate the impact of the project on the
environment? Do the indicators reflect the objectives and results of the EMP?
During the construction and operation phases, environmental monitoring will be carried out to verify the
project's actual impact on the environment, identify unexpected environmental problems at an early stage,
and adjust environmental measures as appropriate. Environmental monitoring will be entrusted to local
environmental monitoring centers. A semi-annual and an annual monitoring report will be furnished to the
Bank by December 31 and June 30 of each year starting in 2001. Environmental monitoring plans are
provided in Annex 11, Table 2.
6. Social:
6.1 Summarize key social issues relevant to the project objectives, and specify the project's social
development outcomes.
OD 4.30 on Involuntary Resettlement applies to this project. The key social impact of the project relates to
involuntary resettlement. Without protective works, the project would have affected 90 villages -- 1,342 ha
of land, most of which are farmland, and 68,737 square meters of houses -- largely by inundating land and
demolishing structures. Extensive efforts have been devoted to minimizing adverse impacts and different
alternatives have been compared. As a result, protective works have been chosen and designed, and are
detailed in the RAP (see Annex 12). The protective works as designed will protect 45 villages from losing
land. These works reduce the amount of farmland to be inundated from 1,342 ha to 186 ha -- a decrease of
86 percent. Similarly, the number of people losing land will be reduced to 2,189, and the number of people
relocating will be reduced from 1,205 to 280.
The impact assessment indicates that the run-off nature of the reservoir and the minimization efforts will
keep project impacts scattered and relatively small. Of the 45 villages losing farmland, three villages will
lose more than 20 percent of their land holding, one will lose 16 percent, nine will lose from 5 percent to 10
percent, and 32 will lose less than 5 percent. Under the village land-sharing arrangements, no one is losing
all their farmland. The land to be inundated is low-yielding and subject to annual flooding. The
socioeconomic survey indicates that the income structure of the affected farmers is quite diverse, and
on-farm income accounts for only 26 percent of their household income.
Resettlement planning for the project started in May 1999. Planning activities included the development of
topographic maps (1:2000 scale), a detailed census of the affected population, the inventory of affected
assets, a sample socioeconomic survey, consultations on resettlement and rehabilitation strategy, as well
designs of the protective works. On the basis of these activities, an RAP was prepared in line with local
laws and World Bank OD 4.30 on Involuntary Resettlement. Because the number of relocating households
is small, they will all be relocated within existing villages. For those affected by farmland acquisition, the
rehabilitation strategy is land- and agriculture-based, and includes land reallocation and land and fish pond
development. The RAP contains details on the following aspects of resettlement: (a) the census; (b)
- 15-



inventory; (c) analysis of impacts; (d) the legal framework and resettlement principles; (e) rehabilitation
action plan; (f) reconstruction of affected infrastructure; (g) design of protective works; (h) resettlement
and rehabilitation budget; (i) institutional arrangements; () consultation and participation of the affected
people; (k) grievance mechanisms; (1) monitoring arrangements; and (m) training of resettlers, and
preferential policies.
6.2 Participatory Approach: How are key stakeholders participating in the project?
The project conceptualization is based on extensive consultation with stakeholders, including different
levels of governmental departments, port and navigation management agencies, shipping companies,
industrial and commercial business, and private sectors that will benefit from the project.
All the affected households and comnmunities have been identified through the census and inventory.
Project information was provided to the affected communities and local governments through newspapers,
posters and public meetings. Focus group discussions and extensive key informant interviews were
conducted with local government officials and the affected communities to: (a) further disseminate project
information; (b) collect people's concerns and needs; and (c) consult the affected people on the resettlement
and rehabilitation strategy. People's needs and concems have been incorporated into the RAP. The
affected population participated actively in the resettlement planning process, particularly in the census,
inventory and the formulation of the relocation and rehabilitation programs. The RAP was placed in the
Bank's InfoShop on January 22, 2001 and in all project county and city libraries on February 14, 2001.
Availability of the RAP was advertized in local newspapers on February 19, 2001.
Information dissemination and consultation are designed to continue during the project implementation. A
resettlement information booklet, including the detailed entitlements of each household, compensation and
entitlement policies and grievance procedures will be distributed to the affected people before resettlement
implementation. The affected communities will play the key role in finalizing and implementing their
livelihood restoration programs. Both internal and independent monitoring of the resettlement program will
be conducted regularly during project implementation.
6.3 How does the project involve consultations or collaboration with NGOs or other civil society
organizations?
The Mid-south Hydro-electric Survey and Design Institute was contracted to carry out the resettlement
planning in collaboration with the project offices. The entire process of resettlement planning has been
participatory. Extensive consultations took place with local commnunities to solicit views and concerns that
have been already incorporated into the RAP. The Second Navigation Survey and Design Institute has
been identified to conduct independent monitoring of the resettlement program.
6.4 What institutional arrangements have been provided to ensure the project achieves its social
development outcomes?
The project office has successfully implemented its component under IWWI project. Its institutional setup
for resettlement planning and implementation has been maintained at both the project and county level.
Much experience has been accumulated in implementing the resettlement program under IWWI. The same
resettlement offices will continue to operate for the resettlement program under the proposed project.
Zhuzhou County, not included in IWW 1, has already set up its resettlement office. For the project, the
Resettlement Management Office of the Hunan Provincial Government, responsible for all reservoir
projects within the province, has assumed the supervision and monitoring responsibility. Its involvement
has further strengthened the institutional setup for resettlement implementation.
- 16 -



6.5 How will the project monitor performance in terms of social development outcomes?
An independent external monitor has been identified and will be appointed to monitor the implementation of
the resettlement action programs. Monitoring will take place twice a year during project implementation,
and reports will be submitted to the Bank for review. An internal monitoring mechanism has been designed
as part of the resettlement management setup as well. Internal monitoring will continue throughout the
implementation period.
7. Safeguard Policies:
7.1 Do any of the following safeguard policies apply to the project?
._ _  _ __ _ _ _   ___ __   Poli         -- _  _ _ _  _                A p l c b i
Environmental Assessment (OP 4.01, BP 4.01, GP 4.01)            0 Yes 0 No
Natural habitats (OP 4.04, BP 4.04, GP 4.04)                    0 Yes * No
Forestry (OP 4.36, GP 4.36)                                     0 Yes * No
Pest Management (OP 4.09)                                       0 Yes * No
Cultural Property (OPN 11.03)                                   0 Yes * No
Indigenous Peoples (OD 4.20)                                    0 Yes * No
Involuntary Resettlement (OD 4.30)                              0 Yes 0 No
Safety of Dams (OP 4.37, BP 4.37)                               0 Yes C No
|  Projects in International Waters (OP 7.50, BP 7.50, GP 7.50)     0 Yes 0 No
Projects in Disputed Areas (OP 7.60, BP 7.60, GP 7.60)           0 Yes 0 No
7.2 Describe provisions made by the project to ensure compliance with applicable safeguard policies.
During the identification mission in December 1999, the Bank's environmental and social specialists visited
the proposed project sites and determined that the risk associated with the Bank's safeguards policies was
low. To meet the environmental safeguard policies of the Bank, HPCD hired an independent consulting
firm, the Hunan Environmental Protection Research Institute, to prepare the EIA reports. At both TOR and
draft EIA stages, the consultant, in cooperation with HPCD held public consultations and incorporated the
comments from the public in the EIA.
It was concluded that the project will not affect indigenous people by reviewing the statistical data and
socioeconomic survey and screening for ethnic mninority in the project area.
A Panel of Experts for Dam Safety, comprising five domestic experts in hydraulic structures, engineering
geology, hydropower and resettlement, and port/waterway engineering, has been established, according to
the terms of reference reviewed and accepted by the Bank. The first meeting was held on February 20,
2001 and the Panel will continue to review the safety of the dam during construction and operation periods,
according to the scope of works provided in terms of reference.
F. Sustainability and Risks
1. Sustainability:
The benefits of the proposed project are likely to be sustainable. The traffic along the Xiangjiang River is
steadily increasing, indicating that inland waterways offer a competitive transportation mode. Under the
IWWI project, Xiangjiang traffic and vessel size have increased and it is expected that IWT on the
- 17-



Xiangjiang River will be more competitive after 1,000-dwt vehicles can navigate up to Hengyang (from
Shanghai or Wuhan on the Yangtze River) during the dry season. Siltation along Xiangjiang has been
minor and would not be changed in future.
2. Critical Risks (reflecting the failure of critical assumptions found in the fourth column of Annex 1):
Risk                   Risk Rating             Risk Mitigation Measure
From Outputs to Objective
MOC's policy guidelines for vessel         M         MOC is using technical assistance (TA) funded
modemization are not established                     by the Policy and Human Resources
Development (PHRD) to develop a policy to
modemize barge vessel by September 2001.
The Bank will monitor implementation of the
above policy.
Financing will not be available to upgrade  M        Shipping companies will financially benefit from
vessel size.                                         the project and have an incentive to upgrade
vessels resulting in improved efficiency. In
addition, guidelines for a financing system will
be provided by GOC to the shipping companies
in the PHRD TA.
IWT traffic will not increase as expected.  M        Largely extemal risk. The sensitivity analysis
shows that at least 12 percent of IRR would be
insured without any increase.
Port facilities will not be improved for   N         The Bank will review the current planned port
larger vessels.                                      facilities. Port development along the Xiangjiang
River is in accordance with the proposed
waterway development.
Railway subsidy will be increased.         N         A rail subsidy increase is not likely given the
Govemment thrusts to commeTcialized rail
operators. However, a Bank-financed railway
project is promoting cost-based tariff setting
procedure.
There is long shiplock waiting time.       N         Shiplock operators are properly trained and
equipment is maintained.
Design and maintenance of equipment is     N         The project will appoint experienced engineering
not as expected.                                     consultants and properly trained power
operators.
Development of altemative power            N         If an altemative hydraulic power plant is built
generation is carried out.                           outside of Hunan province, transmission cost of
altemative services will be very high.
- 18 -



From Components to Outputs
Qualified Dam Safety Panel, adequacy of    N         The Bank will conduct a critical review of the
engineering designs, qualified contractors,          qualifications of the Panel of Experts on Dam
and quality of supervision and                       Safety, engineers, consultants and contractors,
satisfactory implementation of RAP will              and will give prior agreement to the RAP
not be in place.                                     implementation arrangements.
Overall Risk Rating                        M
Risk Rating - H (High Risk), S (Substantial Risk), M (Modest Risk), N(Negligible or Low Risk)
3. Possible Controversial Aspects:
There are no controversial aspects.
G. Main Loan Conditions
1. Effectiveness Condition
The only condition for effectiveness, other than the legal opinions, is the execution of a subsidiary loan
agreement by Hunan Province and HXNCDC, satisfactory to the Bank.
2. Other [classify according to covenant types used in the Legal Agreements.]
2.1 Agreement Reached with the Government:
The Borrower will ensure that the proceeds of the loan are onlent to Hunan Province, which will on-lend to
HXNCDC on the same terms and conditions as the Bank loan, with HXNCDC bearing the foreign
exchange risk.
2.2 Agreement Reached with the Beneficiary:
(a) Financial Conditions:
(i) IHXNCDC's working ratio not to exceed 20 percent from 2001 through 2010;
(ii) HXNCDC to provide each year a 5-year rolling business plan for the Bank's review and
implement such plan; and
(iii) HXNCDC to sign Power Sales Agreement acceptable to the Bank by July 2006.
(b) Overseas Training: By December 31 of each year starting in 2001, HXNCDC to provide to the
Bank for review an annual training program, and implement such program.
- 19-



(c) Environment, Land Acquisition and Resettlement:
(i) HXNCDC to carry out the EAP and RAP, in a manner satisfactory to the Bank, and furnish
any proposed revision of these plans to the Bank for its approval;
(ii) HXNCDC to maintain adequate policies and procedures, in accordance with indicators
acceptable to the Bank to enable it to monitor and evaluate on an ongoing basis the
implementation of EAP and RAP; and
(iii) under terms of reference acceptable to the Bank, HXNCDC to prepare and furnish to the
Bank: (a) semi-annual reports and annual environmental monitoring reports starting December
31, 2001 and ending on December 31, 2006; (b) by June 30, and December 31 of each year,
starting December 31, 2001 until two years after completion of the Project, an internal
resettlement report prepared by agencies of Hunan Province responsible for resettlement
activities on the implementation and results of such activities during the preceding six-month
period; and (c) by March 31 and September 30 of each year, starting March 31, 2002 until two
years after completion of the Project, an external resettlement report prepared by an
independent entity acceptable to the Bank, on the implementation and results of the
resettlement activities during the same six-month period referred to in clause (b) above.
(d) Dam Safety Panel: HXNCDC to: (a) during the period of implementation of the project, continue
to employ a panel of qualified experts under termns of reference and with resources acceptable to
the Bank, to review the adequacy of the design and construction procedures of the darn and its
associated structures; and (b) prepare, in a manner and according to a timetable satisfactory to the
Bank, detailed plans for: (i) construction supervision and quality assurance; (ii) instrumentation;
(iii) operation and maintenance; and (iv) emergency preparedness; and (c) carry out periodic safety
inspections of said dam after its completion.
(e) Reporting, monitoring, and auditing:
Using guidelines acceptable to the Bank and based on the agreed performance indicators,
HXNCDC to furnish to the Bank:
(i) quarterly progress reports on implementation of all project components;
(ii) an annual monitoring report, in a form satisfactory to the Bank, that assesses the degree to
which implementation and development goals were achieved for all components, by March 31,
of each year, beginning in 2002 and ending in 2007;
(iii) information or other arrangements required for an Implementation Completion Report within
the timing to be agreed during implementation of the project;
(iv) audited accounts for the project, statements of expenditures and special accounts prepared by
independent auditors acceptable to the Bank, within six months at the end of each fiscal year;
and
(v) audited consolidated financial statements of HXNCDC (including, but are not limited to,
income statement, cash flow statement and balance sheet) within six months after the end of
each financial year.
- 20 -



H. Readiness for Implementation
2 1. a) The engineering design documents for the first year's activities are complete and ready for the start
of project implementation.
0 1. b) Not applicable.
Z 2. The procurement documents for the first year's activities are complete and ready for the start of
project implementation.
O 3. The Project Implementation Plan has been appraised and found to be realistic and of satisfactory
quality.
0 4. The following items are lacking and are discussed under loan conditions (Section G):
Detailed design and bidding documents for construction of access roads (proposed to be procured through
NCB) have been completed and submitted to the Bank for review in March 2001. Bidding documents for
river bank protection (proposed under NCB) have been completed.
Pre-qualification documents for major civil works (construction of shiplock and dam/powerhouse) under
ICB have been submitted to the Bank for review.
.. Compliance with Bank Policies
Z 1. This project complies with all applicable Bank policies.
El 2. The following exceptions to Bank policies are recommended for approval. The project complies with
all other applicable Bank policies.
(A       __        __                             A  74 
Toshiro Tsutsumi                 Jitendra N. Bajpai                   ukan Hhmig
Team Leader                      Sector Director                    Country Dim   r
- 21 -



Annex 1: Project Design Summary
CHINA: Third Inland Waterways
Key Performance
Hierarchy of Objectives          Indicators          Monitoring & Evaluation    Critical Assumptions
Sector-related CAS Goal:   Sector Indicators:         Sector/ country reports:    (from Goal to Bank Mission)
Reduce transport and energy  IWT traffic (in tons) will  Transport Sector Report  Transport development
bottlenecks by improving IWT increase every year at the                          stimulates economic
sub-sector and constructing   same rate as economic                              development, and thus helps
hydropower-generating      development along the                                 alleviate poverty.
facilities                 Xiangjiang River.
Energy demand in the project Energy Sector Report
areas will increase.
Project Development        Outcome / Impact           Project reports:           (from Objective to Goal)
Objective:                 Indicators:
Improve market access      The freight tariff for IWT is   Monitor tariff in three modes  IWT provides good service
lower than for railway and    (IWW, rail, and road)   standard in transportation.
highway:
For door-to-door
transportation of the major
coal users along the
Xiangjiang, River IWT tariff
should be 10% and 30% lower
than rail and highway,
respectively.
Provide efficient IWT      Economic and financial costs  Monitor vessel size      (a) The transport industry, in
in ton-km will decrease with                          particular, shipping
the increase of inland water                          companies, modernize their
vessel size along the                                 fleets; and (b) freight tariff is
Xiangjiang River (from an                             not regularized.
average of 175 dwt in 1998 to
300 dwt in 2010).
Generate power to supplement Annual power output and  Financial statement will   Hydro-electricity has lowest
the needs of the remote areas  sales:                 assess:                    marginal cost; local demand
will exceed local supply.
Output: 640.5 million      (a) expected output; (b) actual
kwh/year                   output; (c) output sold; and
Utilization: 4,575 hours/year  (d) revenue.
Sale price: an average higher
than 0.27 Yuan/kwh
- 22 -



Key Performance
Hierarchy of Objectives          Indicators          Monitoring & Evaluation    Critical Assumptions
Output from each           Output Indicators:         Project reports:           (from Outputs to Objective)
Component:
Upgrade Xiangjiang IWW     Survey and updated         Navigation charts          (a) MOC's policy guidelines
(Zhuzhou - Dayuandu section) navigation charts are                               for vessel modernization are
to Class III - (3) (1,000 dwt)  completed. Navigable limits                      established;
are marked and waterway                               (b) financing is available to
category is reclassified.                             upgrade vessel size;
(c) IWT traffic increases as
expected;
(d) port facilities for larger
vessels are improved; and
(e) railway subsidy is not
increased.
Zhuzhou Shiplock is        Cycle-time of shiplock     Monitoring report          There is no shiplock waiting
completed and operating    operation (not more that one                          time.
efficiently.               hour) and shiplock traffic
Power generating facilities are Availability of turbine: firm   Production report  Design and maintenance of
properly operating.        output is 90%                                         turbines are as expected.
Price of "imported" electricity
remains high.
- 23 -



Key Perfornance
Hierarchy of Objectives          Indicators          Monitoring & Evaluation    Critical Assumptions
Project Components        Inputs: (budget for each    Project reports:           (from Components to
Sub-components:            component)                                            Outputs)
Construction of Zhuzhou    US$23.3 million            Progress Report and Bank    (a) The quality of engineering
shiplock                                              supervision                designs and supervision of
consultants is sufficient, and
consultant are qualified; and
(b) EAP and RAP are
implemented satisfactorily.
Construction of Zhuzhou    US$117.5 million           Progress Report and Bank    (a) Experienced Dam Safety
dam/powerhouse                                        supervision                Panels are appointed; (b) the
quality of engineering designs
and supervision of consultants
is sufficient, and contractors
are qualified; and (c) EAP
and RAP are implemented
satisfactorily.
Construction of access roads  US$7.0 million          Progress Report and Bank    (a) The quality of engineering
supervision                designs and supervision of
consultants is sufficient, and
contractors are qualified; and
(b) EAP and RAP are
implemented satisfactorily.
Construction of river bank    US$31.5 million         Progress Report and Bank    (a) The quality of engineering
protection                                            supervision                designs and supervision of
consultants is sufficient, and
contractors are qualified; and
(b) EAP and RAP are
implemented satisfactorily.
Channel improvement        US$2.0 million             Progress report and Bank   (a) The quality of engineering
between Zhuzhou and                                   supervision                designs and supervision of
Xiangtan                                                                         consultants is sufficient, and
contractors are qualified; and
(b) EAP and RAP are
implemented satisfactorily.
Institutional development for  US$1.5 million         Progress report and Bank   High-quality consultants with
Hunan Province                                        supervision                extensive knowledge of
international and local
conditions and economy are
hired.
Technical assistance for   US$0.1 million             Progress Report and Bank   High quality consultants with
aContainerization Study                                supervision                extensive knowledge of local
conditions and economy.
Resettlement               US$9.8 million             Monitoring report and Bank   RAP is implemented
supervision                satisfactorily.
- 24 -



Performance Indicators
1998       2003        2005        2010
Attainment of Project                                                        1st
Objectives                                                          Operational
____________________ _ _   _Baseline   Benchmark    Year    Benchmark
1. Improve market access in    Waterway Traffic ('000)      4,700       5,600       6,300       7,400
remote inland remote areas  (Zhuzhou Section)
Container Traffic (teus)       12,000
2. Provide more efficient and   Average Barge Size (dwt) at   175         220         250         300
economic inland waterway  the Zhuzhou Shiplock
transport                Section
Financial Performance
(a) Working Ratio (%)            6.70       11.80       13.50       14.80
(b) Self-financing Ratio (%)    10.20        1.00        0.29        1.00
(c) Debt Service Coverage                    1.38        1.84        1.39
Ratio (%)
3. Generate power to        Power Output of Zhuzhou       none        none        250,000     640,500
supplement the needs of the Dam (MWh)
remote areas
Implementation Indicators
________________________ _FY2002   FY2003 | FY2004  FY2005   FY2006   FY2007
% of civil works completed              5         30        65         85        90        100
% of equipment contracted               5         65        75         85       100        100
% of training (person) completed       10         30        50         70        90        100
% of resettlement comDleted            20         20        50         75       100        100
- 25 -



Annex 2: Detailed Project Description
CHINA: Third Inland Waterways
1.    The Xiangjiang River is a tributary of the Yangtze River. It connects the cities between Chenglingji
(at the confluence of the Xiangjiang and Yangtze Rivers) and Hengyang in Hunan Province. The
three-stage development plan of the GOC for the Xiangjiang River will result in the river being navigable
by vessels of up to 1,000 dwt, Class IU - (3) standard (four 1,000-dwt barges -- in a two-by-two formation
-- plus one push tow). The 257 km section of the Xiangjiang River from Chenglingji to Zhuzhou was
completed in 1994, except for the channel between Xiangtan and Zhuzhou which is still in Class III - (4)
(two 1,000-dwt barges - one line, two barges - plus one push tow), and the 62 km upstream section from
Hengyang to Dayuandu, which is partly funded through the IWW I project and will be completed by the
end of 2001.
2.    The proposed project will comprise the final 96-km section from Zhuzhou to Dayuandu where
currently only 300-dwt vessels can navigate. This project will help remove the navigational bottleneck
between Zhuzhou and Dayuandu. After the project is complete, four 1,000-dwt barges will be able to
navigate as far as Hengyang from the Yangtze River, and as a result, inland waterway transportation costs
will decline. The larger vessels will have operating costs about half of those at present. The main products
among the 3.5 million tons now transported through Dayuandu are coal, salt, iron/steel, timber, mineral
ores, and construction materials. At Zhuzhou Port (just downstream of the proposed dam and shiplock),
regular container transport services by barge have started.
3.    The proposed project will include: (a) construction of the Zhuzhou shiplock, dam and powerhouse;
(b) power-generating capability (five units of 28 MW, for a total of 140 MW); (c) upgrading the Xiangtan-
Zhuzhou section of the Xiangjiang river by dredging; and (d) technical assistance for: (i) development of
containerization along the Xiangjiang River and (ii) training.
By Component:
Project Component I - US$23.34 million
A. Zhuzhou Shiplock
Al.   Construction of Shiplock: One lane of a shiplock designed for a Class III - (3) channel will be
constructed beside the dam to enable vessels to navigate the 10-m difference in water levels between
upstream and downstream of the dam. The shiplock will have the same dimensions as the shiplock at
Dayuandu--23 m wide, 180 m long and 3.5 m deep at the sill-and the same annual traffic capacity of 15.6
million tons dwt to satisfy the demands of an estimated 10.4 million tons of traffic in 2030. One operation
cycle of the shiplock is expected to take about 40 minutes.
A2.   Shiplock Gates and Hoists: One set of miter gates at the upstream and downstream of the shiplock
will be provided at the shiplock. The miter gates will be operated by hydraulic hoist, with two 630 kN
(upstream) and two 1,000 kN (downstream). The upstream and the downstream gates will have design
heads of 5.2 m and 10.3 m, respectively.
Project Component 2 - US$117.52 million
B. Construction of Zhuzhou Dam and Powerhouse
B 1.   Major Civil Works: The Zhuzhou dam and powerhouse will be constructed at the Kongzhou
Island section of Xiangjiang River 24 km upstream from Zhuzhou City and 96 km downstream from
- 26 -



Dayuandu. The dam/powerhouse will have three sections -- right and left of Kongzhou Island and an
island section. The dam/powerhouse is connected to the shiplock section at the right side of the river. The
total length of the dam/powerhouse is 982.5 m. The dam will have five intakes for powerhouse and 26
sluice bays in total, 12 bays on the left and 14 bays on the right of the island. Each sluice bay is 20 m
wide and is equipped with a sluice gate to control river flow. A Class II bridge (12 m wide and 1,230 m
long) will also be constructed as part of the dam to connect both sides of the Xiangjiang River.
Construction will follow two phases, including the first phase cofferdam connecting between the left bank
and Kongzhou Island, and the second phase cofferdam between the right bank and Kongzhou island.
B2.   Supply and Installation of Turbines and Power Generators: Five bulb-tubular
turbine-and-generator units, each with a capacity of 28 MW, will be procured and installed in the
powerhouse. Maximum, minimum and rated water heads are 10.56 m, 3.0 m and 6.9 m, respectively. The
runner's diameter will be 7.5 m. The powerhouse will have both fixed and movable roofs, with the
operation floor at an elevation of 35.5 m. Each machine hall is 19 m wide and 41.7 m high. Each
generation unit will be installed at 22.15 m of elevation, with 21.4 m between units.
B3.   Sluice Gates and Hydraulic Hoist, Cranes, Trash Screens, Roof Cover and Other Small
Equipment: A metal radial sluice gate (12.5 m high and 20 m wide) will be installed in each of the 26
sluice bays. Each sluice gate will have one set of two hydraulic hoists (2,200 kN each) with a 7.8 m
traveling arm to operate the sluice and a stoplog. The elevation of the sluice bed is 28.5 m. The dam will
be provided with the following equipment: one 2,000-kN gantry crane for installing and maintaining turbine
and generator units, one overhead double-beam crane for powerhouse small equipment, one small gantry
crane (2 x 250 kN) for trash rack and screen, and one small gantry crane (2 x 400 kN) for tail gates. Small
equipment such as elevators, water pumps, and power cable breakers also will be provided.
B4.   Transformers and Switch Yard: Two step-up transformers of 63 MW and 90 MW will be provided
at the 10.5 kV side of the generators. Two generators will be connected to a 63-MW transformer. A
switch yard for 220 kV (74 m by 62 m) will be located on the upstream bank of the dam along the left bank
at an elevation of 48.8 m.
B5.   Transmission Lines: The Zhuzhou power plant will be connected to the Zhuxi substation by two
220-kV circuits of LGJ-300. Transmission lines will have two lines 30 km long and a 70 MW capacity
under normal operation. However, both lines will have a maximum transmission capacity of 140 MW in
case the other line has any problems.
- 27 -



Key Particulars of Zhuzhou Dam/Powerhouse
Hydrology        Total catchment area                                94,660 km2
Catchment above dam site                           65,220 km2
Annual average runoff                              53,000 million m3
Maximum design flood                                22,200 m3/second
Reservoir levels (normal pool level -- NPL)          40.50 m
Reservoir surface area at NPL                        58.90 km2
Reservoir capacity at NPL                          474.30 million m3
Dam              Sill elevation                                       28.50 m
No. of bays                                          26.00 bays
Dimension of bay                                  20 m (W) x 19.7 m (H)
Total sluice length                                 612.50 m
Power generation   No. of units                                           5 units
Rated output of unit                                28.00 MW
Rated speed                                          65.20 rpm
Max. water head                                      10.56 m
Min. water head                                       3.00 m
Rated water head                                      6.90 m
Rated voltage of generators                          10.50 kV
Powerhouse machine hall               146.1 m (L) x 19 m (W) x 42 m (H)
Annual average energy output                       640.50 Gwh
Annual utilization hours                             4,575 hrs
Project Component 3 - US$ 6.97 million
C. Access Roads
This component includes (a) access roads from existing roads to the project site and (b) access
roads within the project complex, mainly between the dam complex to Kongzhou Island.
Cl.    Construction ofAccess Roads to Outside: A Class III highway standard was selected according to
the estimated traffic density during construction and after the project. The west bank will connect to
Provincial Highway No. 1815 (6.04 km long), and the east bank will connect to the Beijing-Zhuzhou
Expressway (8.09 km long). The access road will be 8.5 m wide and 14.13 km long in total.
C2.    Construction ofAccess Road within Zhuzhou Complex: This temporal component is for
transporting construction materials. It includes roads (3.7 km long) and three landing stages for waterway
transportation. One landing stage is for unloading heavy equipment such as power generating equipment,
and the two landing stages, one at each side of the river, are for construction materials. One access bridge
from the dam bridge to Kongzhou Island (276 m long and 8.5m wide) and an overpass bridge (90m long
and 8.5 m wide) for the Sanmen discharge channel will also be included.
Project Component 4 - US$31.54 million
D. Bank Protection Works
D 1.   Xiangjiang River Bank Protection: The left river bank (1,900 m long) and the right (2,630 m long)
river bank will be protected. The elevation of the banks will be 42.0 m - 46.5 m.
D2.   Kongzhou Island Bank Protection: Kongzhou Island is about 1,800 m long and 200 m wide. The
entire island will be protected with rock masonry to an elevation of 46.5 m.
- 28 -



D3.   Reservoir Area Protection: The elevation of the reservoir protection is planned at 41.5 m (40.5-m
water level plus 1.0 m). Slope protection and wall protection of a total length of 24.1 km will be
constructed along both sides of the reservoir.
Project Component 5 - US$2.00 million
E. Channel Improvement between Zhuzhou and Xiangtan
The 37-km-long section between Zhuzhou and Xiangtan currently is a Class-III - (4) channel (60 m
wide and 2.0 m deep, for one line of two 1,000-dwt barges and one push tow). Under the project, this
section will be upgraded to Class III - (3) (90 m wide and 2.0 m deep) by removing eight shoals through (a)
dredging (270,350 m3); (b) rock blasting (4,000 m3); and (c) constructing groins (44,700 m3) along 439
km of the Xiangjiang waterway between the Yangtze River and Hengyang.
Project Component 6 - US$9.78 million
F. Technical Assistance and Training
In order to strengthen institutional capacity, a forward-looking waterway management strategy will
be developed and construction quality will be ensured. The project will include training, a containerization
study and construction supervision.
Fl.   Training: Domestic training (354 staff-months) and overseas training (143 staff-months) will be
provided under the project. Training topics will include: (a) waterway management; (b) intermodal
container transportation; (c) the environment; (d) shiplock and port operation and management; (e) World
Bank guidelines; (f) project management; (g) procurement; (h) engineering design; (i) construction
supervision; (j) financial management; (k) management information systems; (I)operators; and (m) English
language.
F2.   Containerization Development Study: While container traffic at China's deep-sea ports has
increased quite sharply, IWT container traffic, except on the Yangtze River, has not increased significantly.
Because the Xiangjiang is a tributary of the Yangtze, Zhuzhou port launched regular container operations,
and potential container traffic appears to be substantial. HXNCDC will implement a study to review and
assess IWT containerization along the Xiangjiang River.
F3.   Construction Supervision: This component will be financed locally. The IWW1 project has
proven the capacity of the domestic consultants in supervising a similar and even larger project. Qualified
domestic consultants selected though a competitive process will implement this component.
Project Component 7 - US$9.75 million
G. Resettlement, shiplock and port operation and management
This component will include land acquisition, compensation for resettlement, cleaning of the
reservoir area and other resettlement related activities.
- 29 -



Table A: Training Program
Domestic                  Overseas         Implementation
Nature of Training                        Number   Duration        Number   Duration          Timing
of Person   (month)      of Person   (month)
t. Policy Support
Inland Waterway Management                                               8          1       2002
Environmental and Monitoring                                            12          1    2003 & 05
Operation and Management for Shiplock
and Port                                      12         0.5             9          1    2004 & 07
Intermodal Transportation                                                6        0.7       2003
Subtotal                                      12                        35
2. Implementation Support
Bank Loan Procedures                          20         0.3                                2001
Procurement and Contract                                                16          1   2001, 03 & 04
Waterway Engineering Design                                             16        0.7    2002 & 03
Construction Supervision                      30           1            16          1   2001, 02 & 03
Subtotal                                      50                        48
3. Institutional Development
Economic Analysis and Evaluation                                         9          1       2002
Project Management                                                      16          1    2004 & 05
Financial Management                           4          1             12          1   2003, 04 & 06
Management Information System                                           18          1    2003 & 05
Operators                                     45          5             16          1    2006 & 07
English                                        6          3                                 2001
Subtotal                                      55                        71
Grand Total                                  117                       154
- 30 -



Table B: Overall Implementation Schedule
2001       2002       2003        2004       2005        2006       2007
General Procurement Notice
(March 31, 2001, No. 555)
1. Access Road
2. Zhuzhou Shiplock
Civil works                   T    _    _    _
Equipment             r _                     -         _ _  l
3. Zhuzhou Dam/Powerhouse
Civil works                  1                         1 _    _
Power generators             _    _    _
Sluice gates             r                     J                   i
4. Transformer and switch yard               _           _        _     _
5. Bank Protection              -
6. Reservoir Protection                     El _
7. Channel Improvement                                                  _    _
(Xiangtiang - Zhuzhou Section)
8. Training                                           1011111111111I
9. Study                                         _                              _           _
Preparation of bidding documents/TOR
Prequalification
Bidding process/Shortlist and selection of consultants
Implementation of contract
- 31 -



Annex 3: Estimated Project Costs
CHINA: Third Inland Waterways
Pr~oj~tCpts~y  ompRent         us $ O00S~OQ                U$Q
A.  Zhuzhou Shiplock                         9,402.86      10,145.85     19,548.71
1. Shiplock Construction                   9,402.86      9,138.85     18,541.71
2. Shiplock Gates                              0.00       1,007.00      1,007.00
B.  Zhuzhou Dam and Powerhouse              32,412.41      64,589.72     97,002.13
1. Major Civil Works                      21,452.98     19,234.73     40,687.71
2. Power Generating Equipment              1,325.30     35,372.16      36,697.46
3. Sluice Gates and Small Equipment            0.00      8,799.83       8,799.83
4. Transformer and Switch Yard                 0.00       1,183.00      1,183.00
5. Transmission Lines                      9,634.13          0.00       9,634.13
C.  Access Roads                             3,046.97       2,816.50      5,863.47
1. Inside Road                             1,865.72      1,830.50      3,696.22
2. Outside Road                            1,181.25        986.00       2,167.25
D.  Bank Protection                          19,148.07      4,759.00     23,907.07
1. Inundation Protection                  14,176.17          0.00      14,176.17
2. Drainage for Sanmen                     2,484.95      2,547.70       5,032.65
3. Kongzhou Bank Protection                2,486.96      2,211.30       4,698.26
E. Channel Improvement
1. Zhuzhou-Xiangtan WW                     1,464.27          0.00       1,464.27
F.  TA and Training                          6,604.30       1,590.00      8,194.30
1. Design                                  4,087.97          0.00      4,087.97
2. Supervision Consultants                 2,516.33          0.00       2,516.33
3. Training                                    0.00       1,510.00      1,510.00
4. Container Study                             0.00         80.00         80.00
G. Resettlement (excluding D. 1. and D.2.)   9,750.00          0.00       9,750.00
Total Baseline Cost                          81,828.90     83,901.07    165,729.96
Physical Contingency                     8,182.89      8,231.15      16,414.04
Price Contingency                       11,888.48      6,867.78      18,756.26
Total Project Costs            101,900.26     99,000.00    200,900.26
Interest during construction  18,324.41         0.00      18,324.41
Front-end Fee          0.00       1,000.00      1,000.00
Total Financing Required          120,224.67    100,000.00    220,224.67
- 32 -



Local         Foreign         Total
Proiect Costs By Component            us V00Q        US $'000       -$DQ!
Goods                                           13,769.25      55,347.55      69,116.80
Works                                          70,190.72       42,062.45     112,253.17
Services                                        8,190.29          80.00        8,270.29
Training                                            0.00        1,510.00       1,510.00
Resettlement                                    9.750.00     _     0.00   _    9.750.00
Total Project Costs             101.900.26       99,0000       200,900
Interest during construction   18.324.41           0.00       18,324.41
Front-end Fee            0.00         000.00        L.oonOM
Total FinancinQ Required           120.224.67      100 000.00     220.224.67
- 33 -



Annex 4: Cost Benefit Analysis Summary
CHINA: Third Inland Waterways
Summary of Benefits and Costs:
1.    The economic rate of return of the project is estimated at 18.8 percent, with a modified economic
rate of return of 14.5 percent. The net present value is estimated at US$98 million, using a standard
discount rate of 12 percent.
Distribution of Benefits by Source
Source of Benefit              NPV               Share of Benefits
US$ million
Navigation                      96.4                  42.8%
Energy                          59.1                  26.3%
Road transport                  57.8                  25.7%
Agriculture and Fishing         11.7                  5.2%
Total                          225.0                  100.0%
ERR                            18.8%
MERR                           14.5%
Main Assumptions:
2.    It was originally intended that the dam at Dayuandu would allow the upgrading of the Xiangjiang
River as far as Chenglingji to Class III standards (permitting the navigation of four I ,000-dwt convoys),
but the flow of water over the dam would not be sufficient for this. It was then intended that the 19 shoals
between Dayuandu and Kongzhou, with a total length of 33.7 km, could be blasted and dredged, but this
proved unfeasible from an engineering perspective. Given the severe shortage of electric power in Zhuzhou
area, the construction of a multipurpose facility including a dam, shiplock and power station was proposed
as the most cost-effective solution to the two problems to upgrade the section between Dayuandu and
Kongzhou to Class III.
3.    Although the project is aimed primarily at aiding navigation on the Xiangjiang River, the cost of
the dam and shiplock is so high that benefits from improved navigation alone are not sufficient to justify the
project. However, building the dam created the opportunity to provide a hydro-power station and a new
bridge across the river at a small marginal cost. The hydroelectricity and the additional benefits of
increased agricultural and fishing output and lower irrigation costs allow the sum of the benefits to exceed
costs by a margin sufficient to demonstrate the economic feasibility of the project.
- 34 -



GDP and Traffic Growth Rates
1998 to 2009    2010 to 2030
GDP in Hunan                     4.0%            3.0%
Elasticity of demand with
respect to GDP
Waterway transport         0.75            0.75
Road transport             1.25             1.25
Waterway transport growth rate   3.0%            2.25%
Road transport growth rate       5.0%            3.75%
4.    The rate of growth of the economy of Hunan Province, and particularly of the region in which the
project is located, is the most fundamental assumption. During the 1990s, the GDP of Hunan Province
increased at an average rate of almost I I percent, while that of the project hinterland increased slightly
faster. The output of industrial production grew at about 20 percent in both Hunan Province and
hinterland, while agricultural output grew at only about 6.6 percent in the province and 7 percent in the
hinterland. The projections of waterway and road transport both assume a GDP growth rate of 4 percent
until 2010 and 2.5 percent thereafter. Because Hunan Province and its hinterland already suffer from a
shortage of electric power, it was not necessary to assess the impact of future GDP growth on the demand
for elasticity. Because most short-term projections of GDP growth are significantly higher than those used
here, the principle alternative value used in the probability analysis is 2 percent throughout the evaluation
period.
5.    The elasticity of inland waterway transport with respect to GDP growth was assumed to be 0.75
while that for road transport was assumed to be 1.25. It was further assumed that the markets for
waterway, road and rail transport were largely independent and that investments and improvements to
services in one mode would have a negligible effect on demand for services in other modes.
Navigation benefits
6.    The project will generate two types of navigational benefits. First, all vessels using the section of
river upstream of the dam will be able to navigate at a higher speed, as the width and depth of the
navigation channel will increase. Second, the increased dimensions of the channel will allow larger vessels
and convoys to operate. There would be fewer vessels and the average size would increase less than
proportionally.
7.    The 96-km river section from Dayuandu to Kongzhou is a 40-m-wide Class V channel with a
maximum vessel size of 300 dwt. The next 24-km section from Kongzhou to Zhuzhou is a 90-m-wide
Class III - (3) channel allowing for convoys of up to four 1,000-dwt vessels, but the 37-km section from
Zhuzhou to Xiangtan is a 60-m-wide Class III - (4) channel allowing only two 1,000-dwt convoys. The
channel from Xiangtan to the confluence of the Xiangjiang and Yangtze rivers is Class III - (3), with a
90-m width allowing the passage of convoys of up to four 1 ,000-dwt barges. Both the river sections
upstream from Dayuandu to Hengyang and downstream from Xiangtan to Chenglingji allow convoys of up
to four 1,000-dwt barges to operate. So the section of the river between Hengyang to Chenglingji, and
particularly the section between Dayuandu and Kongzhou, creates a bottleneck in the 439-km waterway.
The project is intended to eliminate this bottleneck and allow efficient operation of larger vessels along the
entire 439-km section of the river.
- 35 -



8.    The operation of convoys up to four 1,000-dwt vessels throughout this 439-km length of waterway
will not only reduce convoy operating costs, but will also make it possible to reduce the fleet size, as the
operation of larger convoys will allow a higher ratio of barges to powered vessels. The benefits will extend
beyond Chenglingji, because the Yangtze River allows for convoys of up to twelve 2,000-dwt vessels, as
well as single vessels of up to 5,000 dwt.
9.    Only major freight flows over relatively long distances between ports with adequate berthing
facilities will be able to take advantage of the capacity for larger convoys. Approximately 30 percent of
current freight tonnage passing through the site of the proposed dam and shiplock meets these conditions.
Although more freight flows will be able to take advantage of the increased capacity for larger vessels
between Zhuzhou and Xiangtan, about half the freight that passes the site of the proposed dam and shiplock
will continue to be transported in vessels of less than 120 dwt and will benefit from neither the capacity for
larger vessels nor the increase in maximum speed.
Characteristics of Sections of the Xiangjiang River
Length    Class             Width   Maximum
Section of River      kms                         Meters   Convoy
Hengyang to Dayuandu  62         Class III - (3)  90       4 x 1000 dwt
Dayuandu to Kongzhou  96         Class V          40       300 dwt
Kongzhou to Zhuzhou    24        Class III - (3)  90       4 x 1000 dwt
Zhuzhou to Xiangtan    37        Class III - (4)  60       2 x 1000 dwt
Xiangtan to Chenglingji  220     Class III - (3)  90       4 x 1000 dwt
Total                 439
Freight volume
10.   In 1998 about 5.21 million tons of freight were transported on the section of the Xiangjiang River
between Hengyang and Zhuzhou, with about 3 million tons passing the dam and shiplock site at Kongzhou.
This traffic is expected to grow by about 4 percent per year until 2010, and then by about 3.5 percent per
year until the end of the evaluation period in 2030, by which time it will have reached about 10.4 million
tons. The average trip length for freight that would benefit from the increase in vessel size is about 236 km.
Reduction in transit time
11.   The reduction in transit time with the project would be about 2.45 hours, taking into account an
average lock time of about 45 minutes, and an increase in vessel operating speed from 8.6 km/hr to 10.5
km/hr. For the average trip distance, the without-project transit time would be about 33.2 hours. The
with-project reduction in transit time represents about 7 percent of the without-project transit time.
Vesselfleet
12.   More than 65 percent of freight passing Kongzhou currently is transported in vessels of less than
100 dwt. This percentage is expected to decrease to about 50 percent by 2020 whether or not the project is
completed. Limitations on vessel size now result in 25 percent of freight being transported in vessels of
between 100 dwt and 300 dwt, and 10 percent in convoys of four 300-dwt vessels. With the project, about
- 36 -



13 percent of freight would be transported in convoys of four 1,000-dwt vessels, and a further 10 percent in
convoys of two 1,000-dwt vessels. Vessels of between 100 dwt and 300 dwt would transport the remaining
25 percent of freight. It is expected that the average vessel size, presently about 175 dwt tons, would
increase to about 453 dwt by 2030 without the project, but to about 845 dwt with the project.
Operating and capital costs
13.    The changes in the vessel fleet would reduce the average operating cost from the equivalent of
about US$0.074 (US 7.4 cents) per ton-km to about US$0.064 (US 6.4 cents) per ton-kin, a reduction of
about 13 percent. Furthermore, because larger vessels have a lower unit capital cost than smaller vessels,
and because to transport a given volume of freight fewer vessels will be needed with the project than
without the project, costs will decline even more. With the project, average vessel size will almost double
by 2030. The number of vessels will decline in proportion to the increase in vessel size, and replacement
costs will decline to about 37 percent of what they would be without the project. The savings in vessel
capital cost represents about 20 percent of the total of navigation benefits.
Energy savings
14.   The hydro-power station that is part of the project will have a capacity of 140 MW and a net
output of about 591 million kwh, taking into account efficiency and transmission losses and the impact of
periods of a reduced head of water in the reservoir. A coal-fired power station of about 70 MW would
produce about the same net output, but the output would be more evenly distributed throughout the year.
The benefit of the hydro-power station is estimated by calculating the avoided capital and operating costs
of a coal-fired power station of this size. Although the calculations are not necessary for the overall
economic evaluation of the project, the hydro-power station's share of the project cost amounts to about
US$127 million. Using standard unit costs, a coal-fired station would cost about USS42 million. However,
the operating cost per kwh of the hydro-station will be only about US 0.2 cents compared to US 2.2 cents
for the coal-fired station (both excluding capital costs). About 80 percent of the cost of the coal-fired
station would represent the cost of the coal itself.
Comparison of Hydro- and Coal-Fired Power Stations
Units            Hydro-power      Coal-fired
Station         Station
Capacity            MW                140              95
Investment cost     US$ million       US$127 million   US$42 million
Operating           Hours/year                         7,200
hours/year
Gross output        kwh               622 million      643 rnillion
Net output          kwh               591 mnillion     591 million
Unit cost           US cents/kwh      0.2              2.2
Road transport savings
15.    Road traffic that crosses the Xiangjiang River in the vicinity of Zhuzhou must detour about 33 kms
to Xiangtan or use one of two ferries. At present, about 550 vehicles cross on the ferries each day. These
and an estimated additional 800 vehicles per day that use the bridge at Xiangtan would use a bridge built at
Kongzhou. At the projected annual growth rates of 5 percent for the next ten years and 4 percent thereafter,
- 37 -



traffic crossing the bridge will reach about 5,300 medium-truck equivalents per day by 2030. Saving about
33 km in distance and about 1.2 hours in travel time will provide several benefits, including reduced vehicle
operating costs, a smaller truck fleet, and slightly reduced value of freight in transit. There would be
savings in operating the ferries and additional savings in accident costs, but these have not been valued.
These benefits would be offset by the costs to improve the access roads to the dam site and to build a new
road across the dam. The 14.1 km of access roads will be built to a Class III standard, while the new road
across the dam itself will be built to a Class II standard.
Agricultural and fishing benefits
16.    The costs of irrigation using waters of the Xiangjiang River will decline as the water level rises,
bringing about an increase of 290 ha in the area of irrigated land on the left of the river and 280 ha on the
right bank. This additional irrigated land could be used for rice production at a net value of about 13,860
yuan/ha, and a further 530 ha on the right bank could be converted to orchards. The surface area available
to fishing will increase by about 200 ha, bringing the overall annual yield from increased agriculture and
fishing activities to about 28 million yuan.
Sensitivity analysis / Switching values of critical items:
17.    Because there are several sources of benefits of the project, the economic evaluation is susceptible
to a larger than usual number of assumptions. The most important were included in the following table in a
compound probability evaluation using a Monte Carlo simulation model (Crystal Ball).
- 38 -



Range of Values of Principal Variables
Variable                   Low value      Median value   High value      Type of
distribution
GDP growth rate in Hunan   2% reducing   4% reducing to  5% reducing to  Nonnal
to 3% after    3% after 2010  4% after 2010
2010
Elasticity of waterway     0.50           0.75           1.00            Nonnal
transport with respect to
GDP2
Elasticity of road transport   1.00       1.25           1.50            Normal
with respect to GDP
Necessary output of        453 m          591 m kw/hr    700 m kw hr    Normal
electricity to satisfy demand   kw hr
in 2005
Cost of an equivalent 90   US$36.9 m      US$42.6 m      US$57.6 m       Lognornal
MW coal fired power station
Unit operating cost of     US 1.5 cents   US 0.02 cents  US 0.03 cents   Nornal
producing hydro-power      kw/hr          kw/hr          kw/hr
Unit cost of producing     US 1.5 cents   US 2.2 cents    US 2.5 cents    Normal
coal-fired power station   knm/hr         km/hr          kw/hr
Average vessel size with   700 dwt        845 dwt        925 dwt         Negative
project '                                                                exponential
Reduction in ship operating   5%          7%             10%             Normal
cost with project
Road traffic on bridge in  3,000 MTE    4,700 MTE        6,000 MTE       Negative
2030                                                                     exponential
Feasibility Study, Report, Hunan, August 2000, based on submission to Tenth Five-Year Plan. The average GDP
growth rate for the last ten years has been in excess of 8%.
An analysis of waterway ton-km and GDP at a national level over the last ten years indicates an elasticity of
about 0.8.
Most estimates f the GDP elasticity of road freight in China, as in most developing economies, are excess of 1.2.
Feasibility Study Report, Hunan, August 2000.
World Bank estimates based on assumed replacement rate of 7% of the fleet each year and implementation of
scheme to finance purchase of larger vessels.
- 39 -



18.    The results of this evaluation show (Figure 1) a wider than usual distribution of benefits because of
the relatively small impact of each of a large number of variables. The figure also shows that there is a
negligible probability that the net present value will be less than Y400 million or more than Y I billion.
Figure 1: Frequency Distribution of Net Present Value of Project
Forecast: net present value
1,000 Trials                     Frequency Chart                           I Outlier
.031-                                                                   31
P
R                                                                                 F
0   .023. .......          _.._.._.  l                                  .. .23.25 R
B                                                                                 E
AQ
I                                                                                 N
T
B ......                                                          ...   7                          -1.75  C
y   .008  l* ll*l *l|ill                                             | !77  
.000 
$400.00        $575.00        $750.00        $925.00       $1,100.00
19.    Although the number of assumptions is larger than for a project with a single source of benefits,
this also makes the outcome of the project more robust against a change in any one of the assumptions or
benefit sources. For example, whereas the benefits of a coal fired power station would be highly sensitive to
the price of coal, as the power output of a multipurpose dam only represents about a 26% of the benefits,
the sensitivity to coal price is much less (and in this case in the opposite direction, since an increase in the
price of coal would increase the benefits rather than reduce them). Similarly, the benefits of a highway
project would be highly sensitive to assumptions about changes in vehicle operating costs, but in this case,
the benefits of the road bridge also represent only 26% of the total, so the impact of the assumption of level
of vehicle operating cots is much less. This particular project is especially robust in front of assunptions
relating to any particular benefit source, since even if any one of the principal sources produced zero
benefits, the others would still contribute sufficient to make the project economically viable. So the
switching value of most variables in zero. An exception is the construction cost, and this could increase by
75% without producing an unacceptable rate of return.
ERR and MERR if benefit
Source of Benefit                from this source reduced to
zero
Navigation                       12.0%    12.0%
Energy                           14.4%    13.0%
Roadbridge                      14.7%    13.1%
Agriculture and fishing          17.9%    14.2%
- 40 -



20.   However, all the benefits except those from the road bridge are susceptible to a reduction in the
flow of water in the river. This would reduce the amount of energy that could be produced, restruct
navigation downstream of the dam and reduce the volume of water available for irrigation and fishing. The
flow of water is a particularly sensitive issue, as it is the lack of water flowing over the upstream dam at
Dayuandu that mrakes it necessary to build this dam at Zhuzhou. For the overall benefits of the project to
reduce to below 12%, the volume of water passing downstream from Dayuandu would have to be just 43%
or less than that now projected. This is considered to be extremely unlikely.
- 41 -



Annex 5: Financial Summary
CHINA: Third Inland Waterways
Preface
1.    The financial evaluation of the project is comprised of two parts. Part I is the overall financial
evaluation of HXNCDC, and Part II is the financial evaluation of the proposed project, including the
sensitivity analysis and probabilistic risk analysis. Except for the World Bank loan, HX-NCDC does not
have any outstanding long-term debt. To measure the opportunity cost of capital for the local grants, an
overall average of 5 percent is applied. The financial cost of the project is calculated on the basis of the
weighted average cost of the various sources of funds. The weighted average financial cost of the capital is
estimated to be 5.9 percent (45.4 percent from the Bank at 7 percent and 54.6 percent from local grants at
5 percent).
PART I: FINANCIAL EVALUATION OF HXNCDC
2.    HXNCDC was established in 1994. Invested by HPCD, this state-owned company was formed for
the construction and operation of the Dayuandu dam under the IWWTI project. It is the sole owner of both
the Dayuandu facilities and the Zhuzhou facilities (for the proposed project). The financial evaluation will
focus on the consolidated financial capacity of the company. The main financial revenue of the company is
the income from power sales, and power sales price is strictly regulated by the government.
3.    The construction of the Dayuandu dam is nearly completed. The trial operation started in 1999
and the dam was fully operational in 2000. The major operational features of the company can be
summarized below:
(a) A financially independent company. During the construction period, MOC and HPCD will
provide the financial grants to HXNCDC. After the project is completed, neither MOC nor HPCD
will provide any funds for the company's daily operations. The company will pay all its operating
costs, including its financial obligations, i.e., repayment of interest and principal of the loans.
(b) Shiplock operations. HPCD has decided not to collect shiplock fee from the project.
(c) Delivery network. The company does not have its own power delivery network. It must sell
power to the provincial power company and use that company's delivery network.
(d) Power sales contract. Under the supervision of the provincial government, a power sales contract,
including a formula to determrine the power price, was signed between HXNCDC and the
provincial power company. The power sales price will be reviewed every year.
Financial Objective
4.    HPCD advised that the main purpose of operating revenue will be to repay the Bank loan and
cover operating and non-operating expenses and routine and major maintenance instead of to maximize the
financial rate of return on the investment. Currently, the contracted year-round power sales price is YO.348
/kwh. It is assumed that the power sales price will increase once for each of the five years and grow 10
percent for the first five years (or 1.9 percent per year), and 15 percent (or 2.8 percent per year) for the
subsequent five years.
- 42 -



Past and Present Financial Performance
5.     HXNCDC, in its present configuration, has a very short period of business practice (less than two
years of full operational experience), and no single set of financial statements fully presents historical
results on a basis comparable with current and projected future results. For this purpose, a pro-forma
consolidation has been made with data extracted from the limited past financial statements. The salient
points of HXNCDC's results for 1999-2000 appear in the following table.
HXNCDC Income Statement
1999       2000
Power sales (Gwh)                               189.0      380.0
Total operating revenue(Y million)              31.56      119.09
Operating costs, taxes and expenses (Y million)  33.65     115.47
Net cash surplus (Y million)                   (2.09)       3.62
Working ratio (%)                                 6.9        6.7
6.     The overall financial performance of HXNCDC in 2000, the first full year of operations, is good.
Net cash surplus (or net profit after tax) improved greatly from 1999, the trial period. The working ratio
(operational efficiency of the company) is in a very comfortable range of 6.7 percent. The depreciation
reserve (Y 72.0 million) is more than 10 times the total working cost (Y 6.78 million), which generates a
strong internal cash flow. The return on average net fixed assets (the profitability of the company) was low
(0.2 percent), mainly because the project investment is also included in the construction of the shiplock
facilities. HXNCDC will have to start repaying the Bank loan for the IWW1 project in 2001. These
financial obligations will affect the company's income statement, which may produce negative figures
between 2002 and 2005, although the amount is relatively small (in average, under 3 percent of total
revenue) (Table 1: Incorme Statement).
7.     The current low profit margin will not affect the daily operations of the company. This is because
the large sum of the depreciation reserve will provide sufficient funds for the company. However, the low
cash reserve in 1999 will affect the current ratio (the liquidity of the company) in 2000. In addition,
because of borrowing from the Bank, the self-financing ratio will not be sound, particularly during the
construction period and early operating years of the Zhuzhou facilities. The pressure of the self-financing
ratio of the company is expected to be fully relieved after 2006 (Table 2: Sources and Applications of
Funds).
8.     Except for the current ratio in 2000, the financial indicators of HXNCDC are sound. The shortage
of cash in 2000 will affect the current ratio in that year, which was estimated to be 0.9 (to avoid short-term
solvency problems, the current ratio should be more than 1.0). The strong internal cash generation from
the depreciation reserve will be able to limnit the shortage of cash during 2000 only. The financial leverage
of the company, debt/ (debt plus equity) ratio,is in a very comfortable range because of the large amount
of equity. The balance sheet, summarized for 1999 and 2000, is presented in Table 3.
- 43 -



HXNCDC Balance Sheet (million Yuan)
1999        2000
Assets:
Fixed assets / a               1,629.00     1,901.43
Current assets                    9.15        40.10
Other assets                        --           --
Total                 1,638.15     1941.53
Equity                            895.09      1,149.86
Long-term debts                   740.02        748.7
Current liabilities                 3.04        42.97
Other liabilities                     --           --
Total                 1,638.15     1941.53
Current ratio                        3.0          0.9
Debt/ (debt +-equity) rafio        45.13         39.4
/_a: Net value.
Future Financial Performance
9.     The power market in the project area has two special characteristics. First is the steady market
demandfor electricity. Zhuzhou city (the project area) is a heavy industrial center. About 70 percent of
local electricity is imported from outside of Zhuzhou city. Even with the imported electricity, in 2000,
supply met only about 65 percent of demand. The shortage of electricity in Zhuzhou city indicates a strong
demand for electricity. Second is power sales. The government of Zhuzhou city has released an official
document to the Bank expressing its intention to purchase all the electricity generated from the project.
10.    Operating practices of the Dayuandu facilities allow the operating costs of HXNCDC to be
categorized in the following way: working cost [(a) wage and benefits, (b) fuel and power, (c) material and
equipment, (d) maintenance, and (e) others)], and operating cost (working cost plus depreciation). All other
expenses, such as taxes, administration, and interest payments on the Bank loan, are included in the
calculation of the profitability of HXNCDC. The major financial assumptions are in Table 4.
11.    In 2001, HXNCDC will receive its full operational revenue from the IWWI project. With the
completion of the proposed project (Zhuzhou) in 2007, HXNCDC's revenue will double. The proposed
project is scheduled to be put into trial operation in 2005 and in full operation in 2007.
12.    The large amount of government grants (about 59 percent in total average, of which 63 percent for
Dayuandu and 55 percent for Zhuzhou) will generate a large supply of equity for the company. The
relatively low liabilities combined with higher depreciation reserve cause the debt/ (debt plus equity) ratio
and working ratio to be in a healthy range during construction as well as operating periods of the company.
It is estimated that from 2000 through 2010, the debt/ (debt plus equity) ratio will be in the range of 33 to
53 percent and the working ratio from 7 to 15 percent.
- 44 -



PART II: THE FINANCIAL EVALUATION OF THE PROJECT
Financial Internal Rate of Return (FIRR)
13.     The calculation of the FIRR focuses on the Zhuzhou facilities (the project) only, and not on the
entire HXNCDC. The low profit margin and the low power price escalation assumptions, which are based
on the government's strategy, may not generate much financial difficulty in the daily operations of
HXNCDC, although it will produce a large financial impact on the FIRR. The FIRR of the project is
estimated at 6.8 percent, as summarized below:
FIRR and Net Present Value
FIRR (in %)                                   6.8
Net Present Value (Y million, 5.9%)          149.1
Sensitivity Analysis
14.     The sensitivity analysis tested the different scenarios on the bases of the changes in some major
parameters. HXNCDC does not plan to collect a bridge toll or shiplock fee from users, the but their impact
on the financial evaluation of the project is minimal in any case. For the purposes of the sensitivity
analysis, the bridge toll is assumed to be 10 yuan/MTE (based on 75 percent of the total vehicle operating
cost savings) and the shiplock fee is assumed to be 0.5 yuan/ton (based on the current shiplock fee in
Hunan province).
15.     The principal endogenous and exogenous parameters that could affect the project's financial results
are: power sales price, working costs, total capital cost, bridge toll, shiplock fee and delay of the opening
year by one year. The results show that: (a) an increase in total working costs has the least effect on the
financial evaluation; (b) collection of bridge toll and shiplock fee also has little effect on the project (if they
were collected, the FIRR would increase by only 0.4 percent); and (c) a project cost overrun and/or a delay
in opening the facilities by one year could affect the financial results the most. The financial result
sunimary by different scenarios for 2007 is shown in the following table.
FINANCIAL SENSITIVITY ANALYSIS SUMMARY (in %)
Base  Power sales Working   Total    Collect  Collect   Combine  Delay
case  price      costs     costs    bridge   ship lock  (a) and    one
(-15%)     (+15%)   (+15%)  toll (a)  fee (b)    (b)      year
FIRR                        6.8      5.9       6.6       5.3     7.1       6.9       7.2      5.3
Profitability:
Retum on ANFA /1           2.3      0.9       2.1       1.7      2.6      2.4       2.7      0.6
Working ratio              12.6    14.8       14.5     12.6    12.3      12.5       12.1    12.9
Operating ratio            38.3    45.0       40.2     42.1    37.2      37.8       36.8    44.9
Liquidity:
Current ratio              9.7      9.3       9.4       9.8     10.0      9.8       10.1     3.9
Leverage:
Debt service coverage ratio  1.46   1.27      1.44     1.48     1.50     1.47       1.50    1.24
Debt! (debt + equity) ratio  51.2    52.6     51.4     52.4     50.8     51.0      50.6    553
I_1: Average net fixed assets.
- 45 -



Project Risks
16.    The sensitivity test shows that a project cost overrun and/or delay in opening the facilities by one
year will have a large financial impact on the project. Based on the experiences learned from the IWWI
project, it is expected that the risk due to the delay and cost overrun to the proposed project, which is
similar to the first one, is negligible. In addition to the sensitivity analysis for each factor, a Monte Carlo
probability risk analysis was carried out to estimate the degree of uncertainty.
Probabilistic Risk Analysis
17.    To determine the degree of uncertainty for the project, a probabilistic risk analysis using Monte
Carlo techniques was carried out. In a Monte Carlo analysis, each uncertainty factor is allowed to vary at
random between set limits and all uncertainty factors are allowed to change simultaneously. Monte Carlo
simulation provides probability distributions of the potential outcomes of decisions. By analyzing these
distributions, we can assess the risk associated with making various decisions (or probabilistic risk
analysis). The product of the analysis is a judgment on the possible range of the decision variable, and on
the likelihood of each value within this range.
18.    For the proposed project, six uncertain factors that may affect the result of financial evaluation
have been identified: (a) power generation, (b) power sales price, (c) total working costs, (d) power sales
price escalation, (e) capital investment, and (f) delay in opening the facilities by one year. The result of
financial probabilistic analysis reveals that the most likely FIRR for the project is 6.4 percent, while the
worst and the best FIRR are 5.8 percent and 7.2 percent, respectively. The details of the FIRR and NPV
are in Table 5 and summarized as follows:
Summary of Financial Probabilistic Analysis
Range of FIRR & NPV   Most Likely FRR &NPV   Std. Error of the Mean
FIRR (in %)             5.8% - 7.2%             6.4%                 0.0%
NPV (5.9%, Y million)   - 23.2 - 233.0           94.9                 7.6
Financial Performance Indicators
19.    To ensure that the project is financially successful, an assurance was obtained from HXNCDC that
beginning in June 2002, HXNCDC will prepare annually a rolling five-year financial plan that will include
the projected revenue and capital expenditure costs and discuss the plan with the Bank.
20.    The financial performnance indicators are: operating ratio, self-financing ratio and debt service
coverage ratio. The Bank will closely monitor these financial performance indicators during project
supervision. A variance of less than plus or minus 15 percent will be considered acceptable. HXNCDC
will be required to improve its financial performance in the following year by increasing tariffs or reducing
costs or capital expenditures if the selected targets (three indicators) are not achieved.
- 46 -



Financial Performance Indicators (in %)
Workine Ratio (%)        Self-financine Ratio    Debt Service Coveraee Ratio
2000                   6.7                      0.17                       --
2001                  10.2                      0.28                      1.56
2002                  11.2                      0.74                      1.39
2003                  11.8                      1.00                      1.38
2004                  12.4                      0.15                      1.37
2005                  13.5                      0.29                      1.84
2006                  12.3                      0.85                      2.96
2007                  12.8                      1.00                      1.45
2008                  13.4                      1.00                      1.43
2009                  14.1                      1.00                      1.41
2010                  14.8                      1.00                      1.39
Notes:  Working ratio = Total working costs/(Operating revenue - Business taxes)
Self-financing ratio = Average the last three years' total investments/(Net profit + Depreciation)
Debt service coverage ratio = (Net profit + Depreciation + Interest + Foreign exchange risk)
/ (Principal + Interest + Foreign exchange risk)
- 47 -



Table 1: Income Statement
(Y million, year ending December 31)
1999      2000    2001    2002    2003  2004    2005    2006    2007    2008    2009    2010
Power Generation (Gwh)             193     414     560      560     560      560  752.15   1072.4  1200.5  1200.5  1200.5  1200.5
Power Sales (Gwh)                189.0   380.0   500.0   500.0   500.0   500.0   678.7   976.5  1095.6  1095.6  1095.6  1095.6
Operating Revenue                31.56  119.09  174.00  174.00  174.00  174.00  236.18  373.90  419.50  419.50  419.50  419.50
Business Taxes /1
Value-added tax                3.90   16.02   27.84   27.84   27.84   27.84   37.79   59.82   67.12   67.12   67.12   67.12
City construction tax          0.19    0.80     1.39    1.39    1.39    1.39    1.89    2.99    3.35    3.35    3.35    3.35
Education levy                 0.12    0.48    0.84    0.84    0.84    0.84       1.14    1.80    2.01    2.01    2.01    2.01
Total                      4.21    17.30   30.07   30.07   30.07   30.07   40.82   64.61    72.48   72.48   72.48   72.48
Net Sales                       27.35  101.79  143.93  143.93  143.93  143.93  195.36  309.29  347.02  347.02  347.02  347.02
Operating Costs:
Salaries, wages and benefits   0.31    0.84     1.62    1.70    1.78    1.87    3.65    3.83    4.02    4.22    4.43    4.65
Fuel andpower                  0.26    0.60     1.10    1.16    1.22    1.28    1.64    2.25    2.58    2.71    2.85    2.99
Material and equipment         1.18    1.60    5.51    6.18    6.48    6.81       9.07    12.89    14.94   15.70   16.48   17.31
Maintenance                    0.13     1.80    4.41    4.90    5.15    5.40    8.70   14.40   17.35   18.21    19.12   20.07
Others                          -       1.94    2.10    2.21     2.32    2.44    3.29    4.73      5.50    5.77    6.06    6.37
1.88    6.78    14.74   16.15   16.95    17.80   26.35   38.10   44.39   46.61    48.94   51.39
Total working costs____ ___
Depreciation           27.00   72.00   72.00   72.00   72.00   72.00  117.54  120.26  120,41   120.57  120.74  120.92
Total operating costs         28.88   78.78   86.74   88.15   88.95   89.80  143.89  158.36  164.80  167.18  169.68  172.31
OperatingProfit:                (1.53)  23.01    57.19   55.78   54.98   54.13   51,47   150.93  182.22  179.S4  177.34  174.71
Administrative expenses          0.56    0.96    1.01      1.06    1.11     1.17    1.98    2.08    2.18    2.29    2.40    2.52
Financial charges                 -      18.43   51.83   49.72   47.47   45.07   42.49   39.73   94.29   88.79   82.89   76.58
Foreign exchange loss (gain)      -        -       -       9.71    9.71     9.71    9.71     9.71    21.35   21.35   21.34   21.35
Non-operating expenses (net)      -            -       -        -       -        -       -                -        -       -
ProfitBeforeTaxes                (2.09)   3.62    4.35    (4.71)  (3.31)  (1.82)  (2.71)  99.41    64.40   67.41   70.71    74.26
Income tax /2                     -        -       -        -       -       -        -       -      21.25   22.25   23.34   24.50
Other taxes                                                                                                   -        -
NetProfitAfterTax                (2.09)   3.62    4.35   (4.71)  (3.31)  (1.82)  (2.71)  99.41    43.15   45.16   47.37   49.76
Return on Average Net Fixed
Assets                          -0.1%    0.2%    0.2%   -0.2%   -0.2%   -0.1%   -0.1%    2.9%    1.3%    1.3%    1.4%    1.5%
Working Ratio                    6.9%    6.7%   10.2%   11.2%   11.8%   12.4%   13.5%   12.3%   12.8%   13.4%   14.1%   14.8%
Operating Rstio                105.6%   77.4%   60.3%   61.2%   61.8%   62.4%   73.7%   51.2%   47.5%   48.2%   48.9%   49.7%
/_I: Tax rates: Value- Added Tax (VAT)= 16% of total revenue, city construction tax = 5% of VAT and education levy = 3% of VAT.
/_2: Income tax rates = Starting 2007, 33% of profit before taxes.
- 48 -



Table 2: Sources And Applications of Funds
(Y million, year ending December 31)
1995   1996   1997   1998   1999   2000   2001  2002  2003  2004  2005  2006  2007  2008  2009   2010
Sources:
Net profits                      -        -      -       -  (2.09)    3.62    4.35 (4.71) (3,31) (1.82) (2.71) 99.41  43.15  45.16  47.37   49.76
Depreciation                     -       -       -       -  27.00   72.00   72.00  72.00  72.00  72.00 117.54 120.26 120.41 120.57 120.74  120.92
Government contribution     140.20  236.20  220.10  339.54  201.99   96.20  143.46 266.94 274.48 175.14 115.21  59.95    -      -     -       -
Borrowing:       - IBRD          -   89.50   92.03  300.87  257,62    8.68   45.23 139.68 224.59 276.79 100.72  42.99
-Local
Others                           -       -       -       -       -       -       -      -     -      -      -      -     -      -      -      -
Subtotal                140.20  325.70  312.13  640.41  48452   180.5  345.04 573.92 667.77 622.13 350.75 322.60 163.56 165.73 168.11  170.68
Applications:
Capital expenditures         104.67  301.78  359.68  587.13  557.29  189.48  232.79 409.23 501.81 454.80 218.93 106.10   6.40   6.72   7.04    7.40
Other expenditures                   -       -       -           -       -       -      -      -     -      -      -         -     -           -
Loan repayments: - IBRD          -       -       -       -       -       -  30.47  31.58  33.83  36.23  38.81  41.57  77.26  82.76  88.66   94.97
- Local                                                        -      -      -     -      -      -     -      -      -       -
Change in working capital     6.93  (57.73)    7.32   34.46    123    5.28    3.57   6.18   1.04   1.11   2.12   5.13   2.21   1.62   1.72    1.80
Subtotal                 111.60  244.05  367.00  621.59  558.52  194.76  266.83 446.99 536.68 492.14 259.86 152.80  8587  91.10  97.42  104.17
Net Funds Flow                  28.60   81.65  (54.871   18.82  (74.00) (14.26)   78 21 126.94 131.10 129.99  90.89 169.80  77.69  74.63  70.69   66.51
Opening Balance                     -   28.60  110.25   55.38   74.20    0.20  (14.06) 64.15 191.09 322.18 452.17 54306 712.86 790.55 865.18  93587
Closing Balance                 28.60  110.25   55.38   74.20    0.20  (14.06)   64.15 191.09 322.18 452.17 543.06 712.86 790.55 865.18 935.87 1002.38
Debt Service Coverage Ratio   --        --      --      --      --      --    1.56   1.39  1.38  1.37  1.84  2.96  1.45  1.43  1.41   1.39
Self financing Ratio            --      --      --      --    0.05    0.17    0.28   0.74  1.00  0.15  0.29  0.85   1.0   1.00  1.00   1.00
- 49 -



Table 3: Balance Sheet
(Y million, year ending December 31)
1999    2000   2001    2002    2003    2004    2005    2006    2007    2008    2009   2010
Assets:
Fixed Assets
At cost                  [656.00 2000.43 2066.43 2069.50 2072.72 2076.10 3459.59 3545.66 3554.26 3563.27 3572.73 3582.67
Less: depreciation         27.00   99.00  171.00  243.00  315.00  387.00  504.54  624.80  745.21  865.78  986.52 1107.44
Subtotal              1629.00 1901.43 1895.43 1826.50 1757.72 1689.10 2955.05 2920.86 2809.05 2697.49 2586.21 2475.23
Current Assets
Cash                        0.20  (14.06)   64.15  191.09  322.18  452.17  543.06  712.86  790.55  865.18  935.87 1002.38
Inventory                   0.00    0.00    2.76    3.09    3.24    3.41    4.54    6.45    7.47    7.85    8.25    8.66
Receivables                 8.95   54.16   20.00   26.68   28.01   29.41   37.11   54.85   62.63   65.74   69.03   72.51
Subtotal                 9.15   40.10   86.91  220.86  353.43  484.99  584.71  774.16  860.65  938.77 1013.15 1083.55
Other assets                   -       -       -       -       -        -   13.34   14.37   14.61   14.84   15.05   15.25
TotalAssets              1638.15 194L.53 198234 20473 6 2111.15 217J4 .2             37039 37.3. 3631 Ml    3614.41 3574.03
Liabilities & Equity
Equity-Statefunds         895.09 1149.88 1176.13 1171.88 1169.05 1167.74 1771.53 1911.23 1956.52 2004.14 2054.07 2106.50
L-Tdebts                  740.02  748.70  763.46  871.56 1062.32 1302.88 1364.79 1366.21 1288.95 1206.19 1117.53 1022.56
Current liabilities         3.04   42.97    8.00    8.83    9.27    9.73   16.44   30.96   37.55   39.42   41.39   43.48
Other liabilities              -       -       -       -       -        -    0.31    0.96    1.26    1.32    1.39    1.46
Total Liabilities & Equity 163815 194851 UU2.34 20473.6 211115 2174.09            3    9 3s04.1 36Lo     3614.41 3574.03
Current Ratio                3.0     0.9    10.9    25.0   38.1    49.8    35.6    25.0    22.9    23.8    24.5   24.9
Debt/(debt +equity) Ratio   45.3    39.4    39.4    42.7    47.6    52.7    43.5    41.7    39.7    37.6    35.2    32.7
/_-: Fixed assets: Including the construction in processing;
- 50 -



Table 4: Major Financial Assumptions
1. Power Generation and Sales       As in income statement.
2. Power Sales Price:               0.348 Y Ikwh with an increase once every 5 years;
The first five years is 10% and 15% thereafter.
3. Toll and fee: Bridge toll        Nil
Ship lock fee       Nil
4. Business Taxes:
Value-added tax (VAT)          16 % of operation revenue.
City construction tax         5 % of VAT.
Education levy                3 % of VAT.
5. Operating Costs:                 5 % increase per year.
Salaries, wages and benefits  Total 120 persons, 10,000 Y/person/year and 40% for benefits.
Fuel and power                0.2 % of total equipment cost.
Material and equipment        0.01 Y/kwh/year.
Maintenance                   0.55 % of the project investment.
Others                        0.0038 Y/kwh/year.
6. Depreciation                     30 years straight- line method.
7. Administrative Expenses          62.3% of the salaries.
8. Income Tax                       Starting 2007, 33% of profit before taxes.
9. Capital Expenditures (after completion):
Annual                  0.004 Y /Kwh/year plus 0.33% of salary.
Medium                  Once every 5 years and 2 times higher then the normal year.
Major                    Once every 10 years and 4 times higher then the normal year.
10. Loan:  -IBRD                    7 % LIBOR-Based signal currency in USD loan and
20 year maturates including 5 year grace.
-Domestic               Nil
- 51 -



Table 5: FIRR Simulation and Probabilistic Risk Analysis
Summary:
Display Range is from 2.0% to 10.0% (in %)
Entire Range is from 2.7% to 10.3% (in %)
After 1,000 Trials, the Std. Error of the Mean is 0.0%
Statistics:                            Value     Percentiles:
Trials                            1000
Mean                              6.5%                             Percentile         (in %)
Median                            6.4%                                   0%            2.7%
Mode                                ---                                 10%            4.8%
Standard Deviation                1.3%      Low Scenario               20%             5.3%
Variance                          0.0%                                 30%             5.8%
Skewness                           0.05     Most Likely                40%             6.1%
Kurtosis                           2.61                                50%             6.4%
Coeff. of Variability              0.21     High Scenario              60%             6.8%
Range Minimum                     2.7%                                 70%             7.2%
Range Maximum                    10.3%                                 80%             7.6%
Range Widtlh                      7.6%                                 90%             8.3%
Mean Std. Error                  0.04%                                 100%           10.3%
Forecast: Zhuzhou Dam - FIRR (2006)
1,000 Trials                      Frequency Chart                          2 Outliers
p   029                                                                    29
R                                                                                F
R
0   .022                                                                   21.75  E
B
A
B   .015   .. .. .  .. .. .                                    --  - -- -  14.5  u
I                                                           ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~E
L                                                                                N
T                                                                                Y
y
-000                                                                  0
2.0%          4.0%           6.0%           8.0%           10.0%
(in %)
Assumptions
Power Generation                                  Power Sales Prices
Normal distribution with parameters:              Normal distribution with parameters:
Mean                      100%                    Mean                      100%
Standard Dev.              10%                    Standard Dev.               10%
Selected range is from -Infinity to +Infinity     Selected range is fiom -Infinity to +Infinity
Mean value in simulation was 100%                 Mean value in simulation was 100%
Total Working Cost                                Power Prices Growth Rate
Triangular distribution with parameters:          Triangular distribution with parameters:
Minimum                    90%                    Minimum                    90%
Likeliest                 100%                    Likeliest                  100%
Maximum                   110%                   Maximum                    110%
Selected range is from 90% to 110%                Selected range is from 90% to 110%
Mean value in simulation was 100%                 Mean value in simulation was 100%
Total Capital Investment
Triangular distribution with parameters:
Minimum                    90%
Likeliest                 100%
Maximum                   110%
Selected range is from 90% to 110%
Mean value in simulation was 100%
- 52 -



Annex 6: Procurement and Disbursement Arrangements
CHINA: Third Inland Waterways
Procurement
Summary of Agency's Procurement Capacity Assessment
I.    A procurement capacity assessment of the project executing agency was carried out during
preparation of the project, and the Procurement Capacity Assessment Report of November 2000 is in the
project file. This annex summarizes the findings and assessment of the report.
2.    HXNCDC will be responsible for all project-related procurement activities. HXNCDC has
implemented the first Bank-financed Inland Waterways Project (Hunan component), and proven its
procurement capacity by handling procurement in accordance with the Bank procurement guidelines.
HXNCDC comprises about 80 staff, of which 40 staff will be allocated to the proposed project. About 10
experienced procurement staff, the same as for the IWW1 project, will be in charge of the proposed project.
3.    HXNCDC has appointed China National Chemical Construction Corporation International
Tendering Company (CNCCCITC) and CMC International Tendering Company for international
competitive bidding (ICB) civil works and goods, respectively. They have extensive experience in carrying
out ICB under Bank-financed projects as well as under other intemational financing institutions and
domestically financed projects. They also are familiar with national competitive bidding on World
Bank-financed projects. This procurement arrangement is also the same as in IWW1I.
4.    The assessment confirmed that HXNCDC is fully capable of satisfactorily managing all
procurement activities. HXNCDC staff have been involved with the IWWI project and have increased
their familiarity with the Bank's requirements during the process of preparing the proposed project by
selecting consultants and preparing the retroactively financed contract and other contract documents.
5.    While China's domestic procurement procedures do not fully comply with the Bank's procurement
guidelines, such as permitting bracketing and a merit point system for bid evaluation, GOC, Hunan
Province and HXNCDC have fully committed to strictly following the Bank's guidelines. If any
discrepancies arise between domestic policy and Bank guidelines, the Bank's policy and guidelines prevail.
For this purpose, a supplementary letter to the Loan Agreement will be signed by Hunan Province. The
letter specifies that the following procedures will be followed: (a) all invitations to prequalify or to bid shall
be advertised in a newspaper of national circulation in China; (b) such advertisement shall be made in
sufficient time for prospective bidders to obtain prequalification or bidding documents and prepare and
submit their response; and in any event a minimum of 30 days shall be given to bidders between the date of
advertisement and the deadline for submission of bids, and the advertisement and bidding documents shall
specify the required form and amount of any security; (e) the time for opening of all bids shall be the same
as the deadline for receipt of such bids; (f) all bids shall be opened in public; all bidders shall be afforded
an opportunity to be present (either in person or through their representatives) at the time of bid opening,
but bidders shall not be required to be present at the bid opening; (g) no bid may be rejected solely on the
basis that the bid price falls outside any standard contract estimate, or margin or bracket of average bids
established by Hunan Province; and (h) each contract shall be awarded to the lowest evaluated bidder, that
is to say, the bidder who meets the appropriate standards of capacity and resources and whose bid has been
determined (i) to be substantially responsive to the bidding documents and (ii) to offer the lowest evaluated
- 53 -



cost. The winning bidder shall not be required, as a condition of award, to undertake responsibilities for
work not stipulated in the bidding documents or otherwise to modify the bid as originally submitted.
Procurement methods (Table A)
6.    Procurement will be carried out as shown in Tables A and A3. Procurement of goods and works
will be executed according to the World Bank's "Guidelines Procurement under IBRD Loans and IDA
Credits" (January 1995, revised January and August 1996, September 1997 and January 1999) and the"
Guidelines Selection and Employment of Consultants by World Bank Borrowers" (January 1997, revised
September 1997 and January 1999) for services. Chinese Model Bidding Documents (MBD), which were
standardized for local conditions by the Chinese government and the Bank on the basis of standard bidding
documents, will be used for procurement under the project. All consultant assignments will follow the
Standard Request for Proposals - Selection of Consultants (July 1997, revised April 1998 and July 1999).
Where no MBD exists, Bank standard documents will be used. The General Procurement Notice (GPN)
for the project was published in UN Development Business on March 31, 2001, issue No. 555.
7.    Works (US$ 112.3million, including contingencies). Civil works contracts over US$10 million
per contract will be procured through the ICB procedure. Two contracts of an aggregate estimated amount
of US$67.3 million will follow ICB. Prequalification of contractors for ICB will also be required. For
civil works to cost over US$ 10 million, invitation for prequalification will be advertised as Specific
Procurement Notice (SPN) in the UN Development Business, in addition to the advertisement in at least
one newspaper of national circulation in China.
8.    Other works, including construction of access roads to the site and minor bank protection works,
each contract to cost below US$10 million, will be procured through an NCB procedure acceptable to the
Bank. Because these contracts will be relatively small, labor-intensive and geographically scattered, no
foreign bidders are expected to be interested. However, eligible foreign bidders may participate. Four
contracts with an aggregate amount of US$18.5 million will follow the NCB procedure. Works totaling
US$26.4 million for channel improvement between Zhuzhou and Xiangtan.inundation protection, and other
small works will be financed locally (not-Bank-Financed -- N.B.F.).
9.    Equipment (US$ 69.1 million, including contingencies). Contracts for goods and equipment for
over US$300,000 per contract will be procured through ICB. An estimated aggregated contract amount of
US$53.6 million will be through ICB. Domestic manufacturers competing under ICB will be eligible for a
margin of preference in the comparison of bids of 15 percent for goods, or the prevailing customs duties,
whichever is lower. Contracts of between US$300,000 and US$100,000 per contract will be procured
through NCB acceptable to the Bank. Because goods are available locally at prices below those on the
intemational market, no foreign bidders are expected to be interested. However, eligible foreign bidders
may participate in NCB bids. An estimated aggregate contract amount of US$0.55 million will be under
NCB procedure. Other items or groups of items covering small maintenance equipment (readily available
off-the-shelf goods or standard specification commodities) estimated to be under US$100,000 per contract
package, with an aggregate amount not exceeding US$1.2 million (amount rounded), will be procured
following national shopping procedures on the basis of comparison of price quotations solicited from at
least three suppliers under the Bank Guidelines for Procurement. Transmission Lines and Installation of
Bulb Turbine and Generator Units, estimated aggregate amount of US$13.8 million, will be financed
locally (N.B.F.).
10.   Consultants (US$ 9.78 million, including contingencies). All consultants required for technical
assistance and studies, and staff training to be implemented under the project will be selected and employed
under terms and conditions acceptable to the Bank according to Guidelines on the "Selection and
Employment of Consultants by World Bank Borrowers" (January 1997, revised in July 1997 and January
- 54 -



1999). Details of staff training, technical assistance and studies are presented in the project files. For
consultants services, the Standard Request for Proposals (July 1997, revised in April 1998 and July 1999)
will be used. Under the project no consulting services estimated to be over USS 100,000 are expected.
Services that are estimated to cost less than the specified threshold per contract, may, with the Bank's prior
agreement, be procured by Consultants' Qualification (CQ) according to paras. 3.1 and 3.7 of the
guidelines. CQ procedure was proposed for training contracts and a small study for which the need for
preparing and evaluating a competitive proposal is not justified. The estimated aggregate amount under
CQ procedure is US$1.59 million. Consultants services totaling US$8.19 million for construction
supervision, an independent panel of experts for the dam safety, and technical design will be financed
locally (N.B.F.).
Table A: Project Costs by Procurement Arrangements
(US$ million equivalent)
Procurement Method
Expenditure Category              ICB              NCB           Other         N.B.F.    Total Cost
1. Works                              67.33            18.51          0.00          26.41       112.25
(33.28)          (8.78)         (0.00)         (0.00)      (42.06)
2. Goods                              53.61            0.55            1.19         13.77        69.12
(53.61)          (0.55)         (1.19)         (0.00)      (55.35)
3. Services                           0.00             0.00            1.59          8.19        9.78
(0.00)           (0.00)         (1.59)        (0.00)       (1.59)
4. Resettlement                       0.00             0.00           0.00           9.75        9.75
(0.00)           (0.00)         (0.00)        (0.00)      (0.00)
5. Interest during                    0.00             0.00           0.00          18.32        18.32
construction
(0.00)           (0.00)         (0.00)        (0.00)      (0.00)
6. Front-end fee                      0.00             0.00            1.00          0.00        1.00
(0.00)           (0.00)         (1.00)        (0.00)       (1.00)
Total                             120.94            19.06          3.78          76.44       220.22
(86.89)          (9.33)         (3.78)         (0.00)     (100.00)
Figures in parenthesis are the amounts to be financed by the Bank Loan. All costs include contingencies.
2 Includes civil works and goods to be procured through national shopping, consulting services, services of
contracted staff of the project management office, training, technical assistance services, and incremental
operating costs related to: (i) managing the project; and (ii) re-lending project funds to local government
units.
- 55 -



Table Al: Consultant Selection Arrangements
(US$ million equivalent)
Consultant
ServicesScetnM bo
Expenditure    QCBS         QBS         SFB        LCS        CQ         Wte       NABF i!         
A. Finns               0.00       0.00       0.00       0.00        1.59       0.00       8.19          9.78
(0.00)     ( ?     (0 )     (0.00)    (1.59)      ( '      (0.?        (1.59A
B. Individuals         0.00       0.00       0.00       0.00       0.00        0.00       0.00           0.00
(0.nn 0      .o) (0.!          ( )     (0!0    (0 oo)       (0 0)        (0.00)
Total                  0.00       0.00         00       0.00        1.59       0.00       8.19          9.78
(0.00)     (0.00)     (0.00)     (0.00)     (1.59)    (0.00'      (0.00)        (1.59)
LL: Including contingencies
Note: QCBS = Quality- and Cost-Based Selection
QBS = Quality-based Selection
LCS = Selection under a Fixed Budget
CQ = Selection Based on Consultants' Qualifications
Other = Selection of individual consultants (per Section V of Consultants Guidelines),
Commercial Practices, etc.
N.B.F. = Not Bank-financed
Figure in parenthesis are the amounts to be financed by the Bank Loan
Table A2: Procurement Schedule for Consulting Services
Activity                               &W~1dvIu!  eoctien  EsiiAe   os          cb4l
1. Overseas Training       Firm                CQ            US$1.51 million    2001-2006
2. Container Study         Firm                 CQ            US$0.8 million     2002-2004
- 56 -



Table A3: Procurement Package Plan
(Months in parenthesis indicate the targeted timing for issuing bidding documents)
Civil Works
ICB 1:     1-1 Construction of Zhuzhou Shiplock (August 2001)
1-2 Construction of Zhuzhou Dam/Powerhouse (August 2001)
NCB 1:   Construction of Access Roads (June 2001)
NCB 2:   Construction of Kongzhou Bank Protection (June 2001)
NCB 3:   Inundation Protection at Sanmen (August 2002)
NCB 4:   Construction of Bridge and Access to Kongzhou Island (September 2002)
N.B.F. (not Bank-financed)
Reservoir Resettlement
Temporary Works
Zhuzhou - Xiangtan Waterway Improvement
Goods
ICB 1:    Bulb Turbine and Generator Units and Auxiliaries (September 2001)
ICB 2:    Hydraulic Hoist Equipment (March 2002)
ICB 3:    Dam Crest Crane (May 2002)
ICB 4:    Metal Structure (November 2002)
4-1 Sluice Gates
4-2 Shiplock, including mitergates and valves
4-3 Maintenance Gates for Power House, and Trash Rack
ICB 5:    Transformer and Switch Yard
5-1 Transforner (October 2003)
5-2 Switch Yard Equipment (October 2003)
NCBI:    1-1 Roof Covers (August 2003)
1-2 Crane for trash cleaner (August 2003)
1-3 Crane for tail gates (August 2003)
Shopping
Item               Type of Equipment             Shopping Procedure
I     Elevator                                        NS
2     Plant service diesel generator                  NS
3     Powerhouse bridge crane32t/5t                   NS
4     DC Power system                                 NS
5     Distribution boards                             NS
6     Pumps                                           NS
7     Local transformer                               NS
8     Dry type transformer                            NS
9     Power cable                                      NS
10    Control cable                                    NS
11    Cable tray                                       NS
12    Circuit breaker                                  NS
13    Micro-wave telecommunication                     NS
14    Programmable exchanger                           NS
15    Carrier-wave equipment                           NS
Total                                    US$1,190,000
NS: National Shopping
N.B.F. (not-Bank-financed)
Installation of power generation units
- 57 -



Prior review thresholds (Table B)
11.   Prior review. Prior review procedures would be used for:
(a) civil works contracts with an estimated cost of more than US$2.0 million (US$85.8 million);
(b) equipment with an estimated cost of more than US$500,000 per contract (US$54.8 million);
(c) consulting assignments for firms with an estimated cost of more than US$S100,000 per contract
(US$0 million); and
(d) consulting assignments for individuals with an estimated cost of more than US$50,000 per contract
(US$0 million).
12.   Prior review will apply to 100 percent of the total contract value of works financed by the Bank
and 99% of the total contract value of goods financed by the Bank. For contracts below the
above-mentioned limits, post-review procedures will be followed. The sampling ratio for contracts subject
to post review will be 25 percent.
Table B: Thresholds for Procurement Methods and Prior Review
Contract Value                                Contracts Subject to
Threshold              Procurement             Prior Review
Expenditure Category     (US$ thousands)              Method                (US$ millions)
1. Works                      >10,000                    ICB               2 contracts, 67.33
<10,000                  NCB                 4 contracts, 18.51
2. Goods                        >300                     ICB                8 contracts, 54.78
<300                    NCB              (for over US$500,000)
<100                  Shopping
3. Services                     >200                    QCBS
<100                     CQ
4. Miscellaneous
5. Miscellaneous
6. Miscellaneous
Total value of contracts subject to prior review:    $140.62 million
Overall Procurement Risk Assessment
Average
Frequency of procurement supervision missions proposed: One every 6 to 8 months (includes special
procurement supervision for post-review/audits)
Thresholds generally differ by country and project. Consult OD 11.04 "Review of Procurement
Documentation" and contact the Regional Procurement Adviser for guidance.
- 58 -



Disbursement
Allocation of loan proceeds (Table C)
Table C: Allocation of Loan Proceeds
Expenditure Category        Amount in USSmillion         Financing Percentage
Works                                     36.00                         49
Goods                                     45.50          100% of foreign expenditures, 100% of
local expenditures (ex-factory cost) and
75% of local expenditures for other items
procured locally
Technical Assistance and Training          2.00                         100
Unallocated                               15.50
Total Project Costs                       99.00
Interest during construction       0.00
Front-end fee         1.00
Total                                     100.00
Table Cl: Estimated Disbursement Schedule
(US$ million)
Bank FY                     Absolute    native               P      % 
Projects in China
FY2002   July - Dec 2001          1.0         1.0
Jan - June 2002         1.5        2.5          2.5               16
FY2003   July - Dec 2002          4.0         6.5
Jan - June 2003        6.0         12.5         10                22
FY2004   July - Dec 2003          9.0        21.5
Jan - June 2004        12.0        33.5         21                22
FY2005   July - Dec 2004         13.0        46.5
Jan - June 2005       15.0        61.5          28                18
FY2006   July - Dec 2005         11.0        72.5
Jan - June 2006        10.0        82.5         21                22
FY2007   July - Dec 2006          8.0        90.5
Jan - June 2007        7.0        97.5          15
FY2008   July - Dec 2007          1.5        99.0
Jan - June 2008         1.0       100.0         2.5
- 59 -



Use of statements of expenditures (SOEs):
13.   Withdrawals from the loan account will be made on the basis of SOEs for the following
expenditures:
(a) civil works contracts of less than US$2.0 million;
(b) goods contracts of less than US$500,000;
(c) services provided by consulting firms with contracts of less than US$100,000;
(d) services provided by individual consultants with contracts of less than US$50,000; and
(e) all training activities.
Special account:
14.   Authorization, allocation and operation of the special account. To facilitate disbursements, a
special account will be opened with an authorized allocation of US$5 million, the estimated average total
expenditures for a four-month period.
Retroactive financing:
15.    Retroactive financing of up to US$I 0 million may be applied to expenditures made after January
1, 2001 for the procurement of one NCB contract for access road construction, Kongzhou bank protection,
Sanmen Island drainage works, consultant services and training. For these procurements, prior Bank
review will be required and the relevant Bank guidelines will be followed.
- 60 -



Annex 7: Project Processing Schedule
CHINA: Third Inland Waterways
Project Schedule                                  Planned                     Actual
Time taken to prepare the project (months)      17
First Bank mission (identification)             02/20/2000                   02/20/2000
Appraisal mission departure                     03/26/2001                   03/26/2001
Negotiations                                    05/16/2001                   05/16/2001
Planned Date of Effectiveness                   11/21/2001
Prepared by:
Hunan Provincial Communication Department and Hunan Xiangjiang Navigation Construction and
Development Corp. Ltd. (HXNCDC)
Preparation assistance:
Japanese PHRD Fund TF025395 and TF025699
Bank staff who worked on the project included:
Name                                    Speciality
Toshiro Tsutsumi                  Task Team Leader/Ports Engineer/Procurement
Robin Carruthers                  Transport Economics
Han-Kang Yen                      Financial Analysis
Chaohua Zhang                     Social Assessment
Soichiro Seki                     Environmental Assessment
Takeshi Kikukawa                  Hydraulic Power (Bank Staff up to Pre-appraisal Stage)
Hoi-chan Nguyen                   Legal
Simon Bradbury                    Disbursement
Yang Dawei                        Procurement
Chau-Ching Shen                   Financial Management
Zhao Jianping                     Power Specialist
Teresita Ortega                   Program Assistant
Barry Trembath                    Power Engineer/Peer Reviewer
Dirk De Bruin                    Inland Water Transport Specialist/Peer Reviewer (Bank Staff up to PCD
Stage)
Marc Juhel                        Lead Transport Specialist/Peer Reviewer
- 61 -



Annex 8: Documents in the Project File*
CHINA: Third Inland Waterways
A. Project Implementation Plan
1. Project Implementation Plan, HXNCDC, January 2001
2. Procurement Program of Goods and Works, HXNCDC, August 2000
3. Implementation Institution, HXNCDC, August 2000
4. Financial Management Program, HXNCDC, August 2000
5. Personnel Training Program, HXNCDC, August 2000
B. Bank Staff Assessments
1. Procurement Capacity Assessment Report, January 2001
2. Aide Memoire, December 19, 2000
C. Other
Feasibility Studies
1. Prefeasibility Study Report (2 volumes), Hunan Provincial Communications Planning, Survey and
Design Institute, July 1999
2. Feasibility Study Report (2 volumes), Hunan Provincial Communications Planning, Survey and Design
Institute, August 2000
Environment
1. Environmental Action Plan, HPCD, January 2001
2. Environmental Assessment Summary, Hunan Environmental Protection Research Institute, January
2001
3. Environmental Impact Assessment, Hunan Environmental Protection Research Institute, January 2001
Resettlement
1. Resettlement Action Plan, HXNCDC, November 2000
2. Promotion on Backward Economy of Hunan Province, HXNCDC, August 2000
Terms of Reference
1. Dam Safety Panel, HXNCDC, December 2000
2. Containerization Along Xiangjiang, HXNCDC, January 2001
3. A Comprehensive Strategic Study of Navigation Development Along Xiangjiang, HXNCDC, January
2001
Dam Safety
1. Construction Supervision and Quality Assurance Plan, HXNCDC, February 2001
2. Complex Operation and Maintenance Plan, HXNCDC, February 2001
3. Security Contingency Measures, HXNCDC, February 2001
- 62 -



Other
1. Calculated Unit Cost: Zhuzhou Hydropower Station and Other Power Stations in Province,
HXNCDC, January 29, 2001
2. Construction Supervision and Quality Assurance Plan, HXNCDC, February 2001
3. Complex Operation and Maintenance Plan, HXNCDC, February 2001
4. Security Contingency Measures, February 2001
*Including electronic files
- 63 -



Annex 9: Statement of Loans and Credits
CHINA: Third Inland Waterways
May-2001
Difference between expected
and actual
Original Amount in US$ Millions                                disbursements
Project ID     FY   Purpose                                         IBRD          IDA                  GEF    Cancel.   Undisb.          Orig   Frm Revd
POs6516        2001 WATER CONSERVATION                                  74.00       0.00                  0.00       0.00      74.00        4.60      0.00
P056596        2001 SHIJIAZHUANG URBAN TRANSPORT PROJECT               100.00       0.00                  0.00       0.00      100.00       0.00      0.00
P047345        2001 CH-HUAI RIVER POLLUTION CONTROL                    105.50       0.00                  0.00       0.00      105.50       0.00      0.00
P045915        2001 URUMQI URB.TRANSP                                  100.00       0.00                  0.00       0.00      100.00       3.73      0.00
P058843        2000 GUANGXI HWY Proled                                 200.00       0.00                  0.00        0.00     192.00      13.67      0.00
P042109        2000 CH-BEIJING ENVIRONMENT 11                          349.00       0.00                 25.00        0.00     373.02      37.22      0.00
P058844        2000 3RD HENAN PROV HWY                                 150.00       0.00                  0.00        0.00     142.50      -4.83      0.00
P056424        2000 TONGBAI PUMPED STCRA                               320.00       0.00                  0.00       0.00     320.00       15.23      0.00
P045264        2000 SMALLHLDR CATTLE DEV                                93.50       0.00                  0.00        0.00      83.24      21.24       0.00
P049436        2000 CN-CHONGQING URBAN ENVIRCNMENT                     200.00       0.00                  0.00        0.00     200.00       7.00      0.00
P045910        2000 CH-HEBEI URBAN ENVIRONMENT                         150.00       0.00                  0.00        0.00     142.52       0.52      0.00
P064730        2000 Yangtze Dike Strengthening Project                 210.00       0.00                  0.00       0.00      198.90      26.40      0.00
P050036        1999 ANHUI PROVINCIAL HWY                               200.00       0.00                  0.00       0.00      139.88      17.72       0.00
P051705        1999 FUJIAN II HWY                                      200.00       0.00                  0.00       0.00      175.44      55.94      0.00
P043933        1999 CH-SICHUAN URBAN ENVIRONMENT                       150.00       2.00                  0.00       0.00      101.90      14.77      0.00
P0s51s6        1999 ACCNTGREFORM&DEV                                    27.40       5.60                  0.00       0.00      25.61       20.14      0.00
P049665        1999 ANNING VALLEY AG.DEV                                90.00      30.00                  0.00       0.00      77.08        4.74      0.00
P041268        1999 NAT.HWY4-HUBEflHUNAN                               350.00       0.00                  0.00        0.00     271.10      30.77      0.00
P046051        1999 CN-HIGHER EDUC. REFORM                              20.00      50.00                  0.00       0.00       39.45      25.32      0.00
P046829        1999 RENEWABLE ENERGY DEVELOPMENT                       100.00       0.00                 35.00       0.00      100.00      17.50      0.00
P046564        1999 WESTERN POVERTY RED                                 60.00     100.00                  0.00        0.00     128.42      25.17       0.00
P051888        1999 GUANZHONG IRRIGATION                                80.00      20.00                  0.00       0.00      80.79       24.24      0.00
P041890        1999 LIAONINGURBTRANSP                                  150.00       0.00                  0.00        0.00     117.48      49.98      0.00
P058308        1999 CN-PENSION REFORM PJT                                0.00       5.00                  0.00        0.00       4.68       4.19       0.00
P036953        1999 CN-HEALTH IX                                        10.00      50.00                  0.00        0.00      52.68       7.92      0.00
P057352        1999 CN-RURAL WATER SUPPLY IV                            16.00      30.00                  0.00        0.00      40.79       9.42       0.00
P056216        1999 LOESS PLATEAU II                                   100.00      50.00                  0.00        0.00     119.52      40.25       0.00
P060270        1999 ENTERPRISE REFORM LN                                 0.00       5.00                  0.00        0.00      4.80        6.22      0.00
P003653        1999 CONTAINERTRANSPORT                                  71.00       0.00                  0.00        3.13      59.83      60.93      0.00
P042299        1999 TEC COOP CREDIT IV                                  10.00      35.00                  0.00        0.00      40.38      -2.37       0.00
P063123        1999 YANGTZE FLOOD EMERGY                                40.00      40.00                  0.00        0.00      10.00       8.95       7.62
P045788        1998 TRI-PROVINCIALHWY                                  230.00       0.00                  0.00        0.00     143.19      63.43       0.00
P036414        1998 CH-GUANGXI URBAN ENVIRONMENT                        72.00      20.00                   0.00       0.00      83.93      32.16       0.00
P035698        1998 HUNAN POWER DEVELOP.                               300.00       0.00                  0.00        0.00     297.00     159.50       0.00
P036949        1998 NAT.HWY3-HUBEI                                     250.00       0.00                  0.00        0.00     131.77       5.11       0.00
P046563        1998 TARIMBASINII                                        90.00      60.00                  0.00        0.00      99.27      43.04       0.00
P051735        1998 E. CHINAIJIANGSU PWR                               250.00       0.00                   0.00       0.00     193.59     184.73     127.30
P003591        1998 STATE FARMSCOMMERCI                                150.00       0.00                  0.00       80.91       8.45      40.63       2.61
P003566        1998 CN-BASIC HEALIH (HLTH8)                              0.00      85.00                  0.00        0.00      60.88      18.62       0.00
P037859        1998 EGY CONSERVATION PRO                                 0.00       0.00                 22.00        0.00      10.99      18.93       0.00
P040185        1998 CH-SHANDONG ENVIRONMENT                             95.00       0.00                  0.00        0.00      50.57      32.07       0.00
P003539        1998 SUSTCOASTRES DEV                                   100.00       0.00                  0.00        0.00      67.95      22.13       0.00
P049700        1998 IAIL-2                                             300.00       0.00                  0.00        0.00     160.14      34.40       0.00
P003614        1998 GUANGZ.CITYCRT.TRP                                 200.00       0.00                  0.00        0.00     130.81     105.43       0.00
P046952        1998 FOREST. DEV. POOR AR                               100.00     100.00                  o.0o        0.00     142.21      -2.91      47.84
P003619        1998 2ND INLAND WATERWAYS                               123.00       0.00                  0.00        0.00     107.50      60.50       0.00
P003606        1998 ENERGY CONSERVATON                                  63.00       0.00                 22.00        0.00      57.08      10.08       0.00
P038988        1997 HEILONGJIANGADP                                    120.00       0.00                  0.00        0.00      45.83      26.13       0.00
P003654        1997 HUNAN/GUANG HWY2-NH2                               400.00       0.00                  0.00        0.00     169.60     109.60       0.00
P036405        1997 WANJIAZHAI WATER TRA                               400.00       0.00                  0.00       75.00     103.69      79.36       4.36
P034081        1997 XIAOLANGDI MULTI. II                               430.00       0.00                  0.00        0.00     158.23     165.22       0.00
P035693        1997 FUEL EFFICIENT IND.                                  0.00       0.00                 32.80        0.00      11.20      32.79       0.00
P044485        1997 SHANGHAI WAIGAOQIAO                                400.00       0.00                  0.00        0.00     349.21     12436       27.09
P003643        1997 XINJIANGHWY8I                                      300.00       0.00                  0.00       60.00     111.11     145.45       0.00
- 64 -



Difference between
expected
Original Amount in US$ Millions                                 and actual
______________________________________ _                      disbursem ents'
Project ID    FY   Purpose                                       IBRD          IDA                     GEF    Cancel.   Undisb.        Orig  Frm Rev'd
P003637        1997 CH-NAT1ONALRURALWATERIII                           0.00      70.00                  0.00       0.00      41.42      27.32      21.58
P003590        1997 QINBA MTS. POVTY RED                               30.00    150.00                  0.00       0.00      97.85      75.67       0.00
P003650        1997 TUOKETUO POWERIINNER                             400.00       0.00                  0.00     102.50     226.04     290.68       7.34
P036952        1997 CN-BASIC ED. IV                                    0.00      8500                   0.00       0.00       5.24      -1.33       0.00
P003635        1997 CN-VOC. ED. REFORM PROJ                            10.00     20.00                  0.00       0.00       2.88       2.34       0.00
P040513        1996 2NDHENAN PROV HWY                                 210.00      000                   0.00       0.00     129.66     105.33       0.00
P036950        1996 CN-BASIC ED. POOR III                              0.00     100.00                  0.00       0.00       0.46       8.34       0.00
P003646        1999 CNLCHONGOlNG ND PO1 CT                            170.00      0.00                  0.00     164.82       3.88     159.03      36.70
P003563        1996 ANIMAL FEED                                       150.00      0.00                  0.00     127.50       4.82     132.32       4.82
P003569        1996 SHANGHAI-ZHEJIANG Hi                             260.00       0.00                  0 00      53.34      22.98      76.32      15.37
P003599        1996 CH-YUNNAN ENVIRCNMENT PROJECT                     125.00     25.00                  0.00       0.00     118.39      82.37      13.97
P003638        1996 SEEDS SECTOR COMMER.                               90.00     20.00                  0.00       9.40      28.90      26.17       0.00
P003589        1996 CN-DISEASEPREVENTION(HLTH7)                         0.00    100.00                  0.00       0.00      24.16      34.39       0.00
P003594        1996 GANSU HEXI CCRRIDOR                                60.00     90.00                  0.00       0.00     101.95      49.60       0.00
P003602        1996 CH-HUBEI URBAN ENVIRONMENT                        125.00     25.00                  0.00      28.32      70.28      96.44      22.22
P034618        1996 CN-LABOR MARKET DEV.                               10.00     20.00                  0.00       0.00      15.82      18.12       0.00
P003652        1996 2ND SHAANXI PROV HWY                              210.00      0.00                  0.00       0.00      66.62      62.62       0.00
P003507        1996 ERTAN HYDRO II                                    400.00      0.00                  0.00       0.00       6.69      12.33       0.00
P003648        1996 CH-SHANGHAISEWERAGE PROJECT II                    250.00      0.00                  0.00       0.00     114.92     106.65       0.00
P003649        1996 SHANXI POVERTY ALLEV                                0.00    10000                   0.00       0.00      18.56      14.61       0.00
P003600        1995 TECHNOLOGY DEVELOPME                              200.00      0.00                  0.00       3.02      54.49      49.41       0.00
P003603        1995 CH-ENTERPRISEHOUSING&SOCSECREF                    275.00     75.00                  0.00      20.00     115.99     134.75      28.40
P003598        1995 CH-LIAONING ENVIRONMENTPROJECT                    110.00      0.00                  0.00       0.00      30.44      3034        0.00
P003402        1995 NATURE RESERVE MGMT                                 0.00      0.00                  0.00       0.00       1.27       2.56       0.00
P003493        1995 INLAND WATERWAYS                                  210.00      0.00                  0.00      15.00       6.41      21.41       4.01
P003571        1995 RAILWAYS VI)                                      400.00      0.00                  0.00      29.00     204.42     192.92     100.15
P003585        1995 SHENYANG IND REFORM                               175.00      0.00                  0.00       0.00      46.21      43.21       0.00
P003596        1995 YANGTZE BASIN WATER                               100.00    110.00                  0.00       0.00       4.49       5.62       0.00
P003634        1995 CN-MATERNAL CHLD HEALT(HLTH6)                       0.00     90.00                  0.00       0.00       6.78      10.06       0.00
P003639        1995 SOUTHWEST POV. REDUC                               47.50    200.00                  0.00       0.00      34.38      55.16       0.00
P003642        1995 ZHEJIANG POWER DEVT                               400.00      0.00                  0.00       0.00      72.22      55.06       0 00
P003647        1995 ECONOMIC LAW REFORM                                 0.00     10.00                  0.00       0.00       4.93       5.65       0.00
P036947        1995 SICHUANTRANSMISSICN                               270.00      0.00                  0.00      65.00      45.50     110.50      10.50
P036041        1995 FISCAL&TAXREF. &                                   25.00     25.00                  0.00       0.00       6.23       9.65       0.79
P003586        1994 CH-SHANGHAI ENVIRONMENT PROJECT                   160.00      0.00                  0.00       0.00      40.93      40.93       5.49
P003626        1994 FUJIAN PROV HIGHWAY                               140.00      0.00                  0.00       0.00      32.02      32.02      25.70
P003641        1994 YANGZHOUTHERMAL POW                               350.00      0.00                  0.00       0.00      16.95      16.95      -3.71
P003540        1994 LOESS PLATEAU                                       0.00    150.00                  0.00       0.00       5.22      -6.94       0.00
P003557        1994 FOREST RESOURCE DEV                                0.00     200.00                 18.40       0.00       7.65      11.63     -24.09
P003644        1994 XIAOLANGDI RESETTLEMENT                            0.00     110.00                  0.00       0.00      16.69      14.92       0.00
P003609        1994 SICHUAN GAS DEV & CONSERVATION                    255.00      0.00                 10.00       0.00      60.44      57.98       0.00
P003595        1994 RED SCILS II DEVELOP                                0.00    150.00                  0.00       0.00      16.82      12.54      10.37
P003404        1994 SICHUAN GAS DEV. CON                                0.00      0.00                 10.00       0.00       0.21       0.96       0.00
P003593        1994 SONGLIAO PLAIN ADP                                  0.00    205.00                  0.00       0.00       7.74       2.39       0.00
P003623        1993 FINANCIAL SECTOR T.A                                0.00     60.00                  0.00       0.00      19.13      13.73      13.27
P003473        1993 CH-ZHEJIANG MULTICITIES DEVELCPMENT                 0.00    110.00                  0.00       0.00      10.23      10.26       7.50
P003616        1993 TIANHUANGPING HYDRO                               300 00      0.00                  0.00      17.00      25.30      38.80       0.00
P003559        1993 AGRIC. SUPPORTSERVI                                 0.00     115.00                 0.00       0.00       2.95      -2.72       0.00
P003627        1993 GRAIN DISTRIBUTIONP                               325.00    165.00                  0.00       0.00     111.39     112.22      58.89
P003632        1993 CN-ENVIRONMENTlTECH ASS                             0.00     50.00                  0.00       0.00       7.53       829        7.97
P003592        1993 REF. INSTL& PREINV                                  0.00     50.00                  0.00       0.00       4.78       5.39       0.00
P003597        1993 TAIHUBASIN FLOOD CO                               100.00    100.00                  0.00       0.00       4.71       0.40       0.40
P003580        1993 CH-SO. JIANGSU ENVMTPROT.                         250.00      0.00                  0.00       6.49       1.26       9.69       0.00
P003570        1993 RAILWAY VI                                        420.00      0.00                  0.00       2.62      19.61      22.43      10.79
P003624        1992 CM-INFECTIOUS DISEASES(HLTH5)                       0.00     129.60                 0.00       0.00       4.95       1.38       1.34
Total:    15101.90    3597.20              175.20       865.25    846739    4565.23      596.57
- 65 -



CHINA
STATEMENT OF IFC's
Held and Disbursed Portfolio
May-2001
In Millions US Dollars
Committed                       Disbursed
IFC                             IFC
FY Approval        Company                       Loan  Equity   Quasi   Partic   Loan  Equity   Quasi  Partic
1999/00            Bank of Shanghai              0.00    3.84    0.00    0.00    0.00    3.84    0.00    0.00
1996               Beijing Honnel                3.57    0.50    0.00    3.30    3.57    0.50    0.00    3.30
1998/00            CIG Holdings PLC              0.00    3.00    0.00    0.00    0.00    0.00    0.00    0.00
1996               CaltexOcean                  21.00    0.00    0.00   40.91   21.00    0.00    0.00   40.91
1998               Chengdu Chemical              7.40    3.20    0.00    0.00    0.00    0.00    0.00    0.00
1998               Chengxin-IBCA                 0.00    0.36    0.00    0.00    0.00    0.36    0.00    0.00
1987/92/94        China Bicycles                 0.00    0.00    0.00    0.00    0.00    0.00    0.00    0.00
1994              China WaldenJV                 0.00    3.86    0.00    0.00    0.00    3.86    0.00    0.00
1994              China WaldenMgt                0.00    0.01    0.00    0.00    0.00    0.01    0.00    0.00
1994              Dalian Glass                   0.00    2.40    0.00    0.00    0.00    2.40    0.00    0.00
1999               Dujiangyan                   25.59    0.00    0.00   30.00    0.00    0.00    0.00    0.00
1995               DupontSuzhou                 17.13    4.15    0.00   26.00   17.13    4.15    0.00   26.00
1994               Dynamic Fund                  0.00   10.01    0.00    0.00    0.00    8.35    0.00    0.00
2000               Elkem Carbon                  6.30    1.70    0.00    6.00    0.00    0.00    0.00    0.00
1999               Hansom                        0.00   16.10    0.00    0.00    0.00   16.10    0.00    0.00
1996               Jingyang                     40.00    0.00    0.00   92.31   40.00    0.00    0.00   92.31
1998               Leshan Scana                  6.10    1.35    0.00    0.00    4.50    1.35    0.00    0.00
1996              Nanjing Kumho                  9.74    3.81    0.00   27.68    9.74    3.81    0.00   27.68
2001               New China Life                0.00   30.70    0.00    0.00    0.00   23.32    0.00    0.00
1995               Newbridge Inv.                0.00    2.13    0.00    0.00    0.00    2.13    0.00    0.00
1997               Ningbo                        0.00    0.00    0.00    0.00    0.00    0.00    0.00    0.00
1997               Orient Finance               12.38    0.00    0.00   15.48   12.38    0.00    0.00   15.48
1997/00            PTP Holdings                  0.00    0.03    0.00    0.00    0.00    0.03    0.00    0.00
1997               PTP Hubei                    12.63    0.00    0.00   25.38   12.63    0.00    0.00   25.38
1996               Pacific Ports                 0.00    3.64    0.00    0.00    0.00    3.64    0.00    0.00
1998               Rabobank SHFC                 1.58    0.00    0.00    1.58    1.58    0.00    0.00    1.58
2000               SSIF                          0.00    6.00    0.00    0.00    0.00    0.00    0.00    0.00
1998               Shanghai Krupp               30.00    0.00    0.00   68.80    0.00    0.00    0.00    0.00
1999               Shanxi                       19.00    0.00    0.00    0.00    8.30    0.00    0.00    0.00
1993               Shenzhen PCCP                 3.76    0.99    0.00    0.00    3.76    0.99    0.00    0.00
1995               Suzhou PVC                   18.33    2.48    0.00   18.50   18.33    2.48    0.00   18.50
1998               WIT                           5.00    0.00    0.00    0.00    0.00    0.00    0.00    0.00
1996               Weihai Weidongri              3.03    0.00    0.00    0.00    3.03    0.00    0.00    0.00
1993               Yantai Cement                10.39    1.95    0.00    5.54   10.39    1.95    0.00    5.54
1998               Zhen Jing                     0.00    2.00    0.00    0.00    0.00    2.00    0.00    0.00
Total Portfolio:      252.93   104.21    0.00   361.48   166.34   81.27    0.00  256.68
- 66 -



Approvals Pending Comnitment
FY Approval       Company                           Loan    Equity     Quasi    Partic
2000              SBCF I                            0.00      0.00     15.00      0.00
2001              Sino-Forest                      25.00      0.00      0.00      0.00
2000               Wan Jie Hospital                 15.00     0.00      0.00      0.00
2000              CIG Zhapu                         6.00      5.00      0.00      0.00
2000              CIMIC Tile                        15.00     5.00      0.00     15.00
1997              Chinefarge                       12.80      0.00      0.00     20.00
2000              Jinfeng                           9.00      0.00      0.00      7.30
1998              Orient Fin A Inc                  3.33      0.00      0.00      0.00
1998              PTP Hubei BLINC                   0.00      0.00      0.00      1.50
Total Pending Comnitment:       86.13     10.00     15.00     43.80
- 67 -



Annex 10: Country at a Glance
CHINA: Third Inland Waterways
East   Lower-
POVERTY and SOCIAL                                                Asta &   middle-
China    Pacific   income        Developmerit diamond'
Population. rmiidvear (millions)                       1,253.6     1.837      2.094                  Life expectancy
GNP per capita (Atlas method, US$)                        780      1,000      1,200
GNP (Atlas method, USS billions)                        9778       1.833      2.513
Average annuat growth, 1993-99
Population (%)                                            1.0        1.2        1.1
Labor force (%)                                           1.0        13        1t2       GNP                               Gross
per                              primary
Most recent estimate (latest year available. 1993-99)                                    capita                        enrollment
Poverty t% of population below national poverty line)       5
Urban population (% of total population)                   31         34        43
Life expectancv at birth (Vears)                           70         69        69
Infant mortalitv (per 1 000 live births)                   31         35        33
Child malnutrition (% of children under 5)                 16         22         15                Access to safe water
Access to improved water source (% of pooulation)          83         84         86
Illiteracy (% ofpopulation age 15+)                        17         15         16
Gross primary enrollment (% of school-aoe population)     123        119       114         -      China
Male                                                    123        121       114                Lower-middle-income group
Female                                                  123        121       116
KEY ECONOMIC RATIOS and LONG-TERM TRENDS
1979     1989       1999        99                       
Economic ratios'
GDP (USS billions)                            175.6    342.3       938.3      996.3
Gross domestic investment/GDP                  36.S      36 0       38.8       38.3                      Trade
Exports of goods and services/GOP               6.4      12.7       21.9       22.1
Gross domestic savings/GDP                     35.3      35.3       43.2       41.2
Gross national savings/GDP                     35.5      35.4       41.9       39.9
Current account balance/GDP                     -1.4     -0.9        3.1        1.6      Domestic
Interest pavmentsiGDP                           0.0       0.7       0o6         0.6                                    I Investment
Total debt/GDP                                   1.2     13.1       16.5       12.8      Savings
Total debt servicelexports                      0.4       9.6        8.5        5.8
Present value of debt/GDP                                           14.4
Present value of debt/exports                                       63.3
Indebtedness
1979-89  1989-99      1998       1999   1999-03
(average annual growth)
GOP                                   10.3     10.5       7.8        7t         7.2         -      China
GNP per capita                         8.9      9.0       6.7        6.3        6.2                Lower-middle-income group
Exoorts of goods and services         19.6     14.0       7.3       13.9       105 
STRUCTURE of the ECONOMY
1979     1989       1998       1999      Growth of Investment and GDP (%)
(% of GDP)                                                                              30
Aariculture                                    31.2      25.0       18.6       17.3        _
Industry                                       47.4      43.0       49.3       49v7     20
Manufacturina                                 40.2     34.5       37.6       37.8    1n
Services                                       214       32.0       32.1       32.9
Private consumption                            49.5      52.7       44.7       45.8             94   95   96   97   98   v9
General government consumption                 15.2      12.0       12.1       12.9                     G _ GDI    J  GDP
Imports of ooods and services                   7.5      13.5       17.5       19.1
1979-89  1989-99       1998       1999      Growth of exports and imports (%)
(average annual growth)
Agriculture                                     6.0       4.4        3.5        2.8     0
Industry                                       11.3      14.2        8.9        8.1
Manufacturinq                                 10.5     13.6         8.7       7.7    20
Services                                        14.0      9.0        8.3        7.5
Private consumption                             10.1      8.7        6.2        8.3
General government consumption                  9.9       9.8        8.4        7.9     o
Gross domestic investment                       11.0     12.0        7.6        3.8            94   95   96   97   9S   99
Imports of goods and services                  20.4      12.2        3.0       20.7             -     E.ports      sIrnpoans
Gross national Product                          10.5     10.2        7.8        7.3
Note: 1999 data are preliminary estimates.
The diamonds show four key indicators in the countrv (in boid) compared with its income-CrouD averane. If data are missinq. the diamond will
be incomDlete.
- 68 -



China
PRICES and GOVERNMENT FINANCE
1979    1989       1998      1999     Inflation (%)
Domestic prices
(% change)                                                                         30
Consumer prices                                ..    18.0       -0.8      -1.4    20
Implicit GDP deflator                         3.9      8.8      -2.4      -2.2
Govemment finance                                                                   o       _-_                    _
(% of GDP, includes currentgrants)                                                                     9 96   97   98    9
Current revenue                                ..    19.3       13.0      14.2    -10
Current budget balance                         ..      2.8       1.4       1.2            -     GDP deflator  --CPl
Overall surplus/deficit                      -3.4    -0.9       -1.2      -2.1
TRADE
(USS millions)                              1979    1989        1998     1999      Export and Import levels (USS mill.)
Total exports (fob)                        13,658   52,551    183,529  194,931     2000
Food                                         .,   6,145    10,619    10,459
Fuel                                         ..   4,321       5,181    4,646     10,000
Manufactures                                  ..  37,460   163,157   175,003
Total imDorts (cif)                            ..  59,140   140,166   165,718      100000
Food                                         ..  4,192   3,793  3,618   50   -IuhgI9 
Fuel and energy                               ..   1,650      6,773    8,912
Capital goods                                 ..  18,207    56,768    69,469
93  94  95  96  97  98  99
Export price index (1995=100)                 25       38         88       81    1
Import price index (1995=100)                 24       38         89       84                 * Exports     * Imports
Terms of trade (1995=100)                    104      100         99       97
BALANCE of PAYMENTS
1979    1989       1998      1999     Current account balance to GDP(-)
(US$ -i/lloans)
Exports of goods and services              15,046   57,101    207,586   218,711    4
Imports of qoods and services              17,842   60,655   165,899   189,799
Resource balance                           -2,796   -3,554    41,687    28,912
2
Net income                                   -319     229   -16,645   -17,973
Net current transfers                        626      381      4,278    4,943
Current account balance                    -2,489   -2,944    29,321    15,882         "i                lU
9 90 96  97  96  99
Financing items (net)                       2,489    2,386   -23,073    -7,377
Changes in net reserves                        0      558    -6,248    -8,505    -2
Memo:
Reserves including qgold (US  millions)        ..       ..  149,811   158,337
Conversion rate (DEC, IocallUS$)              2.3      4.9       8.3       8.2
EXTERNAL DEBT and RESOURCE FLOWS
1979    1989       1998      1999
(USS millions)                                                                     Composition of 1999 debt (USS mill.)
Total debt outstanding and disbursed        2,183   44,932   154,603   127,639
IBRD                                         0    2,330      9,644    10,639                      G:4 A: 10,639
IDA                                          0    2,296      8,693    8,907
Total debt service                            61    5,650    18,186    13,204
IBRD                                         0      223        941     1,161              ,2
IDA                                          0       14         97      118
Composition of net resource flows
Official grants                            -30      143         91      201                                     E:24,238
Officialcreditors                          199    2,277      2,288     3,913       F. 79,576
Private creditors                         1,580    3,801     1,642    -2,945
Foreign direct investment                   57    2,613    41,118    38,752
Portfolio equity                             0      -180    -3,927    -9,836
World Bank program
Commitments                                  0    1,760      2.636    2,311      A- IBRD                     E - Bilateral
Disbursements                                0    1,111      2,066     1,780     B-IDA    D-Othermulblateral  F-PrPvate
Principal repayments                         0       62        434      558      C - IMF                     G - Short-term
Net flows                                    0    1,049      1,632     1,222
Interest payments                            0      175        604      720
Net transfers                                0      874      1,028      502
Development Economics
- 69 -



Additional
Annex 11
Summary of Environmental Assessment and Action Plan
CHINA: Third Inland Waterways
A. Background
1.    The Environmental Assessment (EA) for this project was carried out by the Hunan Environmental
Protection Research Institute. The draft EA documents were reviewed by the Bank and discussed with
Hunan Provincial Communications Department (HPCD) during the pre-appraisal mission in December
2000. The final draft Environmental Impact Assessment Report (EIA), Environmental Action Plan (EAP)
and EA Summary were submitted to the Bank in January 2001 and found to be satisfactory.
2.    During the EA work, the local people in the project area were intensively consulted, and their
opinions are reflected in the project design and environmental mitigation measures, as appropriate.
3.    The national policy and administrative requirements for environmental assessment of development
projects in China were followed during preparation and evaluation of the EA, as was the Bank's OP 4.01
on Environmental Assessment. The following major laws and regulations applied to the EA of the Third
Inland Waterways Project.
(a) Environmental Protection Law of the Peoples' Republic of China (PRC);
(b) Water Pollution Control Law of PRC;
(c) Water and Soil Conservation Law of PRC;
(d) Atmospheric Pollution Control Law of PRC;
(e) Environmental Noise Control Law of PRC; and
(f) Circular on Strengthening Environmental Impact Assessment Management for Construction
Projects Financed by International Financial Organizations.
B. Brief Project Description
4.    The navigability of the Xiangjiang River has been upgraded to accommodate 1,000 dwt vessels
(Waterway Class III), thus providing improved commercial transportation from Hengyang in the center of
Hunan Province to coastal ports. The Bank-financed Dayuandu Shiplock/Dam under the IWWI project,
located 120 km upstream of Zhuzhou, has been completed, enabling the accommodation of 1,000 dwt
between Dayuandu and Hengyang. The proposed project aims to improve the remaining section of the
Xiangjiang River for 1,000 dwt vessels.
5.    The proposed Third Inland Waterways Project includes the following components for which
environmental assessments are required: (a) construction of a shiplock, dam and 140-MW hydropower
station at Zhuzhou, creating a reservoir with a normal capacity of some 470 million m3; and (b) dredging
the Xiangtan-Zhuzhou section for 37 km downstream of the proposed dam site to upgrade to Waterway
Class III. Although the construction of a new terminal at Hengshan is not included in the project, it is
subject to the environmental assessment as a related component.
- 70 -



C. Baseline Environmental Description
6.    Geography and Meteorological Conditions. The Xiangjiang River is the biggest river in Hunan
Province and a first-grade tributary of the Yangtze River. It runs through Hunan Province from south to
north and pours into the Yangtze River. It has a total length of 969 km and a basin area of 94,660 km2.
The proposed dam site is located 24 km upstream from Zhuzhou City, 158 km downstream from Hengyang
City and 96 km downstream from the Dayuandu Navigation and Power Complex--constructed under the
Bank-financed IWW1 Project.
7.    The project areas belong to the sub-tropical zone, with an annual average temperature of 16-18 'C
and annual average precipitation of 1,400 mm. Almost half the annual rainfall occurs between April and
June, while little rain falls from October to March. The flow of the Xiangjiang River varies accordingly.
8.    Socioeconomic Situations. The proposed project involves a 182-km section of the Xiangjiang
River from Hengyang to Zhuzhou, extending to four cities--Hengyang, Zhuzhou, Changsha and Xiangtan,
with a combined area of 43,560 km2 and a population of about 19 million. While industries such as coal,
chemical, machinery and steel are developed in the centers of these cities, agriculture prevails outside of
these centers. In particular, the agricultural economy is flourishing around the reservoir, accounting for half
the total income. The people in the project area are all Han (race) and no national minority groups live
there.
9.    Ecological Environment. The project areas lie mainly in agricultural land where grain and
vegetable production is dominant. The EA has ensured that there are no critical natural habitats, no
environmentally protected areas, and no rare flora or fauna in the project area. Subtropical evergreen
broad-leaf forests grow on the hilly areas along the banks of the reservoir. The dominant plants are
cultivated pine, china fir and cypress. No big wild animals are observed in the project area
10.   In the Xiangjiang River, there are some 150 kinds of fish, including four commercially important
carps. Fishery resources of the Xiangjiang River have declined seriously due to excessive fishing. The
phytoplankton is mainly composed of green algae and diatom. The zooplankton mainly consists of Rotifera
and protozoa. The dominant population of benthos is arthropod.
11.   Noise and Air Quality. The noise level is generally low around the proposed dam site, meeting
Class I standard except for some traffic noise. Air quality is good and meets the standards.
12.   Water Quality. The major effluent into the reservoir will include domestic wastewater from
Hengshan County and Shiwan Town as well as industrial wastewater from pesticide, fertilizer and ceramics
factories. Four water intakes exist in the reservoir area, two for waterworks and two for industrial use.
Water quality in the Xiangjiang River was monitored in low- and high-water periods at six points between
Dayuandu Dam and the proposed dam site for such parameters as pH, SS, DO, COD, BOD, phenol, oil,
total phosphorus, ammonia, sulfide and heavy metals. The monitoring data demonstrate that water quality
is generally good, meeting the ambient water quality standards for Class 2 or 3, except for oil, total
phosphorous and ammonia. The monitoring results of heavy metal content in fish show that fish are less
polluted and meet relevant food standards.
13.   Bottom Sediment. The quality of bottom sediment was monitored for total-Cr, Pb, Cd, Cu and
total-Hg during the low-water period of 1999 at the same points as for the water quality monitoring. The
- 71 -



monitoring results show that all of the elements meet the national sludge control standards, except for Cd at
the mouth of the Mishui River (tributary of the Xiangjiang River), which is 35 percent higher than
standard. The monitoring was also carried out at five points between Zhuzhou and Xiangtan where
dredging is planned. The results show that all monitoring points except for Xiawan meet the standards.
Xiawan section is not included in the dredging area.
14.   Cultural Relics. According to the on-site investigation and data collected, there are five cultural
relics or historic sites around the project area, of which three are located far from the Xiangjiang River, one
grave is located 300 m from the river bank of the upper end of the reservoir, and one temple is located 1 km
downstream of the dam site. Therefore these cultural relics and historic sites will not be affected by the
project.
D. Potential Environmental Impacts and Their Mitigation Measures
Zhuzhou Dam/Shiplock and a separate project - Henashan Dock Component
Design Phase
15.   Alternatives Analysis. During the preparation of the project, two possible dam sites, Gantian and
Kongzhou, were studied. The two sites are considered to have no distinct difference in terms of
environmental impact except for the extent to which the dam will cause inundation of farmland. Because
the Kongzhou site will inundate 30 percent less than the Gantian site and is expected to generate 30 percent
more electricity, Kongzhou was recommended as the proposed dam site.
16.   Analysis of the no-project option indicates that although dam construction has some adverse
impact on water quality and the ecosystem, the dam also brings benefits by (a) reducing air pollutants
through hydropower generation-pollutants that would otherwise be emitted from a thermal power plant,
and (b) relieving traffic congestion on existing highways, thus improving the environment along the
highways, by shifting the transport of cargo from highway to inland waterway.
17.   Inundation of Farmland. The following three measures will be taken to minimize the inundation
of farmland: (a) construct a drainage channel downstream of the dam; (b) raise the level of farmland; and
(c) construct pump stations to drain water. Implementing these measures will protect 1 ,156 ha of the 1,342
ha of farnland threatened by the construction of the dam.
18.   Impedance of Fish Migration. The upper reaches of the Xiangjiang River above Dayuandu are
known as important fish spawning areas, in particular for various kinds of carp. Under the IWW1 project,
fry breeding and release in the river were carried out to mitigate the impedance of fish rnigration at the
Dayuandu Navigation Complex. Because these measures have been successful at the Dayuandu Reservoir
since 1999, this project will undertake the same measures to mitigate the impedance of fish migration.
Construction Phase
19.   Noise. Heavy machinery operation and other construction activities will cause adverse impacts on
the acoustic environment in the populated project areas. Strict regulations on the schedule of construction
works will be implemented to minimize such adverse impacts. Blasting will be prohibited between 6:00
p.m. and 7:00 a.m.
- 72 -



20.    Air Pollution. Fugitive dust during the construction work was identified as a major environmental
impact at this stage of the project. Concrete mixing plants and cement piling areas will be located at least
300 m from residential areas on the leeward. Temporary construction roads will be regularly sprayed with
water.
21.    Water Pollution. Wastewater from construction sites and camps will be discharged into the river
after being adequately treated. Domestic solid wastes from construction sites and camps will be regularly
collected and disposed of in an appropriate manner. Waste soil and stones in construction sites will be
moved to the designated waste yards where sedimentation facilities will be installed.
22.    Vegetation and Soil Erosion. Construction will occupy land, including 8.3 ha of forest, and will
damage vegetation there. After the completion of construction, temporarily occupied lands and temporary
construction roads will be leveled and planted with trees and grasses to minimize soil erosion. Retaining
walls and a drainage system will be developed at waste yards.
23.    Cultural Relics. It is not anticipated, but if any cultural relics are found during construction,
excavation will be stopped immediately, and the local cultural authority will be informed of the discovery.
Excavation will not resume until the cultural relics have been identified by the authorized institution and
necessary preservation measures have been taken.
Operation Phase
24.    Water Pollution. After the dam is put into operation, water will stagnate in the newly created
reservoir, thus imposing adverse impact on water quality. Future water quality in the reservoir was
forecasted on the basis of the predicted pollution loads to be generated around the reservoir area. The
forecast indicates that water quality in termns of COD will deteriorate some, but will still meet the standard
in 2015, even in the worst-case scenario--discharge of wastewater without treatment in a low-water period.
Oil pollution--mostly caused by the oil discharge from vessels and presently exceeding the standard--was
also predicted. The forecast indicates that oil pollution will not worsen by 2015 if increasing numbers of
vessels treat oil waste according to regulations. However, if more vessels discharge oil waste without
treating it, oil pollution will worsen to a considerable degree. To mitigate the impact on water quality,
water pollution control measures for both vessels and stationary sources must be strictly implemented, and
strengthened as appropriate.
25.    The Environmental Protection Bureaus--the Hunan Provincial Environmental Protection Bureau,
Zhuzhou Municipal Environmental Protection Bureau and Hengyang Municipal Environmental Protection
Bureau--have primary responsibility for protecting the reservoir water from pollution. They have
implemented and will strengthen various measures such as: (a) outlining functional water areas; (b)
preparing control measures regarding pollution-sources; (c) closing factories with serious pollution
emissions; (d) preparing a general water quality control plan for the Xiangjiang River; and (e) conducting
regular water quality inspections and directly supervising the performance of environmental protection
installations at the pollution discharging units.
26.    In support of these activities, the Hunan Waterway Navigation Bureau will strengthen the
implementation of various regulations and measures to minimize water pollution from navigation activities,
including: (a) strictly enforcing national regulations preventing disposal of oily water and other wastes from
vessels; (b) establishing waste oil processing facilities and garbage collecting stations at all dock sites along
the Xiangjiang River to collect waste oil and domestic garbage from vessels; and (c) preparing and
establishing contingency plans and units to handle accidental leakage of toxic substances from vessels.
- 73 -



27.    To prevent water pollution in the resettled areas, wastewater treatment facilities will be installed
and domestic solid wastes will be collected and properly disposed of
28.   Vegetation. The reservoir will inundate 7 ha of forest, involving fruit trees, timber trees and
bamboo. No rare plant is included. The impact of inundation on vegetation is limited.
29.   Aquatic Organisms. Evidence from the existing dam in Hunan Province indicates that the
community structure of aquatic organisms will change from river type to lake type after the dam retains
water. The quantity of plankton and aquatic plants will increase. The reservoir will provide habitat to
fishes, and thus the fish population is expected to increase, although the makeup of the fish population may
change. Because the dam impedes the migration of fish, fry bred in nearby ponds will be released
periodically into the reservoir.
30.    Soil Erosion. To prevent soil erosion during operation, trees and grasses will be planted on all
dykes and hillsides in the reservoir area. Farmland on both sides of the reservoir will be returned to forest
where the slope is greater than 25 degrees. Barren mountains and wasteland will be gradually afforested.
Zhuzhou-Xian-tan Waterway Dredging Component
31.   Dredging operations will bring about an increase in suspended solids. However, the impact will be
temporary and short-term. In addition, given the alkali water body, heavy metals in bottom sediment stay
stable. Five water intakes exist in the dredging section. To protect drinking water from pollution,
construction and wastewater discharge will be prohibited within the designated sanitary zone for drinking
water sources. Water quality monitoring for drinking water sources will be strengthened.
32.   The quality of bottom sediments to be dredged will be monitored before dredging starts. On the
basis of the monitoring results, appropriate measures to prevent water pollution from dredging will be
identified and implemented. The disposal plan for dredged sediments will be developed, and reviewed and
approved by local environrnental protection authorities. Waste materials from the dredging project, such as
sand and rocks if they are not contaminated, can be filled directly into the nearest deep-water areas or the
dam site, while waste materials from dredging, such as silt, will be transported to the waste disposal sites
on the banks and stockpiled there. The disposal sites will be covered with soil and planted with trees and
grasses. The IWW1 and IWW2 projects demonstrate that dredged materials have been reused or disposed
of properly according to plan.
E. Environmental Monitoring
33.   During the construction and operation phases, environmental monitoring will be carried out to
verify the project's actual impact on the environment, identify unexpected environmental problems at an
early stage, and adjust environmental measures as appropriate. Environmental monitoring will be entrusted
to local environmental monitoring centers. A semi-annual report and an annual monitoring report will be
fumished to the Bank by December 31 and June 30 of each year starting in 2001 during the construction
phase until December 31, 2006. Environmental monitoring plans are summarized in Table 2.
F. Institutional Arrangements and Training
34.   HPCD has assigned the implementation of this project to HXNCDC, a wholly-owned subsidiary
company. HXNCDC has implemented the Dayuandu Navigation Complex under the IWWI project and
- 74 -



has already set up an Environmental Protection Office (EPO) at headquarters and Environmental
Protection Sections (EPS) at project sites. To deal with environmental issues for this project, HXNCDC
will strengthen EPO to five staff, and set up EPSs at the Zhuzhou Dam site and Henshan Dock with five
staff.
35.   The EPO and EPSs are responsible for environmental supervision of the construction activities,
implementation of appropriate mitigation measures, environmental monitoring, and coordination and
management of the environmental protection during construction and operation phases.
36.   To enhance environmental protection knowledge and skill, all the staff, including construction
workers, will receive environmental training at least once. In addition, key environmental protection staff
will receive intensive training. The training program includes lectures by experts, site visits to similar
projects, and periodic national or international training. A training budget has been allocated, including
US$96,000 for 12 person-months overseas training.
H. Public Consultation and Information Disclosure
37.   Public Consultation and Feedback The local people were consulted extensively during EA work.
A two-stage public consultation was carried out according to Bank guidelines: (a) shortly after
enviromnental screening and before the terms of reference for the EA were finalized (July 1999), and (b)
after the draft EA report was prepared (July 2000). The following approaches were adopted for public
consultation under this project: consultation meetings with local people at project-affected towns, and
analysis of public opinion questionnaires.
38.   Apart from the resettlement-related issues, the public showed concerns about inundation of
fannland, environmental protection during construction, and reduction of fish resources in the river; and
requested that adequate mitigation measures be taken. Their feedback is reflected in the engineering
designs and the EAP.
39.   Information Disclosure. The final EIA, EAP and EA Summary were submitted to the Bank in
January 2001. Following the Bank's receipt of a letter of agreement from HPCD on releasing the
documents, they were sent to the InfoShop for disclosure on January 22, 2001. The relevant EA documents
were released locally to the public before consultation. The final EIA and EAP were made public locally
on January 19, 2001, with an advertisement in the local newspaper that they were available at the Zhuzhou
Envirornmental Protection Bureau and HXNCDC.
- 75 -



Table 1: Summary of Potential Impacts and Mitigation Measures
Zhuzhou Dam/Shiplock Component
Potential Impacts           Mitigation Measures
A. Design Phase
Inundation and flood control   Careful consideration is given to dam locations and designs, and flood control dike
reinforcement to minimize the extent of inundated area.
Construction of drainage channel, raising the level of farmland, and construction of
pumping stations will be carried out to minimize the inundation of fannland.
Fish migration              Fry will be bred and released into the reservoir to mitigate the impedance of fish
migration.
Impact on ecosystem         Afforestation will be promoted, and no ecologically important sites are affected.
Cultural relics             No cultural relics and histonical sites are affected.
B. Construction Phase
Noise                       Low-noise construction machinery will be used.
Strict regulations of schedule of construction works will be implemented to minimize
noise pollution from construction activities.
Blasting will be prohibited between 6:00 p.m. and 7:00 a.m.
Air pollution               Concrete mixing plants and cement piling areas will be located at least 300 m from
residential areas on the leeward.
Temporary construction roads will be sprayed regularly with water.
Water pollution             Wastewater from construction sites and camps will be discharged into the river after it is
adequately treated.
The machine repair yard will be located downstream of the construction site, and an
oil/water separator will be installed there.
Domestic solid wastes from construction sites and camps will be collected regularly and
disposed of in an appropriate manner.
Waste soil and stones in construction sites will be moved to the designated waste yards
where sedimentation facilities will be installed.
Soil Erosion                Side slopes will be reinforced. Excavated sites will be compacted and filled back
immediately.
After the completion of construction, temporarily occupied lands and temporary
construction roads will be leveled and planted with trees and grasses to minimize soil
erosion.
Retaining walls and drainage systems will be developed at waste yards.
Cultural relics             If any cultural relics are found during construction, excavation will be stopped
immediately and the local cultural authority will be informed of the discovery. Excavation
will not resume until identification of cultural relics by the authorized institution is
completed and necessary preservation measures are taken.
Safety of navigation        Navigation management will be strengthened. Illuminated sailing marks will be set up
and heightened to guide vessels safely and efficiently.
C. Operation Phase
- 76 -



Noise                       Ship and boat inspection will be strengthened. Any ship whose noise does not reach the
standard will not be serviced.
Water pollution             The environmental protection bureaus will strengthen measures such as: (a) to line out
functional water areas; (b) prepare control measures regarding pollution-sources; (c) close
factories with serious pollution; (d) prepare general water quality control plan for the
Xiangjiang River; and (e) conduct regular water quality inspections and directly supervise
the performance of environmental protection installations at the pollution discharging
units.
In support of these activities, the Navigation Bureau will strengthen the implementation of
various regulations and measures to minimize water pollution from navigation activities;
including: (a) strictly enforce national regulations preventing disposal of oily water and
other wastes from vessels; (b) establish waste oil processing facilities and garbage
collecting stations at all dock sites along the Xiangjiang River to collect waste oil and
domestic garbage from vessels; and (c) prepare and establish contingency plan and units
to handle accidental leakage of toxic substances from vessels.
Accidental leakage          Safety education will be strengthened to those engaged in loading and unloading.
Emergency measures will be taken according to the plan when accidental leakage occurs.
Incidents will be reported to relevant authorities.
Soil erosion                Trees and grasses will be planted on all dykes and hillsides in reservoir the area. The
farmland on both sides of the reservoir will be returned to forest where the slope is greater
than 25 degrees.
Barren mountains and wasteland will be gradually afforested.
Fishery resources           Fishery resources management will be strengthened. Electric and explosive fishing
methods will be strictly prohibited.
Fry will be periodically released into the reservoir.
Sluice gate opening time will be properly prolonged during the peak time of fish
reproduction.
Public Hygiene              Vector control will be strengthened. Domestic wastes will be collected and treated.
Zhuzhou-Xian2tan Waterway Dredgin2 Component
Potential Impacts           Mitigation Measures
A. Design Phase
Disposal site and structure  The disposal site for dredged material will be selected to raise dredging efficiency and
protection                  benefit flood protection.
Riverbank structure protection will arranged to avoid bank flushing.
B. Construction Phase
- 77 -



Water pollution and disposal   Proper dredge boats will be selected and the operating procedure will be optimnized. If
of dredged materials        necessary, sand-proof curtains will be set.
Water quality monitoring will be strengthened for the downstream waters, especially at
the intakes of drinking water sources.
Prior to dredging, the quality of sediments will be monitored. Suitable dredging and
disposal plans will be worked out according to the results of monitoring. These plans
must be reviewed and approved by local environmental protection departments before
dredging starts.
Waste materials from dredging such as sand and rocks, if not contaminated, can be filled
directly into the nearest deep-water areas or dam site, while waste materials such as silt
will be transported to the waste disposal sites at the banks and stockpiled there. The
disposal sites will be covered with soil and planted with trees and grasses.
Fish                        Dredging will be done in the drought period in winter. Furthernore, only shoals, which
are not the roost of fish, will be dredged. Dredging and shoal blasting therefore will not
imperil the survival of fish.
Safety of navigation        A navigation notice stating blast times must be made. Signals and warning lines also
must be set to guarantee the safety of navigation
Heneshan Dock Component (a separate project)
Potential Impacts           Mitigation Measures
A. Design Phase
Overall impacts             The site was selected to minimize environmental impacts. The dock structure will be
suitable for flood contml. Plantation will be well designed.
B. Construction Phase
Noise                       Low-noise construction machinery will be used and will operate only in daytime.
Air pollution               Construction sites will be sprayed regularly with water to prevent dust pollution.
Water pollution             Wastewater from construction sites and camps will be properly treated. Solid wastes
from construction sites and camps will be collected regularly and disposed of in an
appropriate manner.
C. Operation Phase
Noise                       Ship and boat inspection will be strengthened. Any ship whose noise does not reach the
standard will not be serviced.
Water pollution             An oily wastewater treatment facility will be installed. Substances imposing adverse
impacts on water quality such as pesticide and fertilizer will not be handled here to avoid
possible water contamination at the upstream water intake.
Accidental leakage          See dam component.
- 78 -



Table 2: Summary of Environmental Monitoring Plans
Stage         Monitoring Site      Monitoring Items              Monitoring Frequency
Water         Construction    Sewage outlet in    pH, SS, DO,COD,               Twice a year
Quality       Phase          construction site    BOD, total phosphorus
Kongling Section     pH, SS, DO,COD,              Once during the dry season
permanganate index, NH3-N,    and once during the rainy
petroleum, total phosphorus   season for three consecutive
days.
Operation     Domestic sewage      pH, SS DO,COD,                Twice a year
Phase         outlet               BOD, total phosphorus
Drinking water       pH, SS, DO,COD,               Once a season for the first
intake in Hengshan    BOD, N-NH3, total           three years. Then, once a
County and Shiwan    phosphorus,                  year.
Town                 petroleum
Bottom        Construction   Dredging sites       Hg, Cd, As, Pb, Cu, Zn        Before the initial stage of
Sediment      Phase                                                             each dredging.
Air Quality    Construction   Concrete mixing     TSP                           Twice a year for three
Phase         station,                                           consecutive days, once in the
air sensitive points                              morning and once in the
inside construction                               afternoon.
site boundary
(within 300m),
roads seriously
polluted by dust in
construction site
Noise         Construction   Boundary of          Noise                         Once a month, one day (each
Phase         construction site,                                 at daytime and night)
noise sensitive
points inside the
boundary of
construction site
(within 150m)
Ecology       Construction   Dam site and stone    Vegetation                   Once before construction
Phase         yard
Operation     Reservoir Area       Fish Resources                Once a season for the first
Phase                                                            three years, then once a year
- 79 -



Additional
Annex 12
Summary of Resettlement Action Plan (RAP)
CHINA: Third Inland Waterways
Project Description
1.    The proposed project includes the construction of a navigation complex on Xiangjiang River in
Hunan Province. The project will create a run-off reservoir on the river with a total storage capacity of
470 million m3 of water and a total reservoir area of 58.9 km. The project is scheduled to start in 2001
and be completed in 2007.
Resettlement Planning
2.    Resettlement planning started in May 1999. The project resettlement office contracted the
Mid-south Hydro-electric Planning and Design Institute (the Mid-South Institute) for resettlement planning.
The census, inventory and socioeconomic surveys were conducted for the reservoir area and the dam site
from July to October 2000. Local communities and governments participated in the baseline activities and
signed off on the survey results. From October 1999 to March 2000, the Mid-south Institute, together with
local communities and governments, developed the strategy and action plan for livelihood rehabilitation,
reconstruction of infrastructure and protective works.
3.    These resettlement planning activities provide a detailed record of the project's adverse impacts,
including land, house, industries, institutions and the number of people affected. The socioeconomic survey
was conducted simultaneously through interviews and focus group discussions. They provide a baseline of
the socioeconomic environment and living standards and facilitated the consultation process with key
stakeholders in the resettlement planning process. The stakeholders' feedback was incorporated in the
development of the RAP.
Project Impacts
4.    With the original technical design, the project would have affected 90 villages largely through land
inundation and structure demolition. The project would have affected 1,407 ha of land, most of which is
farmland, and the demolition of 68,737 m of housing. In order to minimize adverse impacts, the project
offices explored and compared different alternatives and designed protective works as part of the project.
The protective works bring about a reduction in the amount of farmland to be inundated from 1,341 ha to
185 ha--with a decrease of 86 percent. The protective works will protect 45 villages from losing farmland.
Similarly, the number of people to be relocated has been reduced to 280 individuals in 70 households from
1,205 people.
5.    An impact assessment was conducted as part of the project planning effort. The assessment
indicates that, given the run-off nature of the reservoir and efforts, the adverse impacts of the project are
scattered and relatively minor. First, with the protective works, the number of villages losing land is down
to 45 from 90. Of the 45 villages that will lose land, three villages will lose more than 20 percent of their
land, one will lose 16 percent, nine will lose from between 5 and 10 percent, and 32 villages will lose less
than 5 percent of their land. Second, under the land sharing arrangements, no one will lose all their
- 80 -



farmland. Furthermore, the land to be inundated is low-yielding, subject to annual flooding and yields only
one crop a year. Third, the socioeconomic survey indicates that the income structure of the affected
farmers is quite diverse and on-farm income accounts for only 26 percent of their household income.
Legal Framework
6.    The RAP was prepared in line with relevant Chinese laws and regulations and World Bank OD
4.30 on Involuntary Resettlement. A project-affected person (PAP) is defined to include all whose income
or livelihood is adversely affected as a result of the project. The following basic principles were adopted
for resettlement planning:
* Adverse impacts must be reduced to the minimum and different alternatives explored towards this
end.
* Resettlement planning must be based on sound analysis of local resources and their capacity for
resettlement.
* All affected infrastructure must be rehabilitated to its previous standard and function.
* The rehabilitation strategy should be land- and agriculture-based
* The objective of resettlement is to enable PAPs to improve or at least restore their living standard.
* Compensation will be paid at replacement cost without depreciation.
- Land compensation will be paid before acquisition.
H House compensation will be paid before construction of the new house.
-   Lack of legal title will not bar a PAP from his or her entitlements.
Rehabilitation Strategy and Action Plan
7.     The livelihood rehabilitation strategy is land- and agriculture-based, and depends on village
collectives for livelihood restoration. Village-wise land and agriculture development schemes have been
planned and detailed in the RAP. All affected farmers will be allocated farmland and fishponds within the
village. Part of the land compensation fund will be used for the planned land development schemes and
part of it will be used in the village for agriculture and sideline development. These include land
development, on-farm irrigation, agro-processing and small non-farm industries. Investment schemes will
be identified and developed for each village by the affected villagers. A budget for resettler training has
been set aside and a detailed training program will be developed during project implementation.
8.     The total number of households to be moved is 70 spread over 45 villages and the number of
households to be relocated in each village is small. They all will be provided new sites within their own
village. No resettler household is expected to move away from their current village. The resettlers will
construct their own houses with house compensation. The protective works will be financed separately
from the compensation budget and is also included in the project budget.
9.     The RAP also contains a preliminary design for the protective works. All plots that can be
protected have been identified and mapped. Specific protective engineering measures have been proposed
by plot. Technical standards, measures and engineering quantities are detailed in the RAP. Detailed
designs will be developed later for construction and implementation.
Management Organization
10.    A multi-level organization has been established to implement the RAP. This organization includes
Hunan Provincial Resettlement Office, Xiangjiang Project Office, two prefecture resettlement offices, and
- 81 -



five county resettlement offices and town resettlement offices. Hunan Provincial Resettlement Office is
responsible for all reservoir projects within the province, with experienced resettlement staff. It will
manage and supervise the RAP implementation on behalf of the provincial government. Xiangjiang
Project Resettlement Office, established for the IWW1 project, has accumulated rich experience in
implementing resettlement. This office will coordinate resettlement implementation. The county
resettlement offices are in the process of being established. The RAP contains detailed descriptions of the
organization and their responsibilities. A training program is also proposed for resettlement officers. An
independent monitor has been selected for resettlement implementation.
Public Consultation and Participation
11.    Public consultation and participation has played a key role in the formulation of the RAP. The
affected farmers, village leaders and local governments participated in the census, inventory and
formulation of the livelihood rehabilitation strategy. Their feedback was incorporated in the RAP.
12.    Public consultation and participation will continue during RAP implementation. Affected farmers
will play a key role in farnland allocation, formulating village investment plans of land compensation
funds, new site identification and new house construction. Project information will be provided to the
affected farmers through television and radio broadcasts, newspapers, and posters. The RAP will be
summarized in a resettlement information booklet (RIB) and will be distributed to every affected household.
Regular consultation meetings will be held in villages. The RAP was placed in the Bank's InfoShop on
January 22, 2001 and in all county libraries on February 14, 2001. The availability of this report in these
libraries was advertised in local newspapers on February 19, 2001.
Grievance Redress Mechanism
13.    A mechanism was designed for redressing grievances that arise from the project. All grievances
can be filed in either written or verbal forms. The redress channel lies within the project management
systems at village, township, county and project resettlement offices. Recording and timeframe
requirements for resolving grievances have been established. The grievance-redress mechanism will be
disclosed in the RIB.
Resettlement Implementation Monitoring
14.   Independent monitoring was designed as part of the resettlement scheme. The project resettlement
offices will carry out internal monitoring of the RAP implementation and an external monitor has been
contracted for independent monitoring of the RAP implementation. Independent monitoring will cover the
physical progress of RAP implementation, including compensation payments, allocation of residential sites,
farnland allocation, and restoration of infrastructure. The independent monitor will also review the public
consultation process, operation of the resettlement project offices, grievance-redress mechanisms and
restoration of livelihood of the affected farmers. The RAP contains a plan for independent monitoring, and
the terms of reference for independent monitoring will be developed later.
Compensation and Resettlement Budget
15.    The RAP contains compensation rates corresponding to various impacts. Different rates were
developed for different types of land in line with the Chinese Land Administration Law. The RAP contains
detailed calculation tables and the different compensation rates. Compensation rates for structures are
calculated for replacement costs. Unit rate analysis was conducted for the replacement cost of different
- 82 -



types of houses, and is detailed in the RAP. The affected infrastructure will be compensated for
reconstruction, and the compensation budget was finalized through negotiation with the owning government
agencies. A separate budget is developed for the protective works based on the technical designs.
16.    The RAP contains a detailed resettlement budget that covers all basic resettlement costs,
management costs, construction of protective works, contingencies and taxes. The basic resettlement cost
includes compensation for land, house, other structures, standing crops and trees, reconstruction of affected
infrastructure and reservoir clearance. Management cost, including independent monitoring, is included in
the budget as well. The total resettlement budget is estimated at Yuan 302.34 million, equivalent to
US$36.43 million, including inundation protection and drainage works.
- 83 -



Additional
Annex 13
Review of Financial Management System
CHINA: Third Inland Waterways
Preamble
I .    The development objectives of the proposed project are to help reduce infrastructure bottlenecks
and minimize inland waterway transportation costs by improving navigability of the Xiangjiang River
between Zhuzhou and Dayuandu. The objectives would be pursued by:
* improving market access in the remote inland areas of Hunan province;
* providing more efficient and economic inland waterway transport; and
*  generating sufficient power supply to the remote areas.
2.   The main components of the project include:
*   construction of the Zhuzhou dam and shiplock complex;
* provision of power-generating capability;
* upgrading the Xiangtan-Zhuzhou section of the Xiangjiang River by dredging; and
*  technical assistance for development of containerization along Xiangjiang River and training.
3.    The total estimated project cost is US$220 million, including IBRD funds of US$ 100 million.
1. Background
4.    This report is the result of a fnancial management review and analysis of the project conducted by
Tony Shen, Senior Financial Management Specialist, EACCF, to determine whether the project will have in
place an adequate financial management system as required by Bank OP/BP 10.02. The review was
performed in accordance with the following:
* The Guide for Review and Design of Accounting and Reporting Systems for World Bank Projects
(Central Operational Services Unit, East Asia and Pacific Region, December 1997)
* Review of Financial Management System (Annex II, LACI Implementation Handbook)
* Project Financial Management Manual (Loan Department, The World Bank)
5.    The review included procedures considered necessary and appropriate to the project's
circumstances, including site visit, discussion and observation. The task team discussed and reviewed
procedures and guidelines for establishing a sound project financial management system with HXNCDC.
The procedures and guidelines cover staff training, accounting, internal control, reporting requirements,
auditing and budgeting.
- 84 -



II. Organization of Project Financial Management
i. Structure of projectfinancial management
6.    HXNCDC, under the guidance of the Hunan Provincial Communication Bureau, will assumne direct
and ultimate responsibility for implementing the project. HXNCDC has also been involved with the
implementation of the IWWI project.
The Finance Department of HXNCDC will be held accountable for managing financial aspects of the
project and keeping track of all project financial activities. The same Finance Department has also been
involved in the financial management and record keeping for the IWWI project.
ii. Loan disbursement arrangement
7.    The project will disburse in accordance with the traditional disbursement techniques and will not
use PMR-based disbursements, in accordance with the agreement between the Bank and Ministry of
Finance.
8.    One special account will be set up for the project. The special account will be managed by HPFB,
as was done with the IWWI project. Funds will flow from the Bank to HPFB and HXNCDC and/or
contractors and suppliers through loan and on-lending arrangements.
9.    HPFB has managed special accounts for several Bank financed projects, including IWW I,
National Highway IV, and Yangtze Flood Emergency rehabilitation projects and has acquired extensive
experience in the management of special accounts. HPFB is also familiar with Bank disbursement
procedures and requirements, and will pass on its disbursement-related experience to the project to ensure
efficient and accurate fumd management and timely disbursement. In addition, when needed, the Bank will
provide training and assistance in preparing withdrawal applications.
10.   Discussions showed that the Finance Department in general is familiar with the Bank's financial
management policies and requirements. The Finance Department will be responsible for bookkeeping and
verifying the accuracy and eligibility of expenses submitted and progress reported. Withdrawal
applications and supporting documents will be compiled and prepared by the Finance Department and then
submitted to HPFB for further review and approval before HPFB sends the documents to the Bank for
reimbursement processing.
III. Staffing and Training
11.   The same financial and accounting team that has managed the financial aspects of IWWI project
will be responsible for the financial management of the proposed project. Discussions and observations
revealed that the financial staff have the right educational background and work experience, and have been
performing financial and accounting work since 1995. The task team further noted that all financial staff
received overseas and domestic training on financial management during the implementation of the IWW I
project. The task team reviewed the training schedule prepared by the project and noted that financial
management training is planned for the staff when the proposed project begins.
12.   Although the financial staff has experience with Bank-financed projects, they are not familiar with
recently issued or revised Bank policies on project financial management and disbursement requirements.
- 85 -



Well-designed and -focused training needs to be provided before project implementation to ensure a
sufficient degree of familiarity with Bank requirements. The task team plans to re-address some of the
critical aspects of project financial management during the project launch workshop.
13.   With the full operation of IWW1 project and the implementation of the proposed project, we
foresee a potential shortage of financial staff, based on current staffing level and expected workload. We
discussed the issue with the project management, who assured that: (a) one additional qualified accounting
staff will be added to the financial management team before the end of April 2001; and (b) another
accounting staff will be recruited by the end of 2001, when the project commences. This will bring the
total number of the financial and accounting staff to seven. Based on the implementation of IWWI and
expected workload of the project, staffing for the project will then be considered adequate.
14.   To further strengthen project management and provide guidance in accounting practices and
financial information preparation and reporting, the task team recommended that well-defined roles, job
descriptions and operational procedures be documented in a Project Financial Management and Accounting
Manual (Manual) and made easily accessible to all staff. Although the project has some guidelines on
financial management, these guidelines lack the required detail and require revision. The task team has
provided the project with a sample copy of the Manual to be tailored to the specifics of the project. The
task team noted that the draft Manual received in late March 2001 covers major operation areas with the
required information on policies and procedures. The final copy will be issued to relevant staff before the
project becomes effective. See section V of this annex for further information on the Manual.
IV. Financial and Accounting System
15.   The administration, accounting and reporting of the project will be set up in accordance with the
following regulations and circulars issued by MOF:
(a) In line with other Bank financed projects in China, the project will use the Temporary Regulations
on Financial and Accounting Management for Projects Financed by the World Bank (Circular no.
127 issued in 1993) by MOF as a basis for bookkeeping and preparation of project financial
statements and management reports. Accrual accounting and a double-entry bookkeeping basis will
be adopted.
(b) Circular No. 12, Regulation for the Submission of Withdrawal Applications issued in December
1996 by MOF includes detailed procedures for preparing and submitting withdrawal applications
and retention of supporting documentation.
(c) Circular No. 6, Temporary Regulations on Financial Management Reporting for Projects Financed
by the World Bank, issued by MOF in January 1997 dictates the format and content of project
financial reporting for Bank-financed projects and provides detailed instructions on report
preparation.
(d) Circular No. 13, Accounting Regulations for World Bank Financed Projects" issued in January
2000 by MOF provides in-depth instructions for the accounting treatment of project activities and
covers the following:
-  Chart of account
-  Detailed accounting instructions for each project account
-  Standard set of project financial statements
- 86 -



-  Instructions on the preparation of project financial statements
The standard set of project financial statements mentioned above has been agreed to between the
Bank and MOF and applies to all Bank projects appraised after July 1, 1998. These statements
include the following:
-  Balance sheet
-  Statement of source and use of fund
-  Statement of implementation of credit/loan agreement
-  Statement of special account
This standard set of project financial statements supersedes the one prescribed by Circular No. 6.
16.    Circulars No. 127 and No. 13 are simplified versions of the Accounting Standards for State-owned,
Infrastructure Oriented Projects (the "Standards") that take into consideration the unique characteristics of
Bank projects. The Standards are modeled after the principles of Intemational Accounting Standards and
provide detailed guidelines on accounting for project activities in an infrastructure project.
17.    The Finance Department of HXNCDC will manage, monitor and maintain project accounts and
will maintain original supporting documents for project activities. Periodic project financial statements will
also be prepared by the Finance Department and will be submitted to the Bank for review on a timely basis.
V. Internal and Other Controls
18.    A well-designed intemal control system (both administration and accounting) is critical to the
success of a project. We noted that the project has prepared general guidelines in the following areas:
*   Project financial management
* Training program
* Disbursement management
* Project execution plan
The task team reviewed the financial management guidelines prepared by the project and noted that
adequate controls have been built into the financial management system for the major areas of project
activity. The guidelines have the following features:
*   A system of authorization, verification, reconciliation, recording procedures and project reporting
adequate to provide reasonable control over project costs, security of assets, schedules and
technical performance
* Delegation and segregation of duties
* Timely and accurate financial reporting
19.    The guidelines require improvement to provide operational procedures in financial management
and accounting activities. We have strongly recommended to the project management that the following
topics also be included in the Manual:
* Project accounting and reporting requirements
* Cash management
* Asset management
- 87 -



*   Audit arrangements
Project management has committed itself to abide by the procedures and guidelines described in the Manual
until the project is successfully completed.
VI. Reporting Requirements
20.   As indicated in Se_tion IV of this annex, the Bank and MOF have agreed to a standard set of
project financial statements applicable to all projects appraised after July 1, 1998. The unaudited project
financial statements will be submitted twice a year (by October 1 and April 1) to the Bank and will include
the following:
*   Balance Sheet
*   Statement of Sources and Uses of Funds by Project Activity
* Statement of Implementation of Loan Agreement
* Statement of Special Account
VII. Audit Arrangements
21.   The Bank requires the project to have its annual project financial statements audited in accordance
with standards acceptable to the Bank. As with other Bank financed projects in China, the project will be
audited in accordance with the Government Auditing Standards of the People's Republic of China (1997
edition). The Hunan Provincial Audit Bureau has been identified as auditors for the project.
Audit reports on annual project financial statements will be due to the Bank within six months of the end of
each reporting year, with a separate opinion on statements of expenses and the special account.
VIII. Budgeting
22.   The Planning Department of HXNCDC will prepare an annual budget based on the progress of
construction and funding needs and will submit it to the HPCB and HPPDC for further review and
approval. The budget will be compared to actual costs on a semi-annual basis by both the Planning and
Finance Departments, and any subsequent major change to the original plan must be reviewed, evaluated
and approved by the Bank.
IX. Proposed Actions
23.    Training. As noted above, to familiarize financial staff with recently issued Bank policies on
project financial management, project financial and accounting staff will receive training at the project
launch workshop or in a separate training before project implementation. The training will cover the
following topics:
(a) Bank procedures and requirements on the withdrawal of Bank funds;
(b) format and content of standard set of project financial statements and timing of submission;
(c) Project Financial Management System Manual; and
(d) project audit requirements.
24.   Financial Management System Manual. As noted in Section III of this annex, a draft Manual
prepared by the project has been received by the task team and was considered appropriate and sufficient.
- 88 -



The final copy will be issued to all relevant staff before project becomes effective.
See below for the proposed action plan.
X. Conclusion
25.    The task team has detennined that if the recommended actions are implemented, the project will
satisfy the Bank's financial management requirements stipulated in OP/BP 10.02. The project management
is expected to have in place an adequate project financial management system that can provide, with
reasonable assurance, accurate and timely information on the status of the project in the reporting format
agreed with the project and required by the Bank.
Proposed Action
Plan
Description                   Borrower               Bank               Target
Responsibility      Responsibility          Date
A. Project Financial Management and
Accounting Manual
1. Draft Manual available for Bank's      Finance Dept.       FMS, WBOB            Completed
review                                   HXNCDC
2. Finalized Manual to be issued to       Finance Dept.       FMS, WBOB              Before
relevant staff                           HXNCDC                                 effectiveness
B. Staffing
1. One additional accounting staff to be   HXNCDC             FMS, WBOB          By end of April
recruited                                                                     2001 (completed)
2. Second additional accounting staff to be  HXNCDC           FMS, WBOB          By end of 2001
recruited
C. Training
1. Project launch workshop or financial  HPFB, HXNCDC         FMS, WBOB              Before
management seminar completed for                                                effectiveness
all related staff
a) Bank procedures and requirements on
withdrawal applications
b) Format and content of standard set
of project financial statements and
timing of submission
c) Project Financial Management and
Accounting Manual
d) Project audit requirement
- 89 -



D. Special Account
1. Obtain domestic clearance for         HPFB, HXNCDC           Disbursement           Before
opening SA                                                   Officer, WBOB        Withdrawal of
Initial deposit
2. Open corresponding RMB bank           HPFB, HXNCDC           Disbursement           Before
account                                                      Officer, WBOB        Withdrawal of
Initial deposit
3. Submit authorized signature to MOF      MOF, HPFB,           Disbursement           Before
and then to the Bank                      HXNCDC             Officer, WBOB        Withdrawal of
Initial deposit
- 90 -



Additional
Annex 14
(Draft) Terms of Reference for Study on Containerization Development Along Xiangjiang
River
CHINA: Third Inland Waterways
1. Introduction
Inland waterway container traffic increased sharply in 2000, especially in the Changjiang
(Yangtze) River delta, with the center of the increase at Shanghai Port. The water traffic volume of the
Changjiang River delta accounted for about 50 percent of total Chinese water traffic. The Xiangjiang River
is the economic center of Hunan Province. Five industrial cities--Hengyang, Zhuzhou, Xiangtan, Changsha
and Yueyang-lie along the river, and together constitute 70 percent of total product value of Hunan
Province. Container traffic is expected to continue to grow when China enters the WTO and the upgrading
of the Xiangjiang River channel is completed under the proposed Third Inland Waterways project. It is
important to assess potential container development and provide measures to promote economic
development in Hunan Province by providing better services in intermodal transportation between
Xiangjiang and Changjiang.
2. Objectives of the Study
Inland waterway container transport development along the Xiangjiang River has a strategic
importance for Hunan Province. Objectives of the study will be:
(a) to estimate potential development of inland waterway container traffic through the assessment of
the current shipping pattem, and to prepare an estimate for future investment requirements;
(b) to provide measures to promote inland waterway container traffic along the Xiangjiang River under
improved channel conditions;
(c) to provide short- and long-term plans in the following areas to increase water transport efficiency
and economic benefit:
(i) port;
(ii) channel improvement;
(iii) inland waterway vessel development; and
(iv) application of advanced technology; and
(d) to provide recommendations to: (i) central and provincial governments, (ii) related enterprises; (iii)
individuals; and (iv) investors.
3. Scope of Study
3.1    Assessment of the current situation of container transportation in Hunan province, including:
(a) review of the current procedure of container transportation in Hunan province;
- 91 -



(b) the percentage of container transportation among freight transported on the Xiangjiang River; and
(c) issues of current container transportation.
3.2    Assessment of inland waterway traffic volume, including:
(a) the industrial distribution and development plan in the Xiangjiang River area;
(b) current and future of container transportation on the Xiangjiang and Changjiang rivers;
(c) impact on foreign trade, especially in inland areas of China' entering the WTO;
(d) forecast of container traffic in the Xiangjiang and Changjiang drainage areas; and
(e) forecast of container traffic in Xiangjiang River.
3.3    Current and future Origin and Destination of traffic at:
(a) Changsha port;
(b) Zhuzhou port;
(c) Xiangtan port;
(d) Yueyang port; and
(e) Hengyang new port.
3.4    Assessment of Transhipment of container traffic, including:
(a) the rapid growth of container transportation at Shanghai port;
(b) possible relocation of the transhipment port from Shanghai port; and
(c) feeder service to Shanghai port.
3.5    Assessment of the impact of international liner services to Hunan province, including:
(a) North America line;
(b) Europe and Mediterranean line;
(c) South Asia line;
(d) Japan line;
(e) Australian line; and
(f) Africa and South America line.
3.6    The study of the type of container vessels, including:
(a) standard of the container vessels on the Changjiang River;
(b) the type of container vessels on the Xiangjiang after its improvement and its connection with the
Changjiang; and
(c) recommendations on desirable types of container vessels.
3.7    Assessment of competitiveness of container transportation on the Xiangjiang River, including:
(a) the analysis of competitiveness with other methods of transportation (including railway and
highway); and
(b) type and volume of container traffic.
3.8    Inland waterway container transport operations along Xiangjiang River:
- 92 -



(a) shipping operation for container traffic; and
(b) the estimation of economic benefit.
3.9    Analysis of ownership of container vessels and their operation:
(a) the current situation of vessel ownership in container transportation; and
(b) the future situation of vessel ownership in container transportation.
3.10   Recommendations on the management and development of intemational container transportation
along the Xiangjiang, which include:
(a) the laws and regulations to feeder container liner;
(b) management of feeder container liner in Hunan Province;
(c) customs clearance at the inland ports, especially in feeder liner ports;
(d) promotion of fair competition based on market economy;
(e) the infornation system of intemational container transportation in Hunan province;
(f) the future international logistic service; and
(g) monitor the development of container transportation in Hunan province.
4. Timetable and Reporting Requirements of the Study
(a) finalization of TOR: October 2002;
(b) shortlist of consultants: October 2002;
(c) start of the consultants' services: October 2003;
(d) Inception Report: January 2004;
(e) Interim Report: May 2004;
(f) Draft Final Report: September 2004; and
(g) Final Report: December 2004.
- 93 -



Additional
Annex 15
The Power Demand Assessment
CHINA: Third Inland Waterways
1.    The proposed project is located in Hunan Province. In 1999, the installed capacity in Hunan was
10,260 MW, of which 5,710 MW was hydropower, and 4,550 MW was coal-fired thermal power. The
total energy supply was 34.85 TWh-18.27 TWh from hydropower and 16.58 TWh from thermal power.
The balance of power exchange with other provinces was 2.8 TWh. Total energy consumption amounted to
37.66 TWh and the maximum system demand stood at 7,000 MW.
2.    Based on the most recent load forecast prepared by Hunan Provincial Electric Power Company
(HPEPC), the peak demand for the province is projected to increase from 7,000 MW in 1999 to 9,850 MW
in 2005, and 12,600 MW in 2010, growing at an average annual rate of 5 percent between 2000 and 2010.
Electricity consumption is expected to increase from 37.66 TWh in 1999 to 49.8 TWh in 2005, and 62.5
TWh in 2010, growing at an average annual rate of 4.5 percent between 2000 and 2010. These growth
rates are considered moderate and are likely to be exceeded.
3.    Hunan Province is rich in hydropower resources. Future development will focus on medium and
large hydropower stations with seasonal regulating capabilities. The power plants that are already
comrnmitted and will be put into commission before 2010 are considered firm, including the proposed
project. A number of small and medium-sized coal-fired power plants which are scheduled for retirement
before 2005 are considered for future energy balance. The capacity balance for the province during the
period 2005 to 2010 is shown in Table 1.
4.    Table 1 indicates that the system will fall short of capacity in both dry and wet seasons during the
period 2005 to 2010 even if all the committed projects, including the proposed project, are put into
operation on schedule. The available capacity of the proposed project is clearly needed. In fact, the system
must bring additional power capacity on line to meet projected demand.
5.    After 2005, when the Three Gorges project is partly commissioned, the Hunan power system will
become even more hydro-dominated, with hydropower accounting for about 65 percent of system capacity.
Most of the hydro projects have the capability to provide daily peaking, but very few can provide seasonal
and yearly peaking. Even if the available capacity could meet the maximum demands in both the wet and
dry seasons, the seasonal energy distribution would still pose a problem. Excess wet energy that could not
be transferred into dry energy would have to be spilled.
6.    Based on the expected operation of the proposed project, about 60 percent of its total energy output
will be produced in the non-wet seasons (November to April). During these seasons, whether the proposed
project is operated as a medium or peaking plant, its energy output will be fully absorbed by the system.
During the wet season (May to October), the proposed project is able to produce energy at full dependable
capacity up to 22 hours per day (during the wettest month). But during the off-peak period when all
thermal capacity is operating at minimum workable capacity, the energy from the proposed project will
have to be spilled. One calculation indicates that about 25 percent of the wet energy, about 10 percent
- 94 -



of the total energy output, from the proposed project will have to be spilled. This is based on the
assumption that the project has no operational constraints. If the project has operational constraints such as
minimum flow, a firther 5 percent of the total energy output should be considered as spilled.
System Demand and Capacity Balance of Hunan Power Grid (2005-2010)
(Unit: MW)
Year               2005             2006            2007             2008             2009            2010
Season           Wet    Dry    Wet    Dry    Wet           Dry    Wet      Dry    Wet    Dry    Wet    Dry
Peak Demand    9,850   8,964  10,350   9,420  10,870   9,892  11,410  10,380  11,980  10,900  122,600  11,460
Reserve
Capacity        2,176   1,972   2,277   2,072   2,391   2,176   2,510   2,284   2,636   2,398    2,772   2,526
System
Requirement    12,026  10,936  12,627  11,492  13,261  12,068  13,920  12,664  14,616  13,298   15,372  13,986
Available
Capacity       11,520  10,490  12,430  11,440  12,780  11,530  12,930  11,670  13,100  11,820   13,960  12,510
Capacity
Balance          -506    -446    -197      -52    -481    -538    -990    -994  -1,516  -1,478   -1,412  -1,476
- 95 -



Additional
Annex 16
Poverty Alleviation Impact
CHINA: Third Inland Waterways
A. Income Level of the Project Area
I.    The income level of urban residents in Hunan Province is below the national average. In 1999,
Hunan's annual per capita income of urban residents was 5,856 Yuan, a little lower than the national
average of 5,889 Yuan. Shanghai was the highest at 10,989 Yuan,and Shanxi was the lowest at 4,362
Yuan.
2.    While the proposed project has no direct poverty alleviation component, the project is considered to
have significant economic development impact on nearby cities and counties through the implementation
and operation of the project.
3.    It is estimated that the cities and counties along the Xiangjiang River upstream of the proposed
project will receive significant impact from the project. It is expected that they will receive major benefit
from improved waterway transportation and generated electricity. The largely improved navigational
conditions and ever-developing navigation industry will significantly contribute to economic development.
The affected cities and counties are Zhuzhou City, Hengyang City, Zhuzhou County, Hengdong County,
Hengshan County, Hengnan County, Chenzhou City and Leiyang City. In particularly, Chenzhou and
Leiyang, which produce the majority of coal and non-ferrous metal in Hunan, will receive direct benefit
from the more efficient waterway transport. Their income level (per day per capita) and population in
1999 are shown below:
Per Day Per Capita Income
Cities and Counties        (in US$)         Population
Zhuzhou City                1.102               730,516
Hengyang City               1.042               789,068
Zhuzhou County              0.857               446,618
Hengdong CountyO.86            0                656,484
Hengshan County             0.868               401,235
Hengnan County              0.823              1,025,269
Chenzhou City               0.859               618,878
Leiyang City                0.825              1,221,956
Total 0.901 (weighted average)  5.90.023
4.     The project is expected to affect the development of the cities and counties downstream and along
the tributaries of the Xiangjiang River through improved inland waterway transportation. They are
Changsha City, Xiangtan City, Yueyang City, Changsha County, Xiangtan County, Liling City, Liuyang
City, Changning County, Wangcheng County, Xiangyin County, Chaling County, You County, Shuangpai
County and Yongzhou City. Their income level (per day per capita) and population in 1999 are shown
below:
- 96 -



Per Day Per Capita Income
Cities and Counties        (in US$)          Population
Changsha City                1.309              1,691,772
Xiangtan City                1.129               657,700
Yueyang City                 1.092               880,614
Changsha County             1.047                743,974
Xiangtan County             0.840               1,129,768
Liling City                 0.920               1,009,321
Liuyang City                0.954               1,337,582
Changning City              0.808                843,370
Wangcheng County            0.940                717,476
Xiangyin County             0.713                683,564
Chaling County              0.752                585,665
You County                  0.929                742,117
Shuangpai County            0.714                167,707
Yongzhou City               0.736               1,042,646
Total  0.957 (weighted average)    12.233.276
- 97 -



Cities and Counties along Xlangliangl River
Legend:    0.71: Income level (US$ per day per capita)
(0.68): Population in million 
ioWuhan
2n~~~~g City / 
Xiangiru            (088
0.71 
(0.68)1
0.94 ,         Cangsha C . .05
(0.72)    J                  (0.74)
(JChangsha Cftye
\7           ~~~~1.31/ 
(1.69) /LuyangCt
t / 0~~~~~~.92 (1-0~1)\
{'  /\_ XiigtanC;t
Xianl mCo.       \     (.6
0.8 >Zhuz ou 1/
(11 13) <1.1 (0.73)r 
ZhuzE      m/hiploc                   I9  Co. 9
.HiengshanCo.    <Yu Co.
?:8240)    00.93 (0.74),
-- 7 Heongdn Co.
HengyaS  7t        0.86 (0.66  
1. 4(.9                      Caling o
~~~ J ~~~~0.75 (0.! 9
/     Hean a  ~
Yon zv ueiy    *gCity
0.74  1   ,    Q404                             0.83 1.22)
/Channing City          \
0-81(0-84)
7  huagA                       ChensihuCt
\ 0.71 (0172i
- 98-



B. Socio-economic Impacts and Benefit
5.     While the proposed project does not have a specific component to alleviate poverty, the project will
significantly improve the incomes of vessel operators, shipping companies, and those manufacturers and
producers in the nearby cities and counties adjacent to the project's service area. The improvements to
navigation will directly, and indirectly, make life for vessel operators and their family safer, more
profitable, and provide a life- style considerably better than they currently experience.
6.     There is a considerable disparity in the salaries of vessel operators who navigate the Xiangjiang
River. The principal operators of the small 30-60 dwt vessels earn only about 900- 1,100 Yuan per month,
while the Captain of the 500-800 dwt vessels and tows can earn as much as 1,300 Yuan per month. Vessel
Captains of ships and tows in the 800-1,000 dwt class can earn as much as 2,500 Yuan per month. Wages
for crew members will also improve, moving from 900 Yuan for vessels smaller than 60 dwt, to 1,300 for
vessels and tows 500-800 dwt, and 1,600 Yuan for those 800-1,000 dwt.
7.     By permitting vessels in the 800-1,000 dwt class to navigate on the deeper channel provided by the
project, the mix of vessel sizes changes dramatically by the year 2030. Currently 1,345 vessels, or 62
percent of the inland fleet which navigates the project impact area, are 50 dwt or less in size. The total
number of vessels which served this market in 1998 will remain at about the same, those in the 50 dwt and
below will drop to about 17.7 percent of the fleet. This provides opportunities for the introduction of
larger vessels and higher wages. It is estimated that the average wage of the senior operator of a vessel in
this fleet in 1998 was 1,023 Yuan; by the year 2010, this average should reach (in constant dollars)
approximately 1,171 Yuan, and by 2030, it is expected to climb to 1,414 Yuan. Bonuses for the Captain
and crew are typically 30 percent of their annual salary where profits permit.
8.     The reduction in the use of the smaller classes of vessels also provides a better social and
educational environment for the families and crew. Conditions are difficult for the families of the smallest
of these vessels, often living aboard these boats with children and family members. It has been estimated
that up to 40 percent of these children will go without any type of formal education. Life on these small
boats is dangerous and often lacking in outside social contact. Although some small crafts will still be
needed for conimodities such as sand, coal, grain, and other commodity shipments on the smaller tributaries
of the Xiangjiang River, movements will be shorter, permnitting more families to live on shore and for the
children to attend regular school and socialize with their peers. Government policies will support this
transition to the use of larger vessels and the reduction of distances traveled by the smaller vessels in the
fleet. Government assistance in the purchase of new and larger vessels will also accommodate this
transition, to the benefit of the individual operators and vessel operating companies.
9.     Companies, and their employees, will also benefit directly from the project. Shipping costs are
expected to be reduced by 50 percent or more as larger vessels, particularly push-tows, can carry larger
and larger pay-loads at only a marginal increase in operating cost. Shippers have estimated that their
transportation costs will be reduced by 30-50 percent of their current levels. They go on to specify that
approximately 30 percent of these savings will be passed on to their employees; the remainder to be
invested in new vessels, equipment and port facilities. New industries will begin to locate on shores near
the Xiangjiang River to utilize the lower cost transportation. Even before its initiation, one electrical
generating plant has plans for the construction of a new facility which will employ 300 additional
employees within 2-3 kilometers downstream of the project site. Manufacturers and producers in the
project area expect to increase output and expand their markets, especially their export markets in grains
and metal products, allowed by lower shipping costs.
- 99 -



10.   Steel fabrication should greatly benefit from the transition from small, obsolete vessels to
push-tows and barges. Projections of the transition to push-tow transportation in the project impact area
over the next 30 years shows a need for some 2,450 new barges. Employment in the fabrication of steel
plates for the construction of barges and hatch covers would mean thousands ofjobs for the Hengyang and
Jiangsu areas, as well as for barge and vessel construction in Changde and Yiyang Shipyards. Tow-boats
greater than 500 dwt will also bring employment in Wuhan and Nanjing Shipyards located along the
Yangtze River. The useful life of a barge is approximately 25-30 years, leaving a steady demand for their
replacement over the years and requiring 3-4 thousand additional workers. This could serve as a base for
shipbuilding and repair industry for the region which could bring high- paying, stable employment into the
region for decades to come.
11.   Vessel operating companies, are expanding port facilities to acconmmodate the growth in inland
waterbome commerce. The old, dilapidated and obsolete vessels of the fleet can be replaced with new and
larger vessels. Employees are being trained to operate the larger, safer, and more advanced equipment.
Projections show a definite transition to push-tows and away from the smaller self-propelled vessels. As
this transition progresses, the inland waterway fleet becomes more of a purely commercial operation, with
families no longer being required to live on board. Few vessels greater than 500 dwt, or tow-boats of
similar size, allow families to be housed on board.
12.   The generated power of about 640.5 million kwh/year will support people's life and industries
directly in Zhuzhou City and adjacent counties, and indirectly in Hunan Province. The per capita income
level of urban residents in Hunan Province is approximately 5,856 Yuan; slightly lower than that of the
nation. Transportation can make up a significant portion of the final cost of a product, particularly
exports. The proposed project will allow manufacturers and grain producers to pass much of these savings
on to their workers and farmers of the area. As wages and profits increase in the navigation community, so
do expenditures on goods and services by this same population. It is expected that the counties adjacent to
the Xiangjiang River will experience an inflow of additional revenue, improving the per capita income of
the entire region.
- 100 -



MAP SECTION






IBRD 31205
SW                                           RUSSIAN  FEDERATION
KAZAKHSTAN                                                                                                                                         Hi
r -_ .'           )                 gHEILONGJIANG
/  '*/~S J                                                                                   v~    *, \                  4          t        ,
UZBEKISTAN
gaSTAN J ~~~~~~~~M                                                      O N  G      O L I A '
,KYRGYZ         j7       -'
R'EPUBLIC         --
L ~~~~~                  ~           ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~                                                           D =:
CHINJA       N                                                                                                 e.                     RE'   v
A..
THIRD INLAND WATERWAYS PROJECT                                           GU~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~zt  AXI                                el 1
4.t RIVER PORTS                     0X PROVINCE CAPITALS YNNAN  ,
3   SEA PORTS                  @   NATIONAL CAPITAL             rw . \>   ._>s^aor*J          :      ?        r      , HN
@) BANK FINANCED SEAPORTS         -   - PROVINCE BOUNDARIES            L                                              -\t  IENMF;i WHONGKN D
MAJOR ROADS                  -  - INTERNATIONAL BOUNDARIES      E   {x          \e. ) VITA   zb        nl         30                    10 20.30 40 50IE
2D   t LAO PEOPLE'S -'   ,i             ,     OU                 0      200    400    600    ROD KILOMETERS
0  DEM. ERP
T HAILAND j WA   PROJEPHILIPCNES
lOW       N j                                                                     1209      1       MAY 20C
NA 25






IBRD 31206
CHANNEL LAPROVEMENTS:                                   1 13T rlynd 
THIRD INJLAND WATERWAY PROJECT   HU2~~YnR.r                                                                                                                                                                      HN
PROJECT                                                                ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ZHUZHOU                                                    THIRD INLAND
MAIN ROD                                                                                                  DAM AND SHIPLOCK                                                                        WAE AYPRJC
RIWLROADS                                                                                                                                                                                         WAEWASPRJC
NOVINCE CAPITAL                                                                                                                                     ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~HUNAN  PROVINCE
PRVINCE BOLNDRAIJES                                                                                                                                                                                    DAM  AND SHIPLOCK
CF,0  ~~~~~~~~                                                                  f6
CW
-29-                                                                    29~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~lc,o
C.n,--ft4h
NAN~~~~~~~~~~~~~Wto                                                                                                                                          USA
127.20) ~ ~    2670
RUSSIANRIGJAN
I                                  ~~~~~~~MONGOLIA 
Rd. ip'1915 
-27'                                                     ~~~~            ~          ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~YRA Xn  27 R,
5eaP
17                                                                                                         (U~~~~,,ts to o,~~~~~~~rs)  ~~~PLig Xon 
123 5 . 13 20)~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~~~~~~~~~~~~W 2R



