Report No. PID9350
Project Name                     China-Third Inland Waterways (@)
Region                           East Asia and Pacific Region
Sector                           Ports & Waterways
Project ID                       CNPE56199
Borrower(s)                      PEOPLE'S REPUBLIC OF CHINA
Implementing Agency
Address HUNAN PROVINCIAL GOVERNMENT
EXECUTED BY HUNAN XIANGJIANG NAVIGATION
CONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
CORPORATION LTD. (HXNCDC)
Address: 286 West Wuyi Road, Changsha, Hunan
Contact Person: Mr. Li Jun
Tel: 0731-2252233
Fax: 0731-2252299
Email: Hxncdl@Sina.com
Environment Category             A
Date PID Prepared                May 30, 2001
Projected Appraisal Date         March 21, 2001
Projected Board Date             June 21, 2001
1. Country and Sector Background
The main issues and Government strategy in China's inland water transport
are as follows:(a) Competitive development of IWT sectorInvestment in
waterways infrastructure over the last half century has been insignificant
compared with the investment in other transport modes. The waterways
infrastructure is presently inadequate, and thus it prevents IWT from
contributing fully to support economic development. Railway and highway
infrastructure have steadily improved, and is now close to allowing these
sectors' operations to be cost-effective and user-friendly. In contrast,
waterways infrastructure has improved little, and in the last three
Five-Year Plans, its share of investment has been significantly less than
its share of ton-kms. Although some waterway services are efficient, most
are operated by inefficient companies that have small vessels with high
operating costs.(b) Decentralization and institutional reform of
IWWAlthough the inland waterways sector has been significantly
decentralized, and some institutional responsibilities have been
commercialized, further restructuring and commercialization are needed to
make the agencies that oversee inland waterway transport more responsive
to users' needs. Lack of coordination between agencies representing
different users of the waterways (irrigation, power generation, water
supply, and transport) has seriously impeded development of waterway
transport. In addition, separation of responsibilities for waterway and
railway transport between different ministries impedes the cooperation and
coordination needed for both sectors to fulfill their roles. Because most
potential inland waterway freight requires another mode of transport at
the beginning or end of its journey, greater facilitation of multimodal
freight transport is necessary for waterways to increase their share of
traffic.(c) Deregulation of freight tariffA long period of controlled



tariffs that lasted until 1998 hampered the competitiveness of the IWT
sector. Under the regulated tariff, operators had no significant advantage
in operating larger and more cost-effective vessels, so they had also no
incentives to replace smaller vessels with larger ones. Most waterway
vessels are powered barges that operate as independent units rather than
in convoys. The lack of serious competition between waterway transport
companies and the lack of cost-consciousness by users have contributed to
the failure of waterway operations to become more efficient. The greatest
impediment to increased operating efficiency and increased modal share has
been the lack of any incentive to increase vessel sizes and therefore
reduce costs. Since most freight tariffs were deregulated, there is a
growing awareness of the advantages of larger, more cost-effective vessels
and in particular of push-tow convoys (especially the push tow convoys
that have proved so effective in other parts of the world which are used
little in China).(d)   Provision of investment fundsMost provinces with
large waterway systems have implemented some form of direct user charges,
typically including a channel maintenance fee, a channel construction fee
and charges for use of shiplocks. The revenues from channel maintenance
and construction fees were expected to cover the amortization of charges
of loans for waterway development. A new system is being considered to
replace these charges with a uniform fuel price surcharge. Under this
system, the fees would be collected by the company supplying the fuel,
then passed on to the agency responsible for administering the charge.
The Government of China (GOC) utilizes loans from the World Bank for
waterway investment and then lends the funds to the provinces to cover
about 40 percent of project costs. The remainder comes from the provinces'
own resources. The resulting level of cost recovery from users is one of
the highest cost-recovery levels for waterway investment and maintenance
in the world. (In comparison, in the United States which is considered a
good example, cost-recovery levels are 20 percent overall -- 100 percent
for new investment and 0 percent for maintenance.) (e) Policy guidelines
for modernization of IWT fleetWhile waterway transport has the potential
to provide the lowest transport cost for a wide range of products over a
range of travel distances, these low costs are very dependent on vessel
size. There are many family-owned barges in operation -- in some
provinces, more than 90 percent of all vessels are individually owned.
Family businesses do not have access to sufficient financing to invest in
larger and more efficient vessels and are too small to implement the
integrated logistics systems that are necessary to take advantage of the
lower operating costs that come push-tow operations allow. The few
commercial fleets presently in operation are owned mostly by companies in
which provincial or municipal governments have a controlling interest.
Until now, these companies have had little incentive to become more
efficient. MOC has realized the critical importance of vessel size on
operating costs and is undertaking studies to find the best way to bring
about a rapid increase in average vessel size.
2. Objectives
The objective of the Third Inland Waterways Project is to reduce transport
and energy bottlenecks by:(a) improving market access of the remote inland
areas of Hunan Province;(b) providing more efficient and economic inland
waterway transport (IWT); and(c) generating power to supplement the needs
of the remote areas.
3. Rationale for Bank's Involvement
-2-



Bank involvement in the project will provide further IWT policy reform.
Through preparation of the project, the Bank is assisting MOC in
developing and implementing national policy guidelines for modernizing the
IWT fleet. The Bank, under the ongoing second Inland Waterways project,
is also assisting Jiangsu Province in drawing up a provincial policy for
modernizing the IWT fleet. It is expected that the proposed project will
integrate China's policy guidelines on fleet modernization. The proposed
project will also assist commercialization of HXNCDC. The IWW1 project
implementation provided inland provinces, including Hunan Province,
opportunities to learn competitive and transparent procurement processes,
as well as institutional capacity development. The proposed project will
assist HXNCDC in providing a development strategy for Xiangjiang IWT,
including containerization of waterway transportation. In addition, the
proposed project will assist institutional development of HXNCDC,
including strengthening its financial management to ensure that the
proposed project is financially sustainable.
4. Description
The proposed project will include: A. Construction of Zhuzhou Shiplock; B.
Construction of Zhuzhou Dam and Powerhouse (a dam about 15 m high) with a
capacity of 140 megawatts of hydroelectric power generation primarily to
increase upstream water depth for navigation and power supply, and to
provide a highway bridge over the Xiangjiang River in Hunan Province; C.
Construction of access roads; D. Construction of river bank protection; E.
Upgrading the Xiangtan - Zhuzhou channel section by dredging; F.
Strengthening of sector management and further commercialization of
HXNCDC, the IWT agency, through: (a) training, (b) technical assistance,
and (c) enhancement of its financial capacity; andG. Resettlement.
5. Financing
Total ( US$m)
Total Project Cost 220.22
6. Implementation
The proposed project will be carried out by Hunan Province. The
implementing agency will be HXNCDC in accordance with the Subsidiary Loan
Agreement between Hunan Province and HXNCDC. HXNCDC is a State-Owned
limited liability company, established in November 1994 by HPCD and
authorized by Hunan Province to implement IWWl.Financial management and
disbursement. The financial management aspects of the project are to be
handled by the Finance Department of HXNCDC and by Hunan Provincial
Finance Bureau (HPFB). Specifically, the HXNCDC finance department will
be responsible for bookkeeping, collecting and maintaining supporting
documents, preparing withdrawal applications, monitoring project payments
and preparing project financial statements. HPFB will be responsible for
maintaining, monitoring and reconciling the special account to be set up
for the project, and reviewing, verifying and approving withdrawal
applications prepared by HXNCDC before submitting them to the Bank for
withdrawal processing. In terms of disbursement technique, the project
will disburse using traditional disbursement techniques and will not be
using Project Management Report- (PMR) based disbursements, in accordance
with Bank and MOF policies.Auditing Arrangements. As with other
Bank-financed projects in China, the Foreign Investment Audit Bureau of
the China National Audit Office (CNAO), established in 1983 under the name
of the State Audit Administration, will have overall responsibility for
- 3 -



auditing project accounts. The Hunan Provincial Audit Bureau will conduct
the fieldwork and issue audit reports. The Bank currently accepts audits
performed under the supervision and responsibility of CNAO. Audits of the
financial statements of the project, and the audit of the Special Account
and Statement of Expenditures will be submitted to the Bank within six
months of the end of the financial year. The audit reports of the project
will also include opinions on whether the project was in compliance with
financial covenants, if any.
7. Sustainability
The benefits of the proposed project are likely to be sustainable. The
traffic along the Xiangjiang River is steadily increasing, indicating that
inland waterways offer a competitive transportation mode. Under the IWW1
project, Xiangjiang traffic and vessel size have increased and it is
expected that IWT on the Xiangjiang River will be more competitive after
1,000-dwt vehicles can navigate up to Hengyang (from Shanghai or Wuhan on
the Yangtze River) during the dry season. Siltation along Xiangjiang has
been minor and would not be changed in future.
8. Lessons learned from past operations in the country/sector
Although the proposed project will be the third IWT project in China (the
First and Second projects are ongoing), Bank experience in this subsector
is very limited. China's two projects are progressing satisfactorily both
in physical and institutional terms. Short-term financial viability for
the cross-subsidy from the power generation and sale of electricity has
been proven, but long-term sustainability has not yet been tested. Major
contracts for both civil works and procurement of equipment have been
awarded without any significant delays. Implementation is also being
carried out close to schedule. This is due mainly to the strength of
China's executing agencies in preparing engineering design and handling
the bidding process. The major institutional reform has been achieved by
establishing SOEs for dam/shiplock operation and by separating these SOEs
from the Provincial Communication Departments (in Hunan and Guangxi
Provinces). Implementation of resettlement action plans and environmental
action plans has also been satisfactory. Executing agencies pay close
attention to the conditions of resettlement, as well as to progress
achieved. In terms of dam construction under IWW agencies, however,
engagement of experienced consultants with particular expertise in
designing and constructing dam will be essential. Drawing on experience
gained from the first two projects, the IWW agency identified and
appointed qualified consultants to carry out the preparation of the
proposed project. Because China has greater expertise in waterway and
small hydro-dam design and construction than other countries, and because
the experience from the first two projects was satisfactory, local design
will be used for the proposed project. Local experience in waterway
construction and dredging from the previous projects was also
satisfactory. Although Hunan Province used international competitive
bidding (ICB) to contract its dam construction under the first project,
Guangxi Province used domestic national competitive bidding (NCB) financed
locally. Both results were satisfactory, although the Hunan outcome was
slightly better. Local supervision consultants for all civil works
components (financed locally) have been satisfactory and will be used
again in the proposed project. Power generators were procured under ICB
and installed locally. This proved acceptable to the provinces and the
Bank and had a satisfactory outcome, and this course of action will be
- 4 -



followed again. The Operations Evaluation Department's (OED) analysis of
35 Bank-financed projects completed between 1980 and 1992 in the port
subsector (not only in China) indicated two major problems: (a) long
implementation periods due to the underestimation of the time needed for
procurement and civil works construction; and (b) lower-than-expected
benefits due to over-optimistic traffic projections. To minimize the first
of these problems in the proposed project, engineering design has been
substantially completed, and procurement procedures have been agreed and
are similar to those used before. Because the project does not include
complicated or unfamiliar civil works, delayed project execution is
unlikely. The Bank has carefully reviewed the provinces' traffic forecasts
and reduced them to levels compatible with current Bank expectations of
national, regional and provincial economic development.China's highway
experience in some Bank-financed projects indicates: (a) inadequate
quality of construction, and (b) cost overruns. Although the proposed
project would not require advanced technology for civil works
construction, the project will take into account the need to use
experienced and competent contractors and supervision consultants, as well
as careful determination of project cost estimates.
9. Program of Targeted Intervention (PTI)     N
10. Environment Aspects (including any public consultation)
Issues     :  The project complies with the requirements of OD
4.01. The project is classified Category A since it includes involuntary
resettlement, channel dredging and construction of a dam.Preparation of
EIA and EAP.   After the pre-feasibility study report for Zhuzhou
Navigation and Hydropower Project was completed, the environmental
assessment works for this project started in 1999 with the appointment of
the Hunan Environmental Protection Research Institute as Environmental
Assessment (EA) consultant. The EA was prepared according to the Chinese
national procedures and the World Bank's OP 4.01. The Environmental Impact
Assessment (EIA), Environmental Action Plan (EAP) and EA Summary reports
for this project were reviewed by the Bank and discussed with HPCD during
the pre-appraisal mission in December 2000. The final draft EIA, EAP and
EA Summary were submitted to the Bank in January 2001, and were found
satisfactory. During the EA work, the local people in the project area
were intensively consulted, and their opinions have been reflected in the
project design and environmental mitigation measures, as appropriate. The
relevant information and documents were provided before each
consultation. The final EA reports were disclosed locally on January 19,
2001 with an advertisement in the local newspaper, and were sent to the
World Bank's InfoShop for disclosure on January 22, 2001. The major
findings and discussions are summarized below.Potential Impacts and their
Mitigation Measures. Major potential impacts during the construction
phase include: noise, air and water pollution due to construction works;
vegetation loss; soil erosion; and pollution due to dredging. Potential
impacts during the operation phase include: inundation of land; impedance
of fish migration; and water pollution in the reservoir.Two options for
the dam site were studied to minimize the adverse impacts at the design
state, and no distinct differences in environmental impacts were found
except for the inundation of farmland. The site selected for the dam
provokes inundation of 30 percent less farmland and generates 30 percent
more electricity than the other site. In addition, this project, compared
with the no-project option, will provide environmental benefits in two
- 5 -



ways. First, the dam's generation of hydropower will emit fewer air
pollutants than a thermal power plant, which would be built in a no
project scenario. Second, the project will relieve traffic congestion on
highways by shifting cargo transport from highway to inland waterway. The
EA has ascertained that the area affected by the project has no critical
natural habitat, no environmentally protected areas, no rare fauna or
flora, and no cultural relics. To minimize the inundation of farmland,
project design includes construction of drainage channels downstream, the
raising of the level of farmland, and construction of pump stations.
These measures will reduce the inundation area by 86 percent to 186 ha.
What is more, given that the release of fry at Dayuandu Dam, located 96 km
upstream and constructed under IWW1 project, has been successful in
mitigating the dam's impact on fishery resources, this project will also
employ the same measure.Social Impact and Resettlement.OD 4.30 on
Involuntary Resettlement applies to this project. The key social impact
of the project relates to involuntary resettlement. Without protective
works, the project would have affected 90 villages -- 1,342 ha of land,
most of which are farmland, and 68,737 square meters of houses -- largely
by inundating land and demolishing structures. Extensive efforts have
been devoted to minimizing adverse impacts and different alternatives have
been compared. As a result, protective works have been chosen and
designed, and are detailed in the RAP (see Annex 12). The protective
works as designed will protect 45 villages from losing land. These works
reduce the amount of farmland to be inundated from 1,342 ha to 186 ha -- a
decrease of 86 percent. Similarly, the number of people losing land will
be reduced to 2,189, and the number of people relocating will be reduced
from 1,205 to 280.The impact assessment indicates that the run-off nature
of the reservoir and the minimization efforts will keep project impacts
scattered and relatively small. Of the 45 villages losing farmland, three
villages will lose more than 20 percent of their land holding, one will
lose 16 percent, nine will lose from 5 percent to 10 percent, and 32 will
lose less than 5 percent. Under the village land-sharing arrangements, no
one is losing all their farmland. The land to be inundated is
low-yielding and subject to annual flooding. The socioeconomic survey
indicates that the income structure of the affected farmers is quite
diverse, and on-farm income accounts for only 26 percent of their
household income. Resettlement planning for the project started in May
1999. Planning activities included the development of topographic maps
(1:2000 scale), a detailed census of the affected population, the
inventory of affected assets, a sample socioeconomic survey, consultations
on resettlement and rehabilitation strategy, as well designs of the
protective works. On the basis of these activities, an RAP was prepared
in line with local laws and World Bank OD 4.30 on Involuntary
Resettlement. Because the number of relocating households is small, they
will all be relocated within existing villages. For those affected by
farmland acquisition, the rehabilitation strategy is land- and
agriculture-based, and includes land reallocation and land and fish pond
development. The RAP contains details on the following aspects of
resettlement: (a) the census; (b) inventory; (c) analysis of impacts; (d)
the legal framework and resettlement principles; (e) rehabilitation action
plan; (f) reconstruction of affected infrastructure; (g) design of
protective works; (h) resettlement and rehabilitation budget; (i)
institutional arrangements; (j) consultation and participation of the
affected people; (k) grievance mechanisms; (1) monitoring arrangements;
and (m) training of resettlers, and preferential policies.
- 6 -



11. Contact Point:
Task Manager
Toshiro Tsutsumi
The World Bank
1818 H Street, NW
Washington D.C. 20433
Telephone: 202-458-2955
Fax: 202-522-3573
12. For information on other project related documents contact:
The InfoShop
The World Bank
1818 H Street, NW
Washington, D.C. 20433
Telephone: (202) 458-5454
Fax:        (202) 522-1500
Web: http:// www.worldbank.org/infoshop
Note: This is information on an evolving project. Certain components may
not be necessarily included in the final project.
This PID was processed by the InfoShop during the week ending June 1, 2001.
- 7 -



