Page  1
CONFORMED COPY
LOAN NUMBER 4621 CHA
Project Agreement
(Third Inland Waterways Project)
between
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION
AND DEVELOPMENT
and
HUNAN PROVINCE
Dated January 7, 2002 
LOAN NUMBER 4621 CHA
Page  2
PROJECT AGREEMENT
AGREEMENT, dated January 7, 2002, between INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR 
RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT (the Bank) and HUNAN PROVINCE (Hunan).
WHEREAS by the Loan Agreement of even date herewith between People’s Republic of 
China (the Borrower) and the Bank, the Bank has agreed to make available to the Borrower an 
amount equal to one hundred million Dollars ($100,000,000), on the terms and conditions set 
forth in the Loan Agreement, but only on condition that Hunan agree to undertake such 
obligations toward the Bank as are set forth in this Agreement; and
WHEREAS Hunan, in consideration of the Bank’s entering into the Loan Agreement 
with the Borrower, has agreed to undertake the obligations set forth in this Agreement;
NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:
ARTICLE I
Definitions
Section 1.01. Unless the context otherwise requires, the several terms defined in the 
Loan Agreement, the Preamble to this Agreement and the General Conditions (as so defined) 
have the respective meanings therein set forth.
 ARTICLE II
Execution of the Project
Section 2.01. (a) Hunan declares its commitment to the objectives of the Project as set 
forth in Schedule 2 to the Loan Agreement and, to this end, shall carry out the Project through 
HXNCDC, with due diligence and efficiency and in conformity with appropriate administrative, 
financial, engineering practices and safety and environmental standards, and shall provide, or 
cause to be provided, promptly as needed, the funds, facilities, services and other resources 
required for the Project.
(b)
Without limitation upon the provisions of paragraph (a) of this Section and 
except as the Bank and Hunan shall otherwise agree, Hunan shall carry out the Project, and shall 
cause the Project to be carried out, in accordance with the Implementation Program set forth in 
Schedule 2 to this Agreement.
Section 2.02. Except as the Bank shall otherwise agree, procurement of the goods, works 
and consultants’ services required for the Project and to be financed out of the proceeds of the 
Page  3
Loan shall be governed by the provisions of Schedule 1 to this Agreement.
Section 2.03. (a) Hunan shall cause HXNCDC to carry out the obligations set forth in 
Sections 9.04, 9.05, 9.06, 9.07, 9.08 and 9.09 of the General Conditions (relating to insurance, 
use of goods and services, plans and schedules, records and reports, maintenance and land 
acquisition, respectively) in respect of the Project Agreement and the Project.
(b)
For the purposes of Section 9.07 of the General Conditions and without 
limitation thereto,  Hunan shall cause HXNCDC to:
(i)
prepare, on the basis of guidelines acceptable to the Bank, and furnish to 
the Bank not later than six (6) months after the Closing Date or such 
later date as may be agreed for this purpose between the Bank and 
Hunan, a plan for the future operation of the Project; and
(ii)
afford the Bank a reasonable opportunity to exchange views with Hunan 
and HXNCDC on said plan.
Section 2.04. (a) Hunan shall, at the request of the Bank, exchange views with the Bank 
with regard to progress of the Project, the performance of its obligations under this Agreement 
and under the Subsidiary Loan Agreement, and other matters relating to the purposes of the 
Loan.
(b)
Hunan shall promptly inform the Bank of any condition which interferes or 
threatens to interfere with the progress of the Project, the accomplishment of the purposes of 
Loan, or the performance by Hunan of its obligations under this Agreement and under the 
Subsidiary Loan Agreement.
ARTICLE III
Financial Covenants
Section 3.01. (a) Hunan shall maintain, and shall cause to be maintained, records and 
accounts adequate to reflect in accordance with sound accounting practices the operations, 
resources and expenditures in respect of the Project of the departments or agencies of Hunan 
responsible for carrying out the Project or any part thereof.  
(b)
Hunan  shall:
(i)
have the records and accounts referred to in paragraph (a) of this Section 
for each fiscal year audited, in accordance with appropriate auditing 
principles consistently applied, by independent auditors acceptable to the 
Bank;
Page  4
(ii)
furnish to the Bank as soon as available, but in any case not later than six 
(6) months after the end of each such year the report of such audit by 
said auditors, of such scope and in such detail as the Bank shall have 
reasonably requested; and
(iii)
furnish to the Bank such other information concerning said records, 
accounts and financial statements and the audit thereof as the Bank shall 
from time to time reasonably request.
ARTICLE IV
Effective Date; Termination;
Cancellation and Suspension
Section 4.01. This Agreement shall come into force and effect on the date upon which 
the Loan Agreement becomes effective.
Section 4.02. This Agreement and all obligations of the Bank and of Hunan thereunder 
shall terminate on the date on which the Loan Agreement shall terminate in accordance with its 
terms, and the Bank shall promptly notify Hunan thereof.
Section 4.03. All the provisions of this Agreement shall continue in full force and effect 
notwithstanding any cancellation or suspension under the General Conditions.
ARTICLE V
            Miscellaneous Provisions
Section 5.01. Any notice or request required or permitted to be given or made under this 
Agreement and any agreement between the parties contemplated by this Agreement shall be in 
writing. Such notice or request shall be deemed to have been duly given or made when it shall be 
delivered by hand or by mail, telegram, cable, telex or facsimile to the party to which it is 
required or permitted to be given or made at such party’s address hereinafter specified or at such 
other address as such party shall have designated by notice to the party giving such notice or 
making such request. Deliveries made by facsimile shall also be confirmed by mail. The 
addresses so specified are:
For the Bank:
International Bank for
  Reconstruction and Development
1818 H Street, NW
Washington, DC 20433
Page  5
United States of America
Cable address:
Telex:
Facsimile:
INTBAFRAD
248423 (MCI) or
(1-202) 477- 6391
Washington, D.C.
64145 (MCI)
For Hunan Province:
Hunan Provincial Communications Department
89 Yingbing Road
Changsha
Hunan 410011
People’s Republic of China
Facsimile:
(86) 731 222 8992
Section 5.02. Any action required or permitted to be taken, and any document required or 
permitted to be executed, under this Agreement on behalf of Hunan may be taken or executed by 
the Governor or any Vice Governor of Hunan or such other person or persons as said Governor 
or Vice Governor shall designate in writing, and such Governor or Vice Governor shall furnish to 
the Bank sufficient evidence of the authority and the authenticated specimen signature of each 
such person.
Section 5.03. This Agreement may be executed in several counterparts, each of which 
shall be an original, and all collectively but one instrument.
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their duly authorized 
representatives, have caused this Agreement to be signed in their respective names in Beijing 
People’s Republic of China, as of the day and year first above written.
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR
  RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
By /s/ Yukon Huang
Authorized Representative
Page  6
HUNAN PROVINCE
By
/s/ Zou Jiayi
Authorized Representative
SCHEDULE 1
Procurement 
Section I
.
Procurement of Goods and Works
Part A
: General
Goods and works shall be procured in accordance with the provisions of Section I of the 
“Guidelines for Procurement under IBRD Loans and IDA Credits” published by the Bank in 
January 1995 and revised in January and August 1996, September 1997 and January 1999 (the 
Guidelines) and the following provisions of Section I of this Schedule.
Part B
: International Competitive Bidding
1.
Except as otherwise provided in Part C of this Section, goods and works shall be 
procured under contracts awarded in accordance with the provisions of Section II of the 
Guidelines and paragraph 5 of Appendix 1 thereto.
2.
The following provisions shall apply to goods and works to be procured under contracts 
awarded in accordance with the provisions of paragraph 1 of this Part B.
(a)
Prequalification
Bidders for works shall be prequalified in accordance with the provisions of paragraphs 
2.9 and 2.10 of the Guidelines.
(b)
Preference for domestically manufactured goods
The provisions of paragraphs 2.54 and 2.55 of the Guidelines and Appendix 2 thereto 
shall apply to goods manufactured in the territory of the Borrower (other than goods 
manufactured in the Hong Kong Special Administrative Region or the Macau Special 
Administrative Region of the Borrower).
Page  7
(c)
Dispute Review Board
Each contract for works estimated to cost $50,000,000 equivalent or more shall include 
the provisions for a dispute review board set forth in the standard bidding documents for works 
referred to in paragraph 2.12 of the Guidelines.
(d)
Notification and Advertising
The invitation to prequalify or bid for each contract estimated to cost $10,000,000 
equivalent or more shall be advertised in accordance with the procedures applicable to large 
contracts under paragraph 2.8 of the Guidelines.
Part C
: Other Procurement Procedures
1.
National Competitive Bidding
(a) Works estimated to cost less than $10,000,000 equivalent per contract, up to an 
aggregate amount not to exceed $18,600,000 equivalent, and (b) goods estimated to cost less than 
$300,000 equivalent per contract, up to an aggregate amount not to exceed $550,000 equivalent, 
may be procured under contracts awarded in accordance with the provisions of paragraphs 3.3 
and 3.4 of the Guidelines.
2.
National  Shopping
Goods estimated to cost less than $100,000 equivalent per contract, up to an aggregate 
amount not to exceed $1,200,000 equivalent, may be procured under contracts awarded on the 
basis of national shopping procedures in accordance with the provisions of paragraphs 3.5 and 
3.6 of the Guidelines.
Part D
: Review by the Bank of Procurement Decisions
1.
Procurement Planning
Prior to the issuance of any invitations to prequalify for bidding or to bid for contracts, 
the proposed procurement plan for the Project shall be furnished to the Bank for its review and 
approval, in accordance with the provisions of paragraph 1 of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines. 
Procurement of all goods and works shall be undertaken in accordance with such procurement 
plan as shall have been approved by the Bank, and with the provisions of said paragraph 1.
2.
Prior Review
With respect to each contract for (a) works estimated to cost the equivalent of 
$2,000,000 or more, and (b) goods estimated to cost the equivalent of $500,000 or more, the 
Page  8
procedures set forth in paragraphs 2 and 3 of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines shall apply.
3.
Post Review
With respect to each contract not governed by paragraph 2 of this Part, the procedures set 
forth in paragraph 4 of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines shall apply.
Section II
.
Employment of Consultants
Part A
: General
Consultants’ services shall be procured in accordance with the provisions of the 
Introduction and Section IV of the “Guidelines:  Selection and Employment of Consultants by 
World Bank Borrowers” published by the Bank in January 1997 and revised in September 1997 
and January 1999 (the Consultant Guidelines) and the following provisions of Section II of this 
Schedule.
Part B
: Quality- and Cost-based Selection
Except as otherwise provided in Part C of this Section, consultants’ services shall be 
procured under contracts awarded in accordance with the provisions of Section II of the 
Consultant Guidelines, paragraph 3 of Appendix 1 thereto, Appendix 2 thereto, and the 
provisions of paragraphs 3.13 through 3.18 thereof applicable to quality- and cost-based selection 
of consultants.
Part C
: Other Procedure for the Selection of Consultants
Selection Based on Consultants’ Qualifications
Services `estimated to cost less than $100,000 equivalent per contract may be procured 
under contracts awarded in accordance with the provisions of paragraphs 3.1 and 3.7 of the 
Consultant Guidelines.
Part D
: Review by the Bank of the Selection of Consultants
1.
Selection Planning
Prior to the issuance to consultants of any requests for proposals, the proposed plan for 
the selection of consultants under the Project shall be furnished to the Bank for its review and 
approval, in accordance with the provisions of paragraph 1 of Appendix 1 to the Consultant 
Guidelines.  Selection of all consultants’ services shall be undertaken in accordance with such 
selection plan as shall have been approved by the Bank, and with the provisions of said 
Page  9
paragraph 1.
2.
Prior Review
(a)
With respect to each contract for the employment of consulting firms estimated 
to cost the equivalent of $100,000 or more, the procedures set forth in paragraphs 1, 2 (other than 
the third subparagraph of paragraph 2(a)) and 5 of Appendix 1 to the Consultant Guidelines shall 
apply.
(b)
With respect to each contract for the employment of individual consultants 
estimated to cost the equivalent of $50,000 or more, the qualifications, experience, terms of 
reference and terms of employment of the consultants shall be furnished to the Bank for its prior 
review and approval.  The contract shall be awarded only after the said approval shall have been 
given.
3.
Post Review
With respect to each contract not governed by paragraph 2 of this Part, the procedures set 
forth in paragraph 4 of Appendix 1 to the Consultant Guidelines shall apply.
SCHEDULE 2
Implementation Program
Part A
: Subsidiary Loan Agreement
1.
For purposes of Section 2.01 of this Agreement, Hunan shall relend to HXNCDC the 
proceeds of the Loan made available to it by the Borrower, under a subsidiary loan agreement to 
be entered into between HPCD and HXNCDC, under terms and conditions satisfactory to the 
Bank which shall include, without limitation, those set forth in Part B of this Schedule.
2.
Hunan shall:
(a)
cause HXNCDC to perform in accordance with the provisions of the Subsidiary 
Loan Agreement all of the obligations of HXNCDC therein set forth;
(b)
take or cause to be taken all action, including the provision of funds, facilities, 
services and other resources, necessary or appropriate to enable HXNCDC to perform such 
obligations; and
(c)
not take or permit to be taken any action which would prevent or interfere with 
such performance.
Page  10
3.
Hunan shall:
(a)
exercise its rights under the Subsidiary Loan Agreement in such manner as to 
protect the interests of the Borrower, the Bank, Hunan and HXNCDC, and to accomplish the 
purposes of the Loan, and 
(b)
except as the Bank shall otherwise agree, not assign, amend, abrogate or waive 
the Subsidiary Loan Agreement or any provision thereof.
Part B
: Terms and Conditions of the Subsidiary Loan Agreement
Project Implementation
1.
(a)
The principal amount of the Subsidiary Loan to be made by Hunan to HXNCDC 
shall be the equivalent in terms of Dollars (determined as of the date of, or respective dates of 
withdrawal from the Loan Account or payment out of the Special Account, as the case may be) 
of the value of the currency or currencies so withdrawn or paid out on account of the cost of 
items required for the Project and to be financed out of the proceeds of the Loan, and shall be 
recovered by Hunan in Dollars (the Subsidiary Loan Amount);
(b)
Hunan shall recover the Subsidiary Loan Amount from HXNCDC in 
semi-annual instalments over a period of twenty (20) years, inclusive of a grace period of five (5) 
years;
(c)
Hunan shall charge HXNCDC interest on the Subsidiary Loan Amount 
withdrawn and outstanding from time to time at a rate which shall not exceed the rate payable 
from time to time applicable to the Loan pursuant to Section 2.06 of the Loan  Agreement; and
(d)
Hunan shall charge HXNCDC: (i) a commitment fee on the principal amount of 
the Subsidiary Loan so made available and not withdrawn from time to time at a rate which shall 
not exceed three-fourths of one percent (3/4 of 1%) per annum; and (ii) an additional fee in an 
amount equal to the amount payable by the Borrower pursuant to Section 2.04 of the Loan 
Agreement.
2.
HXNCDC shall carry on its operations and conduct its affairs in accordance with sound 
management, financial and engineering practices, and safety and environmental standards 
acceptable to the Bank, under the supervision of qualified and experienced management assisted 
by competent staff in adequate number.
3.
HXNCDC shall at all times operate its machinery, equipment and other property and, 
from time to time, promptly as needed, make all necessary repairs and renewals thereof, in 
accordance with sound engineering, safety and environmental standards acceptable to the Bank.
4.
HXNCDC shall:
Page  11
(a)
procure the goods and services required for the Project and to be financed out of 
the proceeds of the Loan in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 1 to this Agreement; and
(b)
utilize such goods and services exclusively to carry out the Project; and
(c)
enable the Bank and Hunan to inspect such goods and the sites and works under 
the Project, the operation thereof and any relevant records and documents.
5.
HXNCDC shall take out and maintain with responsible insurers such insurance against 
such risks and in such amounts as shall be consistent with sound business practice, including 
such insurance to cover hazards incident to the acquisition, transportation and delivery of goods 
required for the Project and to be financed out of the proceeds of the Loan to the place of use or 
installation, any indemnity thereunder to be made payable in a currency freely usable by 
HXNCDC to replace or repair such goods.
6.
HXNCDC shall:
(a)
take all necessary actions to minimize to the extent possible any involuntary loss 
by persons of shelter, productive assets or access to productive assets, or of income or means of 
livelihood, temporarily or permanently; 
(b)
carry out the RAP in a manner designed to improve or at least maintain the living 
standards, income earning capacity and production levels of all Affected Persons; and
(c)
furnish to the Bank any revisions proposed to be introduced into the RAP in 
order to achieve its objectives and, thereafter, introduce such revisions into such plan as shall 
have been agreed with the Bank.
7.
HXNCDC shall:
(a)
maintain policies and procedures adequate to enable it to monitor and evaluate 
on an ongoing basis, in accordance with guidelines acceptable to the Bank, the implementation of 
the RAP and the achievement of the objectives of such plan;
(b)
furnish to the Bank and Hunan, by June 30 and December 31 of each year, 
commencing on December 31, 2001, through the second year after the completion of the Project, 
semi-annual reports prepared by provincial agencies responsible for resettlement activities, on 
the results of such activities during the preceding period; and
(c)
furnish to the Bank and Hunan, by March 31 and September 30 of each year, 
commencing on March 31, 2002, through the second year after the completion of the Project, 
semi-annual reports prepared by an independent monitoring entity acceptable to the Bank, on the 
results of the resettlement activities during the same six-month periods referred to in clause (b) of 
Page  12
this paragraph.
8.
HXNCDC shall:
(a)
carry out the EAP in a manner designed to ensure that the Project is implemented 
in accordance with sound environmental practices and standards;
(b)
maintain policies and procedures adequate to enable it to monitor and evaluate 
on an ongoing basis, in accordance with guidelines acceptable to the Bank, the implementation of 
the EAP and the achievement of the objectives of such plan;
(c)
during the period commencing on December 31, 2001 and ending on December 
31, 2006, furnish to the Bank and Hunan, semi-annual reports incorporating the results of the 
monitoring and evaluation activities, together with any revisions proposed to be introduced into 
such plan to achieve its objectives; and
(d)
thereafter, introduce such revisions into such plan as shall have been approved 
by the Bank.
9.
In order to ensure the safety of the dam to be constructed at Zhuzhou, HXNCDC shall:
(a)
during the period of implementation of the Project, continue to employ a panel of 
qualified experts under terms of reference and with resources acceptable to the Bank, to review 
the adequacy of the design and construction procedures of such dam and its associated structures;
(b)
prepare, in a manner and according to a timetable satisfactory to the Bank, 
detailed plans for: (i) construction supervision and quality assurance; (ii) instrumentation; (iii) 
operation and maintenance; and (iv) emergency preparedness; and 
(c)
carry out periodic safety inspections of said dam after its completion.
10.
HXNCDC shall: 
(a)
maintain records and accounts adequate to reflect in accordance with sound 
accounting practices its operations and financial condition; 
(b)
have its records, accounts and financial statements (balance sheets, statements of 
income and expenses and related statements) for each fiscal year audited, in accordance with 
appropriate auditing principles consistently applied, by independent auditors acceptable to the 
Bank and Hunan;
(c)
furnish to the Bank and Hunan, as soon as available but in any case not later than 
six (6) months after the end of each such year, (i) certified copies of said financial statements and 
Page  13
accounts for such year as so audited, and (ii) the report of such audit by said auditors in such 
scope and detail as the Bank and/or Hunan shall have reasonably requested; and
(d)
furnish to the Bank and Hunan all such other information concerning said 
records, accounts and financial statements, and the audit thereof, as the Bank and/or Hunan shall 
reasonably request.
11.
Except as the Bank and Hunan may otherwise agree, HXNCDC shall maintain each 
fiscal year, commencing in 2001 through 2010, a working ratio of not more than 20%.  For 
purposes of this paragraph 11, the following terms shall have the following meaning: (i) 
“working ratio” means total operating expenses minus depreciation, divided by total operating 
revenues; (ii) “total operating expenses” means all expenses related to operations, including 
operations of the Dayuandu dam, shiplock and power plant constructed under the Inland 
Waterways Project financed in part by the Bank (LN 3910-        CHA) and the Zhuzhou dam, 
shiplock and power plant to be constructed under Part A of the Project, including administration, 
adequate maintenance, taxes and payments in lieu of taxes, and provision for depreciation on a 
straight-line basis at a rate acceptable to the Bank, but excluding interest and other charges on 
debt; and (iii) “total operating revenues” means revenues from all sources related to operations, 
including operations of said dams, shiplocks and power plants at Dayuandu and Zhuzhou.
 12.
HXNCDC shall:
(a)
by June 30 of each year, commencing in 2002, prepare and furnish to the Bank 
for its review and comments, a five-year rolling business plan; and
(b)
thereafter, implement such plan taking into consideration the Bank’s view on the 
matter. 
13.
HXNCDC shall, by July1, 2006, enter into a power sales agreement with Hunan 
Provincial Electric Power Company, under terms and conditions acceptable to the Bank, which 
shall be based on the following principles:
(a)
the structure of the prices of such electricity payable by Hunan Provincial 
Electric Power Company shall be designed to ensure an efficient supply of power from the 
Zhuzhou power plant and to minimize the financial risk to HXNCDC of reduced supplies of 
electricity caused by low-flow hydrological conditions;
(b)
the price of such electricity shall be set initially at, and thereafter periodically 
adjusted to, levels to ensure that HXNCDC’s total revenues from said power sales agreement 
shall be not less than the sum of (i) its total operating expenses in respect of the Zhuzhou power 
plant and dam, and (ii) the amount by which its debt service requirements in respect of said 
power plant and dam exceed its provision for depreciation;
(c)
the responsibilities for the operation of said power plant and dam, and for the 
distribution of such electricity shall be allocated between HXNCDC and Hunan Provincial 
Page  14
Electric Power Company in such manner as to maximize the benefits of said facility; and 
(d)
 for purposes of sub-paragraph (b) of this paragraph 13, the following terms shall 
have the following meaning: (i) “total operating expenses” means all expenses related to the 
operations of the Zhuzhou dam and power plant, including administration, adequate 
maintenance, taxes and payments in lieu of taxes, and provision for depreciation on a 
straight-line basis at a rate acceptable to the Bank, but excluding interest and other charges on 
debt; (ii) “debt service requirements” means the aggregate amount of repayments of, and interest 
and other charges on, debt in respect of the Zhuzhou dam and power plant.
14.
HXNCDC shall:
(a)
carry out the training of its staff, including with regard to engineering design, 
construction supervision, inland waterways operation and management, environmental 
management, financial management, in accordance with a program satisfactory to the Bank; and
(b)
for this purpose, by December 31 of each year, commencing in 2001, prepare 
and furnish to the Bank for its review and comments an annual training program and thereafter, 
implement said annual program in a manner satisfactory to the Bank. 
15.
HXNCDC shall, by December 31, 2004, complete under terms of reference acceptable to 
the Bank a study on inland waterways transport containerization on the Xiangjiang River in 
Hunan.
Part C
: Monitoring and Reporting
1.
Hunan shall cause HXNCDC to maintain policies and procedures adequate to enable 
HXNCDC to monitor and evaluate on an ongoing basis, in accordance with indicators 
satisfactory to the Bank, the carrying out of the Project and the achievement of the objectives 
thereof.
2.
Hunan shall cause HXNCDC to prepare, under terms of reference satisfactory to the 
Bank, and furnish to the Bank and Hunan quarterly reports on or about March 31, June 30, 
September 30 and December 31 of each year, commencing March 31, 2002, said reports to:
(a)
summarize the results of the monitoring and evaluation activities performed 
pursuant to paragraph 1 of this Part C, on the progress achieved in the carrying out of the Project 
during the preceding calendar quarter (or in the case of the last such report furnished for each 
calendar year, during the preceding four calendar quarters); 
(b)
set forth physical and financial progress in the implementation of the Project, 
both cumulatively and in respect of the period under review; and
(c)
set out additional measures recommended to ensure the efficient carrying out of 
Page  15
the Project and the achievement of the objectives thereof during the period following such date.
3.
Hunan shall cause HXNCDC, after furnishing each report to the Bank and Hunan, to 
review the same with the Bank and Hunan and, thereafter, take all measures required to ensure 
the efficient completion of the Project and the achievement of the objectives thereof, based on 
the conclusions and recommendations of the said report and the Bank’s views on the matter.
