Page  1
CONFORMED COPY
LOAN NUMBER 4621 CHA
Loan Agreement
(Third Inland Waterways Project)
between
PEOPLE’S REPUBLIC OF CHINA
and
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION
AND DEVELOPMENT
Dated January 7, 2002
LOAN NUMBER 4621 CHA
LOAN AGREEMENT
AGREEMENT, dated January 7, 2002, between PEOPLE’S REPUBLIC OF CHINA (the 
Borrower) and INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT 
Page  2
(the Bank).
WHEREAS (A) the Borrower, having satisfied itself as to the feasibility and priority of 
the project described in Schedule 2 to this Agreement (the Project), has requested the Bank to 
assist in the financing of the Project;
(B)
the Project will be carried out by Hunan Province (Hunan) with the Borrower’s 
assistance and, as part of such assistance, the Borrower will make the proceeds of the loan 
provided for in Article II of this Agreement (the Loan) available to Hunan, as set forth in this 
Agreement; and
WHEREAS the Bank has agreed, on the basis, inter alia, of the foregoing, to extend the 
Loan to the Borrower upon the terms and conditions set forth in this Agreement and in the 
agreement of even date herewith between the Bank and Hunan (the Project Agreement);
NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows: 
ARTICLE I
General Conditions; Definitions
Section 1.01. The “General Conditions Applicable to Loan and Guarantee Agreements 
for Single Currency Loans” of the Bank, dated May 30, 1995 (as amended through October 6, 
1999) (the General Conditions) constitute an integral part of this Agreement.
Section 1.02. Unless the context otherwise requires, the several terms defined in the 
General Conditions and in the Preamble to this Agreement have the respective meanings therein 
set forth and the following additional terms have the following meanings:
(a)
“Affected Persons” means persons who, on account of the execution of the 
Project, had or would have their: (i) standard of living adversely affected; or (ii) right, title, 
interest in any house, land (including premises, agricultural and grazing land) or any other fixed 
or movable asset acquired or possessed, temporarily or permanently; (iii) access to productive 
assets adversely affected, temporarily or permanently; or (iv) business, occupation, work or place 
of residence or habitat adversely affected; and “Affected Person” means any of the Affected 
Persons.
(b)
“Category” means a category of items as set forth in the table in paragraph 1 of 
Schedule 1 to this Agreement.
(c)
“Company Law” means the Borrower’s Company Law promulgated on 
December 29, 1993 and effective as of July 1, 1994, as the same may be amended from time to 
time.
Page  3
(d)
“EAP” means the Environmental Action Plan, dated January 2001, prepared by 
HXNCDC on behalf of Hunan, referred to in paragraph B (8) of Schedule 2 to the Project 
Agreement, which sets out the environmental protection measures in respect of the Project, as 
well as administrative and monitoring arrangements to ensure the implementation of said plan, as 
such plan may be revised from time to time with the agreement of the Bank. 
(e)
“Hunan” means the Borrower’s Province of Hunan, and any successor thereto.
(f)
“HPCD” means Hunan Provincial Communications Department, an agency of 
Hunan Province, and any successor thereto.
(g)
“Hunan Provincial Electric Power Company” means the company established 
and existing under the laws of the Borrower and responsible for the purchase and distribution of 
electric power within Hunan Province, and any successor thereto.
(h)
“HXNCDC” means Hunan Xiangjiang Navigation Construction and 
Development Corporation (Ltd.), a wholly state-owned company under Hunan Provincial 
Communications Department, established under the Company Law and operating pursuant to 
Articles of Association dated November 21, 1994 and Business License Number 18378999 – 8 
issued by Hunan Province Industry and Commerce Administration Bureau on November 25, 
1994. 
(
i)
“Project Agreement” means the agreement between the Bank and Hunan of even 
date herewith, as the same may be amended from time to time; and such term includes all 
schedules and agreements supplemental to the Project Agreement.
(j)
“RAP” means the Resettlement Action Plan, dated November 2000, prepared on 
behalf of Hunan by the Mid-South Hydro-Electric Survey and Design Institute, and referred to in 
paragraph B (6) of Schedule 2 to the Project Agreement, which sets out the principles and 
procedures governing land acquisition, resettlement, compensation and rehabilitation of Affected 
Persons, as well as administrative, reporting and monitoring arrangements to ensure compliance 
with said plan, as such plan may be revised from time to time with the agreement of the Bank.
(k)
“Special Account” means the account referred to in Section 2.02 (a) of this 
Agreement.
(l)
“Subsidiary Loan Agreement” means the agreement to be entered into between 
Hunan through HPCD, and HXNCDC, pursuant to paragraph A (1) of Schedule 2 to the Project 
Agreement, as the same may be amended from time to time; and such term includes all schedules 
to the Subsidiary Loan Agreement; and “Subsidiary Loan” means the loan provided under the 
Subsidiary Loan Agreement.
Section 1.03. Each reference in the General Conditions to the Project implementation 
entity shall be deemed as a reference to any of Hunan Province, Hunan Provincial 
Page  4
Communications Department or Hunan Xiangjiang Navigation Construction and Development 
Corporation (Ltd.), as the case may be.
ARTICLE II
The Loan
Section 2.01. The Bank agrees to lend to the Borrower, on the terms and conditions set 
forth or referred to in the Loan Agreement, an amount equal to one hundred million Dollars 
($100,000,000). 
Section 2.02. (a) The amount of the Loan may be withdrawn from the Loan Account in 
accordance with the provisions of Schedule 1 to this Agreement for expenditures made (or, if the 
Bank shall so agree, to be made) in respect of the reasonable cost of goods and services required 
for the Project and to be financed out of the proceeds of the Loan and in respect of the fee 
referred to in Section 2.04 of this Agreement.
(b)
The Borrower may, for the purposes of the Project open and maintain in Dollars 
a
special deposit account in a commercial bank on terms and conditions satisfactory to the Bank, 
including appropriate protection against set-off, seizure and attachment. Deposits into, and 
payments out of, the Special Account shall be made in accordance with the provisions of 
Schedule 4 to this Agreement.
Section 2.03. The Closing Date shall be December 31, 2007 or such later date as the 
Bank shall establish. The Bank shall promptly notify the Borrower of such later date.
Section 2.04. The Borrower shall pay to the Bank a fee in an amount equal to one percent 
(1%) of the amount of the Loan. On or promptly after the Effective Date, the Bank shall, on 
behalf of the Borrower, withdraw from the Loan Account and pay to itself the amount of said 
fee.
Section 2.05. The Borrower shall pay to the Bank a commitment charge at the rate of 
three-fourths of one percent (3/4 of 1%) per annum on the principal amount of the Loan not 
withdrawn from time to time.
Section 2.06. (a) The Borrower shall pay interest on the principal amount of the Loan 
withdrawn and outstanding from time to time, at a rate for each Interest Period equal to LIBOR 
Base Rate plus LIBOR Total Spread.
(b)
For the purposes of this Section:
(i)
“Interest Period” means the initial period from and including the date of 
this Agreement to, but excluding, the first Interest Payment Date 
occurring thereafter, and after the initial period, each period from and 
Page  5
including an Interest Payment Date to, but excluding the next following 
Interest Payment Date.
(ii)
“Interest Payment Date” means any date specified in Section 2.07 of this 
Agreement.
(iii)
“LIBOR Base Rate” means, for each Interest Period, the London 
interbank offered rate for six-month deposits in Dollars for value the 
first day of such Interest Period (or, in the case of the initial Interest 
Period, for value the Interest Payment Date occurring on or next 
preceding the first day of such Interest Period), as reasonably determined 
by the Bank and expressed as a percentage per annum.
(iv)
“LIBOR Total Spread” means, for each Interest Period: (A) three-fourths 
of one percent (3/4 of 1%); (B) minus (or plus) the weighted average 
margin, for such Interest Period, below (or above) the London interbank 
offered rates, or other reference rates, for six-month deposits, in respect 
of the Bank’s outstanding borrowings or portions thereof allocated by 
the Bank to fund single currency loans or portions thereof made by it 
that include the Loan; as reasonably determined by the Bank and 
expressed as a percentage per annum.
(c)
The Bank shall notify the Borrower of  LIBOR Base Rate and LIBOR Total 
Spread for each Interest Period, promptly upon the determination thereof.
(d)
Whenever, in light of changes in market practice affecting the determination of 
the interest rates referred to in this Section 2.06, the Bank determines that it is in the interest of 
its borrowers as a whole and of the Bank to apply a basis for determining the interest rates 
applicable to the Loan other than as provided in said Section, the Bank may modify the basis for 
determining the interest rates applicable to the Loan upon not less than six (6) months’ notice to 
the Borrower of the new basis. The new basis shall become effective on the expiry of the notice 
period unless the Borrower notifies the Bank during said period of its objection thereto, in which 
case said modification shall not apply to the Loan.
Section 2.07. Interest and other charges shall be payable semiannually in arrears on 
March 15 and September 15 in each year.
Section 2.08. The Borrower shall repay the principal amount of the Loan in accordance 
with the amortization schedule set forth in Schedule 3 to this Agreement.
ARTICLE III
Execution of the Project
Section 3.01. (a) The Borrower declares its commitment to the objectives of the Project, 
Page  6
and, to this end, without any limitation or restriction upon any of its other obligations under the 
Loan Agreement, shall cause Hunan to perform in accordance with the provisions of the Project 
Agreement all the obligations of Hunan therein set forth, shall take or cause to be taken all 
action, including the provision of funds, facilities, services and other resources, necessary or 
appropriate to enable Hunan to perform such obligations, and shall not take or permit to be taken 
any action which would prevent or interfere with such performance.
(b)
To this end the Borrower shall make the proceeds of the Loan available to Hunan 
under the following principal terms and conditions:
(i)
the principal amount so made available to Hunan shall be the equivalent 
in terms of Dollars (determined as of the date of, or respective dates of 
withdrawal from the Loan Account or payment out of the Special 
Account, as the case may be) of the value of the currency or currencies 
so withdrawn or paid out on account of the cost of items required for the 
Project and to be financed out of the proceeds of the Loan, and shall be 
recovered by the Borrower in Dollars (the Loan Amount);
(ii)
the Borrower shall recover the Loan Amount from Hunan in semi-annual 
instalments over a period of twenty (20) years, inclusive of a grace 
period of five (5) years;
(iii)
the Borrower shall charge Hunan interest on the Loan Amount 
withdrawn and outstanding from time to time at a rate which shall not 
exceed the rate payable by the Borrower from time to time pursuant to 
Section 2.06 of this Agreement; and
(iv)
the Borrower shall charge Hunan: (A) a commitment fee on the principal 
amount of the Loan so made available and not withdrawn from time to 
time at a rate which shall not exceed three-fourths of one percent (3/4 of 
1%) per annum; and (B) an additional fee in an amount equal to the 
amount payable by the Borrower pursuant to Section 2.04 of this 
Agreement.
Section 3.02. Except as the Bank shall otherwise agree, procurement of the goods, works 
and consultants’ services required for the Project and to be financed out of the proceeds of the 
Loan shall be governed by the provisions of Schedule 1 to the Project Agreement.
Section 3.03. The Bank and the Borrower hereby agree that the obligations set forth in 
Sections 9.04, 9.05, 9.06, 9.07, 9.08 and 9.09 of the General Conditions (relating to insurance, 
use of goods and services, plans and schedules, records and reports, maintenance and land 
acquisition, respectively) shall be carried out by  Hunan pursuant to Section 2.03 of the Project 
Agreement.
Page  7
ARTICLE IV
Financial Covenants
Section 4.01. (a) For all expenditures with respect to which withdrawals from the Loan 
Account were made on the basis of statements of expenditure, the Borrower shall:
(i)
maintain or cause to be maintained in accordance with sound accounting 
practices, records and separate accounts reflecting such expenditures;
(ii)
ensure that all records (contracts, orders, invoices, bills, receipts and 
other documents) evidencing such expenditures are retained until at least 
one year after the Bank has received the audit report for the fiscal year in 
which the last withdrawal from the Loan Account was made; and
(iii)
enable the Bank's representatives to examine such records.
(b)
The Borrower shall:
(i)
have the records and accounts referred to in paragraph (a) (i) of this 
Section and those for the Special Account for each fiscal year audited, in 
accordance with appropriate auditing principles consistently applied, by 
independent auditors acceptable to the Bank;
(ii)
furnish to the Bank as soon as available, but in any case not later than six 
(6) months after the end of each such year the report of such audit by 
said auditors, of such scope and in such detail as the Bank shall have 
reasonably requested, including a separate opinion by said auditors as to 
whether the statements of expenditure submitted during such fiscal year, 
together with the procedures and internal controls involved in their 
preparation, can be relied upon to support the related withdrawals; and
(iii)
furnish to the Bank such other information concerning said records and 
accounts and the audit thereof as the Bank shall from time to time 
reasonably request.
ARTICLE V
Remedies of the Bank
Section 5.01. Pursuant to Section 6.02(p) of the General Conditions, the following 
additional events are specified:
Page  8
(a)
Hunan shall have failed to perform any of its obligations under the Project 
Agreement.
(b)
As a result of events which have occurred after the date of the Loan Agreement, 
an extraordinary situation shall have arisen which shall make it improbable that Hunan will be 
able to perform its obligations under the Project Agreement.
Section 5.02. Pursuant to Section 7.01(k) of the General Conditions, the following 
additional event is specified, namely that the event specified in paragraph (a) of Section 5.01 of 
this Agreement shall occur and shall continue for a period of 60 days after notice thereof shall 
have been given by the Bank to the Borrower. 
ARTICLE VI
Effective Date; Termination
Section 6.01. The following event is specified as an additional condition to the 
effectiveness of the Loan Agreement within the meaning of Section 12.01(c) of the General 
Conditions, namely, that the Subsidiary Loan Agreement satisfactory to the Bank has been 
executed on behalf of Hunan through HPCD, and HXNCDC, in accordance with the provisions 
of paragraph A (1) of Schedule 2 to the Project Agreement. 
Section 6.02. The following are specified as additional matters, within the meaning of 
Section 12.02(c) of the General Conditions, to be included in the opinion or opinions to be 
furnished to the Bank: 
(a)
that the Project Agreement has been duly authorized or ratified by Hunan, and is 
legally binding upon Hunan in accordance with its terms; and
(b)
that the Subsidiary Loan Agreement between Hunan through HPCD, and 
HXNCDC, has been duly authorized or ratified by the parties thereto and is legally binding upon 
said parties in accordance with its terms.
Section 6.03. The date ninety (90) days after the date of this Agreement is hereby 
specified for the purposes of Section 12.04 of the General Conditions.
ARTICLE VII
Representative of the Borrower; Addresses
Section 7.01. The Minister of Finance of the Borrower is designated as representative of 
the Borrower for the purposes of Section 11.03 of the General Conditions.
Page  9
Section 7.02. The following addresses are specified for the purposes of Section 11.01 of 
the General Conditions:
For the Borrower:
Ministry of Finance
Sanlihe
Beijing 100820
People’s Republic of China
Cable address: 
Telex:
Facsimile:
FINANMIN
222486 MFPRC CN
(86-10) 68 55 11 25
For the Bank:
International Bank for
  Reconstruction and Development
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America
Cable address:
Telex:
Facsimile:
INTBAFRAD
248423 (MCI) or
(1- 202) 477-6391
Washington, D.C.
  64145 (MCI)
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their duly authorized 
representatives, have caused this Agreement to be signed in their respective names in Beijing, 
People’s Republic of China, as of the day and year first above written.
PEOPLE’S REPUBLIC OF CHINA
By /s/ Zou Jiayi
Authorized Representative
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR
  RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
Page  10
By /s/ Yukon Huang
Authorized Representative
SCHEDULE 1
Withdrawal of the Proceeds of the Loan
1.
The table below sets forth the Categories of items to be financed out of the proceeds of 
the Loan, the allocation of the amounts of the Loan to each Category and the percentage of 
expenditures for items so to be financed in each Category:
Category
Amount of the Loan
% of Expenditures to
             Allocated (Expressed in 
     be Financed
Dollars)
(1)   
Works
36,000,000
49%
(2)
Goods
45,500,000
100% of foreign 
expenditures, 100% of
local expenditures (ex-
factory cost) and 75% 
of local expenditures
for other items 
procured locally
(3)
Consultants’ 
services and
training
 2,000,000
100%
(4)
Fee
 1,000,000
Amount due under
Section 2.04 of this
Agreement
(5)
Unallocated
15,500,000
TOTAL
100,000,000
2.
For the purposes of this Schedule:
(a)
the term “foreign expenditures” means expenditures in the currency of any 
Page  11
country other than that of the Borrower for goods or services supplied from the territory of any 
country other than that of the Borrower; provided, however, that expenditures in the currency of 
the Hong Kong Special Administrative Region of the Borrower for goods or services supplied 
from said region, and expenditures in the currency of the Macau Special Administrative Region 
of the Borrower for goods or services supplied from said region shall be deemed to be “foreign 
expenditures”; and 
(b)
the term “local expenditures” means expenditures that are not foreign 
expenditures.
3.
Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1 above, no withdrawals shall be made in 
respect of payments made for expenditures prior to the date of this Agreement, except that 
withdrawals, in an aggregate amount not exceeding $10,000,000, may be made in respect of 
Categories (1) and (3) set forth in the table in paragraph 1 of this Schedule on account of 
payments made for expenditures before that date but after January 1, 2001. 
4.
The Bank may require withdrawals from the Loan Account to be made on the basis of 
statements of expenditure for expenditures for: (a) goods under contracts costing less than 
$500,000 equivalent each; (b) works under contracts costing less than $2,000,000 equivalent 
each; (c) consultants’ services under contracts with firms costing less than $100,000 equivalent 
each; (d) consultants’ services under contracts with individuals costing less than $50,000 
equivalent each; and (e) training; all under such terms and conditions as the Bank shall specify 
by notice to the Borrower.
SCHEDULE 2
Description of the Project
The objective of the Project is to assist the Borrower in the development of Hunan 
Province through the provision of: (i) more efficient and economic waterway transport along the 
Xiangjiang River; (ii) better market access to inland remote areas in said Province; and (iii) 
sufficient power supply to such areas.
The Project consists of the following parts, subject to such modifications thereof as the 
Borrower and the Bank may agree upon from time to time to achieve such objectives:
Part A
Construction of Dam, Shiplock and Power Plant
1.
Construction of the Zhuzhou dam and power plant on the Xiangjiang River in Hunan 
Province, including (a) supply and installation of turbines and generator units, sluice gates, 
hydraulic hoist and cranes, and provision of ancillary equipment; (b) provision and installation of 
transformers and a switch yard; and (c) installation of transmission lines between the power 
substation at Zhuxi and the power plant at Zhuzhou.
2.
Construction of a shiplock beside the Zhuzhou dam and installation of shiplock gates and 
Page  12
hydraulic hoist.
3.
Construction of access roads, including (a) access roads and bridges within the Zhuzhou 
dam and powerhouse complex; and (b) connecting roads from the Zhuzhou dam and power 
station site to the provincial highway and national expressway network.
4.
Construction of bank protection works (a) of about 2 kilometers (km) and 2.6 km, 
respectively, on either side of the Xiangjiang River; (b) on Kongzhou Island in mid-stream of 
said river; and (c) of about 24 km along both sides of the reservoir.
5.
Improvement of about 37 km of the navigation channel on the Xiangjiang River between 
Zhuzhou and Xiangtang in Hunan.
Part B
Resettlement
Carrying out of a resettlement program designed to improve, or at least maintain, the 
living standards and productive levels of Affected Persons.
Part C
Institutional Strengthening
Carrying out of a program to strengthen the capabilities of the institutions and agencies 
of Hunan responsible for planning and management of inland waterways transport. 
* * *
The Project is expected to be completed by June 30, 2007.
SCHEDULE 3
Amortization Schedule
Payment of Principal
(Expressed in
Date Payment Due
Dollars)*
March 15, 2007
2,100,000
September 15, 2007
2,165,000
March 15, 2008
2,230,000
September 15, 2008
2,295,000
March 15, 2009
2,365,000
September 15, 2009
2,435,000
March 15, 2010
2,510,000
September 15, 2010
2,585,000
March 15, 2011
2,665,000
Page  13
September 15, 2011
2,745,000
March 15, 2012
2,825,000
September 15, 2012
2,910,000
March 15, 2013
2,995,000
September 15, 2013
3,085,000
March 15, 2014
3,180,000
September 15, 2014
3,275,000
March 15, 2015
3,375,000
September 15, 2015
3,475,000
March 15, 2016
3,580,000
September 15, 2016
3,685,000
March 15, 2017
3,795,000
September 15, 2017
3,910,000
March 15, 2018
4,030,000
September 15, 2018
4,150,000
March 15, 2019
4,275,000
September 15, 2019
4,400,000
March 15, 2020
4,535,000
September 15, 2020
4,670,000
March 15, 2021
4,810,000
September 15, 2021
4,945,000
________________________
* 
The figures in this column represent the amount in Dollars to be repaid, except as provided in Section 
4.04 (d) of the General Conditions.
SCHEDULE 4
Special Account
1.
For the purposes of this Schedule:
(a)
the term “eligible Categories” means Categories (1), (2) and (3) set forth in the 
table in paragraph 1 of Schedule 1 to this Agreement;
(b)
the term “eligible expenditures” means expenditures in respect of the reasonable 
cost of goods and services required for  the Project and to be financed out of the proceeds of the 
Loan allocated from time to time to the eligible Categories in accordance with the provisions of 
Schedule 1 to this Agreement; and
(c)
the term “Authorized Allocation” means an amount equivalent to $5,000,000 to 
be withdrawn from the Loan Account and deposited into the Special Account pursuant to 
paragraph 3 (a) of this Schedule, provided, however, that unless the Bank shall otherwise agree, 
the Authorized Allocation shall be limited to an amount equivalent to $3,000,000 until the 
aggregate amount of withdrawals from the Loan Account plus the total amount of all outstanding 
special commitments entered into by the Bank pursuant to Section 5.02 of the General 
Page  14
Conditions shall be equal to or exceed the equivalent of $30,000,000. 
2.
Payments out of the Special Account shall be made exclusively for eligible expenditures 
in accordance with the provisions of this Schedule.
3.
After the Bank has received evidence satisfactory to it that the Special Account has been 
duly opened, withdrawals of the Authorized Allocation and subsequent withdrawals to replenish 
the Special Account shall be made as follows:
(a)
For withdrawals of the Authorized Allocation, the Borrower shall furnish to the 
Bank a request or requests for deposit into the Special Account of an amount or amounts which 
do not exceed the aggregate amount of the Authorized Allocation. On the basis of such request or 
requests, the Bank shall, on behalf of the Borrower, withdraw from the Loan Account and 
deposit into the Special Account such amount or amounts as the Borrower shall have requested.
(b)
(i)
For replenishment of the Special Account, the Borrower shall furnish to 
the Bank requests for deposits into the Special Account at such intervals 
as the Bank shall specify.
(ii)
Prior to or at the time of each such request, the Borrower shall furnish to 
the Bank the documents and other evidence required pursuant to 
para-graph 4 of this Schedule for the payment or payments in respect of 
which replenishment is requested. On the basis of each such request, the 
Bank shall, on behalf of the Borrower, withdraw from the Loan Account 
and deposit into the Special Account such amount as the Borrower shall 
have requested and as shall have been shown by said documents and 
other evidence to have been paid out of the Special Account for eligible 
expenditures. All such deposits shall be withdrawn by the Bank from the 
Loan Account under the respective eligible Categories, and in the 
respective equivalent amounts, as shall have been justified by said 
documents and other evidence.
4.
For each payment made by the Borrower out of the Special Account, the Borrower shall, 
at such time as the Bank shall reasonably request, furnish to the Bank such documents and other 
evidence showing that such payment was made exclusively for eligible expenditures.
5.
Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 3 of this Schedule, the Bank shall not be 
required to make further deposits into the Special Account:
(a)
if, at any time, the Bank shall have determined that all further withdrawals 
should be made by the Borrower directly from the Loan Account in accordance with the 
provisions of Article V of the General Conditions and paragraph (a) of Section 2.02 of this 
Agreement;
(b)
if the Borrower shall have failed to furnish to the Bank, within the period of time 
Page  15
specified in Section 4.01 (b) (ii) of this Agreement, any of the audit reports required to be 
furnished to the Bank pursuant to said Section in respect of the audit of the records and accounts 
for the Special Account;
(c)
if, at any time, the Bank shall have notified the Borrower of its intention to 
suspend in whole or in part the right of the Borrower to make withdrawals from the Loan 
Account pursuant to the provisions of Section 6.02 of the General Conditions; or
(d)
once the total unwithdrawn amount of the Loan allocated to the eligible 
Categories, minus the total amount of all outstanding special commitments entered into by the 
Bank pursuant to Section 5.02 of the General Conditions, shall equal the equivalent of twice the 
amount of the Authorized Allocation.
Thereafter, withdrawal from the Loan Account of the remaining unwithdrawn amount of the 
Loan allocated to the eligible Categories shall follow such procedures as the Bank shall specify 
by notice to the Borrower.  Such further withdrawals shall be made only after and to the extent 
that the Bank shall have been satisfied that all such amounts remaining on deposit in the Special 
Account as of the date of such notice will be utilized in making payments for eligible 
expenditures.
6.
(a)
If the Bank shall have determined at any time that any payment out of the 
Special Account: (i) was made for an expenditure or in an amount not eligible pursuant to 
paragraph 2 of this Schedule; or (ii) was not justified by the evidence furnished to the Bank, the 
Borrower shall, promptly upon notice from the Bank: (A) provide such additional evidence as the 
Bank may request; or (B) deposit into the Special Account (or, if the Bank shall so request, 
refund to the Bank) an amount equal to the amount of such payment or the portion thereof not so 
eligible or justified. Unless the Bank shall otherwise agree, no further deposit by the Bank into 
the Special Account shall be made until the Borrower has provided such evidence or made such 
deposit or refund, as the case may be.
(b)
If the Bank shall have determined at any time that any amount outstanding in the 
Special Account will not be required to cover further payments for eligible expenditures, the 
Borrower shall, promptly upon notice from the Bank, refund to the Bank such outstanding 
amount.
(c)
The Borrower may, upon notice to the Bank, refund to the Bank all or any 
portion of the funds on deposit in the Special Account.
(d)
Refunds to the Bank made pursuant to paragraphs 6 (a), (b) and (c) of this 
Schedule shall be credited to the Loan Account for subsequent withdrawal or for cancellation in 
accordance with the relevant provisions of this Agreement, including the General Conditions.
Page  16
