Page  1
October 16, 2000
Mr. Jin Liqun
Vice Minister of Finance
Ministry of Finance
Beijing
People’s Republic of China
Re: Japanese Grant for the Preparation of the Third
Inland Waterways Project
Grant Number TF025395
(Bank Executed)
Dear Sir:
I am writing on behalf of the International Bank for Reconstruction and 
Development (the Bank)to indicate the Bank’s agreement, as administrator of 
grant funds provided by Japan, to make a grant in an amount not exceeding 
seventy three thousand, six hundred and sixty United States Dollars (US$73,660) 
(the Grant) to the People’s Republic of China (the Recipient). 
The Grant is made in response to the Recipient’s request for financial 
assistance and for the purposes and on the terms and conditions set forth in the 
Annex to this Letter Agreement.  The Recipient hereby confirms its request that 
the Bank carry out the activities described in paragraph 1 of the Annex to this 
Letter Agreement, and represents that it is authorized to contract the Grant for 
the said purposes and on the said terms and conditions.
Please confirm your agreement with the foregoing, on behalf of the 
Recipient, by signing, dating, and returning to us the enclosed copy of this 
Letter Agreement.  Upon receipt by the Bank of the copy of this Letter Agreement 
countersigned by you, this Letter Agreement will become effective as of the date 
of the countersignature.
Very truly yours,
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR 
   RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
By /s/ Austin Hu for
Yukon Huang
Country Director, China
East Asia and Pacific Region
AGREED:
PEOPLE’S REPUBLIC OF CHINA
By /s/ Jiu Kuilin
Deputy Director General
Date:
November 1, 2000
ANNEX
Purposes, Terms and Conditions of the Grant
1.
The purpose of the Grant is to assist in the preparation of the Third 
Inland Waterways Project, whose main objective is to improve the accessibility 
and efficiency of inland water transportation systems in the provinces of 
Sichuan and Hunan by deepening and widening inland waterways (the Project).  The 
activity (the Activity) for which the Grant is given is as follows:
assessment of the social impact of the modernization of inland water 
Page  2
vessels, and 
conduct of a review of the financial management capacity of the 
Recipient’s inland
water transport agencies in the provinces of Sichuan and Hunan, which is 
estimated 
to cost US$73,660 equivalent.
2.
The Grant shall be used to finance consultants’ services required for the 
Activities.
3.
The Bank shall carry out the Activities on behalf of the Recipient.  The 
Recipient shall cooperate with the Bank to the extent necessary to permit the 
Bank to carry out the Activities promptly and effectively, and to evaluate the 
results of the Activities.  The Recipient shall indemnify the Bank against any 
costs or liabilities incurred by the Bank as a result of claims against the Bank 
in connection with the Activities, except those resulting from the gross 
negligence or willful misconduct of its staff or external consultants.
4.
The Activities shall be completed by not later than July 10, 2001, or such 
later date as the Bank may establish by notice to the Recipient (the Closing 
Date).  Except in special circumstances, no proceeds of the Grant shall be used 
to fund Activities after Bank approval of financing for the Project, and the 
Closing Date shall not be extended beyond the expected date of such approval.  
After the Closing Date, the Bank may at any time cancel the remaining balance of 
the Grant.
5.
The engagement and supervision of the consultants (the Consultants) 
required to assist in the carrying out of the Activities shall be the 
responsibility solely of the Bank and shall be governed, except as otherwise 
decided by the Bank after consultation with the Recipient, by the provisions of 
the Attachment to this Annex.
6.
The Recipient shall be responsible for the payment of any taxes levied by, 
or in the territory of People’s Republic of China on the Consultants or any of 
the Consultants’ personnel (other than nationals or permanent residents thereof) 
in connection with the Activities.
7.
The Recipient may at any time request the Bank in writing to terminate the 
Activities. Whether or not the Recipient has made such a request, the Bank may 
at any time suspend or, after consultation with the Recipient, terminate the 
right of the Recipient to receive Grant funds for the Activities if any of the 
following events has occurred and is continuing: (a) the Recipient has failed to 
perform any of its obligations under this Letter Agreement; or (b) the right of 
the Recipient or any other entity to which the Bank has made a loan with the 
guarantee of the People’s Republic of China, to make withdrawals under any loan 
agreement with the Bank or any development credit agreement with the 
International Development Association shall have been suspended.  The Bank may 
also terminate the right of the Recipient to receive Grant funds if: (a) the 
Bank has decided, at any time after consultation with the Recipient, to withdraw 
its support to the Project; or (b) the Recipient has withdrawn its request for 
the Bank’s assistance in the financing of the Project. 
8.
The Bank is not an agent of, or trustee for, the Recipient and shall not 
have any fiduciary relationship with the Recipient.  The Recipient shall have no 
right to any portion of the Grant that is not expended by the Bank pursuant to 
this Letter Agreement.
Attachment
Consultants' Services
1.  Consultants' services shall be procured in accordance with the relevant 
provisions of Statement 15.00 of the Bank's Administrative Manual, dated July 
1997 (the Administrative Manual), the Introduction and Section IV of the 
"Guidelines: Selection and Employment of Consultants by World Bank Borrowers" 
published by the Bank in January 1997 and revised in September 1997 and January 
1999 (the Consultant Guidelines) and the following provisions of this 
Attachment.
Page  3
2.  Except as otherwise provided in paragraph 3 and 4 below, services shall be 
procured under contracts awarded in accordance with the provisions, which are 
consistent with the provisions of the Administrative Manual, of Section II of 
the Consultant Guidelines applicable to Quality- and Cost-based Selection of 
Consultants.
3.  Services under Paragraph 1 may be procured under contracts awarded in 
accordance with the provisions, which are consistent with the provisions of the 
Administrative Manual, of paragraphs 3.1 and 3.7 of the Consultant Guidelines 
(Selection Based on Consultants' Qualifications).
4.  Services for tasks that meet the requirements of set forth in paragraph 5.1 
of the Consultant Guidelines shall be procured under contracts awarded to 
individual consultants in accordance with the provisions, which are consistent 
with the provisions of the Administrative Manual, of paragraphs 5.1 through 5.3 
of the Consultant Guidelines (Individual Consultants).
