                                    Document of
                                The World Bank




                                                    Report No: ICR0000660




           IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION AND RESULTS REPORT
                                  (IBRD-46210)


                                      ON A

                                     LOAN

              IN THE AMOUNT OF US$100 MILLION EQUIVALENT

                                     TO THE

                          PEOPLE'S REPUBLIC OF CHINA

                                     FOR A

                      THIRD INLAND WATERWAY PROJECT




                                  June 27, 2008




China and Mongolia Sustainable Development Unit
Sustainable Development Department
East Asia and the Pacific Region

                        CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
                 (Exchange Rate Effective December 1, 2007)
                       Currency Unit = RMB (Chinese Yuan Renminbi)
                            RMB1.00 = US$0.14
                             US$1.00 = RMB7.40

                                FISCAL YEAR
                         January 1    ­   December 31


                   ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS

CAS   Country Assistance Strategy
EAP   Environmental Action Plan
EIA   Environmental Impact Assessment
EIRR  Economic Internal Rate of Return
FIDIC Fédération Internationale des Ingénieurs-Conseils
FIRR  Financial Internal Rate of Return
GOC   Government of China
HPCD   Hunan Provincial Communications Department
HPFD   Hunan Provincial Finance Department
HXNCDC Hunan Xiangjiang Navigation Construction and Development Corp. Ltd.
ICB   International Competitive Bidding
ICR   Implementation Completion and Results Report
IWT   Inland Water Transport
IWW1  First Inland Waterway Project
IWW2   Second Inland Waterway Project
IWW3  Third Inland Waterway Project (this Project)
kwh   Kilowatt hour
M&E   Mechanical and Electrical
MOC   Ministry of Communications
MOF   Ministry of Finance
NCB   National Competitive Bidding
NEPA  National Environmental Protection Agency
NPV   Net Present Value
OED   Operations Evaluation Department
PAD   Project Appraisal Document
PMO   Project Management Office
QCBS   Quality and Cost Based Selection
RAP   Resettlement Action Plan
RMB   Renminbi (China's currency)
SOE   State-owned Enterprise
SDPC   State Development Planning Commission

TA   Technical Assistance
TEU  Twenty-foot equivalent unit (for containers)
USD  United States Dollar
dwt  Deadweight ton (for vessels)

               Vice President:       Mr. James W. Adams, EAPVP
            Country Director:        Mr. David R. Dollar, EACCF
              Sector Manager:        Mr. Ede Jorge Ijjasz-Vasquez, EASCS
          Task Team Leaders:        Mr. John Scales, EASCS
          ICR Team Leaders:         Mr. John Scales, EASCS

                                                  China
                               CN-Third Inland Waterways




                                             CONTENTS




Data Sheet
   A. Basic Information
   B. Key Dates
   C. Ratings Summary
   D. Sector and Theme Codes
   E. Bank Staff
   F. Results Framework Analysis
   G. Ratings of Project Performance in ISRs
   H. Restructuring
   I. Disbursement Graph


Report
 1. Project Context, Development Objectives and Design............................................... 1
 2. Key Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcomes .............................................. 5
 3. Assessment of Outcomes.......................................................................................... 11
 4. Assessment of Risk to Development Outcome......................................................... 14
 5. Assessment of Bank and Borrower Performance ..................................................... 14
 6. Lessons Learned ....................................................................................................... 17
 7. Comments on Issues Raised by Implementing Agencies......................................... 19
 Annex 1. Project Costs and Financing.......................................................................... 22
 Annex 2. Outputs by Component ................................................................................. 24
 Annex 3. Economic and Financial Analysis................................................................. 25
 Annex 4. Bank Lending and Implementation Support/Supervision Processes ............ 32
 Annex 5. Summary of Borrower's ICR......................................................................... 34
 Annex 6. List of Supporting Documents ...................................................................... 51
  Maps:
  1. IBRD 31205
  2. IBRD 31206

A. Basic Information

                                                                     Third Inland
Country:                China                 Project Name:
                                                                     Waterways
Project ID:             P056199               L/C/TF Number(s):      IBRD-46210
ICR Date:               06/27/2008            ICR Type:              Core ICR
                                                                     PEOPLE'S REPUBLIC
Lending Instrument:     SIL                   Borrower:
                                                                     OF CHINA
Original Total
                        USD 100.0M            Disbursed Amount:      USD 100.0M
Commitment:
Environmental Category: A
Implementing Agencies:
Hunan Xiangjiang Navigation Construction & Development Corp.
Cofinanciers and Other External Partners:


B. Key Dates

     Process              Date            Process          Original Date   Revised / Actual
                                                                                Date(s)
Concept Review:        06/27/2000    Effectiveness:         04/04/2002        04/04/2002
Appraisal:             03/26/2001    Restructuring(s):
Approval:              06/21/2001    Mid-term Review:
                                     Closing:               12/31/2007        12/31/2007


C. Ratings Summary
C.1 Performance Rating by ICR
Outcomes:                                     Satisfactory
Risk to Development Outcome:                  Low or Negligible
Bank Performance:                             Satisfactory
Borrower Performance:                         Satisfactory


C.2 Detailed Ratings of Bank and Borrower Performance (by ICR)
         Bank                   Ratings              Borrower                Ratings
Quality at Entry:       Satisfactory          Government:            Satisfactory

Quality of Supervision: Satisfactory          Implementing
                                              Agency/Agencies:       Satisfactory

Overall Bank                                  Overall Borrower
Performance:            Satisfactory          Performance:           Satisfactory


C.3 Quality at Entry and Implementation Performance Indicators
    Implementation                              QAG Assessments
      Performance              Indicators             (if any)              Rating

Potential Problem Project No                  Quality at Entry      None


                                              i

at any time (Yes/No):                            (QEA):
Problem Project at any                           Quality of
                          No                                          None
time (Yes/No):                                   Supervision (QSA):
DO rating before
                          Satisfactory
Closing/Inactive status:


D. Sector and Theme Codes
                                                               Original          Actual
Sector Code (as % of total Bank financing)
Central government administration                                 2                 1
General water, sanitation and flood protection sector             6                 6
Ports, waterways and shipping                                    12                14
Power                                                            77                76
Roads and highways                                                3                 3


Theme Code (Primary/Secondary)
Access to urban services and housing                           Secondary        Secondary
Climate change                                                 Secondary        Secondary
Decentralization                                               Secondary        Secondary
Rural services and infrastructure                               Primary          Primary


E. Bank Staff
         Positions                      At ICR                          At Approval
Vice President:           James W. Adams                     Jemal-ud-din Kassum
Country Director:         David R. Dollar                    Yukon Huang
Sector Manager:           Ede Jorge Ijjasz-Vasquez           Jitendra N. Bajpai
Project Team Leader:      John Carter Scales                 Toshiro Tsutsumi
ICR Team Leader:          John Carter Scales
ICR Primary Author:       Kek Choo Chung



F. Results Framework Analysis

Project Development Objectives (from Project Appraisal Document)
The objective of the Third Inland Waterways Project is to reduce transport and energy
bottlenecks by:

  (a) improving market access of the remote inland areas of Hunan province;
  (b) providing more efficient and economic inland waterway transport (ITW); and
  (c) generating power to supplement the needs of the remote areas.



                                                ii

Revised Project Development Objectives (as approved by original approving authority)
Project development objectives have not been revised.

(a) PDO Indicator(s)

                                            Original Target     Formally         Actual Value

   Indicator          Baseline Value          Values (from        Revised         Achieved at
                                                approval          Target        Completion or
                                               documents)         Values         Target Years
Indicator 1 :   Waterway traffic (thousand tons, Zhuzhou Section)
Value
quantitative or 4,700                       6,300                             6,250
Qualitative)
Date achieved 12/31/1998                    12/31/2005                        12/31/2006
Comments
(incl. %        Waterway traffic at completion of the Project was 99% of the target volume for

achievement)    the first year of operation.

Indicator 2 :   Average barge size (dwt) at the Zhuzhou Shiplock Section
Value
quantitative or 175                         250                               230
Qualitative)
Date achieved 12/31/1998                    12/31/2005                        12/31/2006
Comments
(incl. %        Average size of vessels using the waterway was 92% of the target value for the

achievement)    first year of operation

Indicator 3 :   Power output of Zhuzhou Dam (MWh)
Value
quantitative or none                        250,000                           508,948
Qualitative)
Date achieved 12/31/1998                    12/31/2005                        12/31/2006
Comments
(incl. %        Power generated in the first year of operation was 203% more than targeted.
achievement)
Indicator 4 :   Working Ratio (%)
Value
quantitative or 6.7                         13.5                              27.3
Qualitative)
Date achieved 12/31/1998                    12/31/2005                        12/31/2006

Comments        Target working ratio could not be met as a result of a lower sale price of

(incl. %        electricity generated and increased operating cost due to increased borrowings

achievement)    and damage to river banks caused by severe flooding. (See Annex 3 of main
                report)
Indicator 5 :   Self-financing Ratio (%)
Value
quantitative or 10.2                        0.29                              0.24
Qualitative)
Date achieved 12/31/1998                    12/31/2005                        12/31/2006



                                                iii

Comments
(incl. %        See comment above
achievement)
Indicator 6 :   Debt-service Coverage Ratio (%)
Value
quantitative or 1.38                     1.84                               1.39
Qualitative)
Date achieved 12/31/2003                 12/31/2005                         12/31/2006
Comments
(incl. %        See comment above
achievement)

(b) Intermediate Outcome Indicator(s)

                                          Original Target      Formally        Actual Value

   Indicator         Baseline Value         Values (from                       Achieved at
                                              approval          Revised       Completion or
                                            documents)       Target Values     Target Years
Indicator 1 :   % of civil works completed
Value
(quantitative   0%                       90%                                100%
or Qualitative)
Date achieved 12/31/2001                 12/31/2006                         12/31/2006
Comments
(incl. %        All civil works were completed by 12/31/2006
achievement)
Indicator 2 :   % of equipment contracted
Value
(quantitative   0%                       100%                               100%
or Qualitative)
Date achieved 12/31/2001                 12/31/2006                         12/31/2006
Comments
(incl. %        All equipment were purchased, installed and put into operation by the end of

achievement)    2006

Indicator 3 :   % of training (person) completed
Value
(quantitative   0%                       90%                                70%
or Qualitative)
Date achieved 12/31/2001                 12/31/2006                         12/31/2006
Comments
(incl. %        Only 70% of training planned for the project was completed due to suspension of

achievement)    training in 2005 and 2006

Indicator 4 :   % of resettlement completed
Value
(quantitative   0%                       100%                               100%
or Qualitative)
Date achieved 12/31/2001                 12/31/2006                         12/31/2006
Comments        Resettlement was completed satisfactorily by 12/31/2006



                                              iv

(incl. %
achievement)


G. Ratings of Project Performance in ISRs

                                                            Actual
 No.    Date ISR
        Archived           DO                 IP         Disbursements
                                                         (USD millions)
  1     06/28/2001      Satisfactory      Satisfactory             0.00
  2     12/11/2001      Satisfactory      Satisfactory             0.00
  3     06/28/2002      Satisfactory      Satisfactory             4.00
  4     12/26/2002      Satisfactory      Satisfactory             4.00
  5     06/17/2003      Satisfactory      Satisfactory             9.26
  6     12/03/2003      Satisfactory      Satisfactory           13.35
  7     06/16/2004      Satisfactory      Satisfactory           22.03
  8     12/02/2004      Satisfactory      Satisfactory           31.44
  9     06/02/2005      Satisfactory      Satisfactory           44.92
  10    12/15/2005      Satisfactory      Satisfactory           56.12
  11    03/29/2006      Satisfactory      Satisfactory           60.87
  12    03/30/2007      Satisfactory      Satisfactory           88.26



H. Restructuring (if any)
Not Applicable




I. Disbursement Profile




                                      v

1. Project Context, Development Objectives and Design

1.1 Context at Appraisal
At appraisal, China's inland waterway transport (IWT) network was the world's largest
in terms of length and freight volume. Nevertheless, its freight density (tons per
waterway km) was only 40 percent of that of the United States and some European
countries. The factors that resulted in this low freight density were deficiencies and low
standard of navigation infrastructure which hindered the standardization and
modernization of vessels; low investment in IWT; and institutional arrangements that
made it difficult to attain coordinated actions to optimize IWT development.

In the last three Five-Year Plans (1986-2005)1, IWT's share of investment significantly
lagged behind its share of the total traffic carried. Under-funding has caused the
country's waterway infrastructures to deteriorate, reducing the net size of the navigable
network from 172,000 km in 1960 to 110,200 km by the time of project appraisal.

Underinvestment in inland waterway infrastructure was compounded by shipping
services that were not cost effective. Many of the vessels in operation were small family-
owned barges and operated as independent units. The few commercial fleets in operation
were owned by companies in which provincial or municipal governments had controlling
interest. These companies had little incentive to become more efficient. The greatest
impediment to increased operating efficiency and increased modal share was the lack of
incentive to increase vessel size and thereby reduce costs.

Recognizing that due to China's geographical features and the pattern of distribution of
its population IWT could support a much larger volume of China's inland transport
market, the Government of China (GOC) decided to increase the contribution of China's
waterways to its transport needs. Under the 9th Five-Year Plan (1996-2000), measures
were taken to develop the Pearl River in Guangdong Province and the Grand Canal in
Jiangsu Province, the second and third largest IWT systems. These developments were
supported by the Bank in the form of the Second Inland Waterway Project (Loan 4328-
CHA) and represented a continuation of the Bank's first IWT project in China (Loan
39106-CHA).

Concomitant with the awareness that China's inland waterway network needed to be
improved was the growing recognition for preventing environmental degradation in the
country's march towards industrialization. China's rising energy demand was largely
met by coal which accounted for more than 60% of the country's generating capacity. To
reduce the reliance on coal for power generation, hydropower, a clean and renewable




1 China's short-term national development plans are based upon five year intervals.
  Currently China is delivering the 11th Five Year Plan (2006-1010).



                                               1

power resource, was given a key role in scaling up installed capacity to meet power
shortages in the country.

The project (the Project) that is the subject of this report combined the dual purpose of
improving the inland waterway network in Hunan with meeting power shortages in the
province through hydropower generation. The Project comprised the development of a
navigation complex at Zhuzhou on the Xiangjiang River. The Xiangjiang River flows
through the province from south to north before joining the Changjiang River at Yueyang.
It has a total length of 969 km and a drainage area of some 94,660 km2. About 70% of
the province's largest enterprises are situated along the river.

The Project was the Bank's third inland waterway initiative in China and reflected the
Bank's strategic goal of fostering growth and reducing poverty particularly in inland
provinces. The Bank's involvement in the Project was in line with the Country
Assistance Strategy (CAS) of reducing infrastructure bottlenecks through modernization
of the provinces' inland waterways systems presented to the Board on March 18, 1997
and further discussed in the Progress Report (CAS document number R98-107) of
May 28, 1998. It also met the government's objective of providing better access to the
interior to facilitate the economic development of the western regions.

1.2 Original Project Development Objectives (PDO) and Key Indicators (as
approved)
The objective of the Project was to assist the Borrower in the development of Hunan
Province through the provision of (i) more efficient and economic waterway transport
along the Xiangjiang River; (ii) better market access to inland remote areas in said
Province; and (iii) sufficient power supply to such areas ( see Schedule 2, Loan
Agreement).

The objective expressed in the Loan Agreement did not replicate exactly what was stated
in the Project Appraisal Document (PAD): that the objective of the Project was to reduce
transport and energy bottlenecks by (i) improving market access of the remote inland
areas of Hunan; (ii) providing more efficient and economic inland waterway transport;
and (iii) generating power to supplement the needs of the remote areas (see A.1 of PAD).

The difference in stating the development objective is merely semantic and not of
substance.

Expected outcomes of the development included a lower door-to-door transportation cost
for coal (10% lower than by rail and 30% lower than by road); an increase in the average
size of vessels along the Xiangjiang (from 175 dwt in 1998 to 300 dwt in 2010); and an
annual hydro-power output of 640.5 million kwh/year.

Targets were developed to monitor the attainment of project objectives for selected years
during and after the implementation of the Project. These performance indicators
included (i) waterway traffic including container traffic on the Zhuzhou section of the
Xiangjiang; (ii) average ship size at the Zhuzhou shiplock; (iii) power output at Zhuzhou



                                              2

Dam and (iv) financial performance in the form of (a) working ratio, (b) self-financing
ratio and (c) debt service coverage. (See Annex 1, Project Appraisal Document).

1.3 Revised PDO (as approved by original approving authority) and Key Indicators,
and reasons/justification
The development objective remained unchanged throughout the implementation of the
Project. There was also no revision of the key indicators.

1.4 Main Beneficiaries
The direct beneficiaries were the ship-owners and shippers using the waterways and
manufacturers and producers in the cities and counties within the project service area.
Benefits resulting from increases in wages and profits of the navigation community and
other waterway-dependent businesses would raise consumption that in turn would
stimulate economic development in counties along the Xiangjiang. In addition, the use of
larger vessels would provide a better living environment for families and crew who lived
on board the vessels.

The benefits discussed above would accrue directly to a population of some 5.89 million
people living in the cities of Zhuzhou, Hengyang, and Xiangtan and the counties of
Zhuzhou, Xiangtan, Hengdong, Hengshan and Hengnan whose average income was less
than one dollar a day. Indirectly, the project would benefit the 62.6 million people living
in Hunan Province.

Hunan Provincial Communications Department (HPCD) and Hunan Xiangjiang
Navigation and Development Corporation (HXNCDC) would also benefit directly from
the technical assistance and training provided in the Project.

1.5 Original Components
The Project had three parts. (See Schedule 2, Loan Agreement).

Part A: Construction of Dam, Shiplock and Power Plant comprising

    1. Construction of the Zhuzhou dam and power plant on Xiangjiang River in Hunan
       Province, including (a) supply and installation of turbines and generator units,
       sluice gates, hydraulic hoists and cranes, and provision of ancillary equipment; (b)
       provision and installation of transformers and a switch yard; and (c) installation of
       transmission lines between the power substation at Zhuxi and the power plant at
       Zhuzhou.
    2. Construction of shiplock beside the Zhuzhou dam and installation of shiplock
       gates and hydraulic hoist.
    3. Construction of access roads including (a) access roads and bridges within the
       Zhuzhou dam and powerhouse complex; and (b) connecting roads from the
       Zhuzhou dam and power station site to the provincial highway and national
       expressway network.




                                              3

    4. Construction of bank protection works (a) of about 20 kilometers (km) and 26 km
        respectively on either side of the Xiangjiang River; and (b) on Kongzhou Island in
        midstream of said river; and (c) of about 24 km along both sides of the reservoir.
    5. Improvement of about 37 km of the navigation channel on the Xiangjiang River
        between Zhuzhou and Xiangtang in Hunan.
Part B: Resettlement
        Carrying out of a resettlement program designed to improve, or at least maintain,
the living standards and productive levels of Affected Persons.
Part C: Institutional Strengthening
        Carrying out of a program to strengthen the capabilities of the institutions and
agencies of Hunan responsible for planning and management of inland waterway
transport.

1.6 Revised Components
There was no revision of the Project's components. However, there were changes in the
scope of implementation in two of the components. These changes are highlighted in the
section below.

1.7 Other significant changes
There were two significant changes. These were: (i) the dredging of the channel between
Zhuzhou and Xiangtan was not undertaken and (ii) the scale of overseas training was
reduced during the course of project implementation.

The improvement of 37 km of the channel between Zhuzhou and Xiangtan (non-Bank
financed and estimated at $1.5million) was not implemented by the HPCD due to the
government's decision to develop a navigation complex approximately 128 km
downstream at Changsha (see map 31205 at the back of this document) under the next
Five-Year Plan. The government's decision to develop the complex was made in May
2003, about a year after the loan became effective. The proposed Changsha complex
which would comprise a dam, a power plant and two shiplocks for 2,000 dwt vessels
would have a back-reach that would extend up to Zhuzhou, the Dayuandu Complex and
the city of Hengyang, depending on the pool level that would be adopted for the reservoir.
In light of the proposed development, detailed design for the dredging to improve the
channel between Zhuzhou and Xiangtan which had been on-going since the loan was
approved was suspended, and the decision was made by the HPCD with the agreement of
the Bank's task team to undertake the planned channel improvement as part of the
development of the Changsha complex. The normal water level of the Changsha reservoir
would be connected with the downstream of Zhuzhou Dam and with the canalization of
the waterway there would be no necessity for dredging and as such there was no adverse
impact on the project objectives.

Overseas training in the Project was scaled down as a result of the suspension of the
implementation of the training program in 2005 and 2006 by the provincial government
due to the cost of services procured under Bank's Consultant procurement Guidelines
being significantly higher than stipulations of the Ministry of Finance. By the time the


                                              4

issue was resolved and approval from the Hunan Provincial Finance Department (HPFD)
was obtained in December 2006, there was insufficient time to complete all the overseas
programs planned for the Project. Out of the target of 154 personnel for overseas training,
110 were sent. In terms of man-months, about 70% of the planned program was
accomplished.

2. Key Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcomes

2.1 Project Preparation, Design and Quality at Entry
The Bank's previous experience in assisting the Borrower in the development of its
inland waterway infrastructure was a key factor in the preparation and design of the
Project. The Bank's inland waterway provincial clients, five provinces in the two
projects preceding this project, have benefited from the Bank's general expertise in
project management, financial management, resettlement, and environmental mitigation
and specific expertise in dam safety, regional river basin management, energy pricing,
and vessel standardization. In addition, the Bank's robust inland waterway portfolio has
allowed the Bank to reflect this first hand knowledge of the sector in the strategy and
policy advice delivered to the national leaders.

Hunan Province, the location of this third Bank-financed inland waterway project in
China, was also part of the first inland waterway project (IWW1). IWW1 had a
component that comprised the construction of a dam, a shiplock, a power plant,
upgrading of the navigation channel in the Xiangjiang River and the expansion of river
port facilities at Hengyang and Zhuzhou. Leveraging on the experience of preparing and
implementing the preceding projects, the preparation for this Project was straightforward
and efficient.

Project preparation also had the benefit of experience gained from the preparation and
implementation of the Second Inland Waterway Project (IWW2) whose loan was
approved on May 29, 1998 and was also on-going at the time in Guangdong and Jiangsu.

Past experience had shown that the engagement of qualified consultants with particular
experience in the design and construction of dams and hydropower was essential. China
was found to have greater expertise in waterway and small hydro dam design and
construction than many other countries and because of the satisfactory outcome of the
first two projects it was decided that local consultants would be appointed for the design
and the supervision of construction of the Project.

The Operations Evaluation Department (OED)'s analysis of 35 Bank-financed projects
completed between 1980 and 1992 in the port sub-sector provided valuable lessons in the
preparation of the Project, in particular, the need for a realistic assessment of the time
taken in procurement and civil works construction and the avoidance of an
overestimation of benefits resulting from an overly optimistic traffic forecast.
Consequently, the task team ensured that engineering designs were substantially
completed by project appraisal and procurement procedures similar to those of the
previous two projects were adopted. Traffic forecasts were carefully reviewed and



                                               5

reduced to levels compatible with current Bank expectations of national, regional and
provincial economic development.

The importance of dam safety was recognized and a dam safety panel of which about half
of the experts had the experience of having participated in the first inland waterway
project was established early in the project cycle to provide guidance, advice and quality
assurance in the design, construction and maintenance of the dam and related
infrastructural works.

In light that the social impact of the Project was mainly related to land acquisition,
extensive consultations with stakeholders were undertaken in arriving at the design and
resettlement planning. Resettlement planning for the Project which started in May 1999
included the development of topographic maps (scale of 1:2000), a detailed census of the
affected population, an inventory of affected assets, sample socio-economic surveys, and
consultation on resettlement and rehabilitation strategy as well as the design of the
protective works. Public consultation and participation contributed substantially to
resettlement planning. As a result, protective works in the Project were designed to (a)
save 45 of the 90 villages from losing land, (b) reduce the size of the farmland inundated
from 1,342 hectares to 186 hectares, and (c) minimize the number of people requiring
relocation from 1,205 to 280.

The needs and the concerns of the affected people were incorporated in the Resettlement
Action Plan (RAP). A resettlement information booklet containing detailed entitlements
of each household, compensation policies and grievance procedures was distributed to
affected communities before resettlement implementation. Both internal and independent
monitoring of the resettlement program was provided for during project implementation.
Public information was disseminated to the affected communities and local governments
through newspapers, posters and public hearings. The RAP, placed in the Bank Info
Shop in January 2001, was made available at all county libraries from February 2001.

Environmental Impact Assessments (EIA) and Environmental Action Plans (EAP) were
prepared in accordance with national procedures and the Bank's Operational Directive
(OD) 4.01. EIA, EAP and EA Summary reports were reviewed by the Bank and
discussed with Hunan Xiangjiang Navigation Construction and Development Corporation
(HXNCDC) during project pre-appraisal in December 2000 and finalized to the
satisfaction of the Bank in January 2001. The local population was extensively consulted
in the preparation of the reports and their concerns and opinions were reflected in the
project design and environmental mitigation measures.

While the primary purpose of the Project was to improve waterway infrastructures, the
Project was also designed to ensure that the implementing entity would have the
necessary capability and capacity to manage and operate the assets by the inclusion of a
series of training courses overseas and locally in waterway management operation and
capital investment, a study to promote container shipping in the Xiangjiang, and financial
governance that would meet generally accepted standards of financial management,
prudence and discipline.



                                               6

Project preparation, design and quality at entry were satisfactory.

2.2 Implementation
Key factors which contributed to the successful implementation of the Project were the
commitment of the HPCD to the Project and the firm hands-on management style of
senior management at the HXNCDC, the implementing entity. Displaying a strong sense
of ownership, the HXNCDC early in the project cycle set up a Project Management
Office (PMO) with experienced engineers and various other specialists to manage the
implementation of the Project. Procurement packaging and bid documents for major
contracts were finalized ahead of loan approval so that bids for major contracts could be
called as soon as the loan was effective on April 4, 2002.

The Project was implemented competently by the HXNCDC at a cost equivalent to
$231.9 million at an exchange rate of RMB8.3 to the dollar, about 5% more than the cost
estimated at appraisal ($220.2 million) due largely to the higher than estimated costs of
resettlement and bank protection. Bank protection, originally estimated at $23.9 million
(base cost) turned out to cost $48.9 million (with contingencies). The cost of resettlement
was estimated at $9.7million; actual cost amounted to $25.5 million. Civil works cost
more than estimated by some $30.4 million while the cost of equipment was about $1.1
million less than estimated.

At the request of the Borrower, the Loan Agreement was amended on March 7, 2006 to
fund a larger percentage of the cost of civil works by increasing the disbursement rate for
this category from 49% to 70% retroactively to January 7, 2002 (the date the Loan
Agreement was signed) in order to make use of the loan amount under the un-allocated
category. The proceeds of the loan that could be withdrawn under the other categories
were also re-allocated.

The quality of construction was very good and the Project won national and provincial
prizes for excellence in construction and development. It was rated a model for inland
waterway development in China by the Ministry of Communications (MOC).

Several factors mostly beyond the control of the implementing entity impacted on the
implementation of the Project.
    · Heavy flooding of the Xiangjiang following 3 days of heavy rainfall on
        October 31 ­ November 2, 2002 discharging water at 12,800 cubic meters per
        second overflowed the first phase cofferdam just as it was being completed,
        resulting in the need to re-construct the cofferdam. About four months of
        construction work was lost, and to regain the time lost in order to meet the
        construction schedule, the HXNCDC modified the procurement plan to include
        the construction of the bridge over the Sanmen Canal in the contract for the dam
        crest highway bridge whose contractor was already working on site instead of
        having the bridge constructed under a different contract as planned.
    · Subsequent heavier than normal rainfall on May 16 ­ 18, 2003 and on July 16 ­
        19, 2003 with flood discharges of 17, 500 cubic meters per second and 18,500



                                               7

       cubic meters per second respectively overflowed the cofferdam again. Although
       less damaging due to the raising of the height of the cofferdam after the October
       2002 flood, considerable time was wasted in moving equipment and plant out of
       harm's way and in having to pump water out of the foundation pit.
    · A large increase in the price of construction materials throughout China during
       the period of implementation, especially of steel, which increased by as much as
       $168 a ton (roughly 50%), affected the major contracts for civil works and the
       supply of equipment. Ensuing adjustments in prices contributed to the large
       number of contract variations.
    · Numerous contract variations were brought about by unforeseen geological
       conditions at site that differed from those that formed the basis for the detailed
       design.
    · HXNCDC could not obtain from the Hunan Provincial Electric Power Company
       the price for the sale of power covenanted in the Loan Agreement. This assumed
       price was the basis upon which the financial projections for determining financial
       ratios for monitoring financial performance were arrived at, resulting in the failure
       of the HXNCDC to meet covenanted financial targets. (See 3.2)
    · Resettlement compensation rates promulgated by the government (Hunan
       Provincial Government Decree No. 13, October 2001) after the preparation of the
       RAP were less than provided for in the RAP, leading to the need to find additional
       acceptable compensatory payments to the affected population to make up for the
       shortfall (See 2.4).

2.3 Monitoring and Evaluation (M&E) Design, Implementation and Utilization
The Project was designed with the expectation that transport cost would be reduced
through the use of larger vessels. A reduction in inland waterway transportation cost
would lead to an increase in inland waterway traffic through taking a larger share of the
market for low value cargo from the more expensive transport modes of road and rail.
The volume of traffic carried on the waterway and the size of vessels using it were
suitably selected as key indicators for monitoring the achievement of the navigational
aspect of the development objective. Efficiency in the generation of power would be
measured by the level of power output. Improvement in financial management was
measured by financial targets in the form of the working ratio, the self-financing ratio and
the debt service coverage ratio of the project entity. Given the purpose of the Project, the
indicators were appropriate. These indicators had been used in the previous two inland
waterways projects financed by the Bank and their application in this Project provided
the consistency in the measurement of project performance.

Values for the various indicators were determined at appraisal (see Annex 1, PAD). It
was assumed that 2005 would be the first year of operation. This selection was
incongruous with the project implementation schedule in the PAD which showed that the
generators for the power plant that were to be installed progressively were not expected
to be fully operational until the first quarter of 2007. As the shiplock was targeted to
complete at the end of 2004 and the generators would progressively become operational
in 2005-2006 (the first generator was operational in August 2005, the second and third in
November and December 2005 of the same year and the fourth and fifth in June and July



                                                8

2006 respectively), it would have been more appropriate to select 2006 as the first year of
operation. A target value for container traffic was also not established although a
baseline (1998) value was available. (See table on performance indicators in Annex 1,
PAD). The inconsistency in basing 2005 as the first year of operation and the omission
of a target volume for achievement in containerized shipping, however, did not detract
the value of the performance indicators. Throughout the implementation of the Project,
the task team monitored the volume of containers that were shipped through the project
waterway. For purpose of evaluating performance in this report, 2006 was taken to be
the first year of operation.

Mechanisms for monitoring the implementation of the Project included the review of
quarterly reports and a mid-term report on the progress achieved in carrying out the
Project. A mid-term review of the project was not mandated by the legal documents;
nevertheless a mid-term report was submitted by the HXNCDC. The review of the report
at mid-term concluded that project implementation was proceeding satisfactorily and no
revision of the project implementation plan was necessary. Project implementation after
the mid-term review proceeded as planned except for the suspension of overseas training
in 2005 and 2006. (See 1.7).

2.4 Safeguard and Fiduciary Compliance
Safeguard and fiduciary compliance was satisfactory. Project financial management by
the project entity met acceptable standards. Comments of independent auditors on annual
financial statements, when they arose, were satisfactorily explained and clarified.
Environmental monitoring during project implementation was undertaken by the Hunan
Environmental Monitoring Center. Environmental monitoring reports were regularly
submitted to the Bank for review in compliance with provisions in the Project Agreement
(Schedule 2, B 8). Compliance with the EAP was generally satisfactory. There were
some concerns over the release of fries but it was subsequently established that fishery
resources had been adequately protected through a long term contract that the HXNCDC
had entered into with the Hunan Provincial Aquatic Product Bureau (HPAPB) at the
beginning of the preceding inland waterway project (IWW1) amounting to RMB8.5
million to expand fry breeding by releasing fries into Xiangjiang River.

In accordance with the provisions of the Project Agreement, environmental monitoring
ceased after the end of 2006.

Compliance with the RAP was generally satisfactory. Government's revision of
compensation rates for resettlement and land acquisition in the province impacted on the
implementation of the RAP, necessitating some adjustments in the compensation for
resettlement of households and residences and land acquisition. Although direct home
compensation rates were less than provided for in the RAP they were able to meet the
replacement standards (i.e.; the RAP rates were higher than straight replacement value).
Nevertheless, as the revised rates were less than the RAP's, additional compensation
amounting to some RMB0.68 million and RMB1.93 million were disbursed to assist in
home restoration in the reservoir area and in the dam site respectively. Additional
compensation to make up for the shortfall in direct land compensation rates was made in



                                              9

the form of payments for improving local infrastructures such as drains, pumping stations,
canals and flood control measures.

An independent resettlement specialist engaged by the Bank in March 2007 to conduct an
overall evaluation on the compensation and resettlement implementation concluded that
the requirements of the RAP had been met satisfactorily.

There was a lapse in compliance with the Bank's procurement guidelines in the early
stage of project implementation with regard to contract variations. A few contracts had
variations that in aggregate exceeded 15% of the original contract sums and these
variations were executed by the HXNCDC without the prior review of the Bank on a
misunderstanding that the requirement would only apply if a changed order by itself was
in excess of this threshold. The variations were subsequently reviewed by the Bank and
found to be in order but the review to determine their eligibility for Bank financing was
extremely time-consuming (see also 5.1.b).

2.5 Post-completion Operation/Next Phase
The Project, upon its completion, has been operated and maintained by the HXNCDC.
The HXNCDC is already operating a similar complex at Dayuandu and is not expected to
have any difficulty in operating and maintaining the facilities in the post-operation phase.
Income generated by the HXNCDC is more than sufficient to meet operating and
maintenance costs and the repayment of the loan and other financial obligations.

Regulations issued by the Ministry of Water Resources in 1995 required that the first
safety inspection be carried out between 2 ­ 5 years after the completion of the dam and
thereafter once every 6 ­ 10 years. As the dam at Zhuzhou was deemed to have been
completed in August 2006, the first safety inspection would become due after
August 2008. The HXNCDC advised that the safety inspections, when due, would be
carried out by independent qualified surveyors.

To ensure a greater level of safety after the completion of the dam, the HXNCDC has
undertaken to conduct periodical safety inspections additional to the requirements of the
Ministry of Water Resources through the China Institute of Water Resources and
Hydropower Research (IWHR). The IWHR had carried out the installation of the dam
safety monitoring instruments and had undertaken regular safety inspections during the
construction stage. The IWHR would carry out two safety inspections per year, before
and after the flood season respectively. They would review the data collected by the
monitoring instruments, take visual inspections of the dam, and provide safety inspection
report to the HXNCDC.

With the successful implementation of the Project, another similar development (the
Changsha Complex) would be developed under the 11th Five-Year Plan. The Changsha
Complex, 128 km downstream of the Zhuzhou Dam, would consist of two shiplocks
capable of accommodating 2,000 dwt vessels and a power generating plant with a
capacity of 80,000 kw and 34 sluice gates with a width of 20 m. The back-reach of the
dam would provide a waterway that would meet the standard of a Class 2 navigation
channel.



                                              10

3. Assessment of Outcomes

3.1 Relevance of Objectives, Design and Implementation
The development objective of the Project is to assist the Borrower in the development of
Hunan Province through the provision of: (i) more efficient and economic waterway
transport along the Xiangjiang; (ii) better market access to inland remote areas in said
Province; and (iii) sufficient power supply to such areas.


The Project's development objective remains relevant in the context of China's present
transport needs. IWT is a viable mode of transportation, demonstrated by its increasing
share of the freight market. Between 2000 and 2005, IWT traffic increased 13.8%
annually compared to the annual increase in total freight traffic density of 11.2%
surpassing the growth in traffic density of road (6.8%) and rail (7.4%).

                      China Freight Transport by Modes (2000 ­ 2005)
                          (in units of 100 million tons per kilometer)
                                              Waterways             Civil
              Railways    Highways                                          Pipelines   Total
                                      Ocean      IWT     Subtotal  aviation
   2000         125.60        54.83   149.20       44.85   194.05      0.33     6.06    380.88
   2005        207.260        86.93   385.52      111.20   496.72      0.78     10.88   802.58
  Average
  Annual          7.4%         6.8%    14.5%      13.8%    14.4%    13.0%       8.7%    11.2%
  Growth
Source: China Statistic Yearbook, 2006

In addition, IWT is the least energy intensive, most cost effective, and lowest contributor
to green house gases of all transport modes. Inland water transport is also essential to the
promotion of greater efficiency, productivity and competitiveness in the use of Hunan's
inland water resources. As such, the Project has met the strategic objective of Pillar 3
(Managing Resource Scarcity and Environmental Challenges) of the Bank's Partnership
Strategy for China for 2006-2010. The Bank's intervention in the Project was also in
accordance with Pillar 4- Financing Sustained and Efficient Growth- of the Partnership
Strategy for the country.

3.2 Achievement of Project Development Objectives
The development objectives of the Project have been achieved.

   · More efficient and economic waterway transport along the Xiangjiang River -
        Navigational improvements made by the Project have made IWT more
        competitive vis-à-vis other transport modes. The current tariff for inland water
        transportation of coal along the Xianjiang at RMB0.12 per ton/km is 14% lower
        than transportation by rail (RMB0.14 per ton/km) and 73% lower than
        transportation by road (RMB0.45 per ton/km). The reduction in inland waterway
        transportation cost could be attributable to the use of larger vessels and of barges
        in tow rather than as independent units. The average size of vessels using the
        Zhuzhou section of the Xiangjiang increased steadily during the period of project
        implementation from 175 dwt in 1998 to 230 dwt in 2006 (31%).


                                               11

     · Better market access to inland remote areas-Waterway traffic increased 34%
        from 4.7 million tons in 1998 to about 6.3 million tons in 2006 reflecting the
        degree of success in accessing the market for the transportation of goods in inland
        areas. Container traffic on the project service area grew 64% from 12,000 teus to
        19,650 teus during the period. The study on container shipping concluded that the
        Xiangjiang could see a quantum increase in this mode of transportation which it is
        anticipated as the market matures and competing transportation modes balance
        themselves.
     · Increasing power supply in the Xiangjiang valley- An annual power output of 664
        million kwh of clean and renewable energy is being generated, exceeding the
        Project's planned output target of 640.5 million kwh.

The HXNCDC, however, did not achieve the standard of financial performance expected.
This was due mainly to factors outside its control. Financial targets were established
during project appraisal based on the understanding that the HXNCDC would be paid
RMB0.3829 per kwh for power taken up by the HPEPC. However, the actual price that
the HXNCDC could obtain was RMB0.3175 per kwh, about 17% less than the baseline
price. The energy market in China was undergoing rapid change in terms of regulation,
demand and pricing and in such an environment it would be unrealistic to expect that an
insignificant independent producer like the project entity could determine several years
ahead of time the price that it would require for selling the power it generated. Actual
operating cost had also been higher than estimated due to unexpected severe flooding and
increased borrowing from commercial banks to overcome a funding constraint until the
Loan Agreement was amended (see section 2.2). The table below summarizes the
difference between actual (post-project) and planned (PAD). "Actual" for 2007 and
beyond were arrived at on the assumption that the current (2006) conditions would be
applicable.

                                 2005      2006       2007    2008    2009   2010
           Working Ratio
                    PAD          13.5      12.3       12.8    13.4    14.1   14.8
                 Post-project    29.3      27.3        26.6   21.2    22.2   23.4
           Debt Service Coverage Ratio
                   PAD           1.84      2.96       1.45    1.43    1.41   1.39
                 Post-project    1.02      1.39        1.28   1.62    1.49   1.36
           Self financing Ratio
                    PAD          0.29      0.85       1.00    1.00    1.00   1.00
                 Post-project    0.12      0.24        0.38   0.96    1.00   1.00

A cost sensitivity analysis concluded that (i) if the local bank loan was repaid in 2007 and
(ii) operating cost was reduced by 25%, at the current power price of RMB0.3179 per
kwh, the financial targets (except for the working ratio) could be attained in 2009 and
beyond. During the Bank's review mission in April 2007, HXNCDC was advised to give
priority to the redemption of the commercial loan and the reduction of operating cost.




                                             12

3.3 Efficiency
Economic: The post-project economic internal rate of return (EIRR) of the Zhuzhou
navigation and power complex is 20.9%; the net present value (NPV), at a discount rate
of 12%, is RMB 882.5 million. Comparable estimates in the PAD are 18.8% for the
EIRR and RMB 813.4 million for the NPV.

The better than anticipated post-project EIRR is due mainly to (a) very limited overrun of
the economic cost (2.1%), (b) shiplock traffic and power generation are generally of the
order of the PAD's projections, (c) no delay in completion of the project, and (d)
emission reduction benefits. The emission reduction benefits were not included in the
EIRR calculation of the PAD, but included in the ICR (about 10% of the total benefits).
Without these benefits, the post-project EIRR will be reduced to 18.2%.

The results of the computation of the post-project EIRR of the Zhuzhou navigation and
power complex, compared to estimates in the PAD, are summarized in the following
table. The detailed economic analysis is in Annex 3

                      EIRR (in %) and NPV (12%, RMB million)
                              ICR                          PAD
                      EIRR          NPV            EIRR         NPV
                     20.4%         882.5          18.8%         813.4

Financial: Amortization charges of the Bank and domestic loans in the Project would be
met from revenue derived from the sale of power generated. Although the Project will
generate enough total revenue over the loan period to finance operations, maintenance
and debt service, with a standard amortization schedule, there will be low profit margins
in the early years of operation, mainly because of: (a) the lower than expected average
power sales price - the sole revenue of the HXNCDC, and (b) the domestic borrowings.
The post-project FIRR is 5.7%, somewhat lower than estimated in the PAD (6.8%). The
low profitability may generate a short term cash constraint for the HXNCDC. The
detailed financial analysis is in Annex 3 and is summarized in the table below. Both the
PAD and the ICR analysis include a detailed sensitivity analysis.

                         FIRR (in %) and NPV (RMB million)
                               ICR                        PAD
                      FIRR      NPV (5.9%)        FIRR     NPV (5.9%)
                      5.7%         -30.6          6.8%        149.1

3.4 Justification of Overall Outcome Rating
Rating: Satisfactory
Overall the outcome of the Project was satisfactory based on
(a) the achievement of its objective,
(b) the consistency of the project development objective with the Bank's strategy for
improving transport services to alleviate bottlenecks and China's policy and plan for
increased economic development in interior regions,




                                            13

(c) the attention given to lessons learned from the previous inland waterway and other
transport projects in the design of the Project, and
(d) the compliance of the Project with Bank's safeguard policies.

3.5 Overarching Themes, Other Outcomes and Impacts
(a) Institutional Change/Strengthening
The impact of the Project on institutional development in the sector was very positive.
As had been experienced in the previous inland waterway project, with improvements in
the navigational channel and increased capacity of the shiplock, larger vessels were being
used. Measures to speed up the transition to larger vessels by standardizing the type and
size of vessels using the waterway and discouraging the use of smaller vessels were being
implemented. Single self-propelled vessels were beginning to be replaced by tows of two
to four barges, a more efficient and cost effective form of operation. A shift from small
family-based ownership to larger business enterprises was evident.

(b) Other Unintended Outcomes and Impacts (positive or negative)
None

3.6 Summary of Findings of Beneficiary Survey and/or Stakeholder Workshops
No beneficiary survey or stakeholder workshops were conducted in the Project.

4. Assessment of Risk to Development Outcome
Rating: Low or Negligible
The risk to development outcome was negligible to low. Central and provincial
governments' commitments to the Project were strong. Economic conditions in the
country and in Hunan remained positive. PMO staff have been adequately trained to
manage and operate the complex. Traffic on the project waterway has been robust,
reflecting improvement in services and reduction in transport cost. Budgetary provisions
for maintenance were adequate and had been increasing in recent years. The risk that the
development outcome would not be sustained, externally in terms of the demand for the
facilities provided and internally in terms of the ability and capacity of the HXNCDC to
properly manage, operate and maintain them is low.

5. Assessment of Bank and Borrower Performance

5.1 Bank Performance
(a) Bank Performance in Ensuring Quality at Entry
Rating: Satisfactory
Bank performance in ensuring quality at entry was satisfactory. The Project was
technically sound. Lessons learned in past Bank financed projects were taken into
account. Risks were identified and appropriate measures were taken to mitigate them.
Care was exercised to prepare the PMO for project implementation. Key indicators
selected to monitor and evaluate the performance and outcome of the Project were well
selected and helped to focus the implementation of the Project towards achieving its
objective.




                                             14

There was however a minor inconsistency in determining the first year of operation for
monitoring the achievement of project outcomes. It was assumed that 2005 would be the
first year of operation (see Annex 1, PAD). Based on the project implementation
schedule in the PAD, 2006 would have been a more appropriate selection. (See also 2.3,
para. 2). The quality of the Project at entry would also have been improved if an annual
target value for container traffic had been established for purpose of monitoring the
response of containerized shipping to the improvements made in navigation. (See table
on performance indicators in Annex 1, PAD).

The Resettlement Action Plan (RAP) was comprehensively developed and contained
elaborate processes for consultation and participation of the various stakeholders in the
planning, adverse impact analysis, legal framework for resettlement, strategy and
implementation program for compensation, relocation and livelihood development,
monitoring and airing and resolution of grievances.

(b) Quality of Supervision
Rating: Satisfactory
The quality of Bank supervision was satisfactory.

Regular implementation review missions focusing on the timely completion of works and
their impact on the achievement of the development objective were conducted throughout
the period of project implementation. Issues that emerged during implementation were
attended to efficiently and promptly except for the review of contract variations that in
aggregate exceeded 15% of the original contract sum. The Bank's review of the
variations was protracted, unnecessarily bureaucratic, prolonged an otherwise
straightforward review, added little value, and eventually leading to additional financial
costs to the project. The financial costs were due to the inability of the HXNCDC to draw
on the loan to pay contractors until the Bank conveyed its no-objection to the variations
leading the HXNCDC to resort to bridging commercial bank loans to overcome the
funding constraint (see also Annex 3 and 5.1 of Borrower's comments at Annex 5).

Although technology in the energy component was basic, the Bank task team had not
hesitated to seek input from specialists in the energy sector when necessary on technical,
regulatory, market and pricing issues. Cross-sector support and cooperation was highly
commendable.

Compliance with safeguard and fiduciary policies was closely monitored and
recommendations for improving the implementation of the EAP and the RAP were
readily given. Environmental monitoring of the Project was carried out satisfactorily by
Hunan Environmental Monitoring Center. Resettlement implementation was closely
monitored by the 2nd Navigation Engineering Design Institute of the Ministry of
Communications.




                                             15

(c) Justification of Rating for Overall Bank Performance
Rating: Satisfactory

Overall Bank performance was satisfactory based on its performance in preparing and
supervising the Project. Project preparation was efficient in terms of time. The design of
the Project was relevant to the developmental needs of the Project Provinces. Key
performance indicators developed for monitoring and evaluation were appropriate, and
supervision during project implementation was regular and constructive.

5.2 Borrower Performance
(a) Government Performance
Rating: Satisfactory

Government performance was satisfactory based on its level of commitment to the
Project. MOC was strongly supportive of the development and had organized workshops
to assist the HPCD and the HXNCDC in the preparation of the Project. MOC followed
the Project closely during implementation, and participated with the Bank task team in
review missions in the launching and early stages of the implementation of the Project.
At the provincial government level, the Key Project Office of Hunan Provincial
Government reporting directly to the Deputy Governor closely monitored the progress of
project implementation and the quality of work and provided effective co-ordination
between the project implementing entity and other governmental agencies as the Project
was classified a key project of the province.

(b) Implementing Agencies Performance
Rating: Satisfactory

Implementing
Agencies               Performance

                       HXNCDC was highly motivated and competently completed the
                       operating assets of the Project ahead of schedule despite having
                       been set back about four months due to the overflowing of the
                       cofferdam by severe flooding of the Xiangjiang in October 2002.
                       Major civil works contracts on the critical path were called as soon
                       as the loan was effective and contractors were on site by August
                       2002. The quality of construction in the Project was very good and
Hunan Xiangjiang       the Project was selected a demonstration model for inland waterway
Navigation             construction by MOC in March 2006 due to its excellent
Construction and       performance. An excellent start was also made in executing the
Development Corp.      training component of the Project and 18 officers were sent to the
                       U.S.A and Australia for training in contract management and
                       procurement to enhance their proficiency before construction at site
                       became intensive. Co-operation between the HXNCDC and the
                       Bank was very good, consultations were extensive and meaningful
                       and issues were promptly raised and jointly resolved although
                       contract variations could have been better addressed and resolved.
                       The HXNCDC discharged its fiduciary responsibilities



                                              16

                       conscientiously and correctly.

                       Reflecting the difficulties of applying the Bank's standard
                       procurement practices in China, dangerously low bids were received
                       on several contracts. China lacks the legal and regulatory
                       framework inherently assumed to be in place by the standard Bank
                       bidding documents and as such owners are often left to their own
                       devices to maintain quality and schedule delivery from under-
                       resourced contractors. HXNCDC successfully complied with the
                       Bank's sometimes blind application of procurement guidelines with
                       the reality of construction in China to deliver a quality project on
                       time and within reasonable cost.

(c) Justification of Rating for Overall Borrower Performance
Rating: Satisfactory

Overall Borrower performance was satisfactory. Government support was forthcoming.
The Project was well prepared. The design was appropriate in the context of the
development objective. The implementation plan was well conceived. Implementation
was generally satisfactory. Traffic on the project waterway and the average size of
vessels using the shiplock met expectation testifying to an improvement in the quality of
the facilities and services provided by the implementing agency.

6. Lessons Learned

Increasing importance of IWT - There is an increasing demand for inland water
transportation in China especially for low-value commodities in large consignments from
and to destinations alongside or near a river or inland waterway. Users of China's inland
waterways are aware of the benefit of using larger vessels for such cargo and responded
positively to improvements in inland waterway infrastructures that promote their use.
Between 2000 and 2005, cargo (per ton/km) carried by inland waterway in the country
increased at an average annual rate of 13.8% compared with 7.4% by rail and 6.8% by
road. Measures to increase efficiency and cost effectiveness in the sector are well
received by the market. The potential for the carriage of containers on China's inland
waterways is great. The study on the development of container shipping on the
Xiangjiang concluded that with the standardization of vessels, improvement to navigation
channels, up-to-date handling facilities and terminals, effective inter-modal connections
(road and rail access/linkages), and strong government support, container shipping on
China's inland waterways can reach Europe's inland waterways share of 40% total
container traffic transported. Developments similar to the Project can be replicated with
the advantage of experience gained in inland waterway network planning, macro-
economic considerations, technical design, safety provisions and environmental and
social safeguards.

Challenge of achieving greater cost recovery - As was found in previous inland
waterway projects, cost recovery mechanisms are rarely sufficient to cover all costs, but
these costs are small compared to other modes in either absolute terms or in proportion to


                                              17

traffic handled. In general, permanent government subsidies for transport infrastructure
should be avoided but inland waterway systems are somewhat exceptional: for the most
part they are appropriately treated as public goods recovered through taxes and vessel
registration fees. In this light, and given inland waterways greater energy efficiency and
smaller environmental footprint, this national policy appears appropriate.

Contracting - Fixed cost contracts were executed for the supply of equipment although
the tenure of the contracts extended beyond 2 years. Past contracts for the supply of
equipment in China rarely included price escalation clauses and for simplicity and ease of
contracts management, the HXNCDC did not provide for any. Large, sudden, and
unexpected increases in the cost of materials after contracts were awarded rendered it
impossible for contractors and suppliers in fixed price contracts to bear the increase in
cost. To avoid any non-performance which would require a fresh call of bids, such
contracts, by mutual agreement, had to be revised to provide for a price adjustment. It
would have been far more preferable if contracts that extended over 18 months had a
price adjustment formula as recommended in the Bank's procurement guidelines.

There was a high incidence of work variations during the construction, some of which
were attributed to insufficient geotechnical investigations for the dams' foundations, and
changes to primary design parameters. As such, greater attention needs to be given to
site surveys and geological investigations during the design stage. But in part the large
variations can be attributed to the Bank's practice of awarding contracts to the lowest
qualified bidder which is not yet appropriate, if applied blindly, for a country such as
China that is in transition from government enterprises to private enterprises and has not
yet developed a robust legal and regulatory contracting framework. Accordingly, the
Bank's procurement procedures have at times led to low price contracts being awarded to
marginally qualified bidders and commensurate high variations.

Bank's review of contract variations took longer than foreseen. The problem may be
mitigated by having, as far as possible, the same Bank procurement specialist to attend to
procurement issues during the implementation of the Project. In addition, more reliance
on country-based Bank procurement reviews would reduce time-consuming HQ-based
reviews in those cases where there is little added value. Contracts with a price
adjustment formula will help to lessen the time taken for the review required. Likewise,
contract variations due to geological conditions can be reduced if site investigations prior
to design and bidding are more exhaustive.

Ensuring dam safety - The Bank's operational policy on safety of dams (OP 4.37)
requires reviews of the investigation, design, and construction of the dam and start of
operation by an independent panel of experts where the dam is more than 15 meters in
height. This requirement did not apply to the Zuzhou Dam which had a designed height
of 10 meters. Nevertheless a Dam Safety Panel for the Project was formed. The panel
was extremely useful in providing continuing advise and expert opinion on all aspects of
safety in design and construction as well as the selection of the dam site and the dam axis,
the treatment of foundations, program scheduling and acceptance standards. Based on
the experience in implementing the Project, it would be useful to have a Dam Advisory



                                              18

Panel for small dams to provide advice not only on dam safety but on all technical
aspects of dam design, construction, operation and maintenance especially in situations
where the dam has linkage to upstream and downstream dams.

Justifying overseas training and study tours - GOC has become more stringent with
the expense for overseas tours and training. Overseas training plans need to be carefully
assessed and evaluated during project appraisal to justify their inclusion in the Project.
The number of people to be trained overseas, the courses and the countries should be
realistically determined to reflect the specific needs of the loan beneficiary. Overseas
training plans should have a degree of flexibility for adjustments to meet current
conditions during project implementation.

7. Comments on Issues Raised by Implementing Agencies
Several issues were raised by the implementing entity. These are listed below with the
comments of the Bank project team.

(a) "Site surveys and investigations that provided the basis for the technical information
and drawings for the construction of the project proved to be insufficient during project
implementation. Simultaneously, some conditions such as weather, hydrology and
geology that affected the construction were not adequately determined. These risks were
very difficult to avoid during the design and preparation of bidding documents. This
created a lot of design variations during the implementation of the Project; the original
contract price was very difficult to control."

As highlighted in section 2.2, numerous contract variations arose due to geological and
unforeseen weather condition. While the latter is unpredictable, more exhaustive site
investigations might have prevented some of the contract variations. Learning from this
experience, the Bank has emphasized the importance of the comprehensiveness of site
investigations in subsequent similar inland waterway projects.

(b) "The principle of the World Bank procurement guidelines of selecting the bidder with
the lowest evaluation price was not entirely satisfactory in the current situation of the
project construction market in China. The market was very competitive. Under this
situation, in order to get the contract, the bidder always bided with a price lower than the
actual cost. The Owner had to select it but this would cause problems during the
construction process. Due to the limitation of this procurement principal, it was difficult
to select a good Contractor with the best balance of capability and price".

The phenomenon of contractors bidding very low prices in order to secure contracts and
using contract variations to increase payments is a reality in China. Competitive bidding
under Bank procurement guidelines can reduce the bid price of construction, but China's
construction market requires further maturation before the lower bid prices consistently
translate to lower final actual costs. As it is today, rigid application of the Bank's
procurement processes may actually allow lower quality contractors to be awarded
contracts. The same contractors have a tendency toward large cost variations, lower
quality construction, poor safety, and delays with a result that at project completion the



                                               19

final cost may be higher and the product less desirable than originally expected. This
occurs because the Bank's processes assume market conditions have eliminated poor
performing contractors, which is not yet the case in China. Domestic procurement
procedures allow subjective elimination of offenders through the use of informal black
lists and award to other than the lowest cost bidder, an obviously nontransparent
approach.

(c) "The World Bank supervised this Project for 5 years, the task team leader and the
consultants changed very frequently, the new officers needed some time to be familiar
with the Project, the working style was also very different, and the Borrower also needed
time to communicate with them. This lack of continuity decreased the working efficiency.
HXNCDC would like to suggest that the World Bank assign its officers on a more
continuous basis".

The original Task Team Leader (TTL) retired from the Bank shortly after the loan
became effective on April 4, 2002. Effectively the Project may be considered to have
been managed by two TTLs and, over a period of implementation of 5 years, a change of
task leadership would not seem unreasonable. Except for the procurement specialist, the
other team members had remained constant. The Bank did though have four procurement
specialists over the life of the project which did lead to delays in the processing of
procurement issues. The point is taken that the lesser the change the better it is for
purpose of continuity.

(d) "HXNCDC appreciated the careful review of contract variations by the World Bank
officers and consultants, but the Bank's officer responsible for procurement was changed
very frequently with different requirement for the Borrower to submit documents. A lot
of time was spent in communication between the Borrower and the officer through
documents. For example, the review of the contract variations for the dam/powerhouse,
dam crest bridge and Sanmen Canal took almost one year; the Borrower could not
disburse from the loan, and the amount of outstanding payments to contractors were so
large that the borrower had to resort to a large amount of revolving funds from
commercial bank borrowings. This put a huge pressure on financing. We hope the World
Bank could improve on its review of contract variations."

Several contracts had revisions which in aggregate exceeded 15% of the contract sums
and these revisions were made without the Bank's concurrence but the Bank's review of
these contract variations did take longer than foreseen or was reasonable. There is merit
in maintaining procurement staff to attend to procurement issues. Further decentralization
of procurement functions from the Bank's headquarters in Washington to the China
country office in Beijing would enhance timely and informed responses. A practical
mechanism for reviewing and clearing variations jointly developed with the
implementing entity during the implementation of the Project eventually helped to
shorten the review process.

(e) "For the World Bank financed overseas training, it was implemented strictly in
accordance with the World Bank's guidelines and the tasks arranged in the PAD, ie



                                             20

submit TOR for Bank review, select consultants through short-listing, but there were
some discrepancies between the stipulations of MOF and the requirements of the Bank's
guidelines. As a result, the aggregated cost for overseas training of USD625,200 could
not be met from loan disbursements".

It appeared that overseas training costs exceeded the stipulations of the Ministry of
Finance and this resulted in the suspension of the program for two years. Provisions for
overseas training in future projects financed by the Bank will need to be sensitive to
government stipulations and be seen to be cost effective.




                                           21

Annex 1. Project Costs and Financing

Table 1(a): Project Cost by Component (in USD million equivalent)

                                 Appraisal Estimate   Actual/Latest
           Components                                                   Percentage of
                                    (USD million)    Estimate (USD
                                                        million)         Appraisal

CONSRUCTION OF ZHUZHOU
SHIPLOCK                                 19.55             20.64           105.5

CONSTRUCTION OF
ZHUZHOU DAM AND                          97.00             99.35           102.4
POWERHOU
CONSTRUCTION OF ACCESS
ROADS                                     5.86             10.41           177.6

BANK PROTECTION                          23.91             48.90           204.5
CHANNEL IMPROVEMENT
(ZHUZHOU-XIANGTAN SE                      1.46              0.00

TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE
AND TRAINING                              8.19              8.96           109.4

RESETTLEMENT                              9.75             25.45           261.0


             Total Baseline Cost       165.73             213.71           128.9

Physical Contingencies                   16.41               0.00

Price Contingencies                      18.76               8.21           43.7

              Total Project Costs      200.90             221.92           110.5
Interest curing construction             18.32               9.03           48.3
Front-end fee IBRD                        1.00               I.00           100
      Total Financing Required         220.22             231.95           105.3



Table 1(b): Financing
                                                   Appraisal Actual/Latest

           Source of Funds             Type of     Estimate     Estimate  Percentage of
                                     Cofinancing     (USD         (USD      Appraisal
                                                   millions)    millions)
Borrower                                         120.22       131.95      109.7
International Bank for Reconstruction
and Development                                  100.00       100.00      100.0




                                            22

Table 1(c): Estimated/Actual Costs by Category (in USD `000 equivalent)

Category                             Estimated Cost         Actual Cost

Goods                                     57,321.42           58,423.80

Works                                     90,464.24          120,875.12

Services                                   6,684.30            8,338.33

Training                                   1,510.00              625.18

Resettlement                               9,750.00           25,446.80

Contingency                               35,170.30            8,215.42

Direct Costs of Project                  200,900.26          221,924.65

Interest during construction              18,324.41            9033.13

Front-end Fee                              1,000.00            1,000.00

Total Financing Required                 220,224.67          231,957.78




                                       23

Annex 2. Outputs by Component

Project Outputs

                     Estimated Cost Actual Cost
      Output             in PAD        (US           Description of Project Output
                     (US $million)  $million)

                                                Shiplock: 180m×23m×3.5m. with a
                                                designed annual capacity of 12.6 million
                                                tons. Can accommodate 4 tows at any
 Zhuzhou Shiplock         23.3         20.4     one time. Cycle-time of shiplock
                                                operation is 45 minutes.
                                                There is no waiting time at shiplock.

                                                Dam and Powerhouse: 5 Generators of
                                                28MW each, yearly output 664.05 million
      Zhuzhou                                   kwh; 24 radial sluice gates with width of
  Dam/Powerhouse          117.5        99.4     20m    in   the   dam;    hydraulic  hoist
                                                equipment.
                                                Availability of turbines: 95%

    Access Road            7.0         10.4     Left bank highway of 2 9.5km (class 2);
                                                right bank highway of 5.96km (class 3)

                                                Bank    protection    of   46.62km    was
  Bank Protection         31.5         48.9     constructed, 1069 ha.of farmland were
                                                protected

      Channel                                   Channel    dredging    deferred   due   to

    Improvement                                 impending construction of Changsha

 (Xiangtan-Zhuzhou         2.0          0       Complex during the 11th 5-Year Plan in

      Section)                                  which the 128km of waterway between
                                                Changsha and Zhuzhou will be canalized.

                                                146 persons trained at a total of 92.35

     Technical                                  person months, among which 110 persons

 Assistance/Training       1.5         0.6      (77.35   person-months)     had   overseas
                                                training and 36 persons (15 person-
                                                months) domestic training.

  Containerization                              The report was completed and reviewed

       Study               0.1         0.1      in   2006,    providing     findings  and
                                                recommendations for planning purposes.
                                                Area of homes removed was 12,400 m2. .
                                                Affected households restored their homes

    Resettlement          9.75         25.4     with better housing quality and an
                                                average increase in size of 73sq.m.
                                                Household     income      increased  from
                                                RMB3,138 per capita to RMB3,2728.




                                       24

Annex 3. Economic and Financial Analysis

              Table 3.1: Economic and Financial Evaluation Summary
                    ICR                                      PAD
                ENPV               FNPV                  ENPV            FNPV
        EIRR     (12%,    FIRR     (5.9%,      EIRR      (12%,   FIRR (5.9%,
         (%)     m Y)      (%)      m Y)        (%)      m Y)     (%)    m Y)
       20.4%    882.5     5.7%     -30.6       18.8%     813.4   6.8% 149.1

Shiplock Traffic and Power Generation

       Actual shiplock traffic and power generated are somewhat similar to the
projections developed at project appraisal. Based on the actual performance to date, it is
assumed that the growth rates for shiplock traffic and power generation are also similar to
the PAD's forecasts.


       The actual and forecasted shiplock traffic and power generation for the ICR and
the PAD are presented in the following table.

                Table 3.2: Traffic and Power Generation (2000-2025)
                    Shiplock Traffic (million ton)       Power Generation (Gwh)
                      ICR      PAD ICR/PAD              ICR     PAD     ICR/PAD
                       (1)       (2)    (3=1/2)         (4)      (5)      (6=4/5)

          2000         4.98     4.98     100%            --      --          --
          2001         5.28     5.28     100%            --      --          --
          2002         5.41     5.49      99%            --      --          --
          2003         5.54     5.60      99%            --      --          --
          2004         5.78     5.94      97%            --      --          --
          2005         6.01     6.30      95%           46.0    192.2      24%
          2006         6.25     6.51      96%          509.0    512.4      99%
          2007         6.50     6.72      97%          600.0    640.5      94%

          2010         7.23     7.40      98%          600.0    640.5      94%
          2015         8.39      --        --          600.0    640.5      94%
          2020         9.73      --        --          600.0    640.5      94%
          2025        11.01      --        --          600.0    640.5      94%

        Average growth pa.
        2000-2007     3.9%     4.4%        --            --      --          --
        2000-2010     3.8%     4.0%        --            --      --          --
        2000-2020     3.4%       --        --            --      --          --
        2000-2025     3.2%       --        --            --      --          --

        Source: HXNCDC and Bank staff.


                                            25

Based on the current and forecasted traffic and power generated, the Project is expected
to have an EIRR of 20.4% and a FIRR of 5.7%. The calculations are summarized below.

                  Table 3.3: EIRR, FIRR Summary (RMB million)
                            EIRR                                  FIRR

          Total     Total        Net    Without                               Net
                                Cash    Emission        Total      Total     Cash
           Cost   Benefits      Flow    Benefits       Outflows Inflows      Flow

  2001     26.46                (26.46)  (26.46)          26.63              (26.63)
  2002    110.82               (110.82) (110.82)         112.13            (112.13)
  2003    351.49               (351.49) (351.49)         364.20            (364.20)
  2004    492.20               (492.20) (492.20)         535.37            (535.37)
  2005    504.33    68.19      (436.14) (439.44)         574.26    18.64 (555.62)
  2006    316.81  360.49         43.68      4.57         469.03   180.83 (288.20)
  2007     96.01  461.28        365.27   317.88           87.01   181.76      94.75
  2008     30.86  471.81        440.95   388.45            3.94   186.13     182.19
  2009     30.86  478.16        447.30   394.29          (6.17)   184.67     190.84
  2010     30.86  481.68        450.82   397.38          (8.59)   184.67     193.26
  2011     30.86  485.12        454.26   400.39            6.44   206.07     199.63
  2012     30.86  488.50        457.64   403.34            1.64   202.96     201.32
  2013     30.86  491.97        461.11   406.38          (1.15)   202.96     204.11
  2014     30.86  495.58        464.72   409.56          (4.10)   202.96     207.06
  2015     30.86  499.19        468.33   412.74          (7.17)   202.96     210.13
  2016     30.86  503.56        472.70   416.68           42.83   226.44     183.60
  2017     30.86  508.25        477.39   420.94           37.11   223.02     185.91
  2018     46.29  513.04        466.75   409.87           33.53   223.02     189.49
  2019     46.29  518.04        471.75   414.44           29.78   223.02     193.24
  2020     30.86  523.03        492.17   434.42           25.86   223.02     197.16
  2021     30.86  529.42        498.56   440.38           65.57   249.25     183.68
  2022     30.86  536.11        505.25   446.64           89.24   245.44     156.20
  2023     30.86  543.20        512.34   453.30           84.68   245.44     160.76
  2024     30.86  550.53        519.67   460.20           79.90   245.44     165.54
  2025     30.86  558.34        527.48   467.58          108.50   274.43     165.94

          EIRR                   20.4%    18.2%        FIRR                    5.7%
          NPV (12%)              882.5     632.2       NPV (5.9%)              -30.6


 Source: HXNCDC and Bank staff.




                                            26

Projections of future income and application of funds are tabulated as follows:

                                 Table3.4: Income Statement- Consolidated
                                    (RMB million, year ending December 31)

                               2001   2002   2003   2004   2005    2006    2007    2008    2009    2010    2011


Power Generation (Gwh)          487    522    459    527    542   1,099   1,190   1,190   1,190   1,190   1,190
Power Sales (Gwh)               449    484    421    482    497   1,044   1,135   1,135   1,135   1,135   1,135


Operating Revenue            123.24  140.56 125.24 149.54 139.09 331.51  346.21  355.26  355.26  355.26  390.44


Business Taxes
  Value-added tax             17.91   20.42  18.20  21.73  20.21  48.17   50.30   53.29   53.29   53.29   58.57
  City construction tax        1.21    1.41   0.77   0.92   0.61   0.45    0.50    0.53    0.53    0.53    0.59
  Education levy               0.53    0.62   0.54   0.65   0.61   1.44    1.52    1.60    1.60    1.60    1.76
  Total                       19.65  22.45  19.51  23.30  21.43   50.06   52.32   55.42   55.42   55.42   60.92


Net Sales                    103.59  118.11 105.73 126.24 117.66 281.45  293.89  299.84  299.84  299.84  329.52


Operating Costs:
  Salaries, wages & benefits   1.37   1.59   1.83   1.90   3.07    5.16    5.42    5.69    5.97    6.27    6.58
  Material and equipment       1.21    0.75   0.86   1.72   2.44   6.53    6.86    7.20    7.56    7.94    8.34
  Maintenance                  3.57    1.48   1.58  10.19  22.09  42.80   44.94   47.19   49.55   52.03   54.63
  Others                       6.65   16.80  14.74  11.02   6.91  22.33   23.44   24.61   25.84   27.13   28.49
  Total working costs         12.80  20.62  19.01  24.83  34.51   76.82   80.66   84.69   88.92   93.37   98.04
        Depreciation          57.59   59.29  59.22  60.92  60.35 145.37  120.41  133.62  134.41  135.62  137.28
  Total operating costs       70.39  79.91  78.23  85.75  94.86  222.19  201.07  218.31  223.33  228.99  235.32


Operating Profit:             33.20  38.20  27.50  40.49  22.80   59.26   92.82   81.53   76.51   70.85   94.20
Administrative expenses        3.63    4.97   6.42   8.31   8.81   9.08   12.56   13.19   13.85   14.54   15.27
Financial charges             36.06  36.46  25.63  26.08  28.52  116.18   94.28  109.96  103.73   97.14   90.21
Foreign exchange loss (gain)  (1.38) (4.11)   3.35   2.42 (8.93) (30.99) (21.35) (12.71) (12.71) (12.71) (12.71)
                               0.00   0.00   0.00   0.00   0.00    0.00    0.00    0.00    0.00    0.00    0.00
Profit Before Taxes
Income tax                        -       -      -      -      -       -      -        -       -       -      -
Other taxes                       -       -      -      -      -   0.30       -       -       -       -       -
Net Profit After Tax          (5.11)  0.88  (7.90)  3.68  (5.60) (35.31)   7.33  (28.91) (28.36) (28.12)   1.43


Working ratio                12.4%   17.5%  18.0%  19.7%  29.3%  27.3%   27.4%   28.2%   29.7%   31.1%   29.8%
Operating Ratio              68.0%   67.7%  74.0%  67.9%  80.6%  78.9%   68.4%   72.8%   74.5%   76.4%   71.4%




                                                  27

                     Table 3.5: Sources And Applications of Funds- Consolidated
                                   (RMB million, year ending December 31)

                             2001    2002   2003   2004    2005    2006   2007    2008    2009    2010   2011


Sources:
  Net profits                (5.11)   0.88  (7.90)   3.68  (5.60) (35.31)   7.33 (28.91) (28.36) (28.12)   1.43
  Depreciation               57.59   59.29  59.22   60.92  60.35  145.37  120.41 133.62  134.41  135.62  137.28
 Government contribution     45.52  138.64 117.32   34.18  13.29   24.85   23.14       -       -       -      -
  Borrowing:          IBRD        -  30.30  76.69  151.89 184.43  209.74  176.95       -       -       -      -
                      Local      -  150.00 400.00  300.00       -       -      -       -       -       -      -
  Others                         -       -      -       -      -       -       -       -      -       -       -


          Subtotal           98.00  229.11 395.33  650.67 552.47  344.65  327.83 104.71  106.05  107.50  138.71
Applications:
  Capital expenditures       45.90  185.95 362.51  520.60 540.37  322.44  224.44   2.77    2.91    3.06    3.21
  Other expenditures             -       -      -       -      -       -       -       -      -       -       -
  Loan repayments:    IBRD   31.89  33.85   35.90  38.02   39.89   41.68  76.87   88.91   93.40   98.14  103.11
                      Local    -      -     8.33    8.33   13.34   14.09  14.09   24.89   26.63   28.48  30.44
  Change in working capital      -       -      -       -      -       -       -  (0.68)      -       -    1.76


          Subtotal           77.79  219.80 406.74  566.95 593.60  378.21  315.40 115.89  122.94  129.68  138.52


Net Funds Flow               20.21    9.31 (11.41) 83.72  (41.13) (33.56) 12.43  (11.18) (16.89) (22.18)   0.19
Opening Balance              21.79   42.00  51.31   39.90 123.62   82.49   48.93  61.36   50.18   33.29   11.11
Closing Balance              42.00   51.31  39.90  123.62  82.49   48.93   61.36  50.18   33.29   11.11   11.30


Debt Service Coverage Ratio  1.31    1.40   1.10    1.24   1.02    1.39    1.22   0.96    0.93    0.91    1.02
Self financing Ratio         0.21    0.48   0.26    0.18   0.12    0.24    0.35   0.57    1.00    1.00    1.00




                                                  28

                                   Table 3.6: Balance Sheet- Consolidated
                                    (RMB million, year ending December 31)

                              2001     2002     2003     2004     2005     2006     2007     2008     2009     2010
Assets:
Fixed Assets
  At cost                  2,092.53 2,101.60 2,101.20 2,097.64 2,093.89 3,630.30 4,037.40 4,049.05 4,072.94 4,109.69
  Less: depreciation         156.62   215.91   275.13   336.05   396.40   541.77   662.18   795.80   930.21 1,065.83


         Subtotal          1,935.91 1,885.69 1,826.07 1,761.59 1,697.49 3,088.53 3,375.22 3,253.25 3,142.73 3,043.86

Current Assets
  Cash                        42.00    51.31    39.90  123.62     82.49    48.93    61.36    50.18    33.29    11.11
  Inventory                     -        -        -        -        -        -        -        -        -        -
  Receivables                 30.66    49.93    39.01    36.68    62.34    58.89    57.59    60.39    60.39    60.39


         Subtotal             72.66  101.24    78.91   160.30   144.83   107.82   118.95   110.57    93.68    71.50


Other assets                  0.42     0.42     0.42     0.42     0.42      0.38    0.38     0.36     0.36      0.36


       Total Assets        2,008.99 1,987.35 1,905.40 1,922.31 1,842.74 3,196.73 3,494.55 3,364.18 3,236.77 3,115.72


Liabilities & Equity

  Equity-State funds         898.14   899.02   879.98   883.66   878.06 1,215.56 1,537.67 1,516.39 1,509.01 1,514.58

  L-T debts                  962.92  898.89   943.07   905.11   820.59  1,615.33 1,906.53 1,792.73 1,672.70 1,546.08

  Current liabilities         78.05  140.40    56.03   121.89   133.72   355.67    39.15    42.63    42.63     42.63

  Other liabilities           69.88   49.04    26.32    11.65    10.37     10.17   11.20    12.43    12.43     12.43


Total Liabilities & Equity 2,008.99 1,987.35 1,905.40 1,922.31 1,842.74 3,196.73 3,494.55 3,364.18 3,236.77 3,115.72


Current Ratio                0.9      0.7      1.4      1.3      1.1      0.3      3.0      2.6      2.2      1.7
Debt/(debt + equity) Ratio   51.7     50.0     51.7     50.6     48.3     57.1     55.4     54.2     52.6     50.5




                                                    29

                          Table 3.7: Major Financial Assumptions


   1.    Power Generation and
         Sales                                As in Income Statement.

   2.    Tariff Rates                         RMB0.313 per kwh with 10% increase once every 5
                                              years.
   3.    Business Taxes:
           Value-added tax (VAT)              15 % of operation revenue.
           City construction tax              1 % of VAT.
           Education levy                     3 % of VAT.
   4.    Operating Costs                      5 % increase per year.
   5.    Depreciation                         30 years straight-line method.
   6.    Administrative Expenses              5 % increase per year.
   7.    Income Tax                           33 % after income tax credit.

   8.    Capital expenditures (after
         completion):                         0.1 % of total capital investment.

   9.    Loans:        IBRD                   5.0% LIBOR-based single currency loan in USD.
                                              20 year maturity including 5 year grace.
                       Domestic               6.84% pa, 23 year maturity including 5 year grace.


Financial Performance Indicators (FPIs)

Financial indicators to measure the performance of the Project included the working ratio,
the self-financing ratio and the debt service coverage ratio. Target values for the
indicators were determined at the time of appraisal. In the case of the working ratio a
ceiling of 20% was covenanted in the loan agreement for compliance by the loan
beneficiary. Based on the data provided, the financial performance indicators for 2006
(as was the case in 2005) fell short of expectation. The working ratio of 20% covenanted
in the loan agreement could not be met. The financial indicators (actual for 2005 and
2006 and currently projected for 2007 to 2010) compared with the expected (PAD) for
the same years are as follows.

                   Table 3.8: Financial Performance Indicators (in %)
                                   2005    2006      2007      2008    2009    2010
           Working Ratio
                    PAD            13.5    12.3      12.8      13.4     14.1    14.8
                  Revised          29.3    27.3      26.6      28.2     29.7    31.1
           Debt Service Coverage Ratio
                    PAD            1.84    2.96      1.45      1.43     1.41    1.39
                  Revised          1.02    1.39      1.28      0.96     0.94    0.91
           Self financing Ratio
                    PAD            0.29    0.85      1.00      1.00     1.00    1.00
                  Revised          0.12    0.24      0.38      0.59     1.00    1.00

22      The main reasons for actual performance falling short of expectation were (a)
lower power price by 17% (RMB0.3175 per kwh vs.RMB 0.3829 per kwh), and (b)
higher operating cost and financial charges- 40% and 192% respectively. In arriving at
the target values in the PAD, it was assumed (based on information provided by the


                                             30

HXNCDC) that power generated would be sold at RMB0.3829 per kwh; in reality power
was and is being sold at RMB0.3175 per kwh. Actual operating cost and financial
charges were higher than estimated due to the increase in maintenance cost from RMB15
million to RMB43 million and an increase in financing charges. The increase in
financing charges could be attributed mainly to an interest charge of 6.8% on a domestic
loan of RMB450 million that was not anticipated at the time of appraisal. As a result, the
net profit, cash balance and the revised FPIs failed to meet the PAD's forecasts.

23      Price Sensitivity Analysis: Two scenario analyses on price sensitivity were
tested: (a) Scenario 1: power sales price at RMB0.3829 per kwh (similar to the PAD's
assumption), and (b) Scenario 2: power sales price at RMB0.40 per kwh. The results
showed that (a) at RMB0.3829 per kwh, the FPIs will marginally be short of their targets,
and (b) a minimum price of slightly more than RMB0.40 per kwh, would be needed for
the FPIs to achieve compliance with the required values. The results of the two scenarios
were summarized as follows:

       Table 3.9: Scenario Analysis: Financial Performance Indicators (in %)
                                   2005     2006     2007    2008    2009     2010
            Working Ratio
                  Scenario 1       20.4     22.0     21.1    22.3     23.5    24.6
                  Scenario 2       19.5     20.9     20.1    21.2     22.2    23.4
            Debt Service Coverage Ratio
                  Scenario 1       1.72     1.87     1.76    1.34     1.32    1.29
                  Scenario 2       1.84     2.00     1.88    1.43     1.41    1.38
            Self financing Ratio
                  Scenario 1       0.22     0.39     0.60    1.00     1.00    1.00
                  Scenario 2       0.24     0.43     0.65    1.00     1.00    1.00

24.     Cost Sensitivity Analysis: Since the outstanding contract variations have for the
most part been resolved, the HXNCDC is able to draw on the Bank loan which will offset
its borrowing from the higher interest (6.8%) commercial banks. Further, the increase in
operating cost due to severe flooding that damaged river banks is unlikely to recur. The
possibility exists that HXNCDC would be able to reduce its financing and operating costs,
in which case financial performance indicators would improve. A cost sensitivity
analysis using the following assumptions of (a) paying off the domestic loan in 2007, (b)
a reduction of the total working cost by 25% beginning in 2008, and (c) the price of
electricity sold remaining at the current price, concluded that the resultant FPIs for 2008-
2010 would be improved to almost meeting the targets set at appraisal. HXNCDC should
give priority therefore to the reduction of operating costs and the redemption of the
commercial bank loan. The outcome of the cost sensitivity analysis is tabulated below.

          Table 3.10: Scenario Analysis: Financial Cost Sensitivity Analysis
                                                   2008      2009     2010
                    Working ratio                   21.2     22.2     23.4
                    Debt Service Coverage Ratio     1.62     1.49     1.36
                    Self financing Ratio            0.96     1.00     1.00




                                             31

Annex 4. Bank Lending and Implementation Support/Supervision Processes

a) Task Team members
        Names                  Title                 Unit   Responsibility/Specialty
Lending
Toshiro Tsutsumi    Senior Port Engineer        EASTE       Task Team Leader

Simon Bradbury      Senior Disbursement
                    Officer                     LOAG        Disbursement

Robin Carruthers    Senior Transport Economist EASTE        Transport Economics
Chen Xin            Senior Program Assistant    EACCF       Team Assistance
Yang Dawei          Procurement Specialist      EAPCO       Procurement
Hoi-chan Nguyen     Senior Legal Counsel        LEGEA       Legal Aspects
Teresita Ortega     Program Assistant           EASTE       Team Assistance
Han-Kang Yen        Research Analyst            EASTE       Financial Analysis
Chaohua Zhang       Social Sector Specialist    EASSO       Social Assessment
Jianping Zhao       Principal Power SpecialistEASCS         Power
Supervision/ICR

John Scales         Senior Transport Specialist EASCS       Task Team Leader (from
                                                            July 2004)

Graham Smith        Transport Sector                        Task Team Leader
                    Coordinator                EASTE        (Nov.2002 to-Jul. 2004
Xin Chen            Program Assistant          EACCF        Team Assistant
Kek Choo Chung      Consultant                 EASCS        Navigation
Jiang Dai           Consultant                 EASCS        Hydropower
Yiren Feng          Environmental Specialist    EASCS       Environment

Yi Geng             Financial Management
                    Specialist                 EAPCO        Financial Management

Xiaowei Guo         Sr Procurement Specialist   EAPCO       Procurement
Xiaoping Li         Sr Procurement Specialist   AFTPC       Procurement
Hongyun Liu         Consultant                 EASTE        Hydropower

Emmanuel Py         Junior Professional
                    Associate                  EASTE        Project Assistance

Richard Y. Scheiner Consultant                  EASCS       Civil Engineering

Naoya Tsukamoto     Environmental Specialist EASRE          Environmental
                                                            Assessment
Peng Xuan           Program Assistant          EASCS        Team Assistance
Hongkun Yang        Procurement Specialist      EASTE       Procurement

Songling Yao        Social Development
                    Specialist                 EASCS        Social Safeguards

Han-Kang Yen        Research Analyst           EASTE        Econ/Financial Analysis
Wenlai Zhang        Transport Specialist        EASCS       Engineering




                                          32

b) Staff Time and Cost
                                 Staff Time and Cost (Bank Budget Only)
Stage of Project Cycle
                                No. of staff weeks   USD Thousands (including
                                                     travel and consultant costs)
Lending
  FY99                                                            4.69
  FY00                                 16                        64.42
  FY01                                 38                       155.01
  FY02                                                            4.07
  FY03                                                            0.00
  FY04                                                            0.00
  FY05                                                            0.00
  FY06                                                            0.00
  FY07                                                            0.00
  FY08                                                            0.00
                        Total:         54                       228.19
Supervision/ICR
  FY99                                                            0.00
  FY00                                   1                        1.90
  FY01                                                            0.00
  FY02                                 12                        63.14
  FY03                                   3                       35.97
  FY04                                   4                       34.65
  FY05                                 13                        53.77
  FY06                                   8                       35.66
  FY07                                 11                        59.51
  FY08                                   7                       52.72
                        Total:         59                       337.32




                                    33

Annex 5. Summary of Borrower's ICR

Project Introduction

1.1 General
Zhuzhou Navigation & Hydropower Complex Project was approved by the State
Planning Committee in August 1999. It was appraised by the World Bank as China
Inland Waterway III in March 2001. The loan of USD100 million was negotiated, led by
the Ministry of Finance, in Washington DC in May 2001. The Loan Agreement and the
Project Agreement were formally signed on January 7, 2002. The loan became effective
on April 4, 2002 and was closed on December 31, 2007.

The Project included:
 (1) civil works and the procurement of goods for the dam, ship lock and powerhouse;
 (2) dredging and regulating 37km of the waterway from Zhuzhou to Xiangtan; and
 (3) training and a study on containerization development along the Xiangjiang

The waterway of the Xiangjiang downstream of Zhuzhou city could accommodate 1,000
ton vessels as a result of developments completed in 1994 and 2000 to improve the
navigability of the Xiangjiang River. The development of the Zhuzhou Navigation and
Hydropower Complex would enable vessels up to 1,000 dwt to transit the waterway from
Henyang to Chenglinji, a distance of 257 km. It was an important canalization project for
the development of the waterways in Xiangjiang.

The Zhuzhou Complex, located at Kongzhou Shoal about 24km upstream of Zhuzhou
consisted of a dam, a ship lock, a powerhouse and a dam crest highway bridge. The scope
of work was as follows:
 · Dam: 11 sluice gates at the left branch, 13 sluice gates at the right branch and
Kongzhou auxiliary dam (210m earth dam), with the total length of 764m. The width of
each sluice gate was 20m, with a radial gate of 20×12.5m and hoisted by hydraulic
equipment.
 · Ship lock: located at the right bank of the right branch, it included an upper approach
channel, a lower approach channel and the chamber. The design water head was 10.8m,
the chamber was 180m×23m, and the threshold depth was 3.5m. The ship lock with an
annual capacity of 12.60 million tons could accommodate one push of four 1000-ton
vessels at a time.
 · Powerhouse: located at the left bank of the left branch, the powerhouse had 5 bulb-
turbine generator units with the unit capacity of 28MW, and an average annual
production of 664 million kWh.
 · Dam crest highway bridge: with a length of 973m and a width of 12m and capable of
accommodating vehicles up to 20 ton.

1.2 Procurement Plan
Determined at appraisal, the loan would finance 6 civil works contracts, 11 contracts for
goods procurement, 1 for consulting services and training. According to the procurement



                                             34

plan, 10 contracts would be procured through ICB, 7 contracts through NCB, and 1
through the Bank's procedure for engagement of consultants. In addition, 15 items of
goods would be purchased through domestic shopping at an aggregated value of USD
1.19 million.

Non-World Bank financed contracts included dam and reservoir area resettlement;
temporary works, upgrading of 37km of waterway from Zhuzhou to Xiangtan,
installation of bulb-turbine generate units and other related contracts

The total amount provided in the loan for technical assistance and training was USD1.59
million including USD80,000 for a study on containerization development. Domestic
training would be provided for 72 persons totaling 64 person/months and overseas
training would be provided for 154 persons totaling 143.62 person/months. The loan
agreement was subsequently revised and the amount allocated for technical assistance
and training was reduced to USD1.18 million.

1.3 Implementation Plan for Construction
Planned to commence in September 2002, the construction of the Complex was expected
to take 52 months inclusive of 28 months for the construction of the ship lock.
Construction was to be undertaken in two phases. The first-phase consisted of the
construction of a cofferdam at the left branch of the river bed, the powerhouse, 11 sluice
gates of the dam, the auxiliary dam of Kongzhou Island and dam crest highway bridge
(Contract A). The right branch of the river was available for navigation during the
construction period. Simultaneously, the ship-lock (Contract B) was constructed at on the
right bank. Upon the completion of the first phase, the second-phase would start,
consisting of a cofferdam at the right river bed and 13 sluice gates of the dam.

1.4 Investment Estimate and Sources of Funds
Project cost at appraisal was estimated as follows:
                                                                             Unit: USD 1000

 Investment by Component               Total                      Among Which
                                                            Local         World Bank Loan
Goods Procurement                         69,116.80            13,769.25           55,347.55

Civil Works Procurement                  112,253.17            70,190.72           42,062.45

Technical Service                          8,270.29             8,190.29               80.00

Training                                   1,510.00                 0.00            1,510.00

Resettlement                               9,750.00             9,750.00                0.00

Total Project Investment                 200,900.26           101,900.26           99,000.00

Interest During Construction              18,324.41            18,324.41                0.00

Front-end Fee                              1,000.00                00.00            1,000.00

                         Total           220,224.67           120,224.67          100,000.00




                                             35

During the detailed design stage, the total cost was adjusted to RMB1,930 million,
equivalent to USD 233.373 million at an exchange rate of 1:8.3. Sources of funds were:
                                                                            Unit: 1000 USD
                 Source                                         Amount
Ministry of Communication                                       38,476.42
Hunan Province                                                  94,897.21
World Bank                                                     100,000.00
Total                                                          233,373.63

1.5 World Bank Loan Disbursement by Category
Loan allocations by category in accordance with Annex 1 of the Loan Agreement were
subsequently revised and were as follows:


                               Original Amount                   Amount after Revising
    Catalogue            Allocated             % of            Allocated           % of
                     million USD           Expenditures    million USD Expenditures

      Works                36.00               49%               56.40             70%

      Goods                45.50              100%               41.42            100%

 TA & Training              2.00              100%                1.18            100%

  Front-end Fee             1.00                --                1.00

  Contingency              15.50                --                0.00

      Total               100.00                --               100.0


2 Performance of Project

2.1 Procurement
Contracts were bided according to the stipulations of the Project Agreement and the
Project Appraisal Document (PAD).

On March 31, 2001, the General Procurement Notice of the Project was issued in the
Development Forum of the United Nations. The Specific Procurement Announcement of
the above mentioned contracts was issued in the Development Forum on April 30, 2001.

Pre-qualification of bidders for civil works contracts with the estimated cost of USD10
million or more (Contracts HXIC1.1 and HXIC1.2 of this Project) under ICB was
undertaken.

Bid documents for contracts financed by the World Bank were prepared based on the
World Bank's Sample Bidding Documents. All bidding documents were reviewed by the
World Bank. All contracts were awarded to the lowest evaluated bidders in accordance
with the provisions stipulated in the bidding documents.



                                             36

For those projects which were not financed by the World Bank, e.g. the reservoir bank
protection works, temporary works and the installation of bulb turbine generator units etc.,
procurement was undertaken according to the country's procurement law.

The improvement of 37km of the waterway from Zhuzhou to Hengyang in the
Xiangjiang was canceled in March 2002 because of the impending construction of the
Changsha Complex in which the waterway from Zhuzhou to Changsha would be
canalized.

2.2 Project Implementation
Approval to start the Project was given by the State Planning & Development Committee
on July 11, 2002.

Contractors for the dam and powerhouse construction (Contract A) and for the
construction of the ship lock (Contract B) entered the site in the third week of July 2002.
The Supervision Engineers issued the order to start Contract A and Contract B
respectively on August 27 and 30, 2002. Actual completion of contracts compared with
their original scheduling is tabulated as follows:


           Estimated Progress                                    Actual
  Time               Description              Time                    Description
             Contract A: pre-advance of    Sep. 10,2002 Contract A: pre-advance of cofferdam

Sep. 2002       cofferdam phase I;                Sep.1 1
                Contract B: earth & rock        Nov.15 Contract B: excavation started
                excavation                              Contract A: cofferdam closuring

Dec. 2002    Foundation Excavation          Oct. 1,2002 Contract B: foundation excavation
                                                Dec.30 Contract A: foundation excavation

Mar. 2003    Concrete Pouring                Apr.6,2003 Contract A: Concrete pouring
                                                 May 1 Contract B: Concrete pouring
                                               Sep.2004 Powerhouse and 11 sluice gates
             The powerhouse and 11               Oct.25 finished
                                                        Dam & Powerhouse phase I passed
Sep. 2004    sluice gates for water
             retention, cofferdam phase I                  the acceptance and start the initial
             removed                                       operation
                                            End of Nov. Cofferdam phase I removed

Nov. 2004    Cofferdam phase II (right       Dec.1,2004 Cofferdam phase II closed
             branch riverbed) closure

Dec. 2004    Ship lock open to             Dec.26,2004 Ship lock test for navigation
             navigation                         Dec.28 Shiplock formally open to navigation
                                           Aug.15,2005 Generator unit 1 join the grid
                                                Nov.26 Generator unit 5 join the grid
Mar. 2005    Generator unit 1 join the
             grid and generate electricity      Dec.30 Generator unit 2 join the grid
                                            Jun.24,2006 Generator unit 3 join the grid
                                                 Jul.14 Generator unit 4 join the grid




                                              37

           Estimated Progress                                    Actual
  Time                Description              Time                    Description
                                              Aug.2006 13 sluice gates of sluice dam phase II
                                                         finished, all 5 units joined the grid
                                                         and the complex was put into
Dec. 2006    Overall Completion of the
             Project                             Sep.19 operation.
                                                         Sluice dam phase II passed the
                                                         acceptance test and the construction
                                                         completed

The approved construction period for Zhuzhou Complex by the Ministry of
Communications in the project initial design was 5 years (60 months), including 32
months for the ship lock construction and 36 months for the supply and installation of
generators. The actual construction period of Zhuzhou Complex was 48 months of which
28 months were for the ship lock construction and 36 months for the production of
generator unit 1. The general construction period was 12 months ahead of the planned
schedule, with the construction of the ship lock construction 4 months ahead of schedule
and the first unit of generator units according to schedule.

On the whole, the construction in the Project was faster than estimated. This may be
attributed to:
(1) The high qualification criteria required of the bidder in the bidding documents and the
strict bid evaluation process, resulting in the award of contracts to contractors with ability,
good reputation and performance.
(2) Packaging of contracts was appropriate. Contract A and Contract B were awarded to
two contractors because of the different nature, and construction was able to commence
at the same time on both left and right banks without interference from each other.
(3)The owner and staff preparing bidding documents and the design of the construction
organization of the Contractor had the experience of having implemented a similar
project (Dayuandu Complex Project) satisfactorily. The key construction activities were
correctly phased e.g., the mobilization, closure, heightening, reinforcing and removing of
cofferdam were done during the dry season and this lowered the risk and raised the
efficiency and quality of project construction.
(4) The Supervision Engineer and the Owner placed great emphasis on the management
of concrete pouring. Contractors were urged to pay particular attention to concrete
production, transportation equipment and labor resources, thus increasing the pace of
concrete pouring.
(5) The Owner strengthened the linkage and coordination among the contractors which
prevented the occurrence of downtime. For example, the Owner paid a lot of attention to
the timely delivery of goods such as the mechanical and electrical equipment, the metal
structures and the embedded parts and pipelines.
(6) Targets were established to expedite and monitor the performance of contractors and
the quality of construction.

2.3 Quality of Project Construction
The 3-grade quality guarantee system of "Government inspecting, Engineer supervision
and Contractor back-check" was adopted for the quality control of the project. The



                                              38

  Contractor carried out the back-check system of "self-check in groups, back-check in
  work area and final-check in the task manager"; the supervision engineer strictly checked
  the "construction program", "construction procedure" and "construction result" to
  supervise the important parts and key procedure of project construction. Entrusted by
  Hunan Provincial Communications Department, Hunan Provincial Communications
  Construction Quality Supervision Station undertook the regulatory inspection of the
  quality of this project, the main duty of government inspection being to ensure the
  validity of the quality guarantee system and quality control of the contractors and the
  Supervision Engineers, the authenticity and reliability of the acceptance and assessment
  of the result of project quality; ensuring that the Contractor or the Supervision Engineer
  would improve the quality control of works until the achievement of the required
  standard.

  Both Contractors and Supervision Engineers had on-site laboratories. The Contractors
  sample tested the procured material and concrete; the supervision engineer stations
  conducted parallel sample tests to strictly control the quality of material and concrete
  production.

  From the start of construction of Zhuzhou Complex until its completion, 3 important
  project acceptance and quality assessments were undertaken. The start-up acceptance and
  quality assessments on the generators and other mechanical & electrical equipments were
  conducted item by item.

  The project quality assessment results were highly satisfactory. The ratio of excellent
  quality of the Project was more than 90%, exceeding the quality standard of the Luban
  Prize, the top prize for project development and construction in China. The general
  project quality was deemed excellent.

  2.4 Project Financing and Uses of Funds
  The project was completed at a total cost of RMB2 billion. (See Table 5(A) of
  attachment for a detailed breakdown of costs).

  Actual amounts of funds expended on civil works and equipment compared with the
  original estimated amounts in the Project Implementation Plan are summarized below.

  Contracts of Civil Works ­Costs at Completion

                               Contract Price (after                    % of

  Contract       Contract      variation) in units of  Estimation     Contract
                                                                                   Remarks
   Name            No.       RMB1000                   (USD1000)     Price to the
                                           USD1000
                               RMB                                   Estimation

Dam &            HXIC1.1                                                          See notes
                              434,489        52,348     50,710        103.2%
Powerhouse

Ship lock        HXIC1.2      173,874        20,949     22,150         94.6%




                                                  39

                                 Contract Price (after                       % of

   Contract       Contract       variation) in units of    Estimation      Contract
                                                                                         Remarks
     Name             No.     RMB1000                      (USD1000)      Price to the
                                             USD1000
                                 RMB                                      Estimation

Left bank         HXNC2.1                                                              Left and
                                 27,428        3,305                                      right
access road                                                                               bank
                                                                                          access
                                                                                          roads
                                                             2,440         197.4%
Right bank                                                                                were not
                  HXNC2.2        12,541        1,511                                      divided
access road                                                                               in the
                                                                                          estimatio
                                                                                          n

Dam crest          HXNC3
                                 33,062        3,983         4,540          87.7%
bridge

Diversion          HXNC4                                                               Notes 
                                 24,046        2,897         6,000          48.3%
canal

Total                           705,440        84,993        85,840         99.0%
   Notes:
   1. This contract included the slope protection works of Kongzhou Island and 1.34km of Sanmen
   Canal at the dam area section of the reservoir area. This was a newly added content to the original
   procurement plan. So the contract price after variation was 3.2% higher than the estimated price.
   2. In the original procurement plan, the estimation for the left bank access road was based on the
   standard of national highway grade 3. This was changed to highway grade 2 during
   implementation, increasing the cost of access roads by 97.4%.
   3. As mentioned in note 1, the procurement of the dam area section in this contract was included
   in contract HXIC1.1, the cost of this part should be deducted from the estimated contract price.

   The actual cost of civil works was 1% lower than the estimation in the procurement plan.




                                                    40

        Contracts for Goods-Costs at Completion
                                          Contract Price (after       Estimatio
                                          variation)                              % of
                                                                          n       Contract     Remar
Contract Name         Contract No.                       USD100                   Price to the
                                           RMB1000                    (USD100                    ks
                                                             0                    Estimation
                                                                          0)
Generator units                                                                                See
   and            03CN01GTF1IWD                                                                note
   auxiliary      0001                      232,336       27,992       42,340        66.1%
   equipment
Metal structure
of sluice gates   03CN01GTF1IWD
                                             40,434        4,872        4,340       112.2%
                  0004
Metal structure
  of ship lock    03CN01GTF1IWD
                                              7,623        918          1,190        77.1%
                  0005
Metal structure
  of power        03CN01GTF1IWD
                                              8,358        1,007        1,060         95%
  house           0006
Hydraulic hoist
equipment         03CN01GTF1IWD
                                             20,717        2,496        2,860        87.3%
                  0002
Transformer       04CN01GTF1IWD
and switch        1101/1102                  11,927        1,437        1,420       101.2%
station
Dam crest
crane             03CN01GTF1IWD
                                              4,937        595          540          110%
                  0003
Powerhouse
roof              HXNC5.1                     2,076        250          260          96.1%
Raking crane
                  HXNC5.2                      990         119          110          108%
Tail water
crane             HXNC5.3                     1,698        205          180         113.9%
shopping          HXNSG111                                                                     See
                                             13,532        1,630        1,190        137%      note
Total
                                            344,628       41,521       55,490        74.8%
   Notes:
   1 The cost was estimated on the basis of international market price and experience gained from
   the performance of Dayuandu Complex, but the manufacturer of generators was a domestic
   bidder and the units were produced in China, so the cost was greatly lower.
   2 Originally there were 17 items for shopping at an estimated cost of RMB1,480,000. Since the
   revised estimate for the contracts of the raking crane and the tail water crane exceeded
   USD100,000 respectively, they were procured through NCB, thus the cost of shopping was
   decreased to USD1,190,000.

   The actual cost of goods procured was 25.2% lower than the estimation in the procurement plan.




                                                    41

2.5 Technical Assistance and Training

2.5.1 Containerization Development Study
Through the use of QCBS procedure, the joint venture of Hunan Ocean Shipping
Company/Hunan Provincial Navigation Institute and Wuhan University of Science and
Technology was selected to undertake the study on containerization development on the
Xiangjiang.

The study started in July 2004 and the draft version of the Report was submitted to the
World Bank at the end of September 2005. In March 2006, the World Bank provided
some written comments. The consultants revised the draft version to take into
consideration the comments and submitted the final version to the Bank in May 2006.
The Provincial Communications Department also paid a lot attention and greatly
supported the study. After the study was finished in August 2006, the consultants invited
9 specialists to review the result of the study. The specialists' opinion was that the
findings of the report were conclusive, creative and practical. They were taken as a
reference for decision-making by the government.

2.5.2 The Activities of Dam Safety Panel
Since the project initial design stage in 2001, the Dam Safety Panel was convened 25
times to provide technical advice on key concerns such as the select of dam site and dam
axis of the Zhuzhou Complex, the geology of the site, the foundation treatment, the
riverbed development and the stability of waterways, the safety of structures, the
diversion of water during construction, and the safety of the cofferdam in flood etc., as
well as the acceptance of the dam and powerhouse and the generator units. The safety
panel contributed greatly in a wide range of aspects such as the safety of engineering
structures and safety of construction, the optimizing of design program, the expediting of
construction, and the savings in cost. The panel ensured the safety of Zhuzhou
Navigation & Hydropower Complex and improved the function and quality of the Project.

2.5.3 Training
From 2002 to 2007, a total of 14 groups of 110 personnel were sent for overseas training
and study tours, totaling 77.35 person-months. This constituted 71.4% of the personnel
and 53.9% of the person-months in the original Training Plan. The cost for the training
and study tours amounted to USD 667,400 or 44.2% of the estimated cost.

3. Land Requisition and Resettlement

3.1 Land Requisition and Resettlement at the dam area
The dam area of the project occupied 1,372 mu of land permanently, among which 497.3
mu were farmland. This part was compensated with RMB6,895,000. For the area that
was temporarily occupied, a compensation amounting to some RMB 5,733,000 project
was paid. The total compensation cost exceeded by 51.8% the estimated sum of
RMB8,316,000 in the Resettlement Action Plan.
In the dam area, 365 persons in 95 households were resettled at the end of 2004; the
removed housing area was 19,924m2; total compensation cost for house reconstruction



                                              42

etc. was RMB6,947,000, an increase of RMB1,569,000 over the estimated total cost of
RMB5,378,000. The total population finally resettled in the dam area was 408. They
were resettled with the standard of 0.5 mu of farmland on average, plus a set of fishing
nets or a vegetable greenhouse (0.3 mu). Resettlement was undertaken by the local
government.

3.2 Land Requisition and Resettlement at the Reservoir Area
A total of 21,099 mu of farmland was expected to be submerged under the reservoir.
Flood protection works protected 16,038 mu or 76% of the total affected area. The actual
land area of farmland used for the Project was 5,061 mu. Land compensation cost
amounted to RMB44,283,000 which was 29.5% higher than the amount of
RMB34,193,000 provided in the Resettlement Action Plan.

A total of 178 persons in 60 households in the reservoir area were resettled. The removed
housing area was 12,396m2 and was completed by the end of 2004. The compensation
cost for housing etc. was RMB3,742,000. The actual housing area removed decreased
from 16,362 m2 (estimated) to 12,396 m2, especially brick-mix structured houses were
decreased from 9,910 m2 to 2,880 m2, and the actual cost was 49% lower than the
estimated cost (RMB4,448,000).

The total population that needed to be resettled in the reservoir area was 6,038 persons
and they were resettled with the standard of 0.5 mu of farmland on average, plus a box of
fishing nets or a vegetable greenhouse (0.3 mu). Resettlement was performed by the local
government.

3.3 Reservoir Protection Works and Specific Reconstruction Project
The protected bank in the reservoir area was 46.62km; 16,038 mu of farmland were
protected through measures such as raising the level of the land, constructing new or
reconstructing existing culverts and pumping stations; telephone cables and transmission
lines of some 94km were provided; 10.57km of railway beds were protected; 7km of
tractor-ploughing roads, 26 tractor-ploughing bridges and 90 pedestrian bridges were
constructed; 106 culverts were reconstructed or newly constructed, 122 blocked culverts
were repaired; 70 pumping stations were rebuilt or newly constructed and 191 pump
stations were repaired.

The irrigation condition and anti-waterlogging of the protected farmland were greatly
improved. About 6000 mu waterlogged fields were ensured stable yields despite drought
or excessive rain.

Details of cost of compensation payments in the reservoir area were as follows:




                                            43

                      Estimated cost                         Disbursed
      Items             in the PAD           Actual                          Comple-      Remarks
                        (RMB'000)          (RMB'000)        RMB'000)          tion %

Compensation for
  villagers                                 109,818.8        109,818.8          100
Compensation for         80,925.00                                                            
  the specific                               63,164.7         63,164.7          100
  facilities
Reservoir
protection works                            234,238.9        234,238.9          100
Reservoir bottom
  cleaning up                                 152.0            152.0            100
                         159,433.21                                                           
Sanmen Canal                                 40,795            39,602           97.1

Others                                      129,952.2        129,952.2          100
Total                    240358.21          578,121.6        576,928.6          99.8          
Notes:
1 The submerging assets were increased from 90 affected villages, 1,407 ha.of farmland and
68,737m2 houses to 118 affected villages, 1,544 ha.of farmland and 89,044.4 m2 houses. At the
same time, the replacement standards of the affected specific facilities were also greatly increased.
The actual investment was an increase of RMB92.05 million over the amount estimated in the
PAD.
2 An area of acquired land of 465.4 ha.was to be reclaimed. The submerged area outside the
acquired land was protected by specific measures: 46.62 km of reservoir bank along the river was
protected; 176 affected culverts and pumping stations were reconstructed up to the current
standard. The quantities and construction standard of the reservoir protection projects were
greatly increased, and the actual investment was RMB245.70 million more than the estimation in
the PAD.
3. The actual investment of the reservoir area projects was RMB337.75 million more than the
estimation in the PAD.

4. Environment Protection & Monitoring
The environmental impacts of the Zhuzhou Navigation & Hydropower Complex were
mainly water degradation and soil erosion at the construction area caused by the
destroyed vegetation due to construction. Various physical and biological measures were
adopted to maintain the water and soil erosion in the construction area at their pre-
construction standards.

During the construction process, the principal of "three simultaneities" was taken in the
provision of environment protection facilities, i.e. to design, construct and finish the
environment protection facilities synchronously with construction, to recover the
vegetation and conserve the water and soil.

4.1 Fishery Resource Protection
The main species of fish in Xiangjiang were the black carp, grass carp, silver carp and
variegated carp. The long term plan of fry releases agreed upon with the World Bank in
the Dayuandu Navigation & Hydropower Complex Project was adopted for this Project.



                                                44

Therefore HXNCDC signed a long term contract with Hunan Provincial Aquatic Product
Bureau (HPAPB) with specific funds to expand fry breeding by releasing fries into
Xiangjiang. The HPAPB undertook to release fries longer than 3cm in Xiangjiang
annually to ensure a continuous increase in the fish population in the Xiangjiang.

4.2 Environment Monitoring
The Hunan Provincial Environmental Monitoring Center Station was entrusted to conduct
environment monitoring during construction of Zhuzhou Complex in accordance with the
requirements (monitoring scope, frequency, etc) of the Action Plan for Environment
Protection. Monitoring commenced in August 2002, the project starting date. A total of
17 quarterly monitoring reports and 4 annual monitoring reports were submitted to the
World Bank.

The result of monitoring indicated that even at the busiest time of construction, the
impact to the surface water was negligible. The excess of suspended sediments usually
happened at the flood season, not caused by construction; the excess of waste water
occurred only in 2004, the reason was the waste water treatment facility was not cleaned
up after a long time of usage; the excess of noise were caused by the vehicles; the excess
of TSP happened at the busy time of excavation and the construction of access roads.
After the completion of surfacing of the access roads and the excavation, the TSP was
controlled within the permitted scope. After the overall completion of the project, the
environment quality was excellent.

5. Concluding Remarks: The Benefits of the Project and the Main Problems
Encountered

The implementation of the project has given the HXNCDC great satisfaction but also
some stressful moments. In particular, the HXNCDC found the following outcomes
exceeded expectation.

·    The construction of Zhuzhou Navigation & Hydropower Complex was completed
     one year ahead the schedule, yielding the benefit of an additional power output of
     about 600 million kwh.
·    The Project was of good quality, great function and created a beautiful environment
     in the Project area; it was rated a demonstration project of national water
     transportation projects by MOC.
·    In the project design, the type of dam, the moveable metal roof of the powerhouse,
     the design of dam and powerhouse sharing a 2000kN crane, the internal hydraulic
     hoist equipment of the dam radial gates and the ship lock gates, the wide gap
     structure between the side pier of the dock-type lock head and the bottom, the key
     technology of the waterway improvement design at the ship lock inlet area and the
     model test demonstration, are innovative and valuable for extending their
     application to similar projects in China.
·    New technologies such as the gabion stone and modules of bags of concrete were
     adopted in the construction. They proved to be good for protecting the greatly
     weathered riverbed and the sandy river bank, safe and reliable, simple and



                                             45

      convenient in construction. These new technologies shortened the construction
      period and decreased the construction cost, as well as accumulated experience for
      the design and construction of similar projects in the future.
·     The good quality and high efficiency of project implementation proved that the
      management mode and structure of this project was successful. The effective
      coordination and organization ability of the Owner and the harmonious cooperation
      of the Owner, the Supervision Engineer and the Contractor were key to the success.
      During the whole construction process, led by the Owner, the resource allocation of
      the related parties was optimized. Every party involved and related to the Project
      responded positively to the Owner's insistence that contracts be performed honestly
      and faithfully. Every aspect of the Project was in order operationally and project
      implementation progressed successfully.

Summary of the Main Benefits of Project Outputs
                                                  Benefits (effects)
Project component
                      1. The excellent rate of construction quality is 97.2%, which is
                          higher than the standard of Luban Prize, the quality is excellent;
                      2. The axes and flow condition are superior, navigation is safe and
                          smooth;
Ship lock             3. 96km waterways were canalized, nonstop transportation of 1000t-
                          grade fleet from Hengyang-Chenglingji, Yueyang was realized;
                      4. The trend of large-scale vessels is evident, the transportation
                          capability is increased and the cost is decreased. The annual
                          increasing rate of traffic through the ship lock is 6%.
                      1. The excellent rate of construction quality is 93.9%, which is
                          higher than the standard of Luban Prize, the quality is excellent;
                      2. The upstream water level of dam is raised, the least depth of
                          waterway is increased from 1.3m to 3.5m, the 1000t-grade vessels
                          or fleet could go through perennially, this is good for the
                          development of waterway transportation;
                      3. The annual average output of power station is 664GWh, the
                          annual power sales income is RMB1800 million. It has the ability
Dam & Powerhouse          to repay the World Bank Loan, and provide conditions for
                          improving navigation through the benefit of power sales.
                      4. Improved the irrigation condition of 100 thousand mu farmland;
                      5. The reservoir created good condition for the expanding of
                          aquiculture and tourism.
                      6. Improved the quality of water supplied to the cities and towns
                          along the river.
                      7. The beautiful environment of the dam area provides a quality
                          recreational area for the local residents.
                      Linked both left and right river sides of Zhuzhou County, the local
Access Roads          working and living conditions were improved and the development of
                      local economy is promoted.
                      1. The high quality protection works improved the security of flood

Reservoir Protection      bank of both sides.
                      2. The anti-waterlog, drainage and irrigation condition of the
 Works                    protected farmland was improved, 16 thousand mu farmland were
                          protected, among which 6000 mu water-logged farmland were


                                               46

                                                   Benefits (effects)
 Project component
                            reclaimed to productive farmland.
                        1. The number of overseas trained personnel was 110 at a total of
                        77.35 person-months.
                        2. The qualification and innovation of the project managers were
                             renewed and improved, the construction could be done with
                             speedily and in good quality.
Institutional           3. The innovations in project design obtained high appraise in China;
                        4. The acquisition of knowledge in advanced equipment and
  Development               information was high, the operation staff and managers were well
                            trained and prepared for the operation and maintenance of the
                            facilities.
                        5. The organization was simplified and operated with high
                            efficiency.
                        1. A specific Study Report with 360 pages was submitted with full,
                            accurate and reliable evidence;
                        2. The report contained meaningful recommendations on shipping
                            services, vessel size, construction standards of the waterway and

Containerization            ports for container handling, and made useful comments on the
                            effectiveness of existing laws and regulations, on improving the
Study                       clearance of cargo, the level of competitiveness for the market and
                            on information systems.
                        3. The outcome of the Study could provide inputs for decision-
                            making of the government and will promote the development of
                            waterway transportation in the Xiangjiang.



5.1 Main Problems Encountered
On the negative side, the following problems were encountered

    · Site surveys and investigations that provided the basis for the technical
         information and drawings for the construction of the project proved to be
         insufficient during project implementation. Simultaneously, some conditions such
         as weather, hydrology and geology that affected the construction were not
         adequately determined. These risks were very difficult to avoid during the design
         and preparation of bidding documents. This created a lot of design variations
         during the implementation of the Project; the original contract price was very
         difficult to control.
    · The principle of the World Bank procurement guidelines of selecting the bidder
         with the lowest evaluation price was not entirely satisfactory in the current
         situation of the project construction market in China. The market was very
         competitive. Under this situation, in order to get the contract, the bidder always
         bided with a price lower than the actual cost. The Owner had to select it but this
         would cause problems during the construction process. Due to the limitation of
         this procurement principal, it was difficult to select a good Contractor with the
         best balance of "capability and price".
    · The World Bank supervised this Project for 5 years, the task team leader and the
         consultants changed very frequently, the new officers needed some time to be


                                                47

  familiar with the Project, the working style was also very different, and the
  Borrower also needed time to communicate with them. This lack of continuity
  decreased the working efficiency. HXNCDC would like to suggest that the World
  Bank assign its officers on a more continuous basis.
· HXNCDC appreciated the careful review of contract variations by the World
  Bank officers and consultants, but the Bank's officer responsible for procurement
  was changed very frequently with different requirement for the Borrower to
  submit documents. A lot of time was spent in communication between the
  Borrower and the officer through documents. For example, the review of the
  contract variations for the dam/powerhouse, dam crest bridge and Sanmen Canal
  took almost one year; the Borrower could not disburse from the loan, and the
  amount of outstanding payments to contractors were so large that the borrower
  had to resort to a large amount of revolving funds from commercial bank
  borrowings. This put a huge pressure on financing. We hope the World Bank
  could improve on its review of contract variations.
· For the World Bank financed overseas training, it was implemented strictly in
  accordance with the World bank's guidelines and the tasks arranged in the PAD, ie
  submit TOR for Bank review, select consultants through short-listing, but there
  were some discrepancies between the stipulations of MOF and the requirements
  of the Bank's guidelines. As a result, the aggregated cost for overseas training of
  USD625,200 could not be met from loan disbursements.




                                      48

Attachments

Table 5(A): Project Costs (Currency conversion rate: 8.3)

    Project Component                Estimation in SAR          Actual cost             Remarks
                               US $thousand       RMB 000      (RMB '000)
AZhuzhou Shiplock                  19,548.71       162,254.29     171,282.50
1. Shiplock Construction           18,541.71       153,896.19     157,433.50
2. Shiplock Gates                    1,007.00        8,358.10      13,849.00
BDam and Powerhouse                97,002.13       805,117.68     824,604.00
1. Major Civil Works               40,687.71       337,707.99     353,535.50
2. Generating Equipment            36,697.46       304,588.92     372,483.80
3. Sluice Gates                      8,799.83       73,038.59      56,594.00
4. Transformer and Switch yard       1,183.00        9,818.90      11,940.70
5. Transmission Lines                9,634.13       79,963.28      30,050.00
CAccess Roads                        5,863.47       48,666.80      86,410.30
1. Inside road (bridge)              3,696.22       30,678.63      28,593.00
2. Outside road                      2,167.25       17,988.18      57,817.30
DBank Protection                   23,907.08       198,428.76     405,884.20
1. Inundation Protection           14,176.17       117,662.21     326,118.20       Reservoir Works 1
2. Drainage for Sanmen               5,032.65       41,771.00      40,795.00       Reservoir Works 2
3. Kongzhou Bank Protection          4,698.26       38,995.56      38,971.00

EChannel Improvement                                                            This component was canceled
                                     1464.27        12,153.44              0    because of the construction of
1. Zhuzhou-Xiangtan WW                                                               Changsha Complex

FTA and Training                     8,194.30       68,012.69      74,397.10
1. Design                            4,087.97       33,930.15      50,142.00
2. Supervision Consultants           2,516.33       20,885.54      18,317.90
3. Training                          1,510.00       12,533.00       5,189.00
4. Container Study                         80          664.00         748.20

GResettlement(Except D1D2)           9,750.00       80,925.00     211,208.40
Direct Cost                       165,729.96     1,375,558.67   1,773,786.50
Physical Contingency               16,414.04       136,236.53              0
Price Contingency                  18,756.26       155,676.96      68,188.60
Total Project Costs               200,900.26     1,667,472.16   1,841,975.10
Interest during construction       18,324.41       152,092.60      74,975.00
Front-end Fee                        1,000.00       8,300.00        8,300.00
Total Financing Required          220,224.67     1,827,864.76   1,925,250.10
      Note: RMB40.41 million are not included in the total financing required, among which RMB26
million are for the production area, RMB4.5 million for the temporary dock, RMB7.26 million for
landscaping and RMB2.65 million for the safeguard rail and net.




                                              49

Table 5(B): Estimated/Actual Costs by Category (in US $ thousand)

Categories                     Estimated Costs in PAD           Actual Costs  % of Actual to
                                                                                   Estimate

Goods                                        57,321.42            58,423.80            101

Works                                        90,464.24           120,875.12            133

Services                                      6,684.30             8,338.33            128

Training                                      1,510.00               625.18              41

Resettlement                                  9,750.00            25,446.80            261

Contingency                                  35,170.30             8,215.42              23

Direct Costs of Project                     200,900.26           221,924.65            110

Interest during construction                 18,324.41             9,033.13              49

Front-end Fee                                 1,000.00             1,000.00            100

Total Financing Required                    220,224.67           231,957.78            105




                                          50

Annex 6. List of Supporting Documents

  1.   Project Appraisal Document, Report No. 21909-CHA. World Bank, May 24,
       2001
  2.   Loan Agreement between People's Republic of China and International Bank
       for Reconstruction and Development, January 7, 2002
  3.   Project Agreement between International Bank for Reconstruction and
       Development and Hunan Province, January 7, 2002.
  4.   Project Implementation Plan. Hunan Xiangjiang Navigation Construction and
       Development Company, January 2001.
  5.   Financial Management Program. Hunan Xiangjiang Navigation Construction
       and Development Company, August 2000.
  6.   Environmental Impact Assessment Report. Hunan Environmental Protection
       Research Institute, August 2000.
  7.   Resettlement Action Plan. Hunan Xiangjiang Navigation Construction and
       Development Company, November 2000.
  8.   Procurement Program of Goods and Works. Hunan Xiangjiang Navigation
       Construction and Development Company, August 2000.
  9.   Procurement Capacity Assessment Report. World Bank, January 2001
  10. Quarterly Progress Reports. Hunan Xiangjiang Navigation Construction and
       Development Company, 2002-2007
  11. Comprehensive Study of Navigation Development Along the Xiangjiang.
       Hunan Ocean Shipping Company/Hunan Provincial Navigation Institute, May
       2006
  12. Environmental Monitoring Reports. Hunan Xiangjiang Navigation
       Construction and Development Company, 2002-2007
  13. Resettlement Monitoring Reports. Hunan Xiangjiang Navigation Construction
       and Development Company, 2002-2007
  14. Special Independent Resettlement Monitoring Report, March 2007
  15. Construction Supervision and Quality Assurance Plan. Hunan Xiangjiang
       Navigation Construction and Development Company, January 2001.
  16. Complex Operation and Maintenance Plan. Hunan Xiangjiang Navigation
       Construction and Development Company, January 2001
  17. Security Contingency Measures. Hunan Xiangjiang Navigation Construction
       and Development Company, February 2001
  18. Feasibility Study Report (2 volumes). Hunan Provincial Communications
       Planning, Survey and Design Institute, August 2000
  19. Implementation Completion Report-Borrower's Contribution. Hunan
       Xiangjiang Navigation Construction and Development Company, February
       2007.




                                        51

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      IBRD 31205

                          70°                              80°                             90°                                 10°                                       110°                                                  120°                                              130°



50°
                                                                                                                      R U S S I A N    F E D E R AT I O N                                                                                                         Heilong
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         Jiang                                   50°



                            KAZAKHSTAN                                                                                                                                                                                                  Ergun                           Heihe

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  Tongjiang

                                                                                                                                                                                                                               Manzhouli                             HEILONGJIANG
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        Jiamusi

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        Qiqihar                             Jiang
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  Jiang
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     Na
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       n           Songhua

 UZBEKISTAN                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             HARBIN

                                                  Huocheng                                                                 M O N G O L I A
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  Suifenhe
                                                              Kuytun
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    Jilin
                                                                                Dahuangshan                                                                                                                                                                   CHANGCHUN
                                                                           URUMQI
                 KYRGYZ
                                                                                                                                                                                                                        O  L                                                    J I L I N

40°            REPUBLIC
                                                                               Turpan
                                                                                                                                                                                                               O  N G

                                                                                                                                                                                                          M                                                             SHENYANG
TAJIKIST                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         40°
                                                                                                                                                                                              E   I                                                         L I A O N I N G             DEM.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          S e a o f
        AN                                                                                                                                                                              N
                                                          X I N J I A N G                                                                                                                                                                                                           PEOPLE'S
                                                                                                                                                                                                           Jining                                                                                          J a p a n
                                                                                                                                                                                      HOHHOT                                                                 Yingkou   Dandong       REP. OF
                                         80°                                                                                                                                                                                    BEIJING
                                                                                                                                                                      (Yellow                                                                       Qinhuangdao                       KOREA
                                                                                                                                                                                   River)                                BEIJING                                 Dalian

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       TIANJIN
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          TIANJIN                 Ferry
     This map was produced by                                                                                                                                                                                                            Tanggu

     the Map Design Unit of The                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  REP. OF
                                                                                                                                          YINCHUAN                                                                    HEBEI
     World Bank. The boundaries,                                                                                                                                                    SHIJIAZHUANG                                                                 Yantai
     colors, denominations and                                                                Q I N G H A I                                                                                                                                                                                      KOREA
     any other information shown                                                                                                                                                                     TAIYUAN                           JINAN
     on this map do not imply, on                                                                                                                                                          Huang
     the part of The World Bank                                                                                               XINING                                                                                                                         Qingdao
     Group, any judgment on the                                                                                                                                                                                                          SHANDONG
     legal status of any territory,                                                                                                                                                             HeSH ANXI                  (Grand                                       Y e l l o w
     or any endorsement or                                                                                                                  LANZHOU
     a c c e p t a n c e o f s u c h                                                                                                                     NINGXIA                                                                                                           S e a
                                                                                                                                                                                                          Xinxiang
     boundaries.                                                                                                                                                                                                      Kaifen     Canal)
                                                                                                                                                                                                    Luoyang                                                Lianyuang
                                                                                                                                      G A N S U                 Baoji     Weinan                                   ZHENGZHOU
                                                                                                                                                                                                   Sanmenxia                                 Xuzhou
                                                                                                                                                                                        Tongguan
                                                                                                                                                                                   XI'AN             HENAN                                                     JIANGSU
                                                                                                                                                                SHAANXI                                                                                 Zhenjiang      Nantong
                                                                                                                                                                                           H a n                                             NANJING              Zhangjiagang
                                                             X I Z A N G                                                                                    Ankang                                   Jiang                                  Yuxikou                Wuxi
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  HEFEI                                   SHANGHAI
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        Wuhu                                                     30°
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                SHANGHAI
                                           30°                                                                                                     Jialing                                                                       Tongling                                                        E a s t
                                                                                                                             S I C H U A N                                       Chang        Jiang                                            ANHUI
                                                                                                                                                                                                         HUBEI                                  Anqing
                                                                                                                                                                                                                        WUHAN
                                                                      LHASA                                                                                                                                                                                                  Ningbo            C h i n a
                                                                                                                                   CHENGDU                                                                                                          HANGZHOU
                                                                                                                                                                                     Zhicheng                                 Huangshi
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         Jiujiang
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                J.             Jinhua                            S e a
                                                                                                                                                                      CHONGQING                                  Chenglingji                 Xin         ZHEJIANG
                                                                                                                                                                CHONGQING
                                                                                                                                                                                                  H U N A N                              NANCHANG
                                                                                                                                             Yibin                          Jian                   CHANGSHA
                                                                                                                                                                           u
                                                 CHINA                                                                                                                    W                                                          Jiang

                                                                                                                                                  G U I Z H O U                                                                   Gan
               THIRD INLAND WATERWAYS PROJECT                                                                                                                                                                    Hengyang
                                                                                                        ANMAR                                  GUIYANG                                                                    JIANGXI                                 FUZHOU
                                                                                                             MY                                                                                                                                 FUJIAN
                                                                                                                                                                                                      For detail, see                             Han
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  Jiang        Quanzhou

                                                                                                                             KUNMING               Hongshui                                            IBRD 31206         Dong
                                                                                                                                                                                                                Bei       Jiang                               Xiamen      TAIWAN
                                                                                                                                                                                                               Jiang
                             MAJOR NAVIGABLE WATERWAYS                  SELECTED TOWNS                                                                                                   Guxian
                                                                                                                        Y U N N A N                              Jiang
                                                                                                                                                                     G U A N G X I

                                                                                                                                                                                                          Wuzhou G U A N G D O N G
                                                                                                                                                                                                Guxian                 GUANGZHOU                   Shantou
                             RIVER PORTS                                PROVINCE CAPITALS                                                                Zue
                                                                                                                                                        Jiang                                                                                Tanxi
                             SEA PORTS                                  NATIONAL CAPITAL                                                                                           NANNING                                       Longyang
                                                                                                                                                                                       Xun                 Foshan            Shenzhen
                             BANK FINANCED SEA PORTS                    PROVINCE BOUNDARIES                                                                                           Jiang                                 HONG KONG
                                                                                                                                          VIETNAM                                                                                                                                                                20°
                             MAJOR ROADS                                INTERNATIONAL BOUNDARIES               ANMAR                                                                                                    MACAO
                                                                                                                                                                                 Beihai
                                                                                                                    MY                                                                                 Zhanjiang                             0        100       200        300      400        500 MILES

                                                                                                        20°                 LAO PEOPLE'S                                                             HAIKOU                                  0          200           400          600         800 KILOMETERS
                                                                                                                              DEM. REP.
                                                                                                        THAILAND                                                                                       HAINAN                                                                     PHILIPPINES
                                                                                                                       100°                                                                      110°                                                                         120°

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             MAY 2001

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      IBRD 31206

                                            112°                                            113°                Han                    114°                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              To Changsha
      CHANNEL IMPROVEMENTS:                                                                                        Shui                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  City and
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         Yangtze River
       THIRD INLAND WATERWAY PROJECT                    HUBEI
                                                         Chang                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        CHINA
       FIRST INLAND WATERWAY PROJECT                                                                                                                                            ZHUZHOU
30°                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        THIRD INLAND
      MAIN ROADS                                                                                                                            Xianning                  DAM AND SHIPLOCK
      RAILROADS                                                     Jiang                              Hong                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 WATERWAYS PROJECT
                                                                                                         Hu
      PROVINCE CAPITAL                                                                                                          Puqi                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      HUNAN PROVINCE
      PROVINCE BOUNDARIES
                             Jinshi
                                                                                                            Jiang

                    Li   Shui                                                                       Chan
                                                                    Huarong                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               River                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           DAM AND SHIPLOCK


                               Linli                                                                 Chenglingji

                                                        Anxiang                                     Yueyang                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          Jiang

                                                                                                    Rongjiawan
                                                                                                                                                                                                IiIiIiIiIiIiIiIiIiIiIiIiIiIiIiIiIiIiIiIiIiIiIiIiIiIiIiIiIiIiIiIiIiIiIiIiIiIiIiIiIiIiIiIiIiIiIiIiIiIiIiIiIiIiIiIiIiIiIiIiIiI iIiIiIiIiIiIiIiIiIiIiIiIiIiIiIiIiIiIiIiIiIiIiIiIiIiIiIiIiIiIiIiI                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    Xiang
                   Changde                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               iIiIiIiIiIiIiIiIiIiIiIi
29°                                                                                                                                                       29°

                    Jiang

                Yuan                                                                     Miluo                                                                                       Connects to
                                                                                                                                        Jiang                                         local road
                                                     Dongting Hu
                                                                                                                                 Miluo
                                                          Yiyang                         Xiangyin
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       IiIiIiIiIiIi
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        IiI                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                (28.2)

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              This map was produced by the Map Design Unit of The World Bank.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              The boundaries, colors, denominations and any other information
                       ZiShui


                                                                                                                                                              Link to
                                  HUNAN                                            Xiang
                                                                   Ningxiang                                                                                  Beijing-Zhuhai
                                                                                                                                                              Expressway
                                                                                                                               He                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          (27.20)                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   Navigation
                                                                                    gnaiJ     Changsha                      Liuyang
                                                                                                                                                                              HQ                                                                                                                                                                                                                     Area                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          iIIiIiIiIiIiIiIiIiIiIiIiIiIiIiIiIiIiIiIiIiIiIiIiIiIiIiIiiIiIiIiIiIiIiIiIiIiIiIiIiIiIiIiIiIiIiIiIiIiIiIiIiIiIiIiI                                                                                                                                                   Downstream                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              shown on this map do not imply, on the part of The World Bank
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              Group, any judgment on the legal status of any territory, or any
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              endorsement or acceptance of such boundaries.




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       Embankments
                                                                                                                     Liuyung
28°                                                                                                                                                       28°                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      RUSSIAN
                                                                               Xiangtan
                                                                                                      Zhuzhou                                                              Water                                                                                                                                                                                                              Shallow                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         FEDERATION
                                                                                                                                                                         Discharge          IiiIiI                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    Island
                                       Loudi                                                                                                                               Gate
                                                                                            Lukou                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          (180
                                                                   Xiangxiang                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      (26.70)                                                                                    HEILONGJIANG
    Lengshujiang                                                                                gn            Liling
                                                                                                      Zhuzhou                          Pingxiang                                                                                                                                                                                                   Powerhouse                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  Shiplock
                                                                                                Jia   Dam/Shiplock                                                                                                                                                                                            (24.63)                            (28MW x 5)                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    Lx23
                                                                                         Xiang                                                                                           IiIiIiiIiIIiIiIiIiIiIiIiIiIiIiIiIiIiIiIiIiIiI
                                                                                                                                                JIANGXI                                                                                                                                                                                        BRIDGE                                                       iIIiIiIiIiIiIiIiIiIiIiIiIiIiIiIiIiIiIiIiIiIiIiIiIiIiIiIiIiIiIiI
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               iIiIiIiIiIiIiIiIiIiIiIiIiIiIiIiIiIiIiIiIiIiIiIiIiIiIiIiIiIiIiIiIiIiIiIiIiIiIiIiIiIiIiIiIiIiIiIiIiIiIiIiIiIiIiIiIiIiIiIiiIiIiIiIIiIiIiIiIiIiIiIiIiIiIiIiIiIiIiIiIiIiIiIiIiIiIiIiIiIiIiIiIiIiIiIiIiIiIiIiIiIiIiIiIiIiIiIiIiIiIiIiIiIiIiIiIiIiIiIiIiIiIiIiIiIiIiIiIiIiIiIiIiIiIiIiIiIiIiIi
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            Kongzhou                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   BRIDGE                                                                              IiIiIiIiIiIiIiIiIiIiIiIiIiIiIiIiIiIiIiIiIiIiIiIiIiIiIiIiIiIiIiIiIiIiIiIiIiIiIiIiIiIiIiIiIiI iIIiIiIiIiIiIiIiIiIiIiIiIiIiIiIiIiIiIiIi                                                                                                                Channel                                                               IiIiIiIiIiIiIiIiIiIiIiIiIiIiIiIiIiIiIiIiIiIiIiIiIiIiIiIiIiIiIiIiIiIiIiIiIiIiIiIiIiIiIiIiIiIiIiIiIiIiIiIiIiIiIiIiIiIiIiIiIiIiIiIiIiIiIiIiIiIiIiIiIiIiIiIiIiIiIiI




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       MONGOLIA
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   B)
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               JILIN
                                                                      Hengshan




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          East
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   Connects                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           ANHUI
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         to local                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   iIiIiIiIiIiIiIiIiIiIiIiIiIiIiIiIiIiIiIiIiIiIiIiIiIiIiIiIiIiIiIiIiIiIiIiIiIiIiIiIiIiIiIiIiIiIiIiIiIiIiIiIi IiIiIiIiI                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             Connects




                                            Qidong                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         IiiIiIiIiIiIiIiIiIiIiIiIiIiIiIiIiIiIiIiIiIiIiIiIiIiIiIiIiIiIiIiIiIiIiIiIiIiIiIiIiIiIiIiIiIiIiIiIiIiIiIiIiIi                                                                                                                IiI                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            to Prov.
        Shaoyang                                                                                                                                                                                                                      IiI                                                                                                                     DAM                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        DAM                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       Rd. 1815                                               L
                                                                                             Dayuandu                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 (sluice gates)                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  Upstream                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     LIAONING
                                                                  Dayuandu                   Dam/Shiplock                                                                                                                                                  (28.00)                                                                 (sluice gates)                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   MONGO                                          D.P.R. OF
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 NEI
                                                                                            Hengdong                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     BEIJING                                    KOREA
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         BEIJING
                                                                                                                                                                                  Switch                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 iIiIiIiIiIiIiIiIiIiIiIiIiIiIiIiI
                                                                                           Mi                                                                      Flood          Station                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     Navigation                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 TIANJIN
27°                                                                                          Shui               You Xian                                                                                                                 iIiIiIiIiIiIiIiIIiIiIiIiIiIiIiIiIiIiIi                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               HEBEI
                                                                                                                                                          27°                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            iIiIiIiIiIiI                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   REP. OF
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     iIi
                                                                                                                                                                     for Control                                                                                               IiIiIiIiIiIiIiIiI                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        IiIiIi                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                Yellow    KOREA
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              IiIiIiIiI                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              SHANXI         SHANDONG
                                                                             Hengyang                                                                                   farmlandCanal

                                                                                                                          Chaling                                                                                                                                                               iIiIiIiIiIiIiIiIiIiIiIiI                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       Sea
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       iIiIiI                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   QINGHAI            NINGXIA
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             iIiIiIiIiI                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              IiIiIiIiIiIiIiIiIiIiIiIiIiIiIiIiIiIiIiIiIiIiIiIiIiIiIiIiIiIiIiI                                                    Channel
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                JIA
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       iIiIiIiIiIiIiI                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               iIiIi
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         IiIiIiIiIiIi                 (35.8)                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              China
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                roads                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    Area of                                          Sea
                                                            Jiang                                                                    Ling Xian                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    iIiIiIiIiIiIiIiIiIiIiIiIiIiIiIiIiIiIiIiIiIiIiIiIiIiIiIiIiIiIiIiIiIiIiIiIiIiIiIiIiIiIiIiIiiIIiiIIi                        GANSU
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          SHAANXI       HENAN                      NGSU


                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    HUBEI                                      SHANGHAI

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     SICHUAN                              Map
              Dongan                          Xiang
                                                                                       Leiyang                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            CHONGQING
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   JIANGXI
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     HUNAN
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              (23.5 x 12 +5)                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          (23.5 x 13 + 20)
                                                                         Xiao                Lei
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 GUIZHOU                                      FUJIAN
GUANGXI                        Lingling                                                         Shui                                                                                   50 110                                                                                                                                                                            287                                                                                                                                                     210                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       325.5                    90 46
                                                                             Shui

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   YUNNAN                                                                      TAIWAN
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     982.5                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             136                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   GUANGXI      GUANGDONG                                  PACIFIC
26°                                                                                                                                                       26°                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      1118.5

    0              20                40            60            80
                                                                                  Chenzhou                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              IiIiIiIiIiIiIiIiIiIiIiIiIiIiIiIiIiIiIiIiIiIiIiIiIiIiIiIiIiIiIiIiIiIiIiIiIiIiIiIiIiIiIiIiI                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  ZHEJIANG




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       HONG KONG                     OCEAN
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 MACAO

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     LAO       VIETNAM
                                 KILOMETERS                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            P.D.R.
                                            112°                                           113°                                        114°                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   (Units in meters)                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    HAINAN                                  PHILIPPINES

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         MAY 2001

