Report No. PID9795
Project Name                     Ethiopia-Distance Learning LIL (@)
Region                           Africa Regional Office
Sector                           Other Education
Project ID                       ETPE69083
Borrower(s)                      GOVERNMENT OF ETHIOPIA
Implementing Agency
Address CIVIL SERVICE COLLEGE
P.O. Box 5648 Addis Ababa, Ethiopia
Contact Person: Dr. Haile Michael Aberra
Tel: 251-1-60-17-63
Fax: 251-1-60-17-64
Email: Hailem@excite.com
Environment Category             C
Date PID Prepared                April 9, 2001
Projected Appraisal Date         November 2000
Projected Board Date             April 24, 2001
1. Country and Sector Background
With the change in Government in 1991, and the consequent opening up of
the administration and the private sector that followed, combined with the
decentralization of real authority to nine regional states and two city
administrations in 1994, human capacity in the public sector has been
stretched beyond its limits. Of the 300,000 federal and regional civil
servants 83t do not even have a post secondary diploma. By far the
largest number of civil servants are employed by the regions.In September
1998 a high level Capacity Development Committee was established, chaired
by the Prime Minister, and made up with a number of key ministers. In
December 1998 the committee issued its first draft capacity building
strategy document, in which the Civil Service College occupied a central
role. Six sub-committees were then established which reported to a
national capacity building seminar in early June 1999, again chaired by
the Prime Minister. The key role of the CSC was discussed, and it was
agreed that the existing five year plan of the college would need to be
re-examined, taking account of the overall civil service reform program.
At that time there was no discussion of distance learning
options.Concurrently in 1998 the CSC held a "Visioning Conference" with
the college stakeholders, which forged agreement on a more up-to-date and
precise mission statement for the College. This statement was formally
considered and adopted by a joint meeting of the Board of the College and
key staff on January 16, 2000. It emphasized the key role the College will
play in using appropriate distance education media, and in running
appropriate programs to strengthen the capacity of Ethiopia's civil
service, both at the federal and regional levels through:n Training and
producing competent civil servants;f Giving special assistance to civil
services in the newly emerging regional states;f Contributing to the
strengthening of public and private partnerships; and n Conducting
research and providing consultancy services in key areas of civil service
development.



2. Objectives
As a Learning and Innovation Credit (LIL), the prime objective of this
project is to test the comparative learning outcomes, the comparative
demand, the comparative costs and cost effectiveness, and the
sustainability of several different distance learning approaches being
implemented by the Institute of Distance Education (IDE) in the Civil
Service College (CSC). The findings of this comparative analyses will be
disseminated widely, both inside and outside the country. A secondary
objective is to develop the capacity of the IDE at the CSC to manage; a)
the Global Distance Learning Network (GDLN) link, both at the federal, and
at five regional centers; b) the development and use of appropriate
printed distance learning materials; and c) the establishment of regional
and sub regional distance learning outreach centers.
3. Rationale for Bank's Involvement
Initially it was planned to go ahead with only upgrading the GDLN site in
the CSC in Addis.    However, as a central part of the mandate of the CSC
is to serve the development of the civil services in the Regional States,
especially those in emerging regions, any system that only helps train
people in Addis Ababa misses the large proportion of civil servants most
needing training. If there had not already been considerable sunk capital
in the GDLN it would have been difficult to justify the costs of the
network link, given the difficulty, in the Ethiopian context, to charge
sufficiently high user fees to cover satellite rental and other
operational costs. Government then looked at the economics of extending
the GDLN and web based training to the regions, in order to make the whole
program cost effective. Two-way video conferencing systems (which allow
interactivity) currently cost more than three times as much as
unidirectional systems to establish, and require well trained technicians
to maintain. It is thus not cost effective or feasible to establish and
operate such sophisticated systems in regional centers. A unidirectional
video link (with multidirectional voice and internet connections) is a
much more cost effective option, and is also simpler to maintain. This
was the choice that was finally made for the regional connections.
Finally, only by expanding the use of the regional centers to also cover
print based distance learning leading towards recognized diplomas, could a
fully justified range of services be implemented.
4. Description
A range of different Distance Learning approaches is being developed by
the IDE to enable it to reach its huge potential audience of civil
servants needing training in Addis Ababa and in seven regional centers;
including:Component 1. GDLN Facilities Upgrading and Extension:upgrading
the existing GDLN videoconferencing and internet link at the CSC to the
highest international standards, and to use both for international
training, and for beaming local courses to regional centers;establishing
modified GDLN links with five regional centers, (Bahir Dar, Makelle,
Nazareth, Awassa, and Dire Dawa) beaming programs developed at the IDE,
and also drawn from the international GDLN, to these centers. The
centers can be considered as extension arms of the IDE/GDLN, offering
regional students the same programs as those in the CSC, by July 2002.
These regional centers will be established in existing tertiary level
institutions, and the rooms provided will only need wiring, computer
networking, and security modifications. They will be equipped with
computers (on which learners will view the video programs), and audio
-2 -



visual equipment for participant use;Component 2. Satellite Rental,
Maintenance, and Other Operational Costs for GDLN Centers:satellite
rental, facility maintenance, and other related operational cost
activities resulting from the central GDLN from March 2001. 22t of these
costs to be generated from learners (directly or via sponsorship) in
2001/2, 41- in 2002/3, and 65t in 2003/4;Component 3. Development of
Printed Media Distance Learning:developing printed distance learning
materials, eventually in three disciplines, and launching courses in these
(June 2002 diploma in accounting and diploma in management, and January
2004 diploma in a third subject) to be administered through trained tutors
at 7 selected regional sites, with each enrolled learner taking three
years to complete;Component 4. Training:running large scale computer
literacy, and remedial English courses for civil servants at the regional
centers on a full cost basis, designed to bring them into the computer
age, and prepare them to benefit from the internet;enrolling at least 1300
learners in the print based distance learning in 2002, 2600 in 2003, and
4700 in 2004. Participants and their employers will be expected to pay
two thirds of the total running costs of their courses.     On the basis of
current estimates the participant share is expected to be ETB 800 per
year. On the basis of information collected during the needs assessment,
ETB 600 could be paid by the employer per year;Component 5. Capacity
Development and TA:Establishing two other regional centers without the
GDLN satellite link (Jijiga, and Addis Ababa), equipped with computers and
audio visual equipment;providing technical assistance and training in
effective use of interactive video and internet, the development and use
of print based correspondence courses, the development and use of
internet courses, and training in procurement and financial management.In
addition constant monitoring and reporting on all activities, combined
with a detailed evaluation (Annex 11) at the mid point, and the end of
the project will be an integral part of the project.
1. GDLN Facilities Upgrading & Extension
2. Satellite Rental, Maint., & Other Oper. Costs for GDLN Centers
3. Dev. Of Printed Media Distance Learning
4. Training
5. Capacity Development & TA
5. Financing
Total ( US$m)
Total Project Cost       7.1
6. Implementation
The CSC is a semi-autonomous training institution established in 1995 by
proclamation from the Council of Ministers (Regulation No 3/1996: Annex
12). Under this proclamation CSC was established as a higher level
institution falling directly under the Prime Minister, created to train
civil servants both at the federal and the regional state levels. What
programs are launched by the college is decided by a Board, made up
largely of Government Ministers and leading public servants. The project,
and its three inter-linking components has been considered and endorsed by
the board. IDE is an integral part of the CSC. It will be responsible for
all distance education activities including the GDLN center, the printed
media distance education, and the video and internet links with regional
centers. Currently it is constrained with what it can do, not only
because it is dependent on normal government administrative procedures,
-3 -



but also because of shortages of full time professional staff. Regional
staff can be recruited as their salaries will be funded through regional
incomes.
7. Sustainability
N/A
8. Lessons learned from past operations in the country/sector
All of the distance learning projects funded by the World Bank are at
their early stage of implementation and it is, therefore, not possible to
reflect in the design of this project appropriate lessons learned from
these operations. However, in order to carry out implementation
activities more efficiently, the project design has been kept simple, with
IDE and the regional centers having significant autonomy, and flexibility
in administrative and financial management arrangements. Nevertheless, it
should also be noted that given resource constraints it will never be
possible to have either the personnel or the recurrent budget necessary
for effective implementation for any high cost and high tech project
provided from Government budgets alone, and thus high levels participant
cost sharing will be expected from those benefiting in all the programs,
with any excess capacity marketed to the private and NGO sector. UNDP
has been supporting the regular face-to-face programs at CSC almost since
its inception five years ago, and still its support is needed. Six other
donors have either been supporting particular regular instruction, or
helping finance advanced studies for CSC teaching staff.
9. Program of Targeted Intervention (PTI)     N
10. Environment Aspects (including any public consultation)
Issues        There are no environmental risks of any kind that
can be identified. There is no new construction, but only some
rehabilitation/rewiring of existing buildings both in the center and in
the regions.   This is a training project.
11. Contact Point:
Task Manager
Nicholas L. Bennett
The World Bank
1818 H Street, NW
Washington D.C. 20433
12. For information on other project related documents contact:
The InfoShop
The World Bank
1818 H Street, NW
Washington, D.C. 20433
Telephone: (202) 458-5454
Fax:        (202) 522-1500
Web: http:// www.worldbank.org/infoshop
Note: This is information on an evolving project. Certain components may
not be necessarily included in the final project.
This PID was processed by the InfoShop during the week ending April 13, 2001.
- 4 -



