Document of
The World Bank
Report No: 21766 ET
PROJECT APPRAISAL DOCUMENT
ONA
PROPOSED CREDIT
_N THE AMOUNT OF SDR 3.9 MILLION
(US$ 4.9 MILLION EQUIVALENT)
TO THE
GOVERNMENT OF ETHIOPIA
FOR A
DISTANCE LEARNING LIL PROJECT
April 4, 2001
Operational Quality & Knowledge Unit
Africa Region



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
(Exchange Rate Effective December 1, 2000)
Currency Unit  =   Birr
ETBirr         =   US$0.12
US$1           =   ETBirr 8.3
FISCAL YEAR
July 1-June 30
ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS
LIL           Learning and Innovation Loan
CSC           Civil Service College
IDE           Institute of Distance Education
GDLN          Global Distance Learning Network
NGO           Non-governmental Organization
WBI           World Bank Institute
CAS           Country Assistance Strategy
SOE           Statement of Expenditures
TTL           Task Team Leader
SA            Special Account
IDA           International Development Association
UNDP          United Nations Development Program
VSAT          Very Small Aperture Terminal
DL            Distance Learning
Vice President                    Callisto Madavo
Country Director                  Oey Astra Meesook
Sector Director                  John Roome
Team Leader                      Nicholas Bennett



ETHIOPIA
Distance Learning LIL Project
CONTENTS
A: PROJECT DEVELOPMENT OBJECTIVE
1. Project development objective .............................................................1
2. Key performance indicators ............................................................1I
B: STRATEGIC CONTEXT
1. Sector-related Country Assistance Strategy (CAS) goal supported by the project .....................1
2. Main sector issues and Government strategy ............................................................2
C: PROJECT DESCRIPTION SUMMARY
1. Project components ............................................................3
2. Benefits and target population ............................................................5
3. Institutional and implementation arrangements ............................................................5
4. Financial Management ............................................................5
5. Procurement ...........................................................6
D: PROJECT RATIONALE
1. Project alternatives considered and reasons for rejection ............................................................6
2. Major related projects financed by the Bank and/or other development agencies ......................7
3. Lessons learned and reflected in the project design .......................................               .        .       7
4. Indications of borrower commitment and ownership .......................................8
5. Value added of Bank support in this project .......................................8
E: SUMMARY PROJECT ANALYSIS
1. Economic ......................................8
2. Financial .......................................8
3. Technical .......................................9
4. Institutional ......................................9
5. Environmental ......................................                                                                      10
6. Social ...................................... 10
7. Safeguard Policies ......................................                                                                 10
8 Business Policies ......................................                                                                   10
F: SUSTAINABILITY AND RISKS
1. Sustainability ......................................I 1
2. Critical Risks ......................................                                                                     11
3. Possible Controversial Aspects .......................................11



G: MAIN LOAN CONDITIONS
1. Effectiveness Conditions .................................                      12
2. Other ................................. 12
H. READINESS FOR IMPLEMENTATION .................................                   12
I. COMPLIANCE WITH BANK POLICIES .................................                 12
ANNEXES
Annex 1. ...... Project Design Summary
Annex 2. .... .. Detailed Project Description
Annex . ...... Estimated Project Costs
Annex 4 .       ..... Economic Justification Summary
Annex 5 .... .. Financial Summary
Annex 6 ......      Procurement & Disbursement Arrangements
Annex 7 ......      Project Processing and Budget Schedule
Annex 8 ......      Documents in the Project File
Annex 9 .... .. Statement of Loans and Credits
Annex 10 ......     Country at a Glance
Annex 11 .... .. Organization, Staffing & Technical Capacity of IDE
Annex 12 ......     Relationships Between Regional Centers & CSC
Annex 13 .... .. Technical Assistance Requirements
Annex 14 .... .. Rationale for Use of Internet to Deliver Courses
Annex 15 ......     Monitoring, Evaluation and Performance Indicators
MAP ...       ... IBRD 31158



ETHIOPIA
Distance Learning LIL Project
Project Appraisal Document
Africa Regional Office
AFMET
Date: April 4, 2001                                        Team Leader: Nicholas Bennett
Country Manager/Director: Oey Astra Meesook                Sector Manager/Director: John Roome
Project ID: P069083                                        Sector: Other Education
Lending Instrument: LIL                                    Theme(s): Distance Leaming
Poverty           Targeted  No [XI    Yes    [ I
Intervention:
IDA              Others       Total         Commitment          Closing
US$ m    %       US $ m       US$xm             Date             Date
Credit           4.9    69%        2.2          7.1            2002             2004       Govemment of
Ethiopia
Project Financing Data
[I       Loan      [x I    Credit      [     Grant      []   Guarantee         1    Other [Specify]
For Loans/Credits/Others:
Amount (US$m): US$ 4.9 million
Proposed terms:       [ ]       To be defined  [XI        Multicurrency    [          Single currency
l [ ]    Standard         [ ]        Fixed   [ ]     LIBOR-
Variable                                   based
Grace period (years):                 10
Years to maturity:                    40
Commitment fee:                       0.5%
Service charge:                       0.75%
Front-end fee on Bank loan:
Government                                                            1.4                0.8           2.2
IDA                                                                   0.5               4.4            4.9
Total:                                                                1.9                5.2           7.1
Borrower: Government of Ethiopia
Responsible agency(ies): Civil Service College
Estimated disbursements (Bank FY/US$M): US$4.9 million
Annual                                                                        1.6           2.1          1.3
Cumulative                                                                    1.6           3.7          4.9
Project implementation period: FY2002 to FY2004
Expected effectiveness date: June 1, 2001                  Expected closing date: June 30, 2004
Implementing agency: Civil Service College
Contact person:            Dr. Haile Michael Aberra
Address:                   P.O. Box 5648 Addis Ababa, Ethiopia
Tel: (251-1) 60-17-63        Fax: (251-1) 60-17-64                E-mail: Hailem@exciet.com






A.  Project Development Objective
1. Project Development Objective
As a Learning and Innovation Credit (LIL), the prime objective of this project is to test the
comparative learning outcomes, the comparative demand, the comparative costs and cost
effectiveness, and the sustainability of several different distance learning approaches being
implemented by the Institute of Distance Education (IDE) in the Civil Service College (CSC). The
findings of these comparative analyses will be disseminated widely, both inside and outside the
country. A secondary objective is to develop the capacity of the IDE at the CSC to manage; a) the
Global Distance Learning Network (GDLN) link, both at the federal, and at five regional centers; b)
the development and use of appropriate printed distance learning materials; and c) the establishment
of regional and sub regional distance learning outreach centers.
2. Key Performance Indicators
Performance indicators will be monitored during implementation along with periodic evaluation and
will include the following:
* Demand for the different types and topics of distance learning (DL) courses in Addis and the
regions;
* Percentage of available time that the central and regional GDLN interactive video facilities are
actually used (available time is Monday through Friday from 9 a.m. to 9 p.m.);
* Percentage of GDLN central and regional link costs met from other revenue sources such as a)
renting video link services to other government agencies, the private sector and donors; b)
selling internet access to the general public especially at regional centers; c) subscriptions from
private individuals participating in internet based courses; d) revenues from computer literacy
training; and e) donor funding of specific courses;
* Learning achievement by course, delivery mode, and tutoring support;
* Learner satisfaction by course, delivery mode, and tutoring support;
* Time to completion by course, delivery mode, and tutoring support; and
* Cost effectiveness of learner achievement by delivery mode.
B.  Strategic Context
1. Sector Related Country Assistance Strategy (CAS) goal supported by the project
CAS Report No. 17009-ET & Interim Support Strategy Report No. IDA\R2000-198
Date of latest discussion: August 19, 1997 (CAS); December 5,2000 (ISS)
In the existing (1997) CAS, the proposed strategy aims to reduce poverty both directly and by
promoting sustained economic growth notably by creating an environment conducive to rapid
private sector and export development. This is to be achieved through four clusters of activities, the
first of which deals with policy and capacity; and the fourth with policy and human development.
One of two main aims of this first cluster is to have "improvements in capacity for implementing



-2 -
projects and policies". The proposed operation directly contributes to the achievement of this first
cluster through massive distance learning programs directed at civil service, NGO, and private sector
personnel; and also contributes to the fourth cluster, human development.
Interim Support Strategy for the Federal Democratic Republic of Ethiopia Report No 21189
ET. November 9 2000
A new CAS was being prepared early in 1999, but preparation and discussion had to be delayed as
the conflict with Eritrea flared up in February of that year. Only when a cease fire was agreed in
June 2000 did work recommence at which time it was decided to prepare an Interim Support
Strategy, which was discussed and approved by the Board in November 2000. In this strategy,
capacity issues occupy center stage, as both Government and the Bank have agreed that without
concerted efforts to improve capacity at all levels Government's ambitious development objectives
will not be achieved. In this Interim Strategy this project is specifically mentioned.
2. Main Sector Issues and Government Strategy
With the change in Government in 1991, and the consequent opening up of the administration and
the private sector that followed, combined with the decentralization of real authority to nine regional
states and two city administrations in 1994, human capacity in the public sector has been stretched
beyond its limits. Of the 300,000 federal and regional civil servants 83% do not even have a post
secondary diploma. By far the largest number of civil servants are employed by the regions.
In September 1998 a high level Capacity Development Committee was established, chaired by the
Prime Minister, and made up with a number of key ministers. In December 1998 the committee
issued its first draft capacity building strategy document, in which the Civil Service College
occupied a central role. Six sub-committees were then established which reported to a national
capacity building seminar in early June 1999, again chaired by the Prime Minister. The key role of
the CSC was discussed, and it was agreed that the existing five year plan of the college would need
to be re-examined, taking account of the overall civil service reform program. At that time there was
no discussion of distance learning options.
Concurrently in 1998 the CSC held a "Visioning Conference" with the college stakeholders, which
forged agreement on a more up-to-date and precise mission statement for the College. This
statement was formally considered and adopted by a joint meeting of the Board of the College and
key staff on January 16, 2000. It emphasized the key role the College will play in using appropriate
distance education media, and in running appropriate programs to strengthen the capacity of
Ethiopia's civil service, both at the federal and regional levels through:
* Training and producing competent civil servants;
* Giving special assistance to civil services in the newly emerging regional states;
* Contributing to the strengthening of public and private partnerships; and
* Conducting research and providing consultancy services in key areas of civil service
development.
3. Learning and Development Issues to be Addressed by the Project:
As the modern world becomes increasingly complex with new knowledge and new technology
becoming more and more essential, there is a danger that Ethiopia will be left behind. Access to this
new knowledge and technology is limited by poor internet services from the Ethiopian
Telecommunication Corporation as the only provider, and is costly (up to $25 an hour for those in



- 3 -
the regions), and thus those who use the internet are so thinly spread that it is difficult for Ethiopians
to remain connected to this modem world. This is why it is being proposed to upgrade and
strengthen the Global Distance Learning Network, internet and virtual learning facilities in the CSC
in Addis, and to extend these to five regional centers where there is the highest concentration of civil
servants. These links will only be used for education and training purposes.
The ravages of decades of war, combined with the strains on the existing stock of skilled manpower
resulting from the 1994 creation of regional states, has meant that no sector of the economy has
adequate numbers of qualified and trained manpower. In addition, no sector is sufficiently in touch
with relevant up-to-date global developments. It is as much the private and the NGO sectors that
need knowledge of the latest ideas, as the public sector, and thus many of the offerings from the
upgraded and extended GDLN will be open to all and actively marketed. More serious is the fact
that the vast proportion of the manpower who need to have their knowledge upgraded, and could
benefit from links with the outside world, are employed by regional states and currently are not
computer literate and do not have any access to the internet.
In each of the regions there are tens of thousands of recently recruited public servants, who have had
no basic training that is related to their jobs. A detailed needs assessment was carried out by IDE
staff in October 2000, in four regions, and from this it was clear that the highest priority for such
training was in accountancy, closely followed by management, with many thousands of civil
servants needing training in each. The only way to reach such cadres is through correspondence or
electronic distance learning systems. These correspondence courses will be based on printed
materials supplemented with audio and videocassettes, and with twice monthly face to face tutorial
sessions. These courses will be supported by live lectures from CSC staff in Addis Ababa directly
beamed at the regional centers where appropriate. In parallel with the printed media courses IDE
will select and subscribe to appropriate web based courses, and will develop one or its own.
Given the need to test some potentially high cost programs, combined with the constrained
budgetary situation in Ethiopia, it will be necessary for the project to provide the CSC with some
support to cover the initial recurrent costs (on a declining basis,78% in the first year,59% in the
second, and 35% in the third) for both the GDLN and the printed media DL, over an initial three-
year period.
C.  Project Description Summary
1.   Project components
1. GDLN Facilities         OhrEduc.        1.0        15%0.1%
Upgrading & Extension
2. Satellite Rental, Maint., &   Other Educ.  1.4      19%        0.8       11%
Other Oper. Costs for GDLN
Centers
3. Dev. Of Printed Media   Other Educ.      1.3        18%        0.9       12%
Distance Learning
4. Training                Other Educ.     0.8         11%        0.0        0%
5. Capacity Development &    Other Educ.   2.6        37%         2.4       34%
ITA                      I_____Ioa          7.1       10%4.I_
I             ~~~Totall                7.1    I100%    1 4.9  t        69%



- 4 -
A range of different Distance Learning approaches is being developed by the IDE to enable it to
reach its huge potential audience of civil servants needing training in Addis Ababa and in seven
regional centers; including:
Component 1. GDLN Facilities Upgrading and Extension:
*  upgrading the existing GDLN videoconferencing and internet link at the CSC to the highest
international standards, and to use both for international training, and for beaming local
courses to regional centers;
*  establishing modified GDLN links with five regional centers, (Bahir Dar, Makelle, Nazareth,
Awassa, and Dire Dawa) beaming programs developed at the IDE, and also drawn from the
international GDLN, to these centers. The centers can be considered as extension arms of
the IDE/GDLN, offering regional students the same programs as those in the CSC, by July
2002. These regional centers will be established in existing tertiary level institutions, and
the rooms provided will only need wiring, computer networking, and security modifications.
They will be equipped with computers (on which learners will view the video programs),
and audio visual equipment for participant use;
Component 2. Satellite Rental, Maintenance, and Other Operational Costs for GDLN
Centers:
* satellite rental, facility maintenance, and other related operational cost activities resulting
from the central GDLN from March 2001. 22% of these costs to be generated from learners
(directly or via sponsorship) in 2001/2, 41% in 2002/3, and 65% in 2003/4;
Component 3. Development of Printed Media Distance Learning:
- developing printed distance learning materials, eventually in three disciplines, and launching
courses in these (June 2002 diploma in accounting and diploma in management, and January
2004 diploma in a third subject) to be administered through trained tutors at 7 selected
regional sites, with each enrolled learner taking three years to complete;
Component 4. Training:
*  running large scale computer literacy, and remedial English courses for civil servants at the
regional centers on a full cost basis, designed to bring them into the computer age, and
prepare them to benefit from the internet;
* enrolling at least 1300 learners in the print based distance learning in 2002, 2600 in 2003,
and 4700 in 2004. Participants and their employers will be expected to pay two thirds of the
total running costs of their courses. On the basis of current estimates the participant share is
expected to be ETB 800 per year. On the basis of information collected during the needs
assessment, ETB 600 could be paid by the employer per year;
Component 5. Capacity Development and TA:
* Establishing two other regional centers without the GDLN satellite link (Jinga, and Addis
Ababa), equipped with computers and audio visual equipment;



providing technical assistance and training in effective use of interactive video and internet,
the development and use of print based correspondence courses, the development and use
of internet courses, and training in procurement and financial management.
In addition constant monitoring and reporting on all activities, combined with a detailed evaluation
(Annex I 1) at the mid point, and the end of the project will be an integral part of the project.
2.   Benefits and Target Population
The target population includes all civil servants, private sector and NGO employees in the Addis
Ababa area, and all middle level public and some private sector staff employed in seven regional
state and municipal headquarters. Through appropriate training, and video and internet contact with
knowledge centers throughout the world it is expected that their productivity will be enhanced.
3.  Institutional and Implementation Arrangements
The CSC is a semi-autonomous training institution established in 1995 by proclamation from the
Council of Ministers (Regulation No 3/1996: Annex 12). Under this proclamation CSC was
established as a higher level institution falling directly under the Prime Minister, created to train civil
servants both at the federal and the regional state levels. What programs are launched by the college
is decided by a Board, made up largely of Government Ministers and leading public servants. The
project, and its three inter-linking components has been considered and endorsed by the board.
IDE is an integral part of the CSC. It will be responsible for all distance education activities
including the GDLN center, the printed media distance education, and the video and internet links
with regional centers. Currently it is constrained with what it can do, not only because it is
dependent on normal government administrative procedures, but also because of shortages of full
time professional staff. Regional staff can be recruited as their salaries will be funded through
regional incomes.  The organization and staffing of IDE is outlined in Annex 11, and its
relationships with the regional centers in Annex 12.
Draft legislation has been prepared to provide the college with academic, administrative, and
financial autonomy. This legislation is along the lines being proposed for universities.
The needs assessment, which was carried out in October 2000, was designed to find out what were
the priority learning needs as expressed by learners and their employers, what they would be
prepared to pay, how much time they could spend a week in following the courses, where the
regional centers could be established, from where the necessary tutors could be drawn, and how
much they would expect to be paid.
The IDE is developing skills in marketing its Distance Learning programs, and already has a demand
for more programs and training slots than can currently be offered. It will need to spend more time
on analyzing the demand for different subjects that can be taught through distance education,
respond to this demand and insist on increasingly wide use of the new technologies by the distance
learners.
4.   Financial Management
The project accounting system will be an integral part of the Financial Management System of the
College and will provide timely and reliable information to monitor the project's implementation
towards its agreed objectives. The College will be responsible for all expenditure accounting,



- 6 -
including all financial transactions of the project, and the preparation of disbursement request. A
project finance officer will be designated to exclusively handle project accounting functions under
the supervision of the Head of the Finance Division. Supporting documentation for all expenditures
will be kept for at least one year after the audit report is submitted to the Bank. A manual system of
double entry accounting would be used by the project at least for the LIL period and would move to
a computerized accounting system in the next phase of the project.
To this effect, the College will prepare a simple financial management manual before any
disbursement is made from the proceeds of the credit (Annex 4). As there will be seven regional
centers, and the centers would generate revenue from fees, and effect payments for tutors'
honorarium and operating costs, the manual should clearly describe the flow of funds from the
centers to the College, and how payments could be made for costs incurred at the regional centers.
5.   Procurement
The Administration and Finance department of CSC will manage all procurement activities and the
Procurement and Property Administration Division that is under the Department shall be responsible
for the processing of contracts from preparation of bid documents until award of contract and
completion of services as per the contract. In order to enhance the capacity of the Department, a
procurement officer with adequate qualification will be employed in the division prior to
effectiveness. The Procurement officer should have a minimum of I"5 degree and at least 2 to 3 years
of experience in procurement. An additional Logistics officer to handle all activities related to
transport, installation of Goods will be assigned to the division at the time the Goods start to arrive at
the Center for the use of the center and the regional centers (Annex 6).
Procurement will be carried out by the Civil Service College on the following:
*  preparation of annual work plans and procurement plans;
*  development of Terms of Reference (TOR), short-lists, and Requests for Proposals (RFP)
for consulting assignments, preparation of bidding documents, including technical
specifications for goods contracts; advertising contracts (where appropriate); and evaluating
bids and proposals; preparing no objection letters for onward transmittal to the Bank for
approval;
*  setting up a good procurement filing system, and maintaining procurement documentation;
and
*  preparation of plans for annual training programs that set out the objective of the training,
areas of training, and the number of trainees, cost estimate, timing and venue (e.g. local or
overseas) for each training activity.
D.  Project Rationale
1. Project Alternatives Considered and Reasonsfor Rejection
Initially it was planned to go ahead with only upgrading the GDLN site in the CSC in Addis.
However, as a central part of the mandate of the CSC is to serve the development of the civil
services in the Regional States, especially those in emerging regions, any system that only helps
train people in Addis Ababa misses the large proportion of civil servants most needing training. If
there had not already been considerable sunk capital in the GDLN it would have been difficult to



- 7 -
justify the costs of the network link, given the difficulty, in the Ethiopian context, to charge
sufficiently high user fees to cover satellite rental and other operational costs. Government then
looked at the economics of extending the GDLN and web based training to the regions, in order to
make the whole program cost effective.
Two-way video conferencing systems (which allow interactivity) currently cost more than three
times as much as unidirectional systems to establish, and require well trained technicians to
maintain. It is thus not cost effective or feasible to establish and operate such sophisticated systems
in regional centers.  A  unidirectional video link (with multidirectional voice and internet
connections) is a much more cost effective option, and is also simpler to maintain. This was the
choice that was finally made for the regional connections.
Finally, only by expanding the use of the regional centers to also cover print based distance learning
leading towards recognized diplomas, could a fully justified range of services be implemented.
2. Major Related Projects Financed by the Bank and other Development Agencies (Completed or
ongoing)
RELAT   PROJEC                          %PN 
'RA T  G   _  _     _      _
Education Sector Development Program                   U               IDA
Seventh IDA Education Project (closed)                 U               IDA
Basic Education Project, involving retraining 20,000                  USAID
teachers through radio, printed media and tutor based
distance methods
Equipping radio and TV production studios at the                       JICA
Education Media Agency in the Ministry of Education,
and radio production studios at 7 Regional Education
Bureau for distance education programs directed at school
teachers and students
Open University support for management training                UNDP/British Council
activities in Management Training Institutes in the
regional states
Civil Service Reform Program (including support for the               UrNDP
Civil Service College)                            I
IP Rating: HS (Highly Satisfactory); S (Satisfactory); U (Unsatisfactory): HU (Highly
Unsatisfactory)
3.   Lessons Learned and Reflected in Proposed Project Design
All of the distance learning projects funded by the World Bank are at their early stage of
implementation and it is, therefore, not possible to reflect in the design of this project appropriate
lessons learned from these operations. However, in order to carry out implementation activities
more efficiently, the project design has been kept simple, with IDE and the regional centers having
significant autonomy, and flexibility in administrative and financial management arrangements.
Nevertheless, it should also be noted that given resource constraints it will never be possible to have
either the personnel or the recurrent budget necessary for effective implementation for any high cost
and high tech project provided from Government budgets alone, and thus high levels participant cost
sharing will be expected from those benefiting in all the programs, with any excess capacity
marketed to the private and NGO sector. UNDP has been supporting the regular face-to-face
programs at CSC almost since its inception five years ago, and still its support is needed. Six other



- 8 -
donors have either been supporting particular regular instruction, or helping finance advanced
studies for CSC teaching staff.
4.  Indications of Borrower Commitment and Ownership
A joint meeting of the Board and the management team in the CSC formally approved the three
major components of this project in April 2000. In addition, the CSC has allocated space on the
ground floor of the main building for the GDLN facilities, and one entire floor in the teaching block
for IDE staff offices and meeting rooms. The college has also agreed to use a part of their limited
budget to finance all regular staff salaries, both at the center and core staff in the regions, and some
other operational costs needed for distance learning activities. The CSC had no reduction in its
operation budget in FY 2000, despite the constrained fiscal position due to the conflict with Eritrea,
and an increase of only 8.8% in 2001. Currently its recurrent budget is running at about ETB 12
million p.a.
5.     Value Added of Bank Support in this Project
The Bank is very much in the forefront of the multi donor efforts to establish a Global Distance
Learning Network, with Ethiopia as one of the first group of 10 countries in the network. It is also
actively helping the Government in programs to improve the administrative and management
capacity of federal and regional governments, and developing partnerships between the public and
the private sector. It has, in addition, considerable experience in financing print media based
distance learning programs throughout the world. ISG has specially developed for Government the
best technical solutions for extending at least the key GDLN services to five regions. In addition the
Bank will be able to help obtain a VSAT operating license for the GDLN site in the CSC Addis, and
for the five regional centers.
E. Summary Project Analysis
1. Economic
The comparative costs of the various forms of distance learning proposed compared with the costs of
alternative delivery modes will be evaluated during implementation.
2. Financial
As far as the GDLN is concerned, the high costs of the satellite link and of the equipment
maintenance, and the relatively low levels of utilization mean that fees of the order of $US100 per
student videoconference hour will eventually need to be charged to reach a break even point. This
means between $400 and $800 for participation in a normal short course. This is very much higher
than the local capacity to pay. Currently the maximum level that can be charged seems to be of the
order of $150 per course. In the initial period the operational costs resulting from the project will be
supported from the Credit on a declining scale (78%, 59%, and 35% in Year 1, 2, &3 respectively).
In the longer run, with aggressive marketing of available services, especially internet courses for
private individuals, about half the running costs of GDLN will be able to be metdirectly. Training
funds from donor agencies (i.e. "scholarships") will thus have to be obtained for the GDLN
component to be sustainable. The operational costs at the regional centers will be substantially
lower than those at the center, and with there being little competition for internet services in the
regions, it should be possible to market the excess capacity to private internet users for 50 Birr an
hour, generating about three quarters of the operation costs. For the print media distance learning,
by year 3, with a fee of 800 Birr p.a. ($100), two thirds of the operational costs (excluding start-up



-9-
costs) will be met by the learner and his/her employer. The remaining expenditures will be supported
through the regular budget from the CSC. During the initial years the tutor costs of the printed media
programs will be financed through the project on the same declining basis as with the GDLN.
In total it is estimated that approximately $2.1 million will be generated from users during the life of
the project, or 56% of total operation costs ($0.8 million from public sector users and $1.3 million
from private sector users).
3.   Technical
The basic equipment for the Ethiopian GDLN center is already in place, has been used, has now
been well protected against power surges and failures and is working well. It merely needs to be
upgraded. The technology for a modified GDLN link at the regional centers has been designed
jointly by ISG and a satellite vendor, has been specially developed for the Ethiopian situation, and if
successful will be a model that can be copied elsewhere. The regional centers will receive their
programs through the GDLN hub in Washington, (and later from other hubs too), in the same way as
the Addis GDLN center, and will connect with the Addis center through this hub. The British Open
University has been advising the CSC on the start up of the print media based distance learning, and
might be recruited (possibly on a sole source basis) to advise during execution. Other high level
technical assistance on the most appropriate use of the new technology will also be sought.
4. Institutional
Though the CSC has professional staff who are qualified to evaluate the use made by the graduates
of the skills they gain from CSC courses, up until recently there has been no systematic evaluation.
However CSC has launched an impact evaluation of the first phase of the UNDP support for the
College, which has provided staff with appropriate evaluation experience. Under this LIL there will
need to be continuous data collection and analyses on all the different courses offered, and their
costs. In addition at the mid-point of the project (around October 2002), and towards the end
(around May 2004) there will be more detailed evaluations, involving external consultants.
Project Management. The management structure of the CSC has recently been strengthened with
the addition of two Vice Presidents, one for academic affairs, and the other for administration. In
addition ten staff have been employed in the IDE, six of them heading the different units. They have
had considerable experience in working with several donors, both bilateral and multilateral, but with
procurement and finance managed by the donors themselves. Only with the UNDP project have
they had a dedicated accountant, and have recently taken over procurement and project management
responsibility. Neither does the CSC have any experience in establishing or managing outreach or
regional centers, but has worked with regional governments and institutions.
Procurement Issues. Though the IDE will be the implementation organization responsible for the
overall management of this LIL, as much as possible existing administrative structures in CSC will
be used. Procurement will thus be carried out by the Administration and Finance department of the
college. The Procurement and Property Administration Division that is under that Department will
be responsible for the processing of contracts from preparation of bid documents until award of
contract, and completion of services as per the contract. Its staff currently have no knowledge or
experience of World Bank procurement procedures. They will thus participate in Africa wide
training in World Bank procurement processes.  They will also need training in contract
management, and logistics. If necessary, local consultants will be hired to enhance the
implementation capacity.



- 10-
Financial Management Issues. The issue of the lack of financial autonomy for the CSC, and
within the CSC for the IDE, will be difficult to resolve until the Charter is approved. The Board
of the CSC approved in its January 2001 meeting that all revenues earned by IDE will not go into
the general revenue part of CSC, but will be kept for financing IDE expenditure. However, fees
earned will still only be used to offset approved government budgetary allocations, and any
unused fees will have to be returned to the Ministry of Finance (MOF) at the end of any fiscal
year. This will complicate the decentralized operations at the regional centers, which will be
almost entirely financed through the fee incomes earned at these centers. As an interim
arrangement, CSC has already requested MOF that fee income earned should be retained from
one year to the next even if 100% of the fees collected are offset against their regular budgets.
IDA will be advised by the CSC as soon as a resolution is reached on this issue.
5. Environmental
There are no environmental risks of any kind that can be identified. There is no new construction,
but only some rehabilitation/rewiring of existing buildings both in the center and in the regions.
This is a training project.
6. Social
This project is not designed to target the poor, nor females, nor those from any particular ethnic
group, but only those who are already in Federal and Regional Civil Service employment, and those
from the private sector who can afford to pay.
7.   Safeguard Policies
Environmental Assessment (OD 4.01)                         NA
Natural Habitats (OP/BP/GP 4.04)                           NA
Forestry (OP 4.36)                                         NA
Pest Management (OP 4.09)                                  NA
Cultural Property (OPN 11.03)                              NA
Indigenous Peoples (OD 4.20)                               NA
Involuntary Resettlements (OP 4.30)                        NA
Safety of Dams (OP 4.37)                                   NA
Projects on International Waterways (OP 7.50)              NA
Projects in Disputed Areas (OP 7.60)                       NA
8. Business Policies
BUSINESS POLICY                        'PPLICA'LE
Financing of recurrent costs (OMS 10.02)                   YES
Cost sharing above country three-year average (OP/GP/BP 12.10)    NO
Retroactive financing above normal limits (OP/GB/BP 12. 10)  NO
Financial Management (OP/B 10.02)                          YES
Involvement of NGOs (GP 14.70)                             NO
Other                                                      NO



F. Sustainability and Risks
1. Sustainability: N/A
2. Critical Risks
From Outputs to Objective
Participants in interactive GDLN video      M      Involve users in the selection of
programs will gain knowledge and skills            programs.
which will enable them to enhance their work
efficiency.                                                                 _
Participants in the long print media Distance  M   Involve employers in the design of
Learning courses will gain knowledge and           the programs
skills which will enable them to enhance their
job efficiency
Participants in the long print media courses  M    Make the language level in programs
will complete their course                         relatively simple. Limit the quantity
of printed materials. Make tutorial
sessions interesting.
Electronic Distance Learning approaches are  S     Ensure that all proposed participants
cost effective in the Ethiopian situation          complete a computer literacy course
and have easy access to the internet.
Program evaluation will take place regularly,  M   There will be supervision missions
and notice will be taken of the evaluation         which will emphasize the importance
findings in future planning activities             constant monitoring and evaluation
From Components to Outputs
There will be a sufficient number of         S     It is expected that WBI will arrange
appropriate GDLN video programs available          for program content from other
to Ethiopia for there to be efficient use of the   providers to be beamed through the
facilities.                                        link.
The programs being offered by GDLN are       S     Potential users involved in selection
relevant to the needs of the potential learners.   of programs
There will be sufficient demand for the print  M    Salary increments are dependent on
media distance learning programs from those        formal qualifications of civil servants.
already employed at the regional level, at the
fee being proposed.
There will be sufficient demand from those   S     Easy internet access, and bulk
from the regional governments for                  subscriptions to key courses to lower
participation in Web Based courses                 costs.
Overall Risk Rating                         M
Risk Rating - H(High Risk), S (Substantial Risk), M (Modest Risk), N (Negligible or Low Risk)
3. Possible Controversial Aspects
Currently the GDLN site at the CSC is operating without the formal approval of the Ethiopian
Telecommunications Agency. The Ethiopian Telecommunications Agency (ETA) will need to
approve this site, and the five additional sites, at least for education and training purposes, as is
allowed according to the Council of Ministers Regulation no 47/1999. The law mandates the ETA to



- 12 -
respond within 90 days to requests to establish private internet links. It should be emphasized that
these VSAT links will only be used for education and training purposed.
G. Main Credit Conditions
Effectiveness
1. Project Account and has deposited therein the initial deposit;
2. PIM and the PIP adopted, both in form and substance acceptable to IDA; and
3. Appointment of a procurement officer with qualifications and experience acceptable to IDA.
H. Readiness for Implementation
1. (a) The civil engineering design documents for the first year's activities are complete and
ready for the start of project implementation.
X   1. (b) Not applicable.
X   2. The procurement documents for the first year's activities are complete and ready for the start
of project implementation.
X   3. The Project Implementation Plan has been appraised and found to be realistic and of
satisfactory quality.
4. The following items are lacking and are discussed under loan conditions (Section G):
1. Compliance with Bank Policies
X   1. This project complies with all applicable Bank policies.
2. The following exceptions to Bank policies are recommended for approval. The project
_complies with all other applicable Bank policies.
. Nicholas Bennett                 John Room                   0   Astra Meesook
Team Leader                  Sector Director                Country Director



- 13 -
Annex 1:
Project Design Summary
ETHIOPIA: Distance Learning LIL Project
Project Development        ,         
Objective:
Project will help improve    Number of employed  Government high level    That increased
national capacity to     people trained by       Capacity Development   training, and opening
implement projects and   discipline and media    Committee Reports       to outside influences
programs                                                                 will enhance capacity
Outputs:
Enhance the efficiency of   800 trained in diploma    Special monitoring and    For critical risks, see
the public and private   programs in each of     evaluation studies and  Section F.2
sectors staff;           accountancy and         reports, both by CSC staff
management;            and independent
evaluators will be
Develop the capacity of the  Learning achievements of commissioned at the mid
IDE in the CSC to manage   those trained equivalent   point of the project, and
Distance Education;      to those in the full time    at the end of the project,
programs;              to determine which
aspects will be extended
Test comparative         Demand for places more  in future.
effectiveness of alternative  than actual places in each
DL approaches.           distance course;
Dropout rates less than
10% p.a;
More than 80% of those
under training have full
sets of curriculum
materials on time;
DL unit costs of different
programs lower than
those of full time
programs.
Project Components/Sub-  Inputs: (budget for each  Project reports:      (from Components
components:              component):                                     to Outputs)
GDLN Facilities Upgrading  US$1.0 million        Evaluation reports      The centers provide
& Extension;                                     comparing the total per-  the services expected.
student recurrent costs,
Satellite Rental,        US$1.4 million          and the proportion met by
Maintenance, & Other                             students for different
Operating Costs for GDLN;                        types of training.



- 14-
Development of Printed    US$1.3 million           Visits to the seven
Media Distance Learning;                           regional centers.
Training;                 US $0.8 million
Capacity Dev. & TA        US $2.6 million



- 15 -
Annex 2:
Detailed Project Description
ETHIOPIA: Distance Learning LIL Project
The main target audience of the Civil Service College are the 300,000 Federal and Regional civil
servants, especially the 83% who do not even have a diploma, and those working in the regions.
Project Activities
A range of different Distance Learning approaches is being developed by the IDE to enable it to
reach its huge potential audience of civil servants needing training in Addis Ababa and in seven
regional centers; including:
1. GDLN Facilities Upgrading and Extension (US$1.0 million):
*  upgrading the existing GDLN videoconferencing and internet link at the CSC to the highest
international standards, and to use both for international training, and for beaming local
courses to regional centers;
-  establishing modified GDLN links with five regional centers, (Bahir Dar, Makelle, Nazareth,
Awassa, and Dire Dawa) beaming programs developed at the IDE, and also drawn from the
international GDLN, to these centers. The centers can be considered as extension arms of
the IDE/GDLN, offering regional students the same programs as those in the CSC, by July
2002. These regional centers will be established in existing tertiary level institutions, and
the rooms provided will only need wiring, computer networking, and security modifications.
They will be equipped with computers (on which learners will view the video programs),
and audio visual equipment for participant use;
2. Satellite Rental, Maintenance, and Other Operational Costs for GDLN Centers (US$1.3
million):
* satellite rental, facility maintenance, and other related operational cost activities resulting
from the central GDLN from March 2001. 22% of these costs to be generated from learners
in 2001/2, 41% in 2002/3, and 65% in 2003/4;
3. Development of Printed Media Distance Learning (US$1.3 million):
* developing printed distance learning materials, eventually in three disciplines, and launching
courses in these (June 2002 diploma in accounting and diploma in management, and January
2004 diploma in a third subject) to be administered through trained tutors at 7 selected
regional sites, with each enrolled learner taking three years to complete;
4. Training (US$0.8 million):
*  running large scale computer literacy, and remedial English courses for civil servants at the
regional centers on a full cost basis, designed to bring them into the computer age, and
prepare them to benefit from the internet;



- 16 -
enrolling at least 1300 learners in the print based distance learning in 2002, 2600 in 2003,
and 4700 in 2004. Participants and their employers will be expected to pay two thirds of the
total running costs of their courses. On the basis of current estimates the participant share is
expected to be ETB 800 per year. On the basis of information collected during the needs
assessment, ETB 600 could be paid by the employer per year;
5. Capacity Development and TA (US$2.6 million):
*  Establishing two other regional centers without the GDLN satellite link (Jinga, and Addis
Ababa), equipped with computers and audio visual equipment;
*  providing technical assistance and training in effective use of interactive video and internet,
the development and use of pent based correspondence courses, the development and use
of internet courses, and training in procurement and financial management.
In the design of the print based correspondence programs there has been great attention devoted to
designing a program that is both feasible for the majority of potential learners who have limited time,
and even more limited fluency in the English language, and to keep the costs at an affordable level.
Thus the length of the standard course has been fixed at three years, the pages of core texts
substantially lower than in comparative programs, and the tutor learner ratio at 30:1.
Both printed media correspondence courses, and the use of modern ICT are expensive, and could
impose an unbearable burden on the limited budgets of the CSC. There will thus be significant user
charges for all participants or their employers. In the longer run, with aggressive marketing of
available services, especially internet courses for private individuals, about half the running costs of
GDLN will be able to be met. The operational costs at the regional centers will be substantially
lower than those at the center, and with there being little competition for internet services in the
regions, it should be possible to market the excess capacity to private internet users for 50 Birr an
hour, generating about three quarters of the operation costs . For the print media distance learning,
by year 3, with a fee of 800 Birr p.a. ($100), two thirds of the operational costs (excluding start-up
costs) will be met by the learner and his employer. The remaining expenditures will be supported
through the regular budget from the CSC. During the initial years the tutor costs of the printed media
programs will be financed through the project on the same declining basis as with the GDLN.
In total it is estimated that approximately $2,094,000 will be generated from users during the life of
the project, or 56% of total operation costs ($829,000 from public sector users and $1,265,000 from
private sector users)
GDLN Technical Details
The following table summarizes the technical specifications of the existing GDLN facilities at the
CSC, the proposed specifications of the upgraded facilities, and the proposed specifications of each
of the five regional centers.
GDLN Facility    Antenna   Video In      Video Out   Data In  Data Out    Voice
Existing         3.8 M             128/256 kbps           56/56 kbps       16 kbps
Upgraded         3.8 M             256/256 kbps          512/64 kbps       2*16 kbps
Regional         3.8 M           256 kbps (in only)      256/64 kbps       2 Lines



- 17 -
The upgraded GDLN facilities will allow clear video images on a large screen, multiple voice
channels, and up to 40 internet users at any one time. Each regional center will have clear video
images on the PC, but no video interactivity, two voice channels, and up to 20 internet users at any
one time. If the need arises in future, the regional facilities can be upgraded into full GDLN
centers.
Project Evaluation
As a Learning and Innovation Loan (LIL) summative evaluation is of central importance. A local
institution or firm will be hired to carry out this evaluation in two stages. First, after two years of
implementation and secondly at the end of the project. The major issues that will be looked at will
include, for each major subject area being taught, the following:
* Learning achievement by course, delivery mode, and tutoring support;
* Learner satisfaction by course, delivery mode, and tutoring support;
* Time to completion by course, delivery mode, and tutoring support;
* Cost effectiveness of learner achievement by delivery mode.
In addition to this summative evaluation which will be used to determine the future direction of
distance and virtual learning activities, CSC/IDE will also carry out various formative studies
(starting with a pilot testing of all materials developed) to help it improve the effectiveness of
learning during implementation.
Role of the Regional Centers and Their Relationship with CSC
The operation of the regional centers is relatively complicated.  On average, by the end of the
project, each regional center will have around 700 learners and 130 tutors in the printed media
programs, and perhaps an equivalent number in computer literacy and miscellaneous internet-based
courses. The centers will have to collect fees from all the regular users, and pay all the tutors etc.
They will also select candidates for the courses; distribute materials; arrange for classrooms for
tutorial sessions, organize examinations, and keep records of all students. In addition they will need
to provide assistance and maintain equipment. On top of all this regional centers with video and
internet facilities will need to market and sell substantial underutilized time to the private sector and
to individuals, operate the facilities 12 hours a day, seven days a week, and collect and deposit the
fees. A review of the staffing requirements of the regional centers is needed as soon as possible, to
determine the real staffing requirements. In addition the financial control systems will be elaborated.
Finally guidelines for the operation of the regional centers will be finalized as soon as possible, and
discussed with the Bank and other stakeholders before any regional centers are formally operational .
Capacity Development of CSC/IDE Through Technical Assistance
It is extremely important that the capacity of the CSC/lDE is enhanced to enable it to design and
manage the various forms of distance learning being tested, so when a decision is made, at the end of
this LIL, as to the most appropriate media to be used, it will be ready to move ahead in the chosen
media. It is also important that the distance facilities already available at the CSC/IDE (internet and
video conference) be used to provide much of the TA needed, thus obviating the need to pay for
travel and per diem of experts.
For the print media course development and implementation, an institutional contract will be given
to an organization experienced in the provision of printed based correspondences. This organization



- 18 -
will be responsible for the training of the CSC/IDE staff in the design and running of printed media
DL courses, the training and initial supervision of course material developers, the design and initial
running of tutor training, the choice of appropriate pedagogic strategies, strategic planning, and
learner assessment
For the internet-based course development, training to a significant number of CSC/IDE staff should
be given through the internet. In addition, an internet-based technical assistance service will be
recruited to provide advice and assistance in the design, organization and management of internet-
based courses by the CSC. Finally advice will be sought on the most appropriate internet-based
courses that could be used by Federal and Regional civil servants in upgrading their knowledge and
skills.
One of the problems with the interactive VC facilities that will be upgraded through this project is
that they are currently not used frequently. The same will apply to the new facilities being
established at the regional centers. It is intended to recruit a short-term consultant on the cutting
edge of this technology to advise on some of the most appropriate program providers, and to
negotiate appropriate terms for using these courses on behalf of the CSC/IDE.
Project Administrative Arrangements
The project will be implemented mainly through existing CSC structures. There will be no project
management or implementation unit. Responsibility will be divided between the IDE (for academic
implementation and marketing of services); and the Administration and Finance Department (for
procurement, budget, finance, disbursement, and auditing aspects of the project).
The IDE will need to expand its staff substantially so that it can work on the development of internet
and IT courses, and market the spare IT capacity it has available both at the center and in the regions.
The Administration and Finance Department will need to recruit a procurement specialist, and a
liaison officer, and to provide training for the procurement specialist and his assistant, and
orientation for the accounts staff in Bank accounting and disbursement requirements.  The
procurement specialist will have to be recruited as soon as possible so that procurement of essential
equipment can start. Other training will be given to administrative staff as necessary for effective
implementation
The draft Project Implementation Manual explains some of the procedures that will need to be
followed. This manual needs further elaboration. It is important to note that standard procurement
contracts for the upgrading of existing GDLN facilities, and the establishment and installation of
regional center equipment will be used, and thus no bidding will be necessary. Similarly standard
maintenance contracts for the GDLN will be used.



- 19-
Annex 3:
Estimated Project Costs
ETHIOPIA: Distance Learning LIL Project
(US$ million)
1. GDLN Facilities Upgrading & Extension            0.2       _    .            1.0
2. Satellite Rental, Maint., & Other Oper. Costs for              1.3 
GDLN Centers
3. Dev. Of Printed Media Distance Learning          0.6           0.6       1- 2
4. Training                                         0.7            -            0.
5. Capacity Development & TA                        0.3           2.1           2.4
Total Baseline Cost    1.8          4.8           6.6
Physical & Price Contingency    0.1           0.4          0.5
Total Project Cost     1.9          5.2           7.1
Goods                                               0.1           1.1           1.2
Works                                               0.1           0.2           0.3
Services                                            0.3.3
Training                                            0.2                         0.2
Operating Costs                                     0.8           1.3           2.1
Total Project Costs     1.9          5.2           7.1



- 20 -
Annex 4
ETHIOPIA: Distance Learning LIL Project
Economic Justification Summary
NOT APPLICABLE



-21 -
Annex 5
Financial Summary
ETHIOPIA: Distance Learning LIL Project
Project Costs (US$ million)
Investment Costs                                1.3         2.1          1.5
Recurrent Costs                                 0.8          0.8        0.5
Total                        2.1         3.0         2.0
Financing Sources (% of Total)
IDA                                             62%         72%         74%
Benefiaries/Government                          38%         28%         26%
Total                       100%        100%        100%



- 22 -
Annex 5a
Financial Management Assessment
ETHIOPIA: Distance Learning LIL Project
FINANCIAL MANAGEMENT SYSTEM
Existing Financial Management System of the College
The implementing agency of the project is the Ethiopian Civil Services College (CSC) through the
Institute of Distance Learning (IDE). The College, like other ministries and commissions, obtains the
large part of its annual budget from the Federal Government of Ethiopia, Ministry of Finance
(MOF). The remaining part of the annual budget is from its own sources and donors. In fiscal year
1999/2000, 65% of the total annual budget was from MOF, 24% from own sources and 11% from
UNDP. A cash basis of accounting is used by the College. The receipts of cash and withdrawals are
recorded in standardized journals issued by MOF. The CSC follows the financial regulations of
MOF. No annual accounts are prepared by the College. The Ministry of Finance is responsible for
the compilation of annual accounts.
Currently, the College is administering a UNDP Fund amounting to US$3.2 million. The College
regularly reports to UNDP on a standardized format in a very simplified way. Annual accounts of the
project have been audited by external auditors appointed by UNDP.
The Finance Division is under the Finance and Administration Department, and has two sections,
Accounts and Budget. The Finance Division comprises 9 staff, one BA holder, 6 diploma holders
from Commercial Colleges and 2 with vocational training. The practical experience for most of them
is on a cash basis of accounting, based on the MOF standard formats.
Internal Control
The College has an Internal Audit Division consisting of two staff, 1 BA and I diploma holder. The
division usually conducts pre and post audit activities. There is a strong push from the MOF to
engage the internal auditors in the post audit activities. The MOF inspectors review the financial
transactions of the College on a regular basis and the Federal Auditor General also conducts annual
audits as and when they feel necessary.
LACI Capability
The capacity of the college to handle LACI/FMI procedures as outlined in the LACI handbook is
limited as discussed above. Thus, the College is not ready for PMR based disbursements based on
the LACI guidelines of the Bank. Disbursements will begin using the traditional disbursement
procedures, which is currently in place in the Bank, and will continue up to approximately 18
months after effectiveness. Under the existing disbursement procedures, payments from the proceeds
of the credit would be made by direct payments, special commitments and SOE procedures. Detailed
guidance could be obtained from the Disbursement Handbook issued by the Bank and training would
be given at the project launch workshop and other training to be held in Africa. The following steps
should be undertaken before the College is able to meet PMR based disbursements:
Appointment of a Project Finance Officer .......................... Underway/Before effectiveness
(To deal with all donor funds)
Development of a financial management manual ............... Before Disbursement starts



-23 -
Evaluation of the College's capacity by the Bank
staff to determine compliance with
the LA CI guidelines ....................................  12 months after effectiveness
Preparation of draft PMR for initial review .......................... 15 months after effectiveness
Production of PMRs ....................................  21 months after effectiveness
Provided these steps are taken, it is expected that the College might be LACI capable 18 months
from the date of effectiveness.
Accounting, Financial reporting and Auditing:
Accounting:
The project accounting system will be an integral part of the Financial Management System of the
College and will provide timely and reliable information to monitor the project's implementation
towards its agreed objectives and also give early warning of problems in project implementation.
The College will be responsible for all expenditure accounting, including all financial transactions
of the project. A project finance officer will be designated to exclusively handle project accounting
functions under the supervision of the Head of the Finance Division. A manual system of double
entry accounting would be used by the project at least for the LIL period and would move to a
computerized accounting system in the next phase of the project. To this effect, the College would
prepare a simple financial management manual before any disbursement is made from the proceeds
of the credit. The manual will, among other things, include flow of funds, formnats to be used, chart
of accounts, formats of annual financial statements, procedures in managing bank accounts,
accounting policies and procedures, documentation and others. As there would be seven regional
centers for distance learning purposes, and the centers would generate revenue from fees, and effect
payments for tutors' honorarium and operating costs, the manual should clearly describe the flow of
funds from the centers to the College, and how payments could be made for costs incurred at the
regional centers.
The college has prepared a Project Implementation Manual to be used as a guide by the
implementers of the project. The manual needs some revision in the areas of the financial
management sections.
Financial Reporting:
Under the existing disbursement procedures
The college will prepare quarterly and annual financial reports to be submitted to IDA for its review.
The annual financial reports will include the following:
-Balance sheet
-Income and Expenditures Statement
-Special Account movement
-Statements of Expenditures
Specific guidelines could be obtained from the Financial Accounting, Reporting and Auditing
Handbook issued by the Bank.



- 24 -
Under PMR based disbursement procedures of LA CI
*  Sources and uses of Funds
*  Balance Sheet
*  Uses of Funds by Project Activity - Showing the expenditure as per project activities
agreed with the Bank
*  Cash withdrawal (Disbursement) - Showing summary withdrawals
*  Special Account Statement - Showing reconciliation of IDA Project funds
*  Cash Forecast - Showing cash requirements in next 2 quarters
Specific guidelines could be obtained from the LACI Handbook issued by the Bank.
Auditing:
According to the Bank's policy, the required financial statements including the Special Account and
SOEs for each year should be audited in accordance with standards on auditing that are acceptable to
the Bank. An audit of such financial statements includes:
* An assessment of the adequacy of accounting and internal control systems to monitor
expenditures and other financial transactions and ensure safe custody of project-financed
assets;
*  A determination as to whether the CSC have maintained adequate documentation on all
relevant transactions; and
*  Verification of expenditures submitted to the Bank, which are eligible for financing, and
identification of any ineligible expenditures.
The audited financial statements should be submitted to the Bank six months after the close of each
fiscal year. The auditors are also required to issue a management letter (long form report), which
contains weaknesses observed in the accounting and internal control systems, and accounting records
and their recommendations for improvements.
The college will ensure that an independent auditor acceptable to the Bank is appointed in sufficient
time to carry out its responsibilities.



- 25 -
Annex 6
Procurement & Disbursement
ETHIOPIA: Distance Learning LIL Project
The Administration and Finance department of CSC will manage all procurement activities and the
Procurement and Property Administration Division that is under the Department will be responsible
for the processing of contracts from preparation of bid documents until award of contract and
completion of services as per the contract.
Capacity Development
In order to enhance the capacity of the Department a procurement officer with adequate qualification
will be employed in the division prior to the date of credit effectiveness. The Procurement officer
should have a minimum of 1st degree and at least 2 to 3 years experience in procurement. An
additional Logistics officer to handle all activities related to transport, installation of Goods will be
assigned to the division at the time the Goods start to arrive at the CSC for the use of the center and
the regional centers.
Procurement Records Management and Procurement Register
The Project will maintain an efficient procurement record management system. Documents
regarding individual procurement contracts will be kept in separate files and shall include all
documents pertaining to the procurement process. The files will include Bid documents.
RFPs, Solicitation letters/ Invitation for Bid, Tender announcements, evaluation Reports, Contact
agreements, Bank No Objection Letters, Inspection Reports, Goods Receipt Vouchers, Completion
Reports and other relevant document in one location.
The Division will maintain a register of procurement activities carried out by method of procurement
both in hard copy and electronic format. These would include Name of Contract, Description,
Quantity, Contract Value in currency of contract and USD, No Objection Date/s, Contract Award
Date and Contract Completion date. The Register will be updated on a regular basis and checked to
insure that thresholds and aggregate limits are not exceeded.
Tender Committee
A tender committee in which the procurement officer is a member will be established and will be
responsible for the opening and evaluation of tenders. The committee shall have a minimum of 4
members. A technical committee will be formed for each tender under evaluation on ad-hoc basis. At
least two members of the committee should have adequate technical knowledge and qualification
regarding the specific type of procurement package and should be able to conduct a thorough
technical evaluation.
Training
Staff involved in the procurement process should, as early as possible, participate in procurement
training conducted at the regional level (ESAMI or GIMPA). Project funds are available to finance
this training. The other staff of the department should participate in appropriate national training to
insure that they have adequate capacity to handle their individual duties and responsibilities.
Training need shall be identified after reviewing the current capacity and qualification of each of the
staff.



-26 -
Procurement Plan
A preliminary general procurement plan identifying the methods of procurement and thresholds was
presented at negotiations. Prior to inviting tenders for each fiscal year a detailed procurement plan
will be furnished to the association for its review and approval. The procurement plan for the first
project year will be presented to the association satisfactory in form and substance prior to the
beginning of the 2001/02 fiscal year.
Procurement of Goods and Equipment
Goods will be procured through Internal Competitive Bidding and to the extent practicable, contracts
for goods shall be grouped in bid packages estimated to cost $100,000 equivalent or more each. For
the procurement of Global Distance Learning Link equipment, the World Bank will provide the
detailed specifications of this equipment, and assistance in evaluating the offers in order to ensure
consistency with other GDLN sites.
Goods estimated to cost less than $50,000 equivalent per contract, up to an aggregate amount not to
exceed $400,000 equivalent works estimated to cost less than $20,000 equivalent per contract, up to
an aggregate amount not to exceed $100,000 equivalent may be procured through National
Competitive Bidding procedures.
Printing services may also be procured through national Competitive Bidding procedures.
Goods, including books, estimated to cost less than $30,000 equivalent per contract, up to an
aggregate amount not to exceed $200,000 equivalent, may be procured under contracts awarded on
the basis of international or national shopping procedures.
Civil works estimated to cost less than $20,000 equivalent per contract, up to an aggregate amount
not to exceed $100,000 equivalent and furniture, may be procured under contracts awarded on the
basis of national shopping procedures.
Books which must be purchased from the original publisher, and equipment and spare parts which
need to be compatible with existing equipment of a proprietary nature, subject to IDA's prior
approval, may be procured through Direct Contracting.
Procurement through UNAgencies
Vehicles, computers and office equipment estimated to cost $70,000 equivalent or less per contract
up to an aggregate amount not to exceed $100,000 equivalent, may be procured from the Inter-
Agency Procurement Services Office (IAPSO) of the United Nations Development Program
(UNDP).
Procurement of Works
Civil Works to modify Regional Distance Learning Centers not exceeding USD 20,000 up to an
aggregate amount not exceeding USD 100,000 may be procured using National Shopping. Contracts
for Civil works above USD 20,000 up to an aggregate amount not exceeding UD 100,000 may be
procured using National Competitive Procedures.



- 27 -
Consultants' Services
Quality- and Cost-based Selection
Consultant's services shall be procured by using Quality and Cost Based Selection (QCBS) Method
except as otherwise provided in the following paragraphs. The short list of consultants for services
such as Preparation of Evaluation reports and technical documents estimated to cost less than
US$50,000 equivalent per contract, may entirely consist of national consultants in accordance with
the provisions of paragraph 2.7 of the Consultants Guidelines.
Other Procedures for the Selection of Consultants
Least-cost Selection. Services for audits estimated to cost less than US$ 50,000 equivalent per
contract may be procured under contracts awarded using least-cost selection method in accordance
with the provisions of paragraphs 3.1 and 3.6 of the Consultant Guidelines.
Selection Based on Consultants' Qualifications: Services for technical assistance under the Capacity
Development Component of the Project estimated to cost less than $50,000 equivalent per contract
may be procured using procedures under contracts awarded through "Selection Based on
Consultants' Qualifications" method
Single Source Selection. Services which are estimated to cost less than $200,000 equivalent per
contract or more in exceptional circumstances, may, with IDA's prior agreement, be procured on
Single Source Selection methods.
Individual Consultants. Services for tasks that meet the requirements set forth in paragraph 5.1 of
the Consultant Guidelines may be procured under contracts awarded to individual consultants in
accordance with the provisions of paragraphs 5.1 through 5.3 of the Consultant Guidelines.
Review by the Bank
Prior Review
Prior to commencing any procurement activity for Goods, Works and Services the proposed
procurement plan shall be presented to the Bank for its review and approval. The proposed plan for
the selection of consultants shall be reviewed in accordance with the provisions of paragraph 1 of
Appendix I to the Consultant Guidelines.
The first two procurement packages for goods, works or services irrespective of their value will be
reviewed by the IDA in accordance with the Banks Prior Review Procedures.
Goods and Works
IDA's prior review procedures would apply to all purchases for which the contract value is
equivalent or in excess of US$50,000 for goods and works.
With respect to each contract for goods to be procured through direct contracting and estimated to
cost the equivalent of $20,000 or more, the following procedures will be followed:
* Prior to the execution of any contract under shopping procedures, IDA will be provided a report
on the comparison and evaluation of quotations received;



- 28 -
*  Prior to the execution of any contract procured under direct contracting procedures, IDA will be
provided a copy of the specifications and the draft contract; and
*  The procedures set forth in paragraphs 2(f), 2(g) and 3 of Appendix I to the Guidelines shall
apply.
Consultant Services
The Bank shall review the Terms of Reference for all Consultancy services. Contracts for services
above USD 50,000 for firms and USD 20,000 for Individuals require the prior no objection by the
Bank.
Post Review
With respect to each contract not subject to prior review post review shall be conducted in
accordance with the procedures set forth in paragraph 4 of Appendix I to the Guidelines.
Table Al: Project Costs by Procurement Arrangements
(US$ Million)
-    ~   (0.1)         (0. 1)         (0.2)
Goods, Equipment & Vehicles            1.6           0.4           0.1             2.1
(1.5)         (0.4)         (0.1)          (2.0)
Consultant Services                                                 1.7            1.7
(1.6)          (1.6)
Training                                                           0.1             0.1
(0.1)          (0.1)
Operating Costs                                                    3.0             3.0
(1.0)          (1.0)
Total Project Cost     1.6           0.6            4.9            7.1
of which IDA Funded by IDA       (1.5)         (0.5)         (2.9)           (4.9)



- 29 -
Table A2: Consultants Selection Arrangements
(US$ Million)
. 8.Se ,,  -Mtbod                 -otal
__                                7~~k7l,1& 7T
A. Firms                                1.3 l                           1.3
(1.3)                           (1.3)
B. Individuals                                            0.4           0.4
(0.4)         (0.4)
Total         1.3               0.4            1.7
Of which Funded by IDA         (1.3)             (0.4)         (1.7)
QCBS   =  Quality - and Cost-Based Selection
LC      =  Least Cost Section
IC      =  Individual Consultants
Others  =  Selection of individual consultants (per Section V of Consultants' Guidelines),
Commercial Practices, Educational Institutions, etc.
Table B: Thresholds for Procurement Methods and Prior Review
(US$ Million)
~~~~~~~~~~4 ~ ~ ~ ~ ~   ~     ~     ~    ,
Any Category. First two                                                Prior Review
packages.
1. Goods                     > US$50,000                  ICB         Prior review
Less than US$50,000            NCB          Post review
Less than US$30,000             NIS         Post review
Printing Services                 All                    NCB           Post review
2. Civil Works            Less than US$ 100,000           NCB          Post review
Less than US$ 20,000.00          NS
3. Services
Firns:                       > US$ 50,000                QCBS          Prior review
Below US$ 50,000         QCBS/LC/Other   Post Review
Individuals:                  >US$5 0,000                  IC          Prior review
Less than US$50,000             IC          Post review
Overall Procurement Risk Assessment:
High
Average
Low



- 30 -
Risk Mitigation Measures
In order to enhance the procurement capacity of the Administration and Finance Department, a
procurement officer with adequate qualification will be employed in the division. The Procurement
officer should have a minimum of 1st degree and at least 2 to 3 years experience in procurement. He
will be recruited prior to effectiveness
Staff involved in the procurement process should, as early as possible, participate in procurement
training (financed with project funds) conducted at the regional level (ESAMI or GIMPA). Training
need shall be identified after reviewing the current capacity and qualification of each of the staff.
Prior to inviting tenders for each year a detailed procurement plan will be furnished to the
association for its review and approval.
Frequency of procurement supervision missions proposed: Once every 3 months during the first
year of implementation and once every six months thereafter (includes special procurement
supervision for post-review/audits).



-31 -
Disbursement
Allocation of credit proceeds (Table C)
It is estimated that the project would be implemented over a three and a half year period starting on
April 1, 2001 and the closing of the project is set for July 30 2004. At this stage, the project is not
ready for disbursement according to Project Management Reports (PMR) as discussed in the Bank's
Loan Administrative Change Initiative handbook (LACI). Therefore, disbursement would be made
against standard IDA documentation using traditional disbursement procedures as outlined in the
Bank's disbursement handbook, at least during the first 18 months of implementation. For the
remaining period of the project, disbursement might be based on quarterly PMR after the assessment
of the financial management systems of the College by the Bank.
Table A below sets out categories of expenditures to be financed by the Bank, allocation of the
amounts to each category and the percentage of expenditures to be financed by the Bank for each
category:
Table C: Allocation of Credit Proceeds
1. Goods, Equipment & Vehicles        1.8     100%
2. Civil Works                        0.2     100% of foreign and 80% local
3. Consultant Services & Training     1.5     100% of Foreign & 80% Local
4. Operating Costs GDLN Centers       0.7     78% until July 7, 2002;
59% from July 8, 2002 to July7, 2003; and
35% thereafter.
Operating Costs printed DL         0.3      78% until July 7, 2002;
59% from July 8, 2002 to July 7, 2003; and
35% thereafter.
5. Unallocated                        0.4
TOTAL        4.9
Use of Statements of Expenditures (SOEs):
Disbursements would be fully documented except for contracts below the equivalent of
US$20,000 for individual consultants and technical assistance and US$50,000 for civil works, goods
and consulting firms. For such contracts, the borrower would be allowed to submit withdrawal
applications based on Statement of Expenditures (SOEs). All supporting documents for such
applications would be retained by the College and made readily available for review by periodic IDA
supervision missions and extemal auditors. All expenditures related to contracts above the equivalent
of US20,000 for individual consultants and technical assistance and US$50,000 for civil works,
goods and consulting firms would be fully documented, and would not be able to be paid from
SOEs.



- 32 -
Special Account (SA):
To facilitate payment of expenditures by the project, Special Account in US dollars would be
established in the National Bank of Ethiopia or in a commercial bank acceptable to IDA. The
Authorized Allocation to the Special Account is US$500,000. IDA would make initial estimated
deposit of US$250,000 from the Credit immediately after effectiveness until the aggregate amount of
withdrawals from the Credit Account plus the total amount of all outstanding special commitments
entered into by IDA pursuant to Section 5.02 of the General Conditions shall be equal to or exceed
the equivalent of SDR 800,000.
Flow offunds:
The Bank's share of eligible expenditures would be paid from the Special Account, except for
expenditures greater than 10% of the outstanding Special Account advance, which could be made
directly by IDA.
Project Accounts/Counterpart Fund Accounts
A project accounts would be opened at the National Bank of Ethiopia or at a commercial bank under
terms and conditions satisfactory to IDA. The project account would be used for deposits and
withdrawals related to fees collected by the College, and with government contributions. It has been
agreed during appraisal that Birr 1.5 million would be deposited in the project account for the first
year of implementation, and subsequent deposits would be made on the basis of fee incomes and
annual project budgets. It has also been agreed that the College will design a simple, but efficient
system of fund flow for revenue generated internally by regional centers.
The College would ensure that disbursements are effected in accordance with Bank procedures and
would have financial monitoring responsibility.



- 33 -
Annex 7:
Project Processing and Budget Schedule
ETHIOPIA: Distance Learning LIL Project
Project Schedule                   Plhaned                Actual
Time taken to prepare the project (months)       4 Months             12 Months
First Bank mission (identification)            Not Planned           August 1999
Appraisal mission departure                   November 2000         November 2000
Negotiations                                   January 2001         March 21, 2001
Planned Date of Effectiveness                   April 2001
Bank Staff who worked on the Project included:
Name             Rank      Borrnwer                   Spec Wty
_  ,______      __        I_Unit      Agenc   L
Nicholas Bennett        AFMET   _Task Team Leader
Joanne Caper           HDNED   ______Distance Leamning Alternatives
Sivaramen Ramaswawmy  ISGNC                    Upgrading GDLN Facilities, Regional
I__= =_____  Center Connectivity
Abebaw Alemayehu       AFMET   _               Evaluation & Monitoring Specialist
Samuel Haile Selassie  AFMET           |       Procurement Specialist
Eshetu Yimer           AFMET                   Costing, Accounting, Disbursements, Audit
Ramesh Ramaswamy    r            |             Regional Center Connectivity
Rey Castro             AFTI2                   Operations Specialist
Solange Alliali        LEGOP                   Sr. Legal Counsel
Kafu Awunyo            LEGOP                   Legal Counsel
Steve Gaginis          LOAG2   _               Disbursement Officer
Subhash Dhingra        AFTQK                   Sr. Procurement Specialist



- 34 -
Annex 8:
Documents in the Project File*
ETHIOPIA: Distance Learning LIL Project
A. Project Implementation Documents
Project Implementation Manual
Financial Management Manual
B. Bank Staff Assessments
Procurement Assessment
Financial Assessment



- 35 -
Annex 9: Statement of Loans and Credits
ETHIOPIA: Distance Learning LIL Project
as of March, 2001
Original Amounts       Difference between Expected
In US$ million         and Acttual Disbursements
Project      FY                     Purpose                    IDA       Cancel    Undisb       Orig      F|ormally
ID_                                                                                                      Revised
P050342     2001    WOMEN'S DEVELOPMENT INITIATIVES    5.00                0.00       4.98       0.27        0.00
P067084     2001    EMERGENCY RECOVERY AND REHAB.   230.00                 0.00      234.72      0.00        0.00
P073196     2001    DEMOBILIZATION & INTEGRATION               170.60      0.00      174.15      0.00        0.00
P000756      1999    HEALTH SECTOR                             100.00      0.00      74.33       30.88       0.00
P000732     1998    EDUCATION SECTOR INVESTMENT                100.00      0.00      66.00       27.04       0.00
P000755      1998    ROAD SEC. DEV. PROG.                      309.20      0.00      229.04     146.95       0.00
P000733      1998    AG: RESEARC & TRAIN                       60.00       0.00      45.81       13.23       0.00
P000771     1996    ESRF 1                                     120.00     11.48      42.98      62.49        40.87
P000764     1996    WATER SUPPLY DEV&REH                       35.70       0.00       15.12      19.12       0.00
P000752     1995    NATIONAL SEEDS PROJECT                     22.00       0.00       10.51      12.27       0.00
P000753     1995    NAT. FERTILIZER PROJ                       120.00      0.08      19.49      26.41        0.00
P000734      1993    ROAD REHABILITATION                       96.00       0.00      27.84      33.33        0.00
I    F        1356      94497      372.00       40.87
STATEMENT OF IFC's
Held and Disbursed Portfolio
Mar-2001
In Millions US Dollars
Committed                          Disbursed
IFC                                IFC
FY Approval  Company               Loan   Equity   Quasi   Partic    Loan  Equity   Quasi   Partic
Total Portfolio:           0.00     0.00    0.00    0.00    0.00    0.00    0.00    0.00
Approvals Pending Commitment
FY Approval    Company                          Loan           Equity           Quasi          Partic
1999           Sheba Tannery                 5,000.00            0.00        3,570.00           0.00
Total Pending Commitment:                  5,000.00            0.00        3,570.00           0.00



- 36 -
Annex 10: Country at a Glance
ETHIOPIA: Distance Learning LIL Project
Sub-
POVERTY and SOCIAL                                         Saharan       Low-
Ethiopia    Africa  income         Development diamond
1999
Population, mid-year (Jn&12!1                        62.8       642      2,417                 LiFe expectancy
GNp per capita (Adacmerteo( 1'S*?                      100       500       410
GNP (tAdasmncfho4 sMC?A                                6.5       321       988
Aveerage annual growth. 1993-99
Population J.-,?                                       2.7       2.6        tS      
Labor Force {e-?                                       2.3       2.6       2.3      GNP            /                 Gross
per   I           a=         Iprimary
Most recent estimate (latest gear available. 1993-88)                               capita                        nroliment
Poverty f.a dakbintwdowM                               45
Urban population i3ct&rdpcxnaMt,/                       17        34        31
Life expectaney at birth iVeM-/                       43         s0        60
Infant mortality (pn2x?SIeAW&c                         107        92        77
Child malnutrition {xcV4ens0o@r5                        ..        32        43               Access to safe water
Access to improved water source fx ffpcWerJ            27         43        64
Illiteraey (?cfpcdwe  09                               63         39        39
Gross primary enrollmeni fdM ep afkvV                  43         78        96            ---
Male                                                  55        85        102           _____
Female                                                31         71       86
KEY ECONOMIC RATIOS and LONG-TERM TRENDS
1979    1089       1998      1999
Economic ratioS'
GOP jtSSA&xc/..                                        8.1        6.6      6.5
Gross domestic investmentlGOP                  ..    13.5        17.2      17.8
Exports of goods and serviceslGDP              ..      9.2       15.8     13.7                     Trade
Gross domestic savingstGDP                     ..      7.9       5.3       2.7
Gross national savingsGfOP                      .      S.8       9.3        7.1
Current account balancetGOP                     ..    -3.6      -7.9      -10.4
Interest paymentslGDP                          -       0.9        1.6       1.2     Oomestic                    rInvestment
Total debttGDP                                 ..    96.8       149.5     141.9     Savings
Total debt servicete2ports                    62      40.2        3.1      17.6                         1
Present value of debtIGOP                       ..      ..    120.5          ..
Present value of debtlexports                  ..       ..    751.5
Indebtedness
1979-83  1989-99      1998      1999  1999-03
GOP                                  0.8      4.2     -1.0        5.8      5.6                   Eri*w
GNP per capita                      -1.9      0.9     -4.2       3.3        3.1            -
Exports of goods and services        2.8      5.6     -7.8       -9.3      7.0
STRUCTURE of the ECONOMY
1979    l18S       19S8      1909       Growth of investment and GOP (X)
Agriculture                                    ..    48.5       52.3      52.3    100
Industry                                       ..    14.2        11.1      11.1     sX
Manufacturing                                 -       8.5       7.0       7.0
Services                                       ..    37.3       36.5      36.5       o           -
Private consumption                            ..    73.5        80.4      81.3    .;0     94   95                "    I$
General government consumption                 ..    18.7        14.2      16.0
Imports of goods and services                  ..    14.8        27.7     28.8               -GDI            0DP
faxwaoe                                 1979-89 1989-99        1998      1999      Growth of emports and imports (XI
AgricultuTe                                  -0.4      2.5      -10.3      4.2    100 T
Industry                                      1.2      4.6        6.3      7.6    7s
Manufacturing                               -0.9      4.8       5.8       4.9
Services                                      2.8      5.8       10.4       8.2
Private consumption                          -0.3      3.4       -2.4       4.7
General government consumption                4.4      2.7       30.6      18.5     o
Gross domestic investment                     3.4      9.9        0.1      9.5    -9                   1               99
Imports of goods and services                 2.5      4.0       11.7       6.2            ---Exports   -O- Imports
Gross national product                        0.7      4.2       -1.8       5.9
Note: 1999 data are preliminary estimates.
'The diamonds show four key indicators in the country (in bold) compared with its income-group average. If data are missing, the diamond will
be incomplete.



- 37 -
Ethiopia
PRICES and GOVERNMENT FINANCE
Do ries1378    1989  1S98     1999       Inflation [X)
isy
Consumer prices                               16.0      9.6        3.7       4.2      10
Implicit GDP deflator                            .      4.3        9.7       33   s  J
CfoweerA     baacf                                                                    o aA0-e
Current revenue                                 ..    23.2         18.0     17.5    -10
Current budget balance                           ..      0.6       2.3       -0.1
Overall surplusideficit                         ..   -10.9        -6.5      -7.3         GDP del l.tor                CPI
TRADE
1979    19889       S98       1999       Emport and import levels (USS mill-)
Total exports (Fob)                           360       444        602       484
Coffee                                          ..    303        420        281
Hides                                           ..      60         51       57      1,500
Manufactures
Total imports (ci)                            589      1,020      1.519    1.570         *
Food                                           ..      186        172      172
Fuel and energg                                        103       246        194
Capital goods                                   ..     397       569        651        o
Export price index (/SW!A.t?.                            82         97        79            93   94   95   91  9?  0*   9
Import price index 1qttirA%?j                           117        104       101                 * Export:     * Imporst
Terms of trade (AtFtL-At                         ..      70         93        79
BALANCE oF PAYMENTS
1979     1989       199S      1999       Cuorent account balance to GOP (x)
Exports oF goods and services                  455      752       1.037      894 
Imports of goods and services                 660      1,201      1.815    1,866      2                                     r
Resource balance                             -205      -449       -778      -972
Net income                                      -3      -83         41 -85-
Net current transfers                           83      238        349       374
Current account balance                       -124     -294       -520      -683         I
Financing items (net)                           79      284        650       633      -
Changes in net reserves                         45       10       -129        49     -12
A*Ar:
Reserves including gold (i$tm&ac/              319      123        412       434
Conversion rate (LIFC, caWl .1                 2.1       2.1       8.9       7.5
EXTERNAL DEBT and RESOURCE FLOWS
1979    1989        1998      1999
fti   cM |-"Af l                                                                      Composition oF 1999 debt (US* milL)
Total debt outstanding and disbursed           740    7.842       9.812    9,288
IBRD                                          59        31         0         0                     G: 613
IDA                                          221       718      1,586     1.948           F: 333                   tS48
Total debt service                              29      304         33       160
IBR0                                           9        13         0         0
IDA                                            2        9         28        31                                       C: 127
Composition of net resource Flows
Official grants                                ..       ..       418
Official creditors                            95      402       -209      -267                                      0:1;7 32
Private creditors                              6       -70        -6       -10                                      0: 1.5'
Foreign diect investment                       ..       ..         4         .: 4,72?
Portfolio equity                              ..        ..         0
World Bank program
Commitments                                    0       72        609       160      A - IBRD                     E - Bil4tenrl
Disbursements                                 47       70         72       148      B - IDA    D - Other multilateral  F - Private
Principal repagments                           4        14        17        19      C - IMF                      G - Short-term
Net flows                                     43       56         56       129   1
Interest payments                              7        8          11       12
Net transfers                                 36       48         44        117
Development Economics                                                                                                   8121100



- 38 -
Annex 11
Organization, Staffing and Technical Capacity of IDE
ETHIOPIA Distance Learning Project (EDLP)
Organizational Structure and staffing of EDLP
EDLP will operate through one central (Addis Ababa) and seven regional centers. The central
distance learning center is located in Addis Ababa at the Civil Service College (CSC). The proposed
regional centers are to be located in Amhara (Bahir Dar), Tigray (Makelle), SNNP(Awassa), Oromia
(Nazareth), Somali (Jinga), Addis Ababa, and Dire Dawa/Harrari. The central distance learning (DL)
center at the CSC has been organized under the IDE ( Institute of Distance Education), which is part
of the CSC management structure. The central DL center has been designed to be the node in a
global network of World Bank training centers, which have full multi-media (voice, video and data)
connectivity to each other and centers of knowledge around the world.
The IDE is organized within the CSC, with its own offices and classrooms. The CSC has 3 faculties
and 2 institutes ( Institute of Distance Education [IDE], and Federal Regional Government Research
Institute). The CSC board is the highest policy level of the CSC structure.
CSC Board. The Board is chaired by a representative from the Prime Minister's Office. The CSC
President is a member and acts as its secretary.
CSC and IDE. The IDE is headed by a Dean, who will keep the CSC management informed on key
issues relating to IDE's operations. The Civil Service College in general, and IDE in particular will
be responsible for: i) ensuring that EDLP operates according to the guidelines and regulations
specified in the Implementation Manual; ii) Preparing annually for the Board and IDA a review of
EDLP performance (including a financial report), and a consolidated work program and budget
based on the pipeline of training proposals received by the central and regional centers; iii)
supervising and monitoring the activities of the regional centers; iv) marketing the activities of the
DL, processing training requests, supervising implementation of DL courses; v) managing the
development of printed learning and purchasing printing materials and course materials; vi)
maintaining a project performance monitoring and information system, and cooperating with the
internal and external evaluators to ensure adequate and appropriate data collection for evaluation
reports.
Regional Centers. Seven regional centers are responsible for the day-to-day EDLP operation
including registering students, collecting fees and maintaining accounting records, hiring and
supervising tutors, monitoring, implementing, and submitting reports and documentation to the
central DL center.
Staffing of the Central and Regional DL centers. IDE and the central DL center are already
operational, and are staffed with 6 department heads, namely i) Academic Development, ii) Regional
services, iii) Research, Evaluation and Training, iv) Central Support Services, v) DLC - Video
Conferencing and Technology, and vi) Operations. (Responsibilities for each are detailed in Table
1)
For the 3.5 years duration of the LIL, the IDE plans to have 28 staff, 17 professionals and 11
support. It also needs a marketing specialist who can market the IDE training programs and services
to the private sector.



- 39 -
Eighteen staff will be required in the regional centers, including 12 professionals and 6 support staff.
There was some debate regarding whether the Addis office would require hiring an additional
regional coordinator or whether those responsibilities could be assumed by the head of the Central
Support Unit. We believe that they can be absorbed by this Unit
Tablel: EDLP Professional Staff Requirements
Position/              Tasks               Qualification and Skills   Number   Add'I
Department                                                        (Existing)  required
1. IDE -      *  Overall responsibility for    A higher degree, with   I
Dean              the sustainable operation of  experience in
the centers                education, preferably
*  Manage the operation and   in distance education
accounts of the central and
regional centers
2. Marketing   *  Liaison with private sector   A degree in business,
companies to identify      have a working
training needs and market   knowledge of
courses offered by IDE.    communication
*  Promote learning events    technology. Have an
with general public.       entrepreneurial spirit,
*  Prepare an annual business   marketing skills and
plan for the centers       business management
experience in private
sector.
3. Academic   *  Manage the development    A higher degree in       1         2
Development       and/or adaptation of course  education, with
material.                  emphasis in
curriculum
development.
4. Research    *  Undertake research on      A higher degree in     1         2
and Training      distance education         education research
Evaluation    *  Identify ongoing training    and/or training
needs                      evaluation.
*  Identify problems of
distance learners and work
to solve
*  Evaluate training
*  Pilot test print materials
*  Coordinate training with
the course providers
*  Supervise collection of data
for ongoing monitoring and
evaluation



-40 -
Position/              Tasks               Qualification and Skills  Number    Add'I
Department                                                         (Existing)  required
5. Regional   *  Supervise registration of   A higher degree in     1           2
Services         participants              education.
Support       *  Follow-up assignment
*  Identify potential trainees
in the civil service
*  Coordinate contact with
regions and civil service
institutions
*  General quality control of
regional operations
*  Train tutors
6. Central    *  Manage and maintain the  A degree in
Support          accounts of the centers   Administration and
Services      *  Publicity                 finance
*  Procure and distribute
materials and supplies
*  Arrange contracts with
printers
7. DL center  *  Manage the operation of   DL manager with a        3
(CSC)            the DL center             higher degree in
Video         *  Coordinate course         information technology
Conference       offerings of course       and experience in
and Internet     providers                 education. One training
based         *  Ensure the proper         coordinator/facilitator
distribution of all course   with a higher degree in
materials                 education and excellent
*  1 acilitate the smooth    communication skills.
delivery of courses       One technology
delivered through        technician with a
videoconference and       university degree in
internet                 computer science
*  Moderate discussion
groups during local
activities
*  Support the Distance
Learning Center's
technology infrastructure



-41 -
Position/             Tasks               Qualification and Skills  Number    Add'l
Department                                                         (Existing)  required
8. Regional   *  Manage the regional       3 people in each                       18
Center           center                    regional center. One
Managers      *  Be the primary contact    coordinator with a
persons with regional     higher degree in
participants in courses   education, and/or
and seminars              business
*  Coordinate course         administration. One
offerings with the IDE    technologist ( assistant
*  Supervise the registration  technician) with a
of participants           diploma/degree in
*  Ensure the proper         computer science. One
distribution of course    secretary with a
materials                 diploma in secretarial
*  Participate in pilot      science and experience
material testing         in accounting.
*  Collect fees
*  Supervise maintenance
of records
Organizational Structure - Structure of EDLP Central and Regional centers
CSD/EDLP Board
Civil Service College I
Academic       DLC         Research,     Regional     Regional      Central     Operations
Development  Videoconf &    Training      Centers      Services      Support
E-leaming    Evaluation      (7)                      Services
Regional Centers:
Makelle
Awassa
Bahir Dar
Addis Ababa
Nazareth
Jinga
Dire Dawa/Harrari



-42 -
Strengthening technical capacity in the Institute of Distance Education (IDE)
A. Objective
Objective: The IDE capacity building program aims: i) to provide IDE staff (central and regional)
with the capacity to manage the DL and carry out the responsibilities described in the
Implementation manual, and ii) increase the knowledge base of IDE through supporting and
encouraging studies that will increase the effectiveness of DL activities.
The IDE has the overall responsibility for the sustainable operation of the DL centers. The major
task of the IDE is to be able to generate sufficient activity in courses, seminars, and workshops that
will justify an income sufficient to pay for network access, staff cost and maintenance and
depreciation of equipment. This requires training of project staff in i) DL management, ii)
communication technology, iii) marketing and business management, iv) designing Web pages and
managing Web content, vi) familiarization in E-learning (on line learning), vii) training evaluation,
viii) pilot testing print materials, ix) basic computer literacy and internet use, and x) desk top
publishing.
B. Capacity Building Targets:
In view of the above objectives, two capacity building and training targets have been selected for
financing under EDLP; i) Strengthen the IDE management and staff, enable IDE to put in place
sufficient organizational capacity to carry out its responsibilities reflected in the implementation
manual, and ii) increase the knowledge base of IDE through studies, research and impact evaluation
on beneficiaries.
C. Beneficiaries of the Capacity building:
Two levels of beneficiaries have been identified:
The Center: The DL central coordinating unit and IDE which must be able to ensure that EWDLP
operates according to agreed procedures, establish and manage the DL system, manage the
development and adaptation of Course material.
The Region: IDE regional centers' staff who must have adequate capacity to carry out the day to day
operation of DL, to administer the center, process registration of participants, to maintain project
monitoring system, and supervise and report implementation of DL activities in the region.
D. Review process:
An assessment will be made at the end of one year to ascertain success in achieving the capacity
building targets outlined above. The problems and constraints observed will be taken into account in
planning implementation strategies for subsequent years. The schedule for review of the contribution
of the component will be arranged in line with the supervision of the overall project.



-43 -
Summary of capacity building targets and expected outputs with preliminary cost estimates
Capacity building targets                         Expected outputs
I.Strengthen the IDE central management and    *  Increased capacities in Basic computer literacy for
staff, enabling IDE to put in place sufficient  17 professional central staff of IDE.
capacity to carry out its duties and mandate.  .  Increased capacity in designing Web page and
managing Web content of one staff of IDE.
*  Increased capacities in desktop publishing of 4
secretaries of IDE.
.  Increased capacities in the management of DL of one
staff of IDE (Visit to South Africa).
*  Increased marketing and business management
capacity of 3 staff of IDE.
. Increased capacities in E-leaming of 3 IDE staff.
* Study tour to similar activities of other countries for
# regional coordinators conducted.
* MIS for IDE designed and installed.
* Vehicles and computers, procured for IDE central
Laboratory.
2. Strengthen the IDE regional staff, enabling    *  Increased capacities in basic computer literacy of 6
the staff to have sufficient capacity to carry out  regional coordinators.
its duties and mandate.                    *  Increased capacities in the maintenance of equipment
and communication technology of 6 assistant
regional technicians.
Computers and AV equipment procured for IDE regional
centers.
3. Increase the knowledge base of IDE through   *  IDE DL activities evaluated annually.
the support of studies and research that   .   Research undertaken to identify problems of
improve the efficiency and effectiveness of the  distance learners.
DL program



- 44 -
Annex 12:
Relationships Between Regional Centers and CSC
ETHIOPIA Distance Learning Project
General
Each region will initially be staffed by a coordinator, a technician, and a secretary/accountant. As the
need arises the staffing could be expanded. The regional centers will recruit learners, collect their
fees, and manage the required number of tutors and tutorial sessions. The centers will be open 12
hours a day seven days a week so that the private sector, and private individuals can benefit from the
computer network and internet access
Before any regional center is opened the coordinator would have received a minimum of eight weeks
of training. The Technicians, essential for the maintenance of equipment both at the DLC, and at the
regional centers, would be provided with a fully paid course through the internet, designed to
upgrade their skills.
Academic
The whole system needs of learner selection, tutor recruitment and academic control will not be
bureaucratic, but will be based on a trusting relationship between the IDE and the regional
coordinators. Most of the key processes, including learner admission will be almost entirely in the
hands of the regional coordinators, and be based on the following three criteria:
* Overall grade in the ESLC, and the grade in English, and possibly maths;
* Recommendation of his/her employer,
* Score in a standardized aptitude test
Each region would have a certain quota in a certain subject each year, and would merely take the
candidates up to the quota on the basis of merit.
The main academic control from the IDE will take place during examinations at the end of each
course, which will be set by IDE, which will also be involved indirectly in its marking.
Financial
It is expected that learners and their employers will together pay around two thirds of the regular
operational expenditures of the specific course they are taking. In order to avoid unnecessary toing
and froing of funds
* Funds from the learner and his employer would be deposited in a local account of the CBE, and
the 'pay in' slip presented to the regional coordinator, as a final admission requirement;
* Each regional center would present an annual budget to the IDE/CSC for approval;
* The Bankers of the regional center would be instructed to transfer to the central account of the
CSC any amount deposited by learners in excess of the regional budget, and if possible, not to
make payments in any month in excess of an agreed amount;
* For each check written by the regional coordinator there will need to be a second signatory.
Who this should be still needs to be decided;
* Accounts and bank statements will be sent to the CSC monthly. This will be able to be done by
internet.



-45 -
Administrative
The coordinator will report to the Dean of the IDE for all academic matters, and to the Head of the
Administrative and Finance Department for budget and financial management issues.
A manual for the different aspects of running a regional center is under preparation. Once it is ready
it will be tested with a number of potential regional coordinators. Given the fact that the coordinator
will have at least four different functions, namely: as an academic advisor and mentor; as a financial
controller, as a human resource manager, and as a promoter of the program; methods will have to be
found to top up his salary to make the post attractive. In addition great care have to be devoted to his
selection; and considerable resources devoted to providing him with at least two months of carefully
designed pre service training.



- 46 -
Annex 13:
Technical Assistance Requirements
ETHIOPIA: Distance Learning LIL Project
The following technical assistance will be needed under the project in order to ensure that the most
appropriate and effective technologies are being used:
* Print Media Course Development
Training of Staff in Ethiopia ................................. .................    $410,000
External Staff Training ..................................................  $ 62,000
Foreign Experts and Coordination ..................................................  $ 63,000
* Internet Course Development
Training of Staff on Web Course Availability ...................................   $100,000
Training of internet course developers ...............................................  $200,000
Subscriptions to internet courses ..................................................  $200,000
* More Effective Use of Video Conference Facilities
Video conference use and staff training .............................................   $ 100,000
* Summative and Impact Evaluators of DL Alternatives
Contract with local research inst ..................................................   $ 40,000
*   Administrative training of involved CSC Staff .....................................   $ 40,000
* Distance Education Course Developers (from outside the CSC/IDE)
Allowances to external developers ..................................................    $200,000
Typing, layout, editing, proofreading ................................................   $200,000
GRAND TOTAL .............................. ....................  $1,615,000
For the print media course development TA, an institutional contract would be given to an
organization such as the British Open University. This organization will be responsible for the
training of the CSC/IDE management staff in the design and running of printed media DL courses,
the training and initial supervision of course material developers, the design and initial running of
tutor training, the choice of appropriate pedagogic strategies, strategic planning, and learner
assessment.
For the internet course use assistance will be sought in identifying the most appropriate web based
courses for upgrading the skills of Federal and Regional civil servants. In addition an internet based
technical assistance service will be recruited to provide advice and assistance in the design,
organization and management of internet courses through the regional centers with internet facilities.
One of the problems with the interactive VC facilities that will be upgraded through the LIL is that
they are not used frequently. It is intended to recruit a short tem consultant on the cutting edge of
this technology to advise on some of the most appropriate program providers and to negotiate
appropriate terms for using these courses on behalf of the CSC, and its regional centers.
Regular monitoring of the use that is being made of the various DL courses being offered through
DL media will be kept by the research and evaluation department of the IDE, however mid term and
final summative, cost effectiveness and impact evaluation will be contracted to a local research
organization.



- 47 -
The procurement, administration, and probable finance management staff involved in the
implementation of this project will need training in World Bank Procedures.
The academic staff of the CSC is already fully occupied in teaching the regular full time students at
the college. Thus for the development of new distance learning courses, staff from other academic
institutions will have to be employed on a piece work contract basis to develop the course materials.
Groups of professionals will be employed to work together to produce a certain course according to
acceptable standards.



-48-
Annex 14:
Rationale for Use of Internet to Deliver Courses
ETHIOPIA: Distance Learning LIL Project
The Internet has been selected as a mechanism to deliver coursework for several reasons:
*  There is substantial research evidence that this approach is as effective, and often more effective,
than in-person and/or print-based distance learning.
* There is some evidence that learners can learn faster using the computer, and, when such
learning is well-designed, is up to 55% faster when that learning is interactive.
* Learner support and feedback can be provided much more quickly and frequently with internet
based distance courses than with print media based distance courses, thereby increasing the
efficiency of students' learning as well as their motivation to continue learning -- particularly
important for distance learners.
* Communities of learners across regions can communicate with one another.
* There is an extensive array of resource materials available to learners on the World Wide Web;
materials, knowledge and information that may be useful in their coursework and for their
professional responsibilities.
* There is also an extensive array of coursework available through the Internet, which may be
accessed by IDE to deliver to learners.
* It is increasingly possible that learners, most of whom are civil service employees, will be using
computers and the Internet in their jobs within the next several years.
* This experience will prepare them for the dramatic changes that are occurring worldwide in use
of information te chnology, particularly for knowledge access.
Shortcomings of using the Internet to deliver training include:
* limited access to the Internet, particularly in Ethiopia and particularly in most regional centers
and all rural areas;
*  lack of electric'y in some rural areas;
* costs of hardware, software and Internet connectivity;
- need for learner to be trained in the use of computers and the Internet;
* need to train IDE staff (including tutors) in developing, delivering and supporting training
delivered on the Internet;
* likelihood that some learners will be anxious and/or uncomfortable using the computer;
* additional time required to train learners in computer-literacy skills;
* need to produce/purchase printed materials to complement online learning;
* need for students to be at an Internet access site in order to engage in some of the Internet-based
learning;
* need for students to develop keyboarding skills - which can take longer to learn than computer
literacy.



-49 -
Annex 15:
Monitoring, Evaluation, and Performance Indicators
ETHIOPIA: Distance Learning LIL Project
Project Monitoring and Reporting
Regular and systematic collection of information and relevant data to monitor progress/performance
of delivery mechanisms as well as the impact of the activities financed under the project will be
undertaken. This is essential not only to be able to adjust the project mechanisms as necessary for
effective project implementation but also for designing the expanded phase, if such a decision is
made.
Regional centers will prepare and submit to IDE central Office, quarterly, and annual progress
reports, which will provide details on implementation progress based on implementation goals and
time table. The central IDE will prepare for submission to CSC Board and IDA, a consolidated semi-
annual report within six weeks of the end of each half-year summarizing overall implementation,
highlighting any specific problems that require attention, and proposing actions to correct these
problems. The annual report will cover results of the whole year. Progress will be measured against
previous year's Annual Work Plan and Budget
Project and Component Evaluation
The evaluation will be designed to provide two levels of information:
I)    summative results that show comparative effectiveness and cost-effectiveness of the main
approaches used in the project: print-based, Internet-based, and videoconferencing, and possible
combinations of the various delivery media used; and
2)    Implementation features of this project to provide IDE staff with information needed to
refine the project mid-stream, and to create knowledge - to provide others wishing to implement
similar projects with guidance for making sound decisions.
Each level of evaluation will require different staffing and data-collection efforts. The summative
evaluation will be conducted by a local researcher, external to IDE. The contract for the evaluation
will be let when the LIL is initiated to ensure that all data-collection systems are in place to be able
to answer the major study questions listed below. A mid-project evaluation will be conducted at the
end of two years, and an end-of-project report will be provided within two months of project
completion. The electronic learning management system described below should be adequate for
collecting much of the data needed to answer the summative evaluation study questions.
Summative Evaluation
Major questions to be answered in the summative evaluation include:
For each course and program,' which delivery mode(s) and tutoring approach(s) results in:
* greater learner achievement;
'Program refers to an extended course of study that is made up of a number of courses that lead to a certificate
or diploma - such as a diploma in accounting. Course will refer to a single topic within the program, such as
Accounting 101 or Biology 101.



- 50 -
* greater learner satisfaction;
* fastest course and program completion time;
* highest program completion rate; and
* greatest overall cost effectiveness.
Implementation Evaluation
The implementation evaluation will require ongoing data collection and is much more complex than
the summative evaluation.
Implementation issues for which data should be collected and reported include the following:
* Tutor support
Questions of concern include:
1. What is the student-tutor ratio that most cost-effectively produces the most course completers?
2. What tutoring strategies and frequency of contact produce the most favorable results, such as e-
mail communication; in-person meetings; on-the-job support by professional colleagues;
written feedback, etc.
3. What is the amount and type of training that results in the most effective tutor support?
4. Is tutor support provided online by E-learning companies effective -if E-learning companies
are used?
5. Can online learning programs be designed in ways to reduce or obviate the need for tutors?
6. Which types of individuals make the best tutors and at what cost? (e.g., professional
colleagues, faculty from the CSC, faculty from other institutions, graduate students, high school
teachers, private sector employees?
7. What is the most cost-effective way to pay tutors? E.g., per hour, per student, per course, per
successful student completer, per assignment, per quality of student feedback, per student
satisfaction?
* Learning materials, delivery and process
There was considerable discussion during the project design regarding course materials. A number
of issues around materials should be documented and reported, including:
1. What is the effectiveness and cost-effectiveness of locally-developed materials vs. purchasing
off-the-shelf materials. (This may vary by course content and provider.)
2. Do these comparisons hold with regard to online learning?



- 51 -
3.  How much written text material are fully-employed students able to absorb during a course
term?
4.  Do these comparisons vary by provider and type of arrangement - for example, collaboration,
vs. licensing?
5.  What level familiarity and comfort in computer literacy do individuals need before they can
begin taking courses online?
6.  What level of keyboarding skills should the online students be required (or encouraged?) to
have before initiating online courses? How long does it take to get them to various levels of
proficiency?
7.  Is there any difference in effectiveness of videoconferencing courses based on whether there is
live interactivity? Or if they are provided with videotapes of the videoconferencing session vs.
live videoconference?
8.  How do individuals deal with the issue of using print materials within the context of online
courses? And how does the bandwidth (speed of access to the Internet) influence time spent
online engaged in learning and course completion time?
9. What is the amount of learning materials that distance students can successfully complete,
given that they are employed full time and that the materials are not written in their mother
tongue.
Pilot Testing of Learning Materials:
Pilot testing is probably the most important, but least implemented aspect of learning materials
development. The process used to pilot test IDE's learning materials (whether developed or adopted
and whether in print or online) will be documented in detail and the findings of the pilots and the
changes made will be analyzed and summarized weekly. Such analysis can be a valuable resource to
others developing similar materials for similar audiences.
- Student Assessment
Many forms of student assessment promote the memorization of discrete facts, formulas and
information, without encouraging learners to integrate the various aspects of their learning into an
integrated whole that can be applied in real-life settings. More authentic forms of assessment have
been developed over the past several years and it would be useful for IDE staff to have professional
development in this area. The staff who should participate in such training include faculty and
consultants who will develop learning materials, tutors who will evaluate students' assignments and
examinations, and R&E staff who may be able to provide technical assistance in developing
authentic learning assessments.
* Language and study support
Many of the students that will be participating in the IDE programs have limited English-language
facility. The faculty have identified these learning needs and propose to address them in two ways:
1) by providing two semesters of English-language instruction, and 2) writing course materials in
simpler, straightforward language with numerous examples, graphs, exercises and conceptual
models.



- 52 -
1. Are these strategies adequate?
2. Would it be more cost-effective to provide diagnostic testing of each entering student and to
provide remedial instruction tailored to each student's particular English-language needs? Can
this diagnosis and remediation be done at a distance?
Courses for the private sector and general public.
The cost of the videoconference and Internet infrastructure and hardware is high. And it is unlikely
that it will be in use full time by IDE students. Can the IDE generate additional income that can
contribute to sustainability by providing courses to both the private sector and the general public, by
using these facilities during underutilized hours? Other distance learning institutions have reported
success in this and is an area that should be documented and reported.
An individual will be employed by IDE to "market" such courses to the private sector and to cement
relationships between the IDE, the regional centers, the private sector institutions and the community
in the various regions. Some of the specific questions that need answering include:
1. What sorts of courses are attractive to the private sector? To the general public? It is expected
that there is a high demand for computer courses.
2. What fees can IDE charge each group without out-pricing themselves?
3. What strategies will the IDE use to provide computer-related courses, given the shortage of
skilled/trained computer personnel and the competitive demand for their services? For example,
could they recruit someone to train IDE students at IDE salaries, but who would be allowed to
use the IDE facilities to offer courses to the public after hours and receive a "commission" for
such courses? What kinds of waivers in government regulations would need to be made to
permit such flexibility?
4. How would the IDE arrange to identify and/or develop courses to meet the needs of the private
sector and/or general public? Will online learning be useful to them for this purpose? Would
providing services to the private sector conflict with their primary mission of serving the
Ethiopian Government Civil Service agencies and personnel?



- 53 -
Some Key Performance Indicators
Indicator                                      Planned (To be    Actual      Difference
specified annually)
Input Indicators
* IDE share of total CSC budget
* % of requests received for DL learning by type
of course
Process Indicators
* Staff evaluation of training they receive in DL.
* Quarterly staff evaluations of TA provided to
IDE
* Quality of learning materials developed and/or
adopted/adapted, as judged by students.
* Pilot testing and appropriate revision conducted
of all learning materials (records of learner
feedback and changes made based on feedback)
* MIS system in place and used to monitor
student enrollments, grades, course completion
and time-to-completion by course and program.
* Tutor reports of satisfaction with training
received.
* Quarterly reports from students regarding
satisfaction with tutoring support
* Quarterly reports from tutors regarding needs
from IDE staff to support their effectiveness as
tutors
* Quarterly reports from IDE regarding
monitoring of tutors and appropriate
adjustments made.
*  Reports of revenue from private sector
Outcome Indicators
*  IDE Student enrollments as compared with
CSC Regular Enrollment.
*  Number and percent of course completions by
delivery media and type of tutor support
*  Number and percent of program completions
by delivery media and type of tutor support
*  Student GPA by course, program, delivery
media and type of tutor support
*   Time-to-completion by course, program,
delivery media and type of tutor support.
*  Learner satisfaction, compared with CSC and
by course, program, delivery media and type of
tutor support






MAP SECTION






IBRD 31158
I   ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ ~~~~R  e  d                                                                    5
is' ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~j'    \ ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~R EP U BL IC                                                                                                   /  ERITREA~
.1p                                                      *Kh.a.- ~~~~~~~~~~~'REP. OF YEMEN
SUD AN                                                              Adq                                    S a                        O F
~~~~    ele                                      -~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~                               A~~~~~FAR /DJIBGUTJ
(ii~  /                 oss        Ad,-~                              ~                                                                                                                               OAAN..G.           SOMALIA
ADer '_    I_                       AFAR                                                                                            Addis AIx,ba
0                               _     1A~~~~~~~~L    '~~~~~ /..DJ I BOUTI.-0GEBL
) 0AI~~~~~~~~oI~~~~eI  Rohir  ~~~~~~~~~~~~M  H~~~~~J~~~                           G    ~~0OROMIYA                                                                        SOMALI         /
GA  Ad.                                        D-1.                                                                   ~~~~~~~~~~~~S.N.N.PR.S./
-10'                                                                                                                                                                                                         K                  /  
~~    bit  0  /      0                               10 ~~~~~~~UGANDA    '                     EY                             ~        0s
Arl. ~      ~               ~             ~              R                                                                                                ETH IOPIA
diLl, ~~~~~~~~~~~~* ~~~~~iZ, ~~~~~~~~~  0                                                                             -     ~~~~~~7ASPHALT, ALL-WEATHER ROADS
L CTI,~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~or 
/                       ~~~~~~~GRAVEL, ALL-WEATHER ROADS
SOMAll                                                 ~ ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~RURAL AND! OR DRY-WEATHER ROADS
Wor.,d         Dle
DA,,.                                                                           SELECTED TOWNS
-    STATE/ REGION (UNOFFICIAL 199A BOUNDARIES)
68mi~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ch~~~~~~---                                                                                     INTERNATIONAL BOUHDARIES
S  U       A   N                                     Ar              oh
KILOMETERS
Thi, .p ole pd-de by IrMAp .,n5- lTeWrdSrk
-     IOtA/14Thboni.,olredeorr,rler,OrdnehnZ frea.eIon
NOVEMBER 23105



