                             Document of
                         The World Bank




                                              Report No:ICR0000202




        IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION AND RESULTS REPORT
                      (IDA-35010 IDA-3501A)




                              ON A

                             CREDIT

              IN THE AMOUNT OF SDR 1.76 MILLION
                 (US$ 2.55 MILLION EQUIVALENT)

                             TO THE

     GOVERNMENT OF THE DEMOCRATIC REPUBLIC OF ETHIOPIA

                              FOR A

               DISTANCE LEARNING LIL PROJECT




                         MARCH 26, 2007




AFTRL
AFCE3
AFRICA REGION

                          CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS

                         (Exchange Rate Effective [date])

                         Currency Unit = Ethiopian BIRR
                            Eth BIRR 1.00 = US$ 0.115
                                US$ 1.448 = SDR 1

                                 FISCAL YEAR
                                  July 7 ­ July 6

                    ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS

AM    Aide Memoire
AfDB  African Development Bank
CAS   Country Assistance Strategy
CD    Country Director
CO    Country Office
DCA   Development Credit Agreement
DE    Distance Education
DLC   Distance Learning Center
ECSC  Ethiopian Civil Service College
GDLN  Global Development Learning Network
GoE   Government of Ethiopia
ICAS  Interim Country Assistance Strategy
ICB   International Competitive Bidding
ICR   Implementation Completion and Results Report
ICT   Information and Communication Technology
ICTAD Information and Communication Technology Assisted Development
IDE   Institute of Distance Education
ISG   Information Solutions Group
ISR   Implementation Status and Results Report
JICA  Japan International Cooperation Agency
MoFED Ministry of Finance and Economic Development
NGO   Non Governmental Organization
PDO   Project Development Objective
PSR   Project Status Report
QAG   Quality Assurance Group
TTL   Task Team Leader
UNECA United Nations Economic Commission for Africa
USAID United States Agency for International Development

     Vice President: Hartwig Schafer
   Country Director: Ishac Diwan
    Sector Manager: Onno Ruhl
Project Team Leader: Bobak Rezaian
  ICR Team Leader: Bobak Rezaian

                                                Ethiopia
                             Ethiopia Distance Learning LIL




                                             CONTENTS




Data Sheet
   A. Basic Information
   B. Key Dates
   C. Ratings Summary
   D. Sector and Theme Codes
   E. Bank Staff
   F. Results Framework Analysis
   G. Ratings of Project Performance in ISRs
   H. Restructuring
   I. Disbursement Graph

 1. Project Context, Development Objectives and Design............................................... 1
 2. Key Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcomes .............................................. 5
 3. Assessment of Outcomes.......................................................................................... 13
 4. Assessment of Risk to Development Outcome......................................................... 17
 5. Assessment of Bank and Borrower Performance ..................................................... 19
 6. Lessons Learned ....................................................................................................... 22
 7. Comments on Issues Raised by Borrower/Implementing Agencies/Partners .......... 23
 Annex 1. Project Costs and Financing.......................................................................... 24
 Annex 2. Outputs by Component ................................................................................. 25
 Annex 3. Economic and Financial Analysis................................................................. 32
 Annex 4. Bank Lending and Implementation Support/Supervision Processes ............ 33
 Annex 5. Beneficiary Survey Results........................................................................... 35
 Annex 6. Stakeholder Workshop Report and Results................................................... 36
 Annex 7. Summary of Borrower's ICR and/or Comments on Draft ICR..................... 37
 Annex 8. Comments of Cofinanciers and Other Partners/Stakeholders....................... 49
 Annex 9. List of Supporting Documents ...................................................................... 50
 Annex 10 Project Costs and Financing Before and After Restructuring...................... 51

 MAP

A. Basic Information

                                                                      Ethiopia Distance
Country:                Ethiopia               Project Name:
                                                                      Learning LIL
Project ID:             P069083                L/C/TF Number(s):      IDA-35010,IDA-3501A
ICR Date:               03/30/2007             ICR Type:              Core ICR
                                                                      GOVERNMENT OF
Lending Instrument:     LIL                    Borrower:
                                                                      ETHIOPIA
Original Total
                        XDR 3.9M               Disbursed Amount:      XDR 1.8M
Commitment:
Environmental Category: C
Implementing Agencies:
Ethiopian Civil Service College
Cofinanciers and Other External Partners:


B. Key Dates

     Process              Date             Process          Original Date  Revised / Actual
                                                                               Date(s)
Concept Review:        08/09/2000     Effectiveness:                          01/31/2002
Appraisal:             11/16/2000     Restructuring(s):                       06/29/2004
Approval:              04/17/2001     Mid-term Review:                        10/15/2003
                                      Closing:               12/31/2004       06/30/2006


C. Ratings Summary
C.1 Performance Rating by ICR
Outcomes:                                      Moderately Satisfactory
Risk to Development Outcome:                   Moderate
Bank Performance:                              Moderately Satisfactory
Borrower Performance:                          Moderately Satisfactory


C.2 Detailed Ratings of Bank and Borrower Performance (by ICR)
         Bank                  Ratings                Borrower               Ratings
Quality at Entry:       Unsatisfactory         Government:            Moderately Satisfactory

Quality of Supervision: Moderately SatisfactoryImplementing
                                               Agency/Agencies:       Moderately Satisfactory

Overall Bank                                   Overall Borrower
Performance:            Moderately SatisfactoryPerformance:           Moderately Satisfactory


C.3 Quality at Entry and Implementation Performance Indicators
    Implementation                               QAG Assessments
      Performance              Indicators              (if any)              Rating

Potential Problem Project No                   Quality at Entry      None


                                               i

at any time (Yes/No):                             (QEA):
Problem Project at any                            Quality of
                           Yes                                         None
time (Yes/No):                                    Supervision (QSA):
DO rating before           Moderately
Closing/Inactive status:   Satisfactory


D. Sector and Theme Codes
                                                                Original          Actual
Sector Code (as % of total Bank financing)
Information technology                                            49                26
Telecommunications                                                33                 4
Tertiary education                                                18                70


Theme Code (Primary/Secondary)
Decentralization                                               Secondary         Secondary
Education for the knowledge economy                             Primary           Primary
Infrastructure services for private sector development          Primary           Primary
Social analysis and monitoring                                 Secondary         Secondary


E. Bank Staff
         Positions                        At ICR                         At Approval
Vice President:            Hartwig Schafer                    Callisto E. Madavo
Country Director:          Ishac Diwan                        Oey Astra Meesook
Sector Manager:            Onno Ruhl                          John A. Roome
Project Team Leader:       Abdolreza B. Rezaian               Nicholas L. Bennett
ICR Team Leader:           Abdolreza B. Rezaian
ICR Primary Author:        Michael Broemmel



F. Results Framework Analysis

Project Development Objectives (from Project Appraisal Document)
The objectives of this project were to: (a) test the comparative achievement in the
learning outcomes, the comparative demand, the comparative costs and cost
effectiveness, and the sustainability of several distance learning approaches being
implemented by the Institute of Distance Education (IDE) at ECSC; and (b) develop
capacity of the Institute for Distance Education to manage (i) the Global Development
Learning Network (GDLN) link, both at the federal level and the five regional centers;
(ii) the development and use of appropriate printed distance learning materials; and (iii)
the establishment of seven regional distance learning outreach centers.



                                                 ii

  To measure progress the following key indicators were selected:

  1.    Demand for the different types and topics of distance learning courses in Addis
Ababa and the regions;

  2.    Percentage of available time the central and regional GDLN interactive video
facilities are actually used (available time is Monday through Friday 9 am. to 9 PM);

  3. Percentage of GDLN central and regional link costs met from other revenue sources
such as (a) renting video link services to other government agencies, the private sector
and donors; (b) selling internet access to the general public especially at regional centers;
(c) subscription from private individuals participating in internet based courses; (d)
revenues from computer literacy training; and (e) donor funding of specific courses;

  4. Learning achievement by course, delivery mode, and tutoring support;

  5. Learner satisfaction by course, delivery mode, and tutoring support;

  6. Time to completion by course, delivery mode, and tutoring support; and

  7. Cost effectiveness of learner achievement by delivery mode.

Revised Project Development Objectives (as approved by original approving authority)
The project was restructured on June 29, 2004, and the PDO was reformulated as follows
(see Amendment to Development Credit Agreement (DCA)- June 29, 2004): "The
objectives of the project are to: (a) test the comparative achievement in the learning
outcomes, the comparative demand, the comparative costs and cost effectiveness and the
sustainability of several distance learning approaches being implemented by IDE; and (b)
develop capacity of the IDE to manage: (i) the GDLN link; (ii) the development and use
of appropriate printed distance learning materials; and (iii) the establishment of seven
regional distance learning outreach centers."

  The revisions were to ensure timely and effective implementation of the project, by
cancelling implementation of the five regional GDLN sites (which had not yet been
started, and could not he possibly completed due to infrastructure and human resource
constraints). The key indicators remained essentially the same, with minor changes
reflecting the cancellation of regional GDLN centers.

(a) PDO Indicator(s)

                                           Original Target   Formally         Actual Value

   Indicator          Baseline Value        Values (from      Revised         Achieved at
                                               approval        Target        Completion or
                                             documents)        Values        Target Years
Indicator 1 :   Learning achievement by course, delivery mode, and tutoring support (GDLN)
Value           N/A                       N/A              N/A            Print-based:



                                               iii

quantitative or                                                             Quality of teaching
Qualitative)                                                                materials: 93%;
                                                                            Quality of learner
                                                                            support: 90%;
                                                                            Learning
                                                                            achievement: 79%;
                                                                            Quality of tutorial
                                                                            support: 65%;
                                                                            Appropriateness of
                                                                            fees charged: 59%
                                                                            e-Learning: TBD
                                                                            (see section 3.2 of
                                                                            this ICR for details)

Date achieved 01/31/2002                  12/31/2004          12/31/2005    06/30/2006
Comments       The percentages reflect the cumulative ratings of high and very high satisfaction
(incl. %       of students who had participated in print based distance learning courses. For
achievement)   further details please consult the Project Evaluation Report.

(b) Intermediate Outcome Indicator(s)

                                           Original Target       Formally      Actual Value

   Indicator         Baseline Value          Values (from                       Achieved at
                                                approval          Revised      Completion or
                                               documents)     Target Values    Target Years

Indicator 1 :  Demand for the different types and topics of Distance learning courses in Addis
               Ababa and the regions (# participants GDLN only)
Value
(quantitative  0.                         N/A                 1000 (over 12 913 (over 8 months

or Qualitative)                                               months)       - by closing date)

Date achieved 01/31/2002                  12/31/2004          12/31/2005    06/30/2006

Comments       The annual target was 1000 participants in GDLN events (83 per month). The

(incl. %       new GDLN opened late in Nov. 2005, with 913 participants by June 30, 2006.

achievement)   This comes to 114 particiopants per month (137% of target). This upward trend
               is expected to continue.

Indicator 2 :  Demand for the different types and topics of Distance learning courses in Addis
               Ababa and the regions (# participants in the regional and outreach centers).

Value                                                                       6507 applications

(quantitative  1300                       4700                4700          received for

or Qualitative)                                                             academic year july
                                                                            2005 to june 2006.
Date achieved 01/31/2002                  12/31/2004          12/31/2005    06/30/2006
               Demand for print based courses has been very high. Over 6,500 people applied to
Comments       the program (138% of target) and 5335 students (113% of target) completed
(incl. %       their courses successfully.
achievement)   Demand for GDLN programs has also been encouraging (114% of target).


Indicator 3 :  Percentage of the actual available time that the GDLN interactive video facilities
               are actually used.



                                                iv

Value
(quantitative  0                           20%                20%             36%
or Qualitative)
Date achieved 01/31/2002                   12/31/2004         12/31/2005      06/30/2006
Comments       The potential availability of the center was 960 hours during the first 6 months of
(incl. %       2006 with an actual usage of 353 hours. The percentage of actual usage of the
achievement)   facilities is therefore 36%.
               Percentage of GDLN link costs met from other revenue sources such as:
Indicator 4 :  1.Renting video link services to other government agencies, the private sector
               and donors.
Value
(quantitative  0.                          20%                20%             103%
or Qualitative)
Date achieved 01/31/2002                   12/31/2004         12/31/2005      06/30/2006
Comments
(incl. %       The center generated USD 34,066 in revenues in the past 10 months, which is

achievement)   about 103% of the annual cost of bandwidth for a year (USD 33,000).


G. Ratings of Project Performance in ISRs

                                                                                    Actual
 No.     Date ISR
         Archived                  DO                        IP                Disbursements
                                                                               (USD millions)
  1     06/16/2001             Satisfactory             Satisfactory                      0.00
  2     12/28/2001             Satisfactory             Satisfactory                      0.00
  3     04/29/2002             Satisfactory             Satisfactory                      0.00
  4     12/12/2002            Unsatisfactory            Unsatisfactory                    0.32
  5     06/23/2003            Unsatisfactory            Unsatisfactory                    0.32
  6     12/31/2003             Satisfactory             Unsatisfactory                    0.41
  7     06/30/2004            Unsatisfactory            Unsatisfactory                    0.41
  8     11/01/2004             Satisfactory             Satisfactory                      0.82
  9     04/29/2005     Moderately Satisfactory          Satisfactory                      1.25
  10    11/03/2005     Moderately Satisfactory          Satisfactory                      1.82
  11    04/25/2006     Moderately Satisfactory Moderately Satisfactory                    1.97
  12    06/06/2006     Moderately Satisfactory Moderately Satisfactory                    1.97
  13    06/29/2006     Moderately Satisfactory Moderately Satisfactory                    2.03



H. Restructuring (if any)

                                  ISR Ratings at     Amount

 Restructuring      Board         Restructuring Disbursed at       Reason for Restructuring &
     Date(s)      Approved                        Restructuring
                PDO Change                                             Key Changes Made
                                    DO      IP       in USD
                                                     millions

   06/29/2004          N             S      U            0.41    Prior to restructuring,
                                                                 implementation of the project


                                                v

                        ISR Ratings at  Amount

Restructuring   Board   Restructuring Disbursed at  Reason for Restructuring &
   Date(s)    Approved                Restructuring
             PDO Change                                  Key Changes Made
                         DO     IP      in USD
                                        millions
                                                   was slow and problematic.
                                                   Reasons included: (i) Weak
                                                   capacity of the ECSC staff in
                                                   dealing with donor funded
                                                   operations; (ii) Intermittent and
                                                   often weak supervision support
                                                   by the Bank; (iii) ECSC's
                                                   internal capacity limitations for
                                                   mainstreaming e-learning
                                                   approaches in distance
                                                   education; and (iv) Delays in
                                                   upgrading of the GDLN
                                                   Center. Approval of the PDO
                                                   change by the Board was not
                                                   needed since this was a LIL.




I. Disbursement Profile




                                     vi

1. Project Context, Development Objectives and Design

1.1 Context at Appraisal

At the time of appraisal the human capacity in the Ethiopian public sector was very weak
and was stretched to its limit due to the on-going decentralization of public
administration to regional and local governments. About 83% of the 300,000 federal and
regional civil servants did not have a post secondary diploma, and required considerable
training to improve their performance.        Therefore, developing the capacity of civil
servants was a high priority for the government, and the Ethiopian government had
already decided in 1998 that the Ethiopian Civil Service College (ECSC) would play a
key role in strengthening the capacity of civil servants at the federal and regional levels
through different instructional approaches, including distance education.

The Civil Service College was the leading institution for training of civil servants in its
central facilities in Addis Ababa. The ECSC's Institute for Distance Education (IDE)
was offering limited extension programs in five regional centers using print-based
distance education. However, the quality and variety of the print-based distance learning
courses were rather limited and required considerable improvements in order to meet the
needs of civil servants. Aside from print-based media, no other teaching approaches (for
example electronic-based distance education) were being used by IDE to improve the
quality and availability of the training programs. At the same time, the Bank's Interim
Support Strategy for Ethiopia had identified weak institutions and inadequate human
capacity as key focus areas for World Bank support. Therefore, the Government and the
Bank agreed to strengthen the capacity of Civil Service College and its IDE unit in using
print-based and other distance leaning approaches for in-service upgrading of civil
servants competencies and general training particularly in the regions.

1.2 Original Project Development Objectives (PDO) and Key Indicators (as         approved)

The objectives of this project were to: (a) test the comparative achievement in the
learning outcomes, the comparative demand, the comparative costs and cost effectiveness,
and the sustainability of several distance learning approaches being implemented by the
Institute of Distance Education (IDE) at ECSC; and (b) develop capacity of the Institute
for Distance Education to manage (i) the Global Development Learning Network
(GDLN) link, both at the federal level and the five regional centers; (ii) the development
and use of appropriate printed distance learning materials; and (iii) the establishment of
seven regional distance learning outreach centers.

To measure progress the following key indicators were selected:
        1. Demand for the different types and topics of distance learning courses in
            Addis Ababa and the regions;
        2. Percentage of available time the central and regional GDLN interactive video
            facilities are actually used (available time is Monday through Friday 9 am. to
            9 PM);



                                               1

        3. Percentage of GDLN central and regional link costs met from other revenue
            sources such as (a) renting video link services to other government agencies,
            the private sector and donors; (b) selling internet access to the general public
            especially at regional centers; (c) subscription from private individuals
            participating in internet based courses; (d) revenues from computer literacy
            training; and (e) donor funding of specific courses;
        4. Learning achievement by course, delivery mode, and tutoring support;
        5. Learner satisfaction by course, delivery mode, and tutoring support;
        6. Time to completion by course, delivery mode, and tutoring support; and
        7. Cost effectiveness of learner achievement by delivery mode.

1.3 Revised PDO (as approved by original approving authority) and Key Indicators,
and reasons/justification

The project was restructured in June 2004, about 6 months before the original closing
date of December 31, 2004. Both sides agreed to restructure the project in such a way
that while the development objectives would remain consistent with the original PDO,
the project components and activities would be downsized such that they would be
realistically achievable within a reasonable timeframe. Based on this agreement, the
PDO was reformulated as follows (see Amendment to Development Credit Agreement
(DCA) - June 29, 2004):

        "The objectives of the project are to: (a) test the comparative achievement in the
        learning outcomes, the comparative demand, the comparative costs and cost
        effectiveness and the sustainability of several distance learning approaches being
        implemented by IDE; and (b) develop capacity of the IDE to manage: (i) the
        GDLN link; (ii) the development and use of appropriate printed distance learning
        materials; and (iii) the establishment of seven regional distance learning outreach
        centers."

The revisions were to ensure timely and effective implementation of the project, by
cancelling implementation of the five regional GDLN sites (which had not yet been
started, and could not he possibly completed due to infrastructure and human resource
constraints).

The key indicators remained essentially the same, with minor changes reflecting the
cancellation of the five regional GDLN centers.

1.4 Main Beneficiaries

The main beneficiaries were defined as the Federal and Regional civil servants,
especially those working in the regions. The target beneficiaries were not changed during
restructuring.

1.5 Original Components (as approved)




                                             2

The original project components as stated in the DCA slightly differ from those in the
PAD. The DCA's listing of project components is more substantive and is therefore
referenced here as follows:

   1. Upgrading and Extension of GDLN Facilities: (1) Supporting the upgrading to the
       highest international standards of the existing GDLN videoconferencing and
       internet link at the CSC, including carrying out civil works and establishing and
       maintaining satellite communications; (2) Establishing modified GDLN links with
       the five GDLN regional Centers through: (a) the carrying out of civil works in
       existing tertiary level institutions within the regions where GDLN Regional
       Centers are located; and (b) the acquisition of computers and audio visual
       equipment.
   2. Development of Printed Media Distance Learning: (1) Developing and printing
       distance learning materials to support distance learning courses being offered by
       IDE; (2) carrying out, at 7 satellite sites, training programs for tutors in distance
       learning courses.
   3. Training through Distance Learning Services:           Carrying out (a) regular IDE
       training programs for federal and regional civil servants in accountancy,
       management and other subjects; (b) training programs, on a full cost basis, in
       computer literacy and remedial English for civil servants at Regional Centers and
       for private individuals; and (c) internet based distance learning services for the
       private sector.
    4. Capacity Development: Developing the capacity of IDE to provide and evaluate
       distance learning services through: (a) provision of technical advisory services
       and carrying out of training to IDE and regional staff in interactive video, internet,
       and print based correspondence courses; (b) provision of technical advisory
       services and support for evaluating alternative distance teaching approaches being
       used by IDE; and (c) carrying out of training programs for CSC staff (including
       IDE staff) in procurement and financial management.

1.6 Revised Components

During the Supervision Mission of June 2004, the Mission and the Borrower agreed that
there had been little progress in implementation of the project, particularly with respect to
expansion of the GDLN sites at regional level, and the development and roll-out of
computer based (electronic) distance education. Furthermore, the overall performance of
the project was unsatisfactory and needed special attention. The options were to either
cancel the project, or to restructure the project and reduce its scope by focusing on
completion of key activities that had already been started and could be finished
successfully consistent with the stated development objectives.

Both sides agreed that by restructuring the project, cancelling certain activities, and
reducing the scope of others as needed, the revised development objectives would be
achievable.




                                             3

Based on this agreement the extension of GDLN network to the five regional distance
learning centers and the related activities (sub-components 1.2(a) and 1.2(b)) were
cancelled.

It was further agreed that:

    · The civil works and upgrading of the equipment for the GDLN center in Addis
       Ababa would be expedited;
    · Development of print media for 48 courses (which had been partially completed)
       would be fully completed;
    · The seven regional distance learning outreach centers would be strengthened
       through installation of local area networks and internet connectivity at each
       center;
    · Internet based training would be introduced as a proof of concept only;
    · The 30 or so computers in two existing computer labs would be upgraded;
    · Two new computer labs with also about 30 networked computers and access to
       the Internet would be established at ECSC to strengthen the computer literacy and
       Information and Communication Technology (ICT) training agenda of the
       College;
    · The ECSC staff capacity Development activities would continue based on a
       revised implementation schedule.

Since the project implementation status was unsatisfactory at the time, both sides also
agreed that a potential extension of the project closing date would be considered only if
significant improvements in project implementation were achieved before the original
closing date of December 31, 2004.

1.7 Other significant changes

The following changes were also introduced:

1. Cancellation of funds. The restructuring included cancellation of 48% of the IDA
Credit, reducing the project funds from an initial total of USD 7.1 M (of which 4.9
million was from IDA) to USD 2.95 M (of which USD 2.55 million was from IDA).
This was to simplify project design and to focus only on activities that could be
successfully finished by ECSC in a timely way. Since the standard Annex 1 in
the current ICR template does not accommodate project costing at restructuring, a
detailed project cost table is provided in Annex 10 of this ICR providing the project costs
by component at appraisal and at restructuring.

2. Monitoring and Evaluation. To ensure that the project will have an appropriate
M&E in place, IDE/ECSC agreed to establish a project monitoring system and to
regularly collect and report the required data based on the agreed indicators. The key
performance indicators where reviewed during restructuring to ensure that the right data
would be collected. The monitoring table was standardized and was integrated into the
regular project progress reports prepared by the IDE/ECSC project team.



                                             4

3. Project Implementation Arrangements.            The original project implementation
arrangements were such that there was no clear line of accountability for project
implementation within ECSC.       While ECSC's Institute for Distance Education was
interested in developing the print-based distance education materials, there were no clear
arrangements for implementation of the electronic based distance education programs.

Procurement and financial management of the project were under the ECSC's finance
department, as add-on activities for ECSC staff who were not familiar with the World
Bank procurement and financial management guidelines and requirements.

Project oversight was also unclear since there was no project manager in charge of
supervising the project implementation activities.

Since at the time of restructuring the remaining time until the original closing date was
short, ECSC agreed to establish a small task force headed by one of the Vice Presidents
of the college with direct decision making powers to oversee implementation of the
remaining activities. The College agreed to provide regular updates on implementation
progress, disbursement and commitment details for each project component.

4. Linking ECSC to WoredaNet. Shortly after restructuring ­ once the extension of the
closing date was agreed on - the Bank and Government teams took advantage of the
Government's creation of a government network (WoredaNet) as a great opportunity to
establish an interface between the ECSC's GDLN center and the Government's
WoredaNet (a network of more than 600 local government sites, each equipped with
video-conference equipment and local area networks). This would allow the College to
reach out to about 600 local government facilities through video-conference programs,
making it possible for ECSC to move toward reaching the development objectives related
to the testing of electronic distance education approaches in the near future. This
connection has already been established, tested, and used by the time of this ICR to
conduct a video-conference based training program at 30 sites.

2. Key Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcomes

2.1 Project Preparation, Design and Quality at Entry

For the purposes of this ICR, any reference to the ECSC in what follows may be
interpreted as equally applicable to the IDE as an institute within the ECSC. A
distinction has been made, however, between the IDE and ECSC whenever necessary.

Quality at entry was not assessed by the Quality Assurance Group (QAG) of the World
Bank. This ICR's assessment is that quality at entry was unsatisfactory. The reasons for
this rating are listed below.

The project had the following positive characteristics:




                                             5

Project Objectives were consistent with the country's priorities at the time of project
preparation. The design was responsive to the specific needs of the ECSC in delivering
civil service training, particularly with relation to print-based media. However, the
expected outcomes from the use of electronic based distance education were too
ambitious to be reached during project implementation.

Project Design strived to build on the ECSC's existing programs and capacity by
focusing on the strengthening of staff skills and developing new print-based and
electronic distance education materials and capabilities. Project design seems to have
benefited from a needs assessment that was carried out by the IDE. The proposed project
activities were consistent with these priorities, and were linked to outputs and outcomes
that would contribute to the achievement of project objectives.

Project ownership was moderately high. The project was designed in a participatory
way, and the College seems to have been directly involved in the preparations from the
outset. This assessment is based on the following evidence: (i) the Board and
management of the college formally approved the major components of the project in
April 2000; (ii) the IDE department of the ECSC carried out a needs assessment in
October 2000 to identify the priority learning needs of the target groups; and (iii) the
College allocated suitable space on its premises to accommodate establishment of the
videoconference facilities and the new computer labs.

Institutional capacity building was a key development objective of the project.
Considerable staff training and learning activities were incorporated in the project design,
particularly for developing the IDE's capacity for better delivery of distance education to
civil servants in the regions.

Lessons from other World Bank electronic based distance education projects were not
available to the team at the time of project design. Lessons from related projects
supported by other institutions such as United States Agency for International
Development (USAID) and Japan International Cooperation Agency (JICA) were
considered.

Despite these positive aspects, however, there were also some issues:

Readiness for Implementation was not adequately in place by the time of Board
approval. Discussions had taken place on the first year procurement plan and drafting of
the RFP for the GDLN equipment. However, delays in adequate staffing of the project
implementation team and preparation of the project implementation manual suggest
serious shortfalls in readiness.

Design of the project was flawed and could have been improved in four areas:

1. Timeframe.        The proposed timeframe for expansion of internet-based distance
education to regional centers was too optimistic and unachievable, particularly in the
absence of reliable communications infrastructure and the ECSC's lack of knowledge on



                                             6

electronic based pedagogy and content development, electronic course delivery, and
technical management. This challenge became obvious during implementation when
almost all e-learning activities ran into major delays throughout the implementation
process.

2. The sustainability assumption for the internet based training programs in the
regions was unrealistic. The PAD assumed that: "The operational costs at the regional
centers will be substantially lower than those at the center, and with there being little
competition for internet services in the regions, it should be possible to market the excess
capacity to private internet users for 50 Birr an hour, generating about three quarters of
the operation costs" This assumption was flawed since these regional centers would not
have been legally allowed to resell their excess internet capacity to the general public.
Providing access to internet was (and still remains) under the sole control of the
Ethiopian Telecommunications Corporation (ETC), and no other connectivity provider
(public or private) could legally offer such services. This is still the case as of this ICR.
Thus, the assumption that provision of such services could cover about 75% of the
recurrent costs of the five regional centers was clearly unwarranted, and the team should
have researched the viability of this assumption much more carefully. This sub-
component was cancelled during restructuring.

3. Monitoring and Evaluation. There is a fairly extensive discussion of Monitoring
and Evaluation (M&E) topics and indicators in Annex 15 of the PAD. The M&E
discussion in the main body of the PAD, however, is inconsistent with Annex 15 and the
Logical Framework information. Some of the main deficiencies in the M&E area were as
follows: (i) Baseline data for monitoring and evaluation were not provided in the PAD or
other project documents, and no provisions were made for their collection during
implementation; and (ii) A monitoring and evaluation system that would be used to
monitor progress of the project was not incorporated in the project design. These
limitations caused inefficiencies in assessing the implementation progress and the
outcomes of the project. The Learning and Innovation nature of this operation should
have strongly suggested the need for adding a separate subcomponent in the project
design with adequate resources for establishment of an effective M&E system.

4. Risk Formulations.         Although the risks were identified properly for such an
operation, their presentation in the PAD was done incorrectly. For example the PAD
identifies "The programs being offered by GDLN are relevant to the needs of the
potential learners" as a substantial risk. Clearly this would be a risk only if the programs
offered by GDLN would NOT be relevant to the needs of potential learners. This
formulation oversight applies to all identified risks.

2.2 Implementation

For the purposes of this ICR, the project implementation review is divided into two
phases: (1) from Board approval to restructuring (April 2001 to June 2004); and (2) from
restructuring to the revised closing date (June 2004-June 2006).




                                              7

Phase I: From Board Approval to Restructuring (April 2001 ­ June 2004)
During this phase implementation of the project was slow and problematic because of the
following factors:

1. Weak capacity of the IDE/ECSC staff in dealing with donor funded operations and
interacting effectively with the IDA task team. This led to a very slow start, and the
project became effective almost ten months after Approval. There were limited
procurement activities and low disbursements. The existing financial management
officers of the ECSC were assigned to oversee the financial activities under the project,
and they did not know for a long time how to use the funds in the project special account,
and therefore continued to use counterpart funds for activities that qualified for IDA
funding.

2. Intermittent and often weak supervision support by the Bank, which led to few
interactions between the Task Team and the Client during the first two years of
implementation. There is little information on file on the implementation supervision by
the Bank during the first two years (other than the Project Status Reports - PSRs). The
original Team Leader seems to have moved on shortly after the project approval. There is
only one Aide Memoire on record for the whole period before the restructuring, and the
ICR team could not find any documents on the mid-term review of October 2003. The
M&E section of the PSRs for this period remained blank despite comments by
management that the relevant information needs to be provided. By early 2003, less than
10 % of the credit proceeds were disbursed, and based on the slow pace of
implementation the project was rated as unsatisfactory. On December 16, 2003 the
Government requested an 18 month extension of the project closing date to June 2006.
There are no records of the Bank's response (if any) to this request. Meanwhile, the
implementation progress rating remained as unsatisfactory. By the end of 2003 the
Project was in Problem Status and was included on the Pro-activity List.

3. IDE/ECSC's internal capacity limitations for mainstreaming e-learning approaches
in distance education led to a very slow start of the program. The College did not have a
well defined internal line of ownership, responsibility and accountability for e-learning
program development within its organizational structure. This led to major delays in
planning, needs assessment, staff training and program development for electronic
(computer or internet) based training.

4. Delays in upgrading of the GDLN Center. In May 2003, a supervision mission
visited the project site. By this time, a contract was signed with the United Kingdom
Open University for print-based course development, but no real progress was made on
the upgrading of the GDLN center and expansion of the network to the five regional
centers. During this mission two important decisions were made: (i) Activities related to
the establishment of five regional distance learning centers (DLCs) where transferred to
the ICT Department of the Ministry of Capacity Building for implementation and (ii) the
government decided that the five regional DLCs would be equipped with two-way video
conferencing equipment similar to the Government's WoredaNet centers. The change in
implementation arrangements for the five regional GDLN centers was not treated as a



                                            8

restructuring at this point. This mission triggered the first Aide Memoire on record, dated
May 20, 2003, more than two years after effectiveness.


Phase II: From Restructuring to Closing (June 2004-June 2006):

In April 2004, a new Task Team Leader was assigned to this project by the Bank, with
the aim of helping the ECSC to put the project back on track.

Re-structuring. In June 2004, the project was restructured with a focus on key activities
that could be finished before the closing date. Thus the planned expansion of GDLN
network to five regional centers was cancelled, and the scope and scale of various
components and activities were adjusted to achievable levels. About 48% of the IDA
credit was cancelled, reducing the IDA amount from USD 4.9 million to USD 2.55
million.

During this process, it became clear that the Client had made various efforts to move
ahead with the development and testing of the print media, preparation of architectural
plans for expansion of the GDLN facilities, procurement of various goods and services,
and training of the ECSC staff. Since in some cases the College had used counterpart
funds for these goods and services, the disbursement of IDA funds had remained low.
The ECSC also agreed to continue with implementing the activities on the fast track basis.

Two key operational arrangements were made during the restructuring:

    1. Project implementation was fast tracked with a focus on producing results based
       on agreed targets; and

    2. An open and direct line of communication was established between the ECSC top
       management / project team and the Task Team Leader (TTL) by frequent
       telephone and e-mail exchanges to ensure that issues affecting pending activities
       could be discussed and agreed on quickly and efficiently.

These two steps had a very positive impact on improving the implementation
performance as later confirmed by the Client.

Post-restructuring Progress. After the restructuring both sides adopted an interactive
approach for fast track implementation of project activities, and implementation
progressed more effectively due to joint efforts of the IDE/ECSC and the Bank teams.
This led to the successful completion of most project activities despite the various
challenges discussed below.

Substantial implementation progress was achieved soon after the restructuring. Therefore
to ensure that all project activities would be completed effectively and the expected
outcomes would be achieved, the Government requested, and the Bank agreed with, an
extension of the closing date to December 31, 2005. This was followed by a 6 month



                                              9

extension of the closing date to June 30, 2006 to ensure that the newly upgraded GDLN
center could deliver some training programs that could contribute to the achievement of
the project development objectives.

By the end of the project all major activities (except the e-learning pilot) were completed
successfully and more than 93% of the Credit was disbursed.

Print Based Distance Education. During the first year after the re-structuring, contend
development for the 48 print-based courses was finished. The course topics included
Accounting, Economics, Management, Business, Civil Service Ethics, Law, Government
Budgetary System, Financial Management, Marketing, and Customer Service Delivery
(see Annex II of Client's ICR for details). This effort was led by IDE faculty and staff
who were directly involved in the development, validation, and testing of the content,
with oversight and assistance from the United Kingdom Open University as the lead
consultants. Twelve distance education courses were offered to a total of 2449 students
with excellent results (97% passed the exams) and very positive feedback from the
students.

The demand for these courses had also gone up and the intake for the July 2005-June
2006 period increased by 32%. By June 2006, 6507 applications were received (138% of
the target value), of which 5335 (113% of target number) were enrolled and completed
their courses. The number of regional outreach centers increased from 7 to 21, or 300%
of the target value. IDE's staff in the regions also increased beyond the set targets by the
hiring and training of 310 tutors for the outreach centers. IDE staff were trained as
follows: 11 in e-learning; 15 in Desktop publishing; 8 in the management of DLP; 103
professionals in developing and editing distance learning course materials; 17 IDE
Regional staff in Financial Management. The result of these activities has been the
improved quality of the ECSC's distance education programs.

GDLN / e-Learning Delay. In late 2004, while the GDLN civil works were progressing
well, a complication developed in the procurement of videoconferencing (VC) equipment
for the GDLN center. The circumstances were as follows: the ECSC signed a contract
with a videoconference equipment supplier in January 2005. The contract stipulated that
the supplier would finish the installation within 60 days, but the contractor finished the
upgrades six month later than the agreed delivery date. In the end, the GDLN center
became fully operational in November 2005. By then the GDLN center had missed its
chance to deliver video based training over a reasonable period before the project closing
date of December 2005.

Additional factors preventing the completion of the e-learning aspects of the project are
as follows:

IDE/ECSC Staff Turn-over.           Despite the above achievements, there were some
challenges in the process. An important factor adversely affecting implementation
progress during 2005 was the high staff turnover at the ECSC. The Vice President
overseeing project implementation had left the college to continue his post graduate



                                             10

studies. The procurement and financial management positions were vacant for some time,
and the part time employees that were hired could not always perform the required tasks
in a timely way. The manager of the GDLN center also left, and the College appointed an
acting manager as his replacement. The technical staff of the GDLN center also changed
during this period. These staff changes added to the burden of the remaining project staff
who tried to carry the additional load as best they could. There were, however,
unavoidable delays as a result.

Over-optimistic Timeframe. Developing the capacity of the IDE and ECSC to offer e-
learning and internet based courses was started a few months before the closing date and
took longer than expected. Thus the achievement of the corresponding project objectives
was not possible before the closing date. Also, training of the IDE/ECSC staff in
electronic-based education (e-learning) and connecting the College to internet and to the
Government's WoredaNet were delayed. Therefore, the Bank team's timeframe for
completion of the e-Learning pilot proved over-optimistic.

Implementation of the part of the PDO pertaining to the development and use of
electronic-based media and comparison of the results with print based distance education
was, therefore, not possible in the proposed timeframe, although it is highly likely that
this would be achieved in the near future.

2.3 Monitoring and Evaluation (M&E) Design, Implementation and Utilization

The PAD provided different levels of detail in definition of M&E indicators in various
sections. It is however unclear which specific indicators were intended for gathering the
M&E data for project monitoring.

The relevant indicators were neither identified nor reflected in the first 6 PSRs, and it is
unclear whether any data were collected on these indicators before the restructuring. In
retrospect, however, it may have been impossible to collect any meaningful data at the
time since the first print based distance learning courses where only offered during the
academic year June 2004 to July 2005 (after the restructuring).

During the restructuring it was agreed that the College would use the key performance
indicators as defined in the DCA for project monitoring purposes. Overall the DCA
indicators for the demand and learning achievement for different courses differentiated
by delivery mode and tutoring support, related well to the expected outcomes of the
project. Therefore they where not changed during restructuring. It was also agreed to hire
consultants to conduct two studies: (i) a tracer study to evaluate the potential impact
GDLN courses may had had on their participants and (ii) a final evaluation to assess the
overall performance of the project and its impact.

Target values for the print based activities were left unchanged. Targets related to the
GDLN center activities, however, where re-set conservatively since it was unclear how
long it would take for the civil works and upgrading of the equipment to be completed,
and how long would the new center be operational for before closing of the project.



                                            11

The first monitoring data provided by the ECSC were provided in April 2005 and
recorded in the corresponding Implementation Status and Results report (ISR). Periodic
data updates were reflected in subsequent ISRs.

The reason for commissioning a tracer study was that at the time it was unclear if the
Project would be able to produce, disseminate and test electronic based courses so that
the results could be compared with those of Print-based media as required by the PDO
Indicator. A tracer study could have at least provided some qualitative information on the
potential relevance and impact of electronic distance education courses from earlier
GDLN-activities. The limited availability of data in the study, however, did not allow the
team to draw reliable conclusions form the report. The final project evaluation report
collected data on the M&E indicators. The findings of the report are presented in Annex 2
of this ICR.

2.4 Safeguard and Fiduciary Compliance

Safeguards: The project was classified as a Category C operation and there were no
safeguard issues.

Procurement and Financial Management:              There was no major procurement or
financial management issue during the implementation. The project had a central project
implementation office at the ECSC. This team included a procurement officer and a
financial management officer responsible for maintaining the project accounts. The rate
of turnover of procurement and financial officers was rather high during the life of the
project. This contributed at times to delays in completing procurement activities or
submitting audit reports to the Bank in a timely way. There were occasional problems in
transferring funds and getting back reports from regional centers. Corrective actions were
taken regularly by the ECSC, although with occasional delays, to address procurement
and financial management issues raised by the Bank supervision missions.

The Procurement and Financial Management implementation supports provided by the
Bank staff in the Field Office was high during the regular implementation support
missions and on a day to day basis.

2.5 Post-completion Operation/Next Phase

To ensure sustainability of the electronic based distance education programs at the ECSC,
the following actions have been taken:

    1. The ECSC has become a beneficiary partner in another Bank financed project
        (ICT Assisted Development project) to receive e-Learning capacity building
        assistance for introduction of computer and internet based courses.
    2. The ECSC has been linked to WoredaNet and will be able to disseminate its e-
        Learning programs through this network to reach a far higher number of civil
        servants with its training and capacity building programs. The technical solutions




                                            12

        to connect the ECSC with this network have already been installed. The
        government WoredaNet, however, is not yet fully operational.
    3. An international consulting company has trained 11 staff of the ECSC in
        development of e-Learning strategies and implementation of e-Learning courses
        and the use of relevant software.
    4. ECSC has developed a draft e-Learning strategy, supported by a resident long-
        term Technical Advisor provided by the German Development Service under the
        Information and Communication Technology Assisted Development (ICTAD)
        project, and is expected to finalize it with support from ICTAD.
    5. The President of ECSC has discussed follow-up activities with the Ministry of
        capacity Building to support regional capacity building efforts using the
        WoredaNet infrastructure. The funding for this is expected under the Public
        Sector Capacity Building (PSCAP) project which has a major public sector
        capacity building component.

3. Assessment of Outcomes

It is important to point out that while the effective use of print-based and electronic-based
distance education are highly relevant to the capacity building needs of Ethiopian civil
service, selection of the appropriate approach is very much dependent on the subject
matter and the nature of the required training. Considerations on the duration of training
(short or long courses), travel costs (classroom attendance versus electronic access),
outreach (physical classrooms versus electronic dissemination) and other factors could
prove very important in deciding which method might be more appropriate for the
intended purpose.

In this context, it is clear that comparison of the print-based and electronic-based distance
learning approaches must be based on deciding which approach is more appropriate for
what kind of training and under what circumstances.

3.1 Relevance of Objectives, Design and Implementation

The project objectives, design and implementation in terms of using appropriate distance
learning approaches for civil service capacity building remain highly relevant based on
the following factors:

Country Priorities. The current Sustainable Development and Poverty Reduction
Program of Ethiopia (SDPRP) identified the lack of capacity in terms of not having the
required number and quality of institutions, working systems, and human resources as the
chief obstacles that stand in the way of realizing the country's development
objectives. Therefore the ECSC can play an important role in reducing this gap. The
demand for Distance Learning courses as offered by the ECSC at this point is much
higher than the college's capacity can accommodate.

Regional Priorities.        A joint Workshop sponsored by the African Development
Bank(AfDB), United Nations Economic Commission for Africa (UNECA) and the World



                                              13

Bank in 2005 came to the conclusion that in spite of the many efforts in the past to
address the capacity building deficits in Ethiopia, the problem has continued to persist.

Bank Assistance Strategy. Ethiopia's interim Country Assistance Strategy (ICAS) of
May 2006 lists a number of expected outcomes to which the Bank must contribute. Since
capacity building through distance education and computer literacy could contribute to
the efficiency of civil servants and their service delivery, the objectives of the project
would still be relevant.

The Africa Capacity Development Task Force has concluded that a capable state is
essential for faster growth, cost-effective service delivery, and peace and security. The
state's effectiveness depends on individual capacities--on broader skills and a
professional culture in the civil service. Therefore the objectives of the civil service
capacity building project remain just as relevant today as they were before.

Decentralization and transfer of authority to more than 600 local governments at
Woreda (district) level, has created great demand for decentralized capacity building. The
Government is completing a national communications infrastructure which will connect
these Woredas electronically and will provide them with videoconference capabilities at
each of these 600 locations. More than 30 such centers have already been installed and
tested by the time of this ICR, with many more gradually coming on-line. This provides
the ECSC with a great opportunity for using both print based as well as electronic
distance education to meet the training needs of civil servants in Ethiopia. The objectives
of this operation are therefore even more critical and relevant than they were at the time
of project design.

3.2 Achievement of Project Development Objectives
Rating of the revised PDO: Moderately Satisfactory

Rationale for the Rating: The PDO had two parts. Part (a) consisted of testing
comparative achievement in the learning outcomes, demand, costs and cost effectiveness
and sustainability of different distance learning approaches used by IDE. Part (b) was to
develop capacity of the IDE for managing: (i) the GDLN link; (ii) the development and
use of appropriate printed distance learning materials; and (iii) the establishment of seven
regional distances learning outreach centers.

Part (a) of the PDO was only partly achieved during the project lifespan. The print based
distance learning was successfully implemented with demand exceeding the capacity of
the IDE, and student pass-rates of 97 % as of July 2006. The high satisfactory ratings
provided by the students on their learning achievements are indicative of the good
outcome in this area. The electronic and internet-based distance education, however, did
not get off the ground by the closing date of the project. To compare different distance
learning approaches, course content had to be delivered to students in both print-based
and electronic forms. Although the project initiated an e-learning competency
development program, it could not develop and deliver appropriate electronic courses
before the closing date.



                                             14

Part (b) of the development objective was fully achieved, and some targets were
surpassed by considerable margins.

The GDLN center was fully upgraded and is now offering various training programs to
both public and private sector audiences. Examples include management leadership
training courses offered to senior public servants in partnership with the Tanzania
Distance Learning Center, and the on-going HIV/AIDS consultative program that brings
together Ethiopian doctors from local hospitals and clinics with specialists from Johns
Hopkins University and other institutions to discuss complex real life cases from their
practice in Ethiopia. These programs have allowed a larger group of public and private
sector individuals to participate in programs and to take advantage of opportunities that
otherwise would not have been available to them.

The improved and expanded Print based Distance Learning program is in high
demand. The quality of print based materials is rated highly by the students (93%), and
the materials allow for effective learning (90%). The learning achievements by students
have also been very good (79%).

To enhance the capacity of the IDE 48 new full time staff and an additional 310 part
time tutors were hired and trained by IDE for its distance learning programs. IDE
successfully established 21distance education outreach centers (compared to the original
target of 7) and used these centers to train over 5335 civil servants by June 2006.
Various training and consultancy services were provided to IDE staff by international and
local consultants. Teams of IDE staff were trained in e-learning concepts; desktop
publishing; management of distance leaning projects; developing and editing distance
learning course materials; and project financial management and procurement. The
outcome has been a more effective IDE. Over 90% of the trainees have rated their
learning satisfaction as high or very high. Details on the results are provided in Annex 1.

Thus, despite the delays in development of electronic based courses, it can be reasonably
expected that the ECSC will start offering distance learning courses via the Internet once
the current e-Learning competency development programs are completed during
2007. This program would enable the ECSC to offer specialized on-line courses (e.g.
computer Literacy, and Procurement training) through computer-based programs,
therefore making it possible to compare the results of print-based and electronic-based
training approaches. It is therefore very likely that the PDO could be fully achieved in
the near future.

3.3 Efficiency
Not required for LILs.

3.4 Justification of Overall Outcome Rating
Rating: Moderately Satisfactory




                                            15

Justification for this rating is based on the following analysis as suggested by the ICR
Guidelines.

                                Against original           Against revised Overall
                                PDO                        PDO
Rating                          Unsatisfactory         (as Moderately
                                recommended by the sector  satisfactory
                                manager, although the PSR
                                rating is satisfactory)
Rating Value                    2                          4
% disbursed before/after        8%                         93%
Restructuring
Weighted value                  0.16                       3.72            3.88
Final rating (rounded off)                                                 4 (Moderately
                                                                           Satisfactory)


3.5 Overarching Themes, Other Outcomes and Impacts

(a) Poverty Impacts, Gender Aspects, and Social Development
Female civil servants have often had less access to training opportunities due to the need
for their travel to Addis Ababa to attend the ECSC training programs. Expansion of the
ECSC's distance education to 21 outreach centers and the introduction of computer based
training will increase the learning opportunities for female civil servants, leading to
improvements in livelihoods of local communities.

(b) Institutional Change/Strengthening

The project has contributed to strengthening of IDE's capacity in the following areas:

    1. The Institute has the capacity now to develop print based distance learning
        materials;
    2. A long-term resident technical advisor has joined the ECSC to help develop an e-
        Learning strategy and to assist the ECSC in its implementation;
    3. IDE and other ECSC-staff (subject matter specialists) are being trained to
        transform existing course content into e-Learning courses. This will enable the
        ECSC to produce distance learning courses for both print based and electronic
        media;
    4. The GDLN center is now directly under the President's Office, and has therefore
        become institutionally more prominent and effective. The current marketing
        efforts in partnership with external institutions will help generate additional
        revenue for the center.

The network link between GDLN center and the WordaNet will extend the reach of the
College to the over 600 locations nationwide, extending its outreach far beyond its
current institutional structure.




                                                     16

(c) Other Unintended Outcomes and Impacts (positive or negative)
By the end of the project the IDE was offering its distance education services in 21
centers instead of the initially planned 7 (300% of the target). This development went
hand in hand with the employment of 48 additional staff instead of the 26 initially
planned (185% of target) and the training and employment of an additional 310 part-time
tutors (unplanned). This led to a significant increase in the quality and outcome of the
distance education courses. The two new computer labs which were intended for the
IDE/ECSC students' computer literacy training are now also used for training Civil
Servants at large. Both labs are utilized to maximum capacity on a full-time basis. This
has led to an unanticipated increase in computer based training activities based on new
curricula specifically developed for this purpose.

3.6 Summary of Findings of Beneficiary Survey and/or Stakeholder Workshops

The ICR team and the Client discussed the type of ICR to be prepared and agreed that
because there were no plans for a follow up operation a core ICR would be prepared.

A survey of beneficiaries of the print based distance learning courses revealed general
satisfaction with the services offered. Following is a sample of these results:

    · The quality of teaching materials was rated high or very high by 93% of the
        students;
    · Quality of learner support was rated high or very high by 90% of the students
    · Learning achievement was rated by 79% of the students as high or very high;
    · Quality of tutorial support with rated as high or very high by 65% of the students;
    · Appropriateness of fees charged received 59% approval.

The survey results are encouraging but also leave some room for improvement. More
details are provided in Annex 4.

4. Assessment of Risk to Development Outcome
Rating: Moderate

The overall risk to development outcome of this project is rated as moderate because the
Government expects ECSC to play a key role in the training of civil servants particularly
in the regions. Therefore it can be reasonably expected that the Government will provide
the necessary financial and administrative support for the College to further develop its
distance learning programs.

Looking at the risks in more detail, they fall into three categories: political stability;
financial sustainability; and successful mainstreaming of e-Learning program.

Political Stability. There is a high risk that political events in Ethiopia and in the Horne
region may lead to some instability and shifting of national priorities. Such events could




                                             17

adversely affect the development outcome of this operation. These risks are beyond
control of the ECSC or its partners.

Financial sustainability. The first financial risk is low because of the importance that
the Government is attaching to building the capacity of civil servants and the key role
that ECSC is playing in this context. Financial risks consist of: (a) Capital costs of
equipment upgrades in the future;(b) Staffing costs for the e-learning program and the
GDLN center; and(c) Affordability of recurrent costs of satellite and internet bandwidth.

Due to alignment of the objectives of distance learning with the present Civil Service
Reform Programme and the Plan for Accelerated and Sustainable Development to End
Poverty both the print based distance learning program and the GDLN center will
continue to enjoy Government's support for capacity building programs. Therefore, it is
reasonable to assume that the Government will continue to provide the required resources
to support various modes of distance learning program offered by the College.

The second financial risk is also low since ECSC has already integrated the GDLN staff
costs into its annual budget approved by the Government.

The third financial risk is moderate because the GDLN center has already demonstrated
that it can generate more than enough revenue to cover its satellite and internet
connectivity and related costs.

Mainstreaming of e-Learning. There is a moderate to moderately high risk for ECSC
not to be able to mainstream e-Learning in its distance education programs. This risk is
due to ECSC's current limitations in e-Learning competency, and its dependence on the
national internet and communications infrastructure for its delivery. To mitigate these
risks, however, ECSC has completed several positive actions in developing and
implementing an e-Learning program, including:

    1. training 11 staff in e-Learning principles;
    2. developing an e-Learning strategy for the College;
    3. establishing an e-Learning working group chaired by the president; and
    4. acquiring a resident long-term technical advisor and other services under a
       partnership with the ICT Assisted Development Project for e-Learning program
       development;
    5. Establishing a link with the national WoredaNet infrastructure and successfully
       testing this connection in anticipation of regular use of that infrastructure for
       electronic based distance education for civil servants.

Despite these efforts, and in the absence of a comprehensive arrangement for integrating
e-Learning into all aspects of education and training programs at the College, there is a
moderate to moderately high risk that e-Learning may not be mainstreamed as planned.

The risks related to delays in availability of the national communications infrastructure
are beyond control of the College. While such delays could limit the outreach of ECSC's



                                            18

electronic-based distance education programs, they would not prevent the college from
reaching out to at least 32 WoredaNet nodes in 9 regions that are already connected to the
national communications infrastructure.

5. Assessment of Bank and Borrower Performance

5.1 Bank Performance

(a) Bank Performance in Ensuring Quality at Entry
Rating: Unsatisfactory

The project was not rated by QAG on its Quality at Entry. Based on the information
available (PAD) all relevant stakeholders from client side had been involved in and
agreed to the Project Design. Participatory aspects of Project Design where therefore
observed. The identified risks where proper (with an oversight in risk statements). There
were some slaws in the Project Design Summary and the related key performance
indicators which could have led to confusion in the monitoring of the project. Moreover,
M&E as a central feature of a LIL did not receive enough attention to be listed as a sub-
component with specific resource allocations for its implementation. Sustainability
assumptions for the internet based training operations were unrealistic and contrary to
the realities on the ground. The implementing agency's project team was not well
prepared at the outset to proceed with project implementation effectively. Overall, the
ICR team believes that the project was hastily processed without enough attention to
ensure its quality at entry.

(b) Quality of Supervision
Rating: Moderately Satisfactory

This rating is a combination of supervision performance before and after restructuring.

Before Restructuring:
The quality of supervision during this period is rated as unsatisfactory.

    1. There is little documentation on the interactions between the Bank and the Client
        during supervision. Already in the first PSR the management had pointed out that
        this project needed intensive follow-up and supervision during implementation.
        The project became effective in January 2001; the first Aide Memoire however is
        dates May 20, 2003. Project Supervision Reports no. 1-4 where not accompanied
        by an Aide Memoire, or at least there is no Aide Memoire in the archives.
        Management did not mention or act on the absence of Aide Memoires in the first
        4 PSRs, even though this should have raised some concerns.
    2. The project had three different task team leaders over five years. The original
        team leader who designed the project was no longer responsible when supervision
        started. The third TTL was assigned to the Project only in April 2004, eight




                                            19

       months before closure and after the project appeared on the Bank's pro-activity
       list of projects in problem status.
    3. Management could have been more proactive and could have re-organized the
       Bank team at an earlier stage.
    4. The Bank missed the opportunity during this period to (a) identify project
       difficulties and provide adequate implementation support to the Borrower; and (b)
       to restructure the project much earlier to improve its performance.

Post restructuring
The quality of supervision after restructuring is rated as satisfactory.

Three strategic considerations guided the restructuring process in June 2004. These were:
    1. Meeting the time constraints (only 6 months remained until the original closing
       date of December 31, 2004);
    2. Prioritizing the remaining activities;
    3. Focusing on key activities that could be completed within a reasonable time frame.

After the re-structuring, the following changes appear in the Bank team's performance:

    1. Regular supervision started and all missions conclude with an Aide Memoire;
    2. Disbursements (which were below 10% at the time of restructuring) started to
       pick up;
    3. Monitoring arrangements were discussed with ECSC, agreed upon, and
       implemented;
    4. Once the Client demonstrated its full commitment to achieving results by rapidly
       improving project implementation, the Bank agreed to extend the closing date to
       ensure the achievement of PDOs;
    5. Starting with ISR 9, when the first M&E data materialized, the M&E section of
       the ISR was used to justify the ratings of the project;
    6. Six months after restructuring the project performance became satisfactory once
       again;
    7. Delays in procurement of technical equipment for the GDLN center were brought
       to management's attention for appropriate action.
    8. After a second 6-month extension to ensure completion of GDLN upgrade and
       delivery of some e-learning courses, the project closed on June 30, 2006 with a
       rating of moderately satisfactory and 93 % disbursement of the projects funds.


(c) Justification of Rating for Overall Bank Performance
Rating: Moderately Satisfactory

Taking into account that at the time of project design Learning and Innovation Loans
were a new lending instrument, and that the Bank had very limited experience in design



                                             20

and implementation of electronic based distance learning projects, the Bank team had to
take certain risks in the design of the project, particularly on the e-learning component.

While the supervision of the project was inadequate during the first two years, the Bank's
decision to re-structure the project and improve the quality of supervision made a
significant difference in the overall performance of the project. The shortcomings in the
Bank's quality of supervision during the pre-restructuring period where outweighed by
the improvements in supervision quality after the restructuring. This was fully recognized
by the Client, and enabled the project to close with its PDO almost fully achieved.

The ICR review meeting of February 27, 2007 recommended that the same formula suggested by
the ICR Guidelines for the rating of the PDO be used for the overall Bank performance rating.
Based on this recommendation, the rating would be calculated as follows:

                                 Against original      Against revised      Overall
                                 PDO                   PDO
Rating                           Unsatisfactory        Satisfactory
Rating Value                     2                     5
% disbursed before/after         8%                    93%
Restructuring
Weighted value                   0.16                  4.65                 4.81
Final rating (rounded off)                                                  5 (Satisfactory)


However, the ICR team believes that the Bank's overall performance could have been
better, and therefore is rating it as moderately satisfactory.

5.2 Borrower Performance

(a) Government Performance
Rating: Moderately Satisfactory

The Government's performance was highly satisfactory in the following areas:

    · Counterpart      funds were always made readily available, indicating the
        Government's ownership and its commitment to the capacity building objectives
        of this project.
    · The proposed print based and electronic distance education targets in this project
        required substantial increase in the staff of the IDE. The Government allowed the
        College to employ 42 additional full time staff, and 310 part time tutors in the
        Outreach and Tutorial centers of the IDE, which is substantially higher than the
        target of 26 new staff as proposed in the PAD.

However, there were also a few areas where the Government's performance could have
been more effective. These include:


                                              21

    · Discussions among various Government agencies on the choice of appropriate
        technology for the regional network delayed the implementation of the project.
        This was partly because the mainstreaming of ICT development on a national
        level had a higher priority for some of these agencies.

The Ministry of Capacity Building (MoCB) failed as agreed to assign a member of its
staff to the ECSC to improve coordination between both institutions and to recruit a
consultant to prepare the establishment of the five regional centers.

(b) Implementing Agency or Agencies Performance
Rating: Moderately Satisfactory

The overall performance of the implementing agency is rated as moderately satisfactory.
The Civil Service College established an implementing team led by IDE and consisting
of IDE and other ECSC staff for project implementation. The team's performance was
good particularly when the tasks and activities were well defined. During the initial phase
of implementation, lack of familiarity of the ECSC's project team with Bank procedures
and requirements contributed to a 7 month delay in meeting the Conditions of
effectiveness related to the adoption of the PIP and PIM as well as making the initial
deposit of counterpart funds.

Shortage of qualified procurement specialist in Ethiopia led to a high rate of procurement
staff turn-over at the ECSC, and at times posed major challenges to timely
implementation. This led to a series of delays. Examples include delays in hiring of
contractors to complete the cabling work for the new computer labs and the processing of
the e-Learning consultancy contract. These delays could have been avoided if the ECSC
project team would have been more agile in hiring a new procurement officer.

Despite these shortcomings, the ECSC project team was always responsive and did its
utmost to comply with the deadlines and to deliver on the agreed actions.

(c) Justification of Rating for Overall Borrower Performance
Rating: Moderately Satisfactory

Performance of the Government and the Implementing Agency are both rated Moderately
Satisfactory. Therefore the overall rating is also rated as Moderately Satisfactory.

6. Lessons Learned

The following lessons could be learned from this project:

    1. The Learning and Innovation nature of LILs strongly suggests the need for a
        separate subcomponent in the project design, and providing adequate resources
        for an effective M&E system with appropriate baselines established at the outset.
    2. Creating an open and direct line of communication between the management of
        implementing agencies / project management team and the TTLs is essential for
        effective implementation.


                                                  22

    3. Bank management needs to carefully monitor the performance of projects with
       short life-spans (3 years) or with less than three years remaining, to ensure that
       decisions for corrective action can be taken early enough to allow effective
       implementation.
    4. Task Teams and Clients need to agree on a system of incentives to ensure that key
       personnel remain on the payroll of the project and that frequent change of staff is
       avoided.
    5. Management could have been more proactive during the first two years of
       implementation and could have re-organized the Bank team at an earlier stage.
    6. The Bank missed the opportunity during the first two years of implementation to
       (a) identify project difficulties and provide adequate implementation support to
       the Borrower; and (b) to restructure the project much earlier to improve its
       performance.
    7. Distance Education projects that plan to include the use of modern information
       and communication technologies need to focus strongly on assessing the
       institutional capacity and the technology options available on the ground.
       Ensuring that the required institutional capacity, high level political support,
       capable human resources, and technical infrastructure are in place ­ or can be
       readily developed ­ are essential for success.

7. Comments on Issues Raised by Borrower/Implementing Agencies/Partners

(a) Borrower/implementing agencies
The Implementing Agency raised the point that during the 2001-2003 period ECSC had
been actively involved in implementation of the project using their counterpart funds and
without much supervison by the Bank. The ICR team observed that while this may have
been the case in some areas, the overall implementation activities were still limited and
somewhat ad-hoc.

The implementing agency team indicated that in their view performance of the
Government and the implementing agency have been satisfactory. However, they are in
general agreements with the findings and the overall ratings of this ICR. The complete
unedited version of ECSC's ICR is attached in Annex 12.

(b) Cofinanciers
Not Applicable.

(c) Other partners and stakeholders
Not Applicable.




                                            23

Annex 1. Project Costs and Financing (see Annex 10 for Pre- and Post-
Restructuring Project Costs)

(a) Project Cost by Component (in USD Million equivalent)
                                       Appraisal
            Components               Estimate (USD      Actual/Latest    Percentage of

                                          M)         Estimate (USD M)     Appraisal

GDLN FACILITIES
UPGRADING/EXTENSION.                           1.00               0.71          10.0%

SATELLITE RENTAL AND
OPERATIONAL COSTS                              1.30               0.06           0.8%

PRINTED MEDIA DISTANCE
LEARNING DEVPT.                                1.20               0.58           8.2%

TRAINING                                       0.70                0.25          3.5%
CAPACITY DEVELOPMENT AND
TA                                             2.40               1.38          19.4%

                 Total Baseline Cost           6.60               2.98          41.9%
Physical Contingencies                          0.3
Price Contingencies                             0.2
                 Total Project Costs            7.1
                                                                  0.00
                                                                  0.00
          Total Financing Required              7.1               2.98          41.9%

(b) Financing
                                        Appraisal
    Source of Funds        Type of                      Actual/Latest    Percentage of
                        Cofinancing  Estimate (USD
                                           M)         Estimate (USD M)    Appraisal

 Borrower                                      2.20                  0.49        6.9%
 International
Development                                    4.90                  2.49       35.0%
Association (IDA)                                        (2.03+.46MDRI)




                                          24

Annex 2. Outputs by Component

1. GDLN Facilities Upgrading.
Rating: Satisfactory

The GDLN Center in Addis Ababa has been fully operational since November 2005.
Additional Outreach and Tutorial Centers where added by the ECSC itself. Planned and
Actual expansion of the physical infrastructure is displayed below.

 Period          GDLN       Regional     Additional Computer labs (networked
                 Centers    Centers      Outreach       and with Internet Access
                 including including Centers
                 Addis      Addis
                 Ababa      Ababa
 Appraisal       6          8                           2 in Addis Ababa
 (Planned)
 Restructuring 1            8                           4 in Addis Ababa + 7 in the
 (Planned)                                              regional Centers
 1st Extension   1          9            12             4 in Addis Ababa + 8 in the
                                                        regional Centers
 2nd Extension 1            9            12             4 in Addis Ababa + 8 in the
                                                        regional Centers
 Closure         1          9            12             4 in Addis Ababa + 8 in the
 (Actual)                                               regional Centers


In total the IDE now offers its services in 21 centers. By the end of project all regional
centers could be connected to the WoredaNet. Currently 30 Woredas can be reached by
ECSC. As soon as the System is fully operational Distance Learning courses can be
disseminated to 600 Woredas.

2. Satellite Rental, Maintenance, and other Operational Costs for GDLN Centers.
Rating: Satisfactory

Costs of bandwidth are successfully covered by the foreign exchange revenues generated
by the Center (target was 20% by end of project, actual was 103 %).
The planned Marketing Initiative is expected to further increase the utilization of the
GDLN center which currently stands at only 36 % (target at end of project was 20 %).
Maintenance and other operational costs are covered by the annual budget of the ECSC
as provided by the government. Both indicators where significantly surpassed.

3. Development of Printed Media Distance Learning.
Rating: Satisfactory




                                            25

48 different distance learning courses have been developed. All of these have been
printed and delivered to the ECSC. Between 3,000 and 10,000 printed copies for each of
theses courses are available. A total of 528,200 test books have been printed. In addition
20,000 audio cassettes for English courses have been recorded. Of these ECSC has
distributed 171,531 textbooks and 6757 audio cassettes to the Tutorial Centers.

4. Training.
Rating: Satisfactory

(i) The GDLN center has been offering more courses since its reopening after the facility
upgrades. Even though the Center is not currently utilized to its maximum capacity it is
expected that the planned marketing initiative will attract additional clients and raise
public awareness about the opportunities the center is offering. Development and
implementation of the marketing strategy will be handled by a marketing professional
whom the ECSC will hire and pay from its own budget.

                                 Number of Participants
 Year             Governm. NGO Private Sect. Other Total                 Hrs. used
 1999             120           0        0             0       120
 2000-2001        579           31       21            0       631
 2001-2002        446           60       43            45      594
 2002-2003        367           93       86            0       546
 2003-2004        627           93       86            0       806
 11/2005-         772           42       34            65      913       505
 6/2006
 Total            2911          319      270           110     3610

(ii) Computer literacy courses are offered in the two upgraded computer labs as well as
the two new computer labs established by the project (66 computers and a file server in
total). The computer literacy courses are all booked to capacity. Until closure of the
project Computer literacy courses had been offered to 594 civil servants.
(iii) Print based distance learning courses are offered in nine regions and 12 outreach
centers and 21 Tutoring centers in total. By July 2006, 882 students had been trained at
diploma level and 3,529 students had received certificates from short-term programs. All
these figures surpass the targets set during appraisal.


5. Capacity Development and Technical Assistance
Rating: Satisfactory

All planned capacity building activities have been successfully implemented. The ECSC
is now self-sustainable in terms of development of print-based Distance learning
materials.

                           Topic                             Number of staff trained
 Design and implementation of print based Distance                      25



                                             26

 learning courses and programs
 Course material developers                                                103
 Tutor Trainers                                                             35
 Marketing of services                                                      15
 Study tour                                                                  8
 World Bank procurement                                                      5
 Part-time tutors in regional, outreach and tutorial                       310
 centers

An international consulting company has trained an additional 11 staff of the ECSC in
development of e-Learning strategies and implementation of e-Learning courses and the
use of relevant software.
With the support from the ICTAD project of MoCB the actual development of an e-
Learning strategy for the college and its implementation is being continued beyond the
closure of the project with a resident long-term TA. Once this assignment is over, ECSC
will also be self-sustainable in this respect.

Further information is provided in Tables 1-3 below.

                    Table 1: Findings of the Project Evaluation Report

             Indicator                  Target                  Achievement

 (1-a) Demand for the different        1000 in  913 in the first eight months (114 per
 types and topics of Distance          2005     month) after the center was fully
 learning courses in Addis Ababa       (83 per  operational again
 and the regions ( participants        month)
 GDLN only)
 (1-b) Demand for the different        4700     6507 applications received for academic year
 types and topics of Distance                   July 2005 to June 2006. 5335 were enrolled
 learning courses in Addis Ababa
 and the regions.                               by the closing date (June 30, 2006).

 (2) Percentage of the actual          20%      36%
 available time that the GDLN
 interactive video facilities are
 actually used.
 (3) Percentage of GDLN link           20%      103%
 costs met from other revenue
 sources such as: 1.Renting video
 link services to other government
 agencies, the private sector and
 donors.
 (4) Learning achievement by           N.A.     Cumulative ratings of high and very high
 course, delivery mode, and tutoring            satisfaction expressed by students who had
 support.
                                                participated in print based courses:
                                                Quality of teaching materials: 93%;



                                              27

                                                    Quality of learner support: 90%;
                                                    Learning achievement: 79%;
                                                    Quality of tutorial support: 65%;

                                                    e-Learning: N.A
(5) Learning satisfaction by             N.A.       Student ratings of high or above: 90%
course, delivery mode, and tutoring
support.
(6) Time to completion by course,        N.A.       Print-based courses were delivered during
delivery mode, and tutoring                         standard semesters. Short term computer
support                                             training courses were delivered over 5-10 day
                                                    periods. Due to the very different nature of the
                                                    course topics, there was no basis for
                                                    comparing the results.
                                                    Rating of timeliness of delivery of printed
                                                    materials (as a Proxy): 70%
(7) Cost effectiveness of learning       N.A.       Appropriateness of fees charged as
achievement by delivery mode.                       compared to the value of learning delivered
                                                    (as rated by students):
                                                    High or above: 59%
                                                    Moderate: 36%




                    Table 2: Implementation Status at Restructuring

                   Component                                            Status
1. Upgrading and Extension of GDLN Facilities:

·    (a) Supporting the upgrading of the existing    GDLN videoconferencing and related
    GDLN videoconferencing and internet link         equipment upgrades were not yet
    at the CSC, including carrying out civil         initiated.
    works and establishing and maintaining
    satellite communications;                        Contract for civil works was signed.
                                                     Memorandum of Understanding (MoU)
                                                     with GDLN secretariat at WBI
                                                     confirming Satellite provider
                                                     arrangements was not signed yet.



·    (b) Establishing modified GDLN links with       Ministry of Capacity Building, ECSC and
    the five GDLN regional Centers through:          IDA had agreed to transfer the

        o     (a) the carrying out of civil works    implementation of the regional GDLN
             in existing tertiary level institutions centers to MoCB. However, no action
             within the regions where GDLN           was taken by MoCB to proceed with
             Regional Centers are located; and       implementation of this activity.

        o     (b) The acquisition of computers       Acquisition of computers and other (non-
                                                     VC) equipment was added to the


                                                  28

             and audio visual equipment.              procurement plan.
2. Development of Printed Media Distance
Learning:
·    (1) Developing and printing distance             The United Kingdom Open University
    learning materials to support distance            was hired to train IDE staff in producing
    learning courses being offered by IDE;            print-based distance education course
                                                      materials. The course material preparation
                                                      for 6 courses (out of the 48 that IDE
                                                      offered) was expected to be finished
                                                      before the closing date. The program was
                                                      however far behind schedule at this time.


·    (2) Carrying out, at 7 satellite sites, training Tutor training was part of the consultancy

    programs for tutors in distance learning          assignment but had not been started yet.

    courses.

3. Training Through Distance Learning
Services: Carrying out
·    (a) regular IDE training programs for            Not initiated (using new materials).
    federal and regional civil servants in
    accountancy, management and other
    subjects;
                                                      Not initiated.
·    (b) training programs, on a full cost basis,
    in computer literacy and remedial English
    for civil servants at Regional Centers, as
    well as for private individuals; and

·                                                     Not yet initiated
     (c) Internet based distance learning services
    for the private sector.

4. Capacity Development: Developing the
capacity of IDE to provide and evaluate distance
learning services through:
·    (a) provision of technical advisory services     Not initiated.
    and carrying out of training to IDE and
    regional staff in interactive video, internet,
    and print based correspondence courses;

·    (b) provision of technical advisory services     Not initiated.
    and support for the evaluation of alternative
    distance teaching approaches being used by
    IDE; and
·    (c) Carrying out of training programs for
    CSC staff in procurement and financial            Not initiated.
    management.




                                                   29

                      Table 3: Implementation Status by Closing

         Revised Components                                          Status
1. Upgrading and Extension of GDLN              Fully completed,
  Facilities:
a. Supporting the upgrading to the highest      Fully completed.
  international standards of the existing
  GDLN videoconferencing and internet
  link at the CSC, including carrying out
  civil works and establishing and
  maintaining satellite communications;
b. Establishing Computer networks and
  internet connectivity in regional centers;    Fully completed


2. Development of Printed Media Distance        Fully Completed
  Learning:
a. Developing and printing distance             Course materials for 48 courses have been
  learning materials to support distance        prepared, tested. Printing of 47 has been
  learning courses being offered by IDE;        completed, and the last one is ready for
                                                printing.

b. Carrying out, at 7 satellite sites, training ECSC established 9 Regional centers and an
  programs for tutors in distance learning      additional 12 outreach centers, and trained 310
  courses.                                      tutors at these centers.

3. Training Through Distance Learning           Mostly Completed
  Services: Carrying out
a. Regular IDE training programs for            During academic year July 2005 ­ June 2006,
  federal and regional civil servants in        5335 students were enrolled in distance
  accountancy, management and other             education programs at the end of the period
  subjects;                                     (out of 6507 who wished to join the program).
                                                Training programs in computer literacy are
b. Training programs, on a full cost basis,     offered to various government employees at
  in computer literacy and remedial             full capacity in the ECSC computer labs, on a
  English for civil servants at Regional        full cost recovery basis. 300 civil servants
  Centers, as well as for private               trained in computer applications.
  individuals; and                              Technical assistance for e-Learning program
                                                initiated and two pilot courses were developed
c. Internet based distance learning services    but not yet delivered to students as of this ICR.
  for the private sector.

4. Capacity Development: Developing the         Mostly completed
  capacity of IDE to provide and evaluate
  distance learning services through:
a. Provision of technical advisory services     Hiring of 48 new staff at IDE in Addis was
  and carrying out of training to IDE and       completed. Training of 310 IDE tutors for
  regional staff in interactive video,          print based courses was completed in 9
  internet, and print based correspondence      regions. Regional staff trained in computer



                                               30

  courses;                                  applications. No interactive video training
                                            was carried out since the GDLN extensions to
                                            the regions were cancelled.

                                            A resident technical advisor on e-learning was
b. Provision of technical advisory services assigned to ECSC by the German
  and support for the evaluation of         Development Service to support the creation
  alternative distance teaching approaches  of an e-learning program. ECSC/IDE/DLC
  being used by IDE; and                    teams visited South Africa and Tanzania
                                            counterpart organizations to better understand
                                            how alternative distance learning approaches
                                            work effectively. An e-learning consulting
                                            firm trained 12 ECSC staff in e-learning
                                            concepts.

                                            A team of ECSC staff attended procurement
                                            training courses in Ghana in 2005. Financial
c. Carrying out of training programs for    management training was provided by ECSC
  CSC staff in procurement and financial    in house.
  management.




                                           31

Annex 3. Economic and Financial Analysis

Not Applicable.




                                    32

Annex 4. Bank Lending and Implementation Support/Supervision Processes


(a) Task Team members
        Names                  Title                Unit         Responsibility/Specialty
Lending

Abebaw Alemayehu      Senior Urban
                      Development Specialist AFTU1               Monitoring & Evaluation

Solange A. Alliali    Senior Counsel         LEGLA               Sr. Legal Counsel
Nicholas L. Bennett   Consultant             AFTQK               Task Team Leader

Subhash C. Dhingra    Consultant             QAG                 Sr. Procurement
                                                                 Specialist
Steve J. Gaginis      Senior Finance Officer LOAG2               Disbursement Officer

Samuel Haile Selassie Sr. Procurement
                      Specialist             AFTPC               Procurement Specialist

Sivaramen             Senior Information
Ramasawmy             Officer                ISGGC-UNT           Upgrading GDLN Center

Eshetu Yimer          Sr. Financial                              Costing, Accounting,
                      Management Specialist  AFTFM               Audi
Supervision/ICR
Jalal Abdel-Latif     Consultant             AFTRL               Communications
Michael Broemmel      Consultant             AFTRL               ICR Primary Author

Abdolreza B. Rezaian  Sr. Informatics
                      Specialist             AFTRL               Task Team Leader

Abiy Admassu
Temechew              Procurement Analyst    AFTPC               Procurement specialist

Eshetu Yimer          Sr. Financial                              Sr. Financial
                      Management Specialist  AFTFM               Management



b) Staff Time and Cost
                                              Staff Time and Cost (Bank Budget Only)

            Stage of Project Cycle                                   USD Thousands
                                              No. of staff weeks   (including travel and
                                                                     consultant costs)
Lending
                    FY00                                        3                 14.13
                    FY01                                        9                 37.17
                    FY02                                                           0.00
                    FY03                                                           0.00
                    FY04                                                           0.00
                    FY05                                                           0.00
                    FY06                                                           0.00
                    FY07                                                           0.00



                                            33

                        Total:    12     51.30
Supervision/ICR
                FY00                      0.00
                FY01                      0.00
                FY02              12     38.55
                FY03               7     33.59
                FY04               6     69.98
                FY05              12     83.16
                FY06              16     92.57
                FY07               3     31.51
                        Total:    56    349.36




                            34

Annex 5. Beneficiary Survey Results
(if any)

See Table 1 in Annex 2.




                                    35

Annex 6. Stakeholder Workshop Report and Results
(if any)

Not Applicable.




                                  36

Annex 7. Summary of Borrower's ICR and/or Comments on Draft ICR

Note: This is a complete version of the Borrower's ICR.




                Implementation Completion and Results Report
                                       Country: Ethiopia
                                     Project ID: P069083
                                           LIL Project


   BASIC DATA

   1. Project Title: Distance Learning
   2. Project ID: P069883
   3. Credit No: 3501 ET
   4. Amount Approved:- US$ 4.9 million
   5. Revised Amount: US$ 2.551 million
   6. Borrower:: Government of Ethiopia
   7. Executing Agency: Ethiopian Civil Service College (ECSC)
   8. Source of Funding: IDA
   9. Amount Undisguised: US$ 43,335.31
   10. Amount Utilized : US$ 2,098,440.16
   11. Effectiveness Date:     11.1. Original: July 29, 2001
                               11.2. Actual: January 31, 2002
   12. Completion Date:        12.1. Original: June 30, 2006
                               12.2. Actual: June 30, 2006
   13. Closing Date:           13.1. Original: June 30, 2004
                               13.2. Actual: October 31, 2006




                                                                October 17, 2006
                                                                 Addis Ababa




                                               37

I. Assessment of Development Objective and Design, and Implementation

1.1. Assessment of Development Objective

The objective of Distance Learning Project was to test comparative learning outcomes, cost

and cost-effectiveness, and the sustainability of several, different distance learning approaches

in the country. The components include a range of distance learning approaches, developed by

the Institute of Distance Education (IDE), so as to reach a potential audience of civil servants

needing training.


In view of the above objectives, the following were achieved by the project.
            An upgraded Distance Learning Center (DLC) which maintains international
            standards The center has a videoconferencing room with 30 seats, a multimedia
            room with 30 computers, and a communication room with all of the indoor satellite
            equipment, two breakout rooms and lobby area with 10 computers connected to the
            internet and wireless internet connection. All the rooms are outfitted with the
            necessary equipment and furniture. The equipments are protected against power
            surges and failures are working well.
            Well established Regional centers
            Even though the establishment of modified GDLN links with five regional centers
            was cancelled due the establishment of national distance learning centers covering
            the whole country (Aide Memoire of May 20, 2003 may be referred), nine (9)
            regional centers were established in existing tertiary level institutions, equipped
            with computers, printers, photocopiers, fax-machines, safe, and furniture.
            Developed Curricula
            For the Print-based distance learning programme curricula were developed for
            Accounting, Management and Law disciplines, all at diploma level. Distance
            learning materials for 48 courses were developed for three disciplines mentioned
            earlier.
            Printed Textbooks (Modules) and Audiocassettes
            A total of 545,600 text books for 47 courses were printed in printing enterprise;
            and 20,000 audio-cassettes were produced in sound system shops to support the
            English courses (See annex ­I for the list of courses printed). In addition to
            textbooks printed, about 1339 Reference materials (books) have been delivered and
            are ready for distribution to regional centers. These materials will be used for
            distance learners as references to their study.
            A computer lab with 36 networked Computers
            A computer lab, with 36 networked PCs was established and has provided training
            to 594 participants from Federal Inland Revenue Authority since its establishment.
            Improved skill of Students
            It was able to train 882 students through the print-based distance learning
            programme at diploma level and 3,529 participants in short term programmes.


                                             38

           Enhanced Capacity of Staff
           To enhance the capacity of the IDE staff, various training and consultancy services
           were provided by international and local consultants and achieved the following.
                   - Increased capacities of 11 IDE staff in e-learning
                   - Increased capacities of 15 IDE staff in Desktop publishing
                   - Developed capacities of 8 IDE staff in the management of DLP
                   - Increased capacities of 103 professional in developing and editing distance
                     learning course materials.
                   - Increased capacities of 17 IDE Regional staff in Financial Management

1.2. Project Design and Implementation
The project was appraised in April 2001, approved in May of the same year, and became
effective in January 2002, 8 months later than planned at the request of the College to obtain
time for reviewing the Project Implementation Manual (PIM).

In an attempt to expedite implementation and to achieve the project objectives, various
committees were formed; namely, Project steering Committee (the highest body of the
implementation of the project) Project Management Committee (responsible for the effective
operation of the project) and an Institute Council (follow up the day-to-day operation of the
project).

A project procurement officer with qualifications and experiences acceptable to IDA was
appointed and got a two weeks training in India on World Bank Procurement Procedures. A
Project Finance Officer was also designated to handle project accounting functions.

As a project start up, 10 computers, 3 printers, 2 heavy duty copiers were purchased right after
the project had become operational followed by purchase of three vehicles.

Terms of reference for the appointment of international consulting firms for the print-based
distance learning and the technology based (now e-learning) were developed and short-lists of
competitors prepared. The United Kingdom Open University (UKOU) was appointed to
provide consultancy services on the development of print-based distance learning. The contract
was signed in August 2003. However, the appointment of a consulting firm for the e-learning
programme took a longer time than it should be.

With all these efforts, however, progress toward achieving development objective(s) was rather
slow, with major delays in procurement of goods and services related to upgrading of the
Distance Learning facilities, and very limited disbursement of funds. In fact the reasons for the
delay were both internal and external.

Restructuring of the Project

The project was restructured during the 2004 fiscal year. Considering the delay in project
implementation, a supervision mission visited the College in June 2004, with the aim to bring
the project back to a satisfactory status within a three months time, end of the project. In other
words, the restructuring was aimed at reducing the scope of remaining project activities to a



                                             39

realistic level consistent with the client's current priorities and based on its implementation
capacity.

In this regard, an amended Credit Agreement was subsequently signed by the Bank and the
Government of Ethiopia in 30 June 2004. The Development objectives of the Project were not
significantly changed by this Amendment. The project scope was reduced to ensure effective
implementation during the remaining time. At this time, a Project Management Unit (PMU)
was established, comprising seven members. The PMU was chaired by the Vice President for
Business and Institutional Development of the College to oversee the efficient and effective
implementation of the project activities over the remaining duration of the project. A detailed
Project Implementation Plan was also prepared after the restructuring of the project.

Although the original project design and project components were not dramatically changed,
project activities were refocused and the project extended for twelve months to ensure their
completion. Considerable progress had been made since the restructuring of the project toward
the achievement of the development objectives; and all the activities were completed by June
30, 2006, with the exception of the project audit. The mission visited the college five times
after the restructure of the project and gave its worthy advice and comments that helped the
PMU facilitate the achievement of the project objectives.

1.3. Project Components

The project had four components. The first component focused on upgrading and extension of
GDLN Facilities; the second component on developing of print media Distance Learning
materials. Components 3 and 4 were on providing training through distance learning services
and Capacity Development and Technical Assistance respectively. A description of each
component is presented in the following paragraphs.

1. Component: Upgrading and Extension of GDLN Facilities

  The main activities under this component were civil work and purchase of equipment for the
  Development Learning Center (DLC). In the effort to upgrade the DLC to an international
  standard, the following activities were performed.

  (a) Civil work
      Modification and expansion of the center have been completed and the center has
      acquired Videoconferencing (VC) room, communication/translation room, multimedia
      room, two breakout rooms, lobby, internet café, five offices and rest rooms. A secure
      room for the uninterruptible power supply (UPS) and backup generator had also been
      installed to protect the equipment from excess power or power interruption.

      The civil works for a new computer lab, which was included during the restructuring and
      cabling work for the data line of the computer lab have been completed and has become
      fully operational since June 2006.
(b) Purchase of ICT Equipment and furniture
       Procurements and installations of all the necessary equipments and furniture were fully



                                             40

      accomplished. Installation, testing and commissioning of the video- conferencing and
      related equipment had been completed; and the systems are now fully operational. The
      purchase of diesel generator and other local infrastructure equipment was completed. The
      distance learning center facility is now fully functional with enormous potential for
      efficient and effective utilization.

2. Component: Development of Print Media Distance Learning

Development of printed distance learning course materials in three disciplines; Accountancy,
Management and Law for diploma programme and their printings were the major activities of
this component. In view of that, course materials for 48 courses were developed. Before the
start of the course, the full course materials were reviewed by subject specialists and tested on
potential students. Finally, the print of 47 courses was completed and delivered to the College
(see Annex ­ II)
At the end of the project life, an overall evaluation was carried out by a local consultant.
According to the evaluation report, 56% of the respondents rated the quality of the course
materials as very high and 37% as high. Thus, it is possible to suggest that the overall quality
of the printed course materials was very good and met learners' expectations.

3. Component: Training Through Distance Learning Services
Component three had two major activities:

1. Providing training on computer literacy and remedial English courses
This programme was designed for civil servants at the regional center in order to bring them
into the computer age, and prepare them to benefit from the internet.

As a result the college has been providing several training sessions through the technology of
the DLC. These activities are categorized as follows:
(i)   Courses:     which     combine      two-way   multimedia     videoconferencing     sessions
        complemented with print packages, CD-ROMs, interactive web communications and
        face to face tutorials. It usually takes place over time ­ with a number of sessions
        spread over one or multiple weeks, usually ranging from 4 - 16 weeks and award of
        certificates.
(ii) Seminars or Conferences: These are shorter in duration and less structured and formal
        than courses although they have multiple sessions.
(iii) Development Dialogues: They were short videoconferences sought to enable participants
        to work together in addressing pressing issues that can call for a common international
        agenda or require a local policy responses.
(iv) Web-based Programs: These are synchronous or asynchronous facilitated learning
        activities using Internet for delivery.
(v)   Meetings and Internet services
The types of events organized and planned and actual number of participants is provided in the
following chart.




                                              41

                                      Chart I - EGDLN VC Events July 2000 -2005


                      300



                      250


    st                200

      venEforeb                                                                              Planned
                      150
                                                                                             Actual

               muN    100



                       50



                        0
                            COURSE    G.DIALOGUE       SEMINAR          MEETING     TOTAL

                   Planned    57          66              44               46        213

                   Actual     52          68              47               72        239

                                                    Type of Events




As can be seen from the above chart, in majority of the events, the actual number of events
exceeds the planned number. This implies that there is high demand for DLC events.

Furthermore, from May 1999 to May 2006 about 3,529 participants took part in VC
programme. The participants were drawn from national, regional, and district and/or grass root
levels, but significantly from Addis Ababa and the near by regions, especially Oromia.

                             Table I: NUMBER OF VC PARTICIPANTS BY SECTOR

                                                     Participants By Sector
                      Year                                                                      Hrs. used
                                    Gov           NGO         Private       Other   Total

 1999                                 120             0            0           0       120

 2000-2001                            579           31            21           0       631

 2001-2002                            446           60            43           45      594

 2002-2003                            367           93            86           0       546

 2003-2004                            627           93            86           0       806

 2005-June 30, 2006                   772           42            34           65      913 505

 TOTAL                                2911          319          270           110    3610




                                                        42

2. Providing education and training through the print-based distance learning
In order to provide the necessary services to the print-based distance learners in relative
proximity, the Institute has opened nine (9) regional centers and 12 tutorial centers housed in
schools and colleges in all the regions of the country. The centers are staffed with a coordinator
and secretary cashier.

The print-based distance learning programme was launched in January 2005; and a total of
2449 students registered for the first time. Of all the students registered, 2159 (88%) students
took the final exams and 2,097(97%) students passed the final exam. In 2005/06 academic
year, 3247 new students were enrolled as a second batch. The total enrolment of students until
the end of the project was 5353 students.

Course Modules (Textbooks): The College has printed text books in modular forms since 2004
and students have had access to textbooks that were developed by group experts. A total of
528, 2000 text books for 48 courses were printed in printing house; and 20,000 audio-cassettes
were reproduced for the English courses. IDE distributed 171,531 modules (textbooks) and
6757 audiocassettes to 21 Tutorial Centers. About 1339 reference books were purchased
through completive method from two suppliers and were readied for distribution to centers.

4. Component: Capacity Development

In order to enhance the capacity of the IDE to enable it to design and manage the various forms
of distance learning in Addis and outreach centers, the following activities were accomplished.
Human Resources and structure

- Before the launch of the project, there were only three IDE staff; two academic and one
administrative. During the implementation of the project, however, the number of staff
increased from 3 - 42. This number does not include tutors and liaison persons working on
part-time basis.    The Institute is divided into three teams and a center, the Academic
Development Team., the Regional Services Team, the Central Support Services Team and
Distance Learning Center. In fact, the Distance Learning Center was separated from IDE as of
March 1, 2006.

-In order to serve the learners in proximity, the institute established 9 Regional Centers staffed
with a coordinator and secretary/cashiers and 12 study Centers run by Liaison Persons
(agents). While the regional center coordinators and secretary/cashiers are permanent staff, the
liaison persons are hired on part-time basis and most of them are high school principals and
college deans. In addition to the liaison persons, about 310 tutors have been hired on part-time
basis; all providing supports to the students at 21 tutorial centers.

- The nine main regional centers are furnished with equipment such as computers, printers,
copiers, fax machines, safes and furniture like tables, chairs and shelves. They are also
connected to the internet from the Ethiopian Telecommunications Corporation. These centers
are staffed with a coordinator and secretary cashier.

Capacity Building



                                             43

To improve the quality of IDE staff to manage the distance learning program, the project
provided an opportunity to the staff to get training both in-country as well as overseas. The
total number of trained staff on Capacity Building were159 persons. In relation to
strengthening the input component the project built physical facilities and its supporting
facilities for DLC and IDE, both at IDE headquarters and at the regions. Generally, in
strengthening the input component and/or manpowered development the project contributed a
lot in building physical facilities and in developing the knowledge and skills of the human
power of the institute.

Print-Based Distance Learning
For the print media course development and implementation, an international consulting firm
was appointed and provided:
    -   training to 25 IDE staff in the design and running of print media distance learning
        courses and programmes;
    -   training to 103 professionals who served as course material developers (course writers
        & editors)
    -   TOT for 35 Tutor Trainers
    -   Training to 15 IDE staff on marketing of services
Eight IDE staff members visited the institution of the consulting firm and came back with
valuable experiences that helped in developing course materials and managing the programmes
Five (5) staff of IDE participated in the training of procurement organized by ESMA held in
Durban, South Africa

To facilitate the teaching-learning process at the regions, 310 part-time tutors in the Regional
Centers and Study Centers were selected, contracted and trained by IDE staff. The tutors are
now working in 21 study/tutorial centers throughout the country.

Internet ­based (e-Learning) course development
The development of an e-learning program at College was delayed considerably due to internal
and external factors. However, with the assistance of the Bank's mission, the college appointed
an international firm. At the beginning, the training was attended by about 24 IDE staff; but as
the course progressed, some of them dropped the training due to other schedules. A total of 11
students eventually graduated and were awarded the course certificate. The training was on the
development of an e-learning strategy, delivery of e-learning training and the use of the
Moodle software environment for development of SCORM ­ compliant e-learning materials.
To be more specific, the training focused on:
        · e-Learning Basics
        · e-Tutoring and Training Methods and Skills
        · Project Management and Evaluation of e-Learning Projects
        · Instructional Design for e-Learning
        · Instructing ECSC staff in the use of the Moodle software
        ·  Authoring/development tools such as Macromedia Dream weaver and Adobe
            Photoshop.



                                            44

At the end of the training the consulting firm presented a report to the College. The firm
indicated, in its recommendation, the inherent weakness of the college about the critical
success factors for effective implementation of the e-learning programme. Based on the
recommendation, the president established an e-learning Programme Board without delay. The
Board is chaired by the President himself. The Board is now working hard to implement the e-
learning programme in the near future. A project document intended to build capacity of the e-
learning project and other units of the college has been developed and sent to ICTAD for
approval. Furthermore, subscription of broadband connection at 1M capacity has been done,
which will be used for reaching the Woredas and regions when the e-learning project get
operational.

A team of 6 IDE/ECSC visited Tanzanian DLC for training and experience sharing. It was
reported that the training had contributed a lot to the development and future utilization of the
DLC facility.

Project Evaluation:
As a Learning and Innovation Loan, the project required continuous monitoring and evaluation
to identify those elements that should be replicated and expanded at the end of project as well
as those requiring further adaptation to be effective. To achieve this objective, the College/IDE
had tried to evaluate and monitor its educational programs. IDE submitted monitoring and
evaluation reports to the Task Team Leader every two months.

In addition to the monitoring and evaluation of the project by own staff, the College hired one
consulting firm to conduct Tracer Study on the activities of the Development Learning Center
and one individual consultant to conduct evaluation on the overall programme.

The main purpose of the tracer study was to:
  · examine the impact and quality of learning through EGDLN and its real and potential
    contribution to the over all poverty reduction strategies and capacity building program of
    the country and its contribution in bridging the digital divide between the North and the
    South in the efforts to attain the Millennium Development Goals;
  · document and present what contributions and changes have taken in the life of those who
    involved in the EGDLN events and programs (value added) in terms of capacity building
    and empowerment, what aspects of the programs are more valued by clients;

Despite the consultant's strong effort to address the impact and quality of learning through
EGDLN and its real and potential contribution to the over all poverty reduction strategies and
capacity building program of the country and to the Millennium Development Goals, the report
is not helpful in generating meaningful figures related to the indicator in question..

Furthermore, the project had a final evaluation carried out by a local consultant, too. Both
reports were informative and based on focus group responses. The responses indicated that the
quality of print-based course materials were very good and met learners' satisfaction.


Achievement of Performance Indicators


                                             45

At the end of the project life, an overall evaluation was carried out by a local consultant.
According to the evaluation report, the following results were achieved:
   -   The survey proved that the quality of the print-based distance learning course materials
       were of high quality.
   -   The learning materials at the hand of students were reported to be very effective. The
       interest of students in the course increased over time.
   -   The learning achievement of the students as facilitated by the content was good.
   -   The learning achievement of students as facilitated by the distance printed media
       delivery mode was good and meeting their expectations not withstanding the
       considerable scope for improvement
(See Annex ­ I for further information)

 Outcome/achievement of objective:
We believe that the project met its development objectives to some extent. The main outcomes
of DLP are:
   1. Students who completed one year college education
   2. Students who completed two semester college education
   3. Development Learning Center that fully equipped with cutting edge technology and
       that maintains an international standards
   4. Professionals whose skills in designing, developing and managing web-based and
       print-based distance learning programmes.
   5. Various equipment and furniture
   6. Raised employees' skills levels of the national labour force
   7. Increased access for education

A considerable number of course writers and editors have been trained in distance learning
course materials (print-based as well as web-based) designing, preparation, editing, and
managing. This is a good opportunity to other distance learning providing institutions. They
can employ the knowledge and skills of these people when and if they want to develop course
materials.

The project also created higher education opportunities to civil servants who, for one reason or
another, could not attend the convention education through the establishment of regional
centers. In short, the project increased access for higher education

Project Financing

The original allocate fund from IDA was US$ 4.9 million and US$ 2.2 million from
Government. However, during restructuring of the project, IDA credit was reduced to
US$ 2.551 million and the counter funding was reduced to US$ 0.403 million.            As of 09
October 2006, disbursement of the project from IDA fund reached US$ 1,992,815.08 which is
93.3 percent of the total credit. US$ 105,625.08 was also disbursed after the indicated period.

Impact on Employees

1. The targeted beneficiaries of the project can be seen from two perspectives.



                                             46

1.1. The beneficiaries of the videoconferencing and multimedia were from the public and the
      private sector employees. About 3529 persons have participated in the events of the DLC
      programmes.

1.2. The beneficiaries of the print-based distance learning programme were only the
      government employees working at different levels of the hierarchy. In implementing the
      programme, the College had approved all requests submitted to it from beneficiaries.
      That means all eligible employees who satisfy the entry requirements of the College had
      been admitted and registered for IDE courses and programmes.

2. Women employees are among the project beneficiaries of the target population. According
    to the Federal Civil Service Commission, women constitute 32.9 % of the formal sector
    employees in Ethiopia. Of the total government workers 5353 employees have been
    registered in the print-based distance learning programme until the end of the project.

    All in all, 8882 employees have directly benefited from the project. A considerable number
    of the society have also benefited indirectly.

Programme Sustainability

The future of the DLP programme was discussed with the mission during the supervision
mission in May 2006. The position of both parties has been to continue with the programme
because poverty is a continuing phenomenon that should continue to be addressed and
education is one of the major tools that play an important role in reducing/alleviating poverty
by producing competent and skillful citizens who can engage in development endeavours.

PERFORMANCE OF THE BANK AND THE BORROWER

Performance of the Bank: The overall performance of the Bank was satisfactory. At the
beginning of the project, the supervision mission was inadequate as the project was supervised
rarely. However, after the restructuring of the project the Bank's supervision missions were
adequate as the project was supervised five times in two years time; and there were persistence
follow ups, through telephone and emails. The supervision mission and the persistent follow
up helped the College to expedite all the activities (procurements and disbursements) the
project.   The overall performance of the Bank was considered by the Borrower to be
satisfactory.

.Performance of the Borrower

The Government of Ethiopia performed well in meeting its counterpart funding. The credit
conditions were fulfilled immediately as and if requests from the College were made. Not only
did government allow the counterpart funding, but also allowed us to appoint as many staff as
we required in order to expediting the distance learning programme.
·Continuous follow-up (monitoring) and support by the Bank and discussion with
    Government officials strongly contributed to the successes, especially when the Task Team



                                             47

    Leader was changed
·Financial and procurement experts in the Bank's country office facilitated project
    procurements and disbursements

Lessons Learned

The following are some of the lessons learned from the project:

(1) The LIL (Learning and Innovation Loan) is a good instrument to test the comparative
    achievement in the learning outcomes, the comparative demand, costs and cost
    effectiveness and the sustainability of several learning approaches on a small scale before
    implementing on a large-scale, both from educational as well as financial perspectives.
(2) For efficient and effective utilization of the DLC facilities, the development of strategic
    planning and marketing strategy is not only a necessity but also a must. For a distance
    learning center to be effective, the management capacity is one of the most critical factors.
    The sustainability of the Distance Learning Center (DLC) is to a large extent related to the
    development of marketing activities.
(3) As part of the global community, the appropriate use on e-learning programme is an
    important tool to meet the current and future needs of Government's Civil Service Reform
    Programmes in general and to fulfill the mission statement of ECSC.
(4) Documents/Experiences from other projects show us that works, goods and services to be
    procured under the project fund are presented in detail in the project document (PAD); but
    in our case the equipment, furniture and other materials to be procured were not clearly put
    in any of the project documents. This created a problem in identifying what to purchase
    under which component. This had an impact on the implementation of the project.
(5) Another main lesson learned from this project is that simplicity and clarity in design and
    flexibility in implementation is essential to ensure a successful project. The capacity of the
    institutions needs to be built slowly over time throughout the project implementation
    period, as the college has now acquires staff who can handle projects effectively and
    efficiently.




                                             48

Annex 8. Comments of Cofinanciers and Other Partners/Stakeholders

Not Applicable.




                                    49

Annex 9. List of Supporting Documents

  1) Distance Learning LIL Project Appraisal Document, The World Bank Report No.
     21766 ET, April 4, 2001.
  2) Project Evaluation Report, Gashaw Gebeyehu, Addis Ababa, June 2006.
  3) Ethiopia: Interim Country Assistance Strategy. World Bank, May 2006-10-31.
  4) Ethiopia: Sustainable Development and Poverty Reduction Program; Federal
     Democratic Republic of Ethiopia, Ministry of Finance and Economic
     Development; Addis Ababa, July 2002.
  5) Workshop Report: Capacity Building in Africa: "Effective States and Engaged
     Societies"; Joint Workshop sponsored by AfDB, UNECA and the World Bank;
     Addis Ababa, Ethiopia; 24 ­25 February 2005.
  6) Building Effective States, Forging Engaged Societies, Report of the World Bank
     Task Force on Capacity Development in Africa, September 2005.
  7) Six PSR and seven ISR documents, World Bank Archives (IRIS), 2001-2006.
  8) Ethiopia: Interim Country Assistance Strategy. World Bank, May 2006.
  9) Development Credit Agreement ­ Ethiopia Distance Learning Project, The World
     Bank Credit No. 3501-ET; May 1, 2001.




                                        50

Annex 10. Project Costs and Financing Before and After Restructuring


(a) Project Cost by Component (in USD Million equivalent)

                                          Restructuring             Percentage Percentage
                               Appraisal    Estimate   Actual/Latest    of
         Components            Estimate    (USD M)      Estimate    Appraisal
                               (USD M)                  (USD M)                    of
                                                                              Restructuring
GDLN FACILITIES                                     .66                   10%
UPGRADING/EXTENSION.                  1.0                        .71                 24.0%

SATELLITE RENTAL AND                                .06                   0.8%
OPERATIONAL COSTS                     1.3                        .06                  2.0%

PRINTED MEDIA DISTANCE                              .54                   8.2%
LEARNING DEVPT.                       1.2                        .58                 19.7%

TRAINING                                .7          .20          .25      3.5%        8.5%
CAPACITY DEVELOPMENT                               1.34                  19.4%
AND TA                                2.4                      1.38                  46.8%

          Total Baseline Cost         6.6          2.80        2.98     41.9%        101%
Physical Contingencies                  .3         .110        0.00
Price Contingencies                     .2         .040        0.00
           Total Project Costs        7.1          2.95        2.98     41.9%        101%
Front-end fee PPF
Front-end fee IBRD
    Total Financing Required          7.1          2.95        2.98




(b) Financing

                                         Restructuring Actual/Latest Percentage Percentage
                               Appraisal  Estimate       Estimate        of
  Source of Funds     Type of
                    CofinancingEstimate                              Appraisal
                               (USD M)                                             of
                                          (USD M)        (USD M)              Restructuring
 Borrower                          2.2              .40          .49      6.9%       16.6%
 INTERNATIONAL
DEVELOPMENT
ASSOCIATION                        4.9             2.55         2.49       35%       84.4%




                                             51

