Page  1
CONFORMED COPY
CREDIT NUMBER 3501 ET
Development Credit Agreement
(Distance Learning Project)
between
FEDERAL DEMOCRATIC REPUBLIC OF ETHIOPIA
and
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
Dated  May 1, 2001
CREDIT NUMBER 3501 ET
DEVELOPMENT CREDIT AGREEMENT
AGREEMENT, dated May 1, 2001, between FEDERAL DEMOCRATIC REPUBLIC OF ETHIOPIA 
(the Borrower) and INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION (the Association).
WHEREAS the Borrower, having satisfied itself as to the feasibility and priority 
of the Project described in Schedule 2 to this Agreement, has requested the 
Association to assist in the financing of the Project; and
WHEREAS the Association has agreed, on the basis, inter alia, of the foregoing, 
to extend the Credit to the Borrower upon the terms and conditions set forth in this 
Agreement; 
NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:
ARTICLE I
General Conditions; Definitions
Section 1.01. The "General Conditions Applicable to Development Credit 
Agreements" of the Association, dated January 1, 1985 (as amended through October 6, 
1999) (the General Conditions), constitute an integral part of this Agreement: 
(a)
A new paragraph (12) is added to Section 2.01 to read as set forth below, 
Page  2
and the existing paragraphs (12) through (14) of said Section are accordingly 
renumbered as paragraphs (13) through (15):
"12.
‘Participating Country’ means any country that the Association 
determines meets the requirements set forth in Section 11 of Resolution No. 
194 of the Board of Governors of the Association, adopted on April 8, 1999; 
and ‘Participating Countries’ means, collectively, all such countries."; and
(b)
The second sentence of Section 5.01 is modified to read:
"Except as the Borrower and the Association shall otherwise agree, no 
withdrawals shall be made: (a) on account of expenditures in the territories 
of any country which is not a Participating Country or for goods produced in, 
or services supplied from, such territories; or (b) for the purpose of any 
payment to persons or entities, or for any import of goods, if such payment or 
import, to the knowledge of the Association, is prohibited by a decision of 
the United Nations Security Council taken under Chapter VII of the Charter of 
the 
United Nations."
Section 1.02. Unless the context otherwise requires, the several terms defined 
in the General Conditions have the respective meanings therein set forth and the 
following additional terms have the following meanings:
(a)
"Birr" means the currency of the Borrower;
(b)
"Civil Service College" and "CSC" mean an institution of higher learning 
in the Borrower's territory, established under the Ethiopian Civil Service College 
establishment Council of Ministers Regulations No.3/1996 for the purpose of training 
civil servants, both at the federal and regional state levels;
(c)
"Financial Management Manual" means the manual prepared by CSC and 
setting forth, inter alia, the accounting, including flow of funds between IDE (as 
hereinafter defined) and Regional Centers (as hereinafter defined), financial and 
disbursement procedures to be used for Project implementation;
(d)
"Fiscal Year" means the Borrower’s fiscal year commencing July 8 and 
ending July 7 of the next following year;
(e)
"GDLN" means the Global Distance Learning Network to be upgraded and 
extended under the Project in the Borrower’s territory;
(f)
"GDLN Regional Center" means any and all of the 5 regional centers in 
Awassa, Bahir Dar, DireDawa/ Harrari, Makelle and Nazareth, to be fitted with GDLN 
satellite link, for the purposes of the Project;
(g)
"IDE" means the Institute of Distance Education, a training unit of the 
CSC responsible for all distance education activities under the CSC;
(h)
"PIM" means the Project Implementation Manual referred to in Section 5.01 
(b) of this Agreement and setting forth, inter alia, procurement, disbursement, 
financial, organizational arrangements and other activities and arrangements to be 
used for the purpose of implementing the Project as shall have been agreed with the 
Association, and as the same may be amended from time to time with the Association's 
prior consent, and such term includes any annexes or schedules to the PIM;
(i)
"PIP" means the Project Implementation Plan referred to in Schedule 4 to 
this Agreement;
(j)
"Project Management Report" means each report prepared in accordance with 
Section 4.02 of this Agreement;
(k)
"Regional Center" means the 2 regional centers without GDLN link to be 
established under the Project; and
(l)
 "Special Account" means the account referred to in Section 2.02 (b) of 
this Agreement.
Page  3
ARTICLE II
The Credit
Section 2.01. The Association agrees to lend to the Borrower, on the terms and 
conditions set forth or referred to in the Development Credit Agreement, an amount in 
various currencies equivalent to three million nine hundred thousand Special Drawing 
Rights (SDR 3,900,000).
Section 2.02. (a) The amount of the Credit may be withdrawn from the Credit 
Account in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 1 to this Agreement for 
expenditures made (or, if the Association shall so agree, to be made) in respect of 
the reasonable cost of goods and services required for the Project and to be financed 
out of the proceeds of the Credit.
(b)
The Borrower may, for the purposes of the Project, open and maintain in  
Dollars a special deposit account in the National Bank of Ethiopia, on terms and 
conditions satisfactory to the Association. Deposits into, and payments out of the 
Special Account shall be made in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 5 to this 
Agreement.
Section 2.03. The Closing Date shall be December 31, 2004 or such later date as 
the Association shall establish. The Association shall promptly notify the Borrower of 
such later date.
Section 2.04. (a) The Borrower shall pay to the Association a commitment charge 
on the principal amount of the Credit not withdrawn from time to time at a rate to be 
set by the Association as of June 30 of each year, but not to exceed the rate of 
one-half of one percent (1/2 of 1%) per annum.
(b)
The commitment charge shall accrue: (i) from the date sixty days after 
the date of this Agreement (the accrual date) to the respective dates on which amounts 
shall be withdrawn by the Borrower from the Credit Account or canceled; and (ii) at 
the rate set as of the June 30 immediately preceding the accrual date and at such 
other rates as may be set from time to time thereafter pursuant to paragraph (a) 
above. The rate set as of June 30 in each year shall be applied from the next date in 
that year specified in Section 2.06 of this Agreement.
(c)
The commitment charge shall be paid: (i) at such places as the 
Association shall reasonably request; (ii) without restrictions of any kind imposed 
by, or in the territory of, the Borrower; and (iii) in the currency specified in this 
Agreement for the purposes of Section 4.02 of the General Conditions or in such other 
eligible currency or currencies as may from time to time be designated or selected 
pursuant to the provisions of that Section.
Section 2.05. The Borrower shall pay to the Association a service charge at the 
rate of three-fourths of one percent (3/4 of 1%) per annum on the principal amount of 
the Credit withdrawn and outstanding from time to time.
Section 2.06. Commitment charges and service charges shall be payable 
semiannually on May 1 and November 1 in each year.
Section 2.07. (a) Subject to paragraphs (b), (c) and (d) below, the Borrower 
shall repay the principal amount of the Credit in semiannual installments payable on 
each May 1 and November 1 commencing May 1, 2011 and ending, November 1, 2040. Each 
installment to and including the installment payable on November 1, 2020 shall be one 
percent (1%) of such principal amount, and each installment thereafter shall be two 
percent (2%) of such principal amount.
(b)
Whenever: (i) the Borrower's per capita gross national product (GNP), as 
determined by the Association, shall have exceeded for three consecutive years  the 
level established annually by the Association for determining eligibility to access 
the Association's resources; and (ii) the Bank shall consider the Borrower 
creditworthy for Bank lending, the Association may, subsequent to the review and 
approval thereof by the Executive Directors of the Association and after due 
consideration by them of the development of the Borrower's economy, modify the 
Page  4
repayment of installments under paragraph (a) above by: (A) requiring the Borrower to 
repay twice the amount of each such installment not yet due until the principal amount 
of the Credit shall have been repaid; and (B) requiring the Borrower to commence 
repayment of the principal amount of the Credit as of the first semiannual payment 
date referred to in paragraph (a) above falling six months or more after the date on 
which the Association notifies the Borrower that the events set out in this paragraph 
(b) have occurred, provided, however, that there shall be a grace period of a minimum 
of five years on such repayment of principal.
(c)
If so requested by the Borrower, the Association may revise the 
modification referred to in paragraph (b) above to include, in lieu of some or all of 
the increase in the amounts of such installments, the payment of interest at an annual 
rate agreed with the Association on the principal amount of the Credit withdrawn and 
outstanding from time to time, provided that, in the judgment of the Association, such 
revision shall not change the grant element obtained under the above-mentioned 
repayment modification.
(d)
If, at any time after a modification of terms pursuant to paragraph (b) 
above, the Association determines that the Borrower's economic condition has 
deteriorated significantly, the Association may, if so requested by the Borrower, 
further modify the terms of repayment to conform to the schedule of installments as 
provided in paragraph (a) above.
Section 2.08. The currency of the United States of America is hereby specified 
for the purposes of Section 4.02 of the General Conditions.
ARTICLE III
Execution of the Project
Section 3.01. (a) The Borrower declares its commitment to the objectives of the 
Project as set forth in Schedule 2 to this Agreement, and, to this end, shall carry 
out the Project, through CSC and IDE, with due diligence and efficiency and in 
conformity with appropriate administrative, financial and academic practices, and 
shall provide, promptly as needed, the funds, facilities, services and other resources 
required for the Project.
(b)
Without limitation upon the provisions of paragraph (a) of this Section 
and except as the Borrower and the Association shall otherwise agree, the Borrower 
shall carry out the Project in accordance with the Implementation Program set forth in 
Schedule 4 to this Agreement.
Section 3.02. Except as the Association shall otherwise agree, procurement of 
the goods, works and consultants’ services required for the Project and to be financed 
out of the proceeds of the Credit shall be governed by the provisions of Schedule 3 to 
this Agreement.
Section 3.03. For the purposes of Section 9.06 of the General Conditions and 
without limitation thereto, the Borrower shall:
(a)
prepare, on the basis of guidelines acceptable to the Association, and 
furnish to the Association not later than six (6) months after the Closing Date or 
such later date as may be agreed for this purpose between the Borrower and the 
Association, a plan designed to ensure the sustainability of the achievements of the 
Project; and
(b)
afford the Association a reasonable opportunity to exchange views with 
the Borrower on said plan.
Section 3.04. Without limitation to its obligations under Section 3.01 of this 
Agreement, the Borrower, for the purpose of making available its counterpart 
contribution to the financing of the Project, shall:
(a)
open and maintain, for the duration of the Project, an account (the 
Project Account) in Birr in the National Bank of Ethiopia, on terms and conditions 
Page  5
satisfactory to the Association;
(b)
promptly thereafter, make an initial deposit into the Project Account, in 
an amount equivalent to Birr
 1.1 million to finance the Borrower’s contribution to the 
first year of Project implementation;
(c)
thereafter deposit into the Project Account by October 1 in each Fiscal 
Year during Project implementation such amount as shall be required to replenish the 
Project Account in accordance with each annual work program and budget for the 
Project; and
(d)
ensure that amounts deposited into the Project Account shall be used 
exclusively to make payments to meet expenditures made or to be made in respect of the 
reasonable cost of goods and services for the Project in addition to those financed 
from the proceeds of the Credit.
ARTICLE IV
Financial Covenants
Section 4.01. (a) The Borrower shall maintain a financial management system, 
including records and accounts, and prepare financial statements in a format 
acceptable to the Association, adequate to reflect the operations, resources and 
expenditures related to the Project.
(b)
The Borrower shall:
(i)
have the records, accounts and financial statements referred to in 
paragraph (a) of this Section and the records and accounts for the 
Special Account for each fiscal year audited, in accordance with 
auditing standards acceptable to the Association, consistently 
applied, by independent auditors acceptable to the Association;
(ii)
furnish to the Association as soon as available, but in any case 
not later than six months after the end of each such year, (A) 
certified copies of the financial statements referred to in 
paragraph (a) of this Section for such year as so audited, and (B) 
an opinion on such statements, records and accounts and report of 
such audit, by said auditors, of such scope and in such detail as 
the Association shall have reasonably requested; and
(iii)
furnish to the Association such other information concerning such 
records and accounts, and the audit thereof, and concerning said 
auditors, as the Association may from time to time reasonably 
request.
(c)
For all expenditures with respect to which withdrawals from the Credit 
Account were made on the basis of statements of expenditure, the Borrower shall:
(i)
maintain or cause to be maintained, in accordance with paragraph 
(a) of this Section, records and separate accounts reflecting such 
expenditures;
(ii)
retain, until at least one year after the Association has received 
the audit report for the fiscal year in which the last withdrawal 
from the Credit Account was made, all records (contracts, orders, 
invoices, bills, receipts and other documents) evidencing such 
expenditures;
(iii)
enable the Association’s representatives to examine such records; 
and
(iv)
ensure that such records and accounts are included in the annual 
audit referred to in paragraph (b) of this Section and that the 
Page  6
report of such audit contains a separate opinion by said auditors 
as to whether the statements of expenditure submitted during such 
fiscal year, together with the procedures and internal controls 
involved in their preparation, can be relied upon to support the 
related withdrawals.
Section 4.02. (a) Without limitation upon the provisions of Section 4.01 of this 
Agreement, the Borrower shall carry out a time-bound action plan acceptable to the 
Association for the strengthening of the financial management system referred to in 
paragraph (a) of said Section 4.01 in order to enable the Borrower, not later than 18 
months after the Effective Date or such later date as the Association shall agree, to 
prepare quarterly Project Management Reports, acceptable to the Association, each of 
which:
(i) 
(A) sets forth actual sources and applications of funds for the 
Project, both cumulatively and for the period covered by said 
report, and projected sources and applications of funds for the 
Project for the six-month period following the period covered by 
said report, and (B) shows separately expenditures financed out of 
the proceeds of the Credit during the period covered by said 
report and expenditures proposed to be financed out of the 
proceeds of the Credit during the six-month period following the 
period covered by said report;
(ii)
(A) describes physical progress in Project implementation, both 
cumulatively and for the period covered by said report, and (B) 
explains variances between the actual and previously forecast 
implementation targets; and
(iii) sets forth the status of procurement under the Project and 
expenditures under contracts financed out of the proceeds of the 
Credit, as at the end of the period covered by said report.
(b)
Upon the completion of the action plan referred to in paragraph (a) of 
this Section, the Borrower shall prepare, in accordance with guidelines acceptable to 
the Association, and furnish to the Association not later than 45 days after the end 
of each calendar quarter, a Project Management Report for such period.
ARTICLE V
Effective Date; Termination
Section 5.01. The following events are specified as additional conditions to the 
effectiveness of the Development Credit Agreement within the meaning of Section 12.01 
(b) of the General Conditions:
(a)
the Borrower has opened the Project Account and has deposited therein the 
initial deposit referred to in Section 3.04 of this Agreement; 
(b)
the Borrower has adopted the PIM and the PIP, both in form and substance 
satisfactory to the Association; and
(c)
the Borrower  has appointed a procurement officer with qualifications and 
experience acceptable to the Association. 
Section 5.02 .The date ninety (90) days after the date of this Agreement is 
hereby specified for the purposes of Section 12.04 of the General Conditions.
ARTICLE VI
Representative of the Borrower; Addresses
Section 6.01. The minister of the Borrower at the time responsible for Finance 
is designated as representative of the Borrower for the purposes of Section 11.03 of 
Page  7
the General Conditions.
Section 6.02. The following addresses are specified for the purposes of Section 
11.01 of the General Conditions:
For the Borrower:
Minister of Finance
Ministry of Finance
P.O. Box 1905
Addis Ababa, Ethiopia
Telex:
Facsimile:
21147
251-1-551355
For the Association:
International Development Association
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America
Cable address:
Telex:
Facsimile:
INDEVAS
248423 (MCI) or
(202) 477-6391
Washington, D.C.
 64145 (MCI)
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their duly authorized 
representatives, have caused this Agreement to be signed in their respective names in 
the District of Columbia, United States of America, as of the day and year first above 
written.
FEDERAL DEMOCRATIC REPUBLIC OF ETHIOPIA
By /s/ Sufian Ahmed
Authorized Representative
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
By /s/ Callisto Madavo
Regional Vice President
Africa
SCHEDULE 1
Withdrawal of the Proceeds of the Credit
1.
The table below sets forth the Categories of items to be financed out of the 
proceeds of the Credit, the allocation of the amounts of the Credit to each Category 
and the percentage of expenditures for items so to be financed in each Category:
Page  8
Amount of the
Credit Allocated
   % of
(Expressed in Expenditures
Category
SDR Equivalent)
to be Financed
(1)
Civil Works
 
   160,000
100%
(2)
Goods, equipment
 
 1,400,000
100% of foreign
and vehicles
expenditures and
80% of local 
expenditures
(3)
Consultants’
 1,170,000
100% 
services and
training
(4)
Operating Costs
78% until July 7, 
2002, 59% from 
July 8, 2002
to July 7, 2003 
and 35% thereafter
(a)   Satellite rental 
   550,000
and maintenance
(b)   Other Project 
   240,000
items
(5)
Unallocated
   380,000
TOTAL
 3,900,000
2.
For the purposes of this Schedule:
(a)
the term "foreign expenditures" means expenditures in the currency of any 
country other than that of the Borrower for goods or services supplied from the 
territory of any country other than that of the Borrower; and
(b)
the term "local expenditures" means expenditures in the currency of the 
Borrower or for goods or services supplied from the territory of the Borrower; and
(c)
the term "operating costs" means  the incremental expenses incurred on 
account of Project implementation, including audit, office supplies, vehicle operation 
and maintenance, communication and insurance costs, office administration costs, 
utilities, travel, per diem and supervision costs, salaries of locally contracted 
employees, including contract hire tutors, but excluding salaries of officials of the 
Borrower's civil service.
3.
Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1 above, no withdrawals shall be 
made in respect of payments made for expenditures prior to the date of this Agreement. 
4.
The Association may require withdrawals from the Credit Account to be made on 
the basis of statements of expenditure for expenditures for: (i) goods and works under 
contracts costing less than $50,000 equivalent each; and (ii) services under contracts 
costing less than $50,000 equivalent each for consulting firms and less than $20,000 
equivalent each for individual consultants; (iii) training and operating costs, all 
under such terms and conditions as the Association shall specify by notice to the 
Borrower.
SCHEDULE 2
Description of the Project
The objectives of the Project are to: (a) test the comparative achievement in 
the learning outcomes, the comparative demand, the comparative costs and cost 
effectiveness and the sustainability of several distance learning approaches being 
Page  9
implemented by the IDE; and (b) develop capacity of the IDE to manage : (i) the GDLN 
link, both at the federal and at the five Regional Centers; (ii) the development and 
use of appropriate printed distance learning materials; and (iii) the establishment of 
seven regional distance learning outreach centers.
The Project consists of the following parts, subject to such modifications 
thereof as the Borrower and the Association may agree upon from time to time to 
achieve such objectives:
Part A:
Upgrading and Extension of GDLN Facilities
1.
Supporting the upgrading to the highest international standards of the existing 
GDLN videoconferencing and internet link at the CSC, including carrying out civil 
works and establishing and maintaining satellite communications.
2.
Establishing modified GDLN links with the five GDLN Regional Centers through:
(a) 
the carrying out of civil works in existing tertiary level institutions 
within the regions where the GDLN Regional Centers are located; and
(b)
 the acquisition of computers and audio visual equipment.
Part B:
Development of Printed Media Distance Learning
1.
Developing and printing distance learning materials to support distance learning 
courses being offered by IDE;
2.
Carrying out, at 7 selected sites, training programs for tutors in distance 
learning courses.
Part C:
Training Through Distance Learning Services
Carrying out: (a) regular IDE training programs for federal and regional civil 
servants in accountancy, management and other subjects; (b) training programs, on a 
full cost basis,  in computer literacy and remedial English for civil servants at the 
Regional Centers, as well as for private individuals: and (c) internet based distance 
learning services for the private sector.
Part D:
Capacity Development
Developing the capacity of IDE to provide and evaluate distance learning 
services through:
(a) 
provision of technical advisory services and carrying out of training to 
IDE and regional staff in interactive video, internet, and print based correspondence 
courses;
(b) 
provision of technical advisory services and support for the evaluation 
of alternative distance teaching approaches being used by IDE; and
(c)
carrying out of training programs for CSC staff in procurement and 
financial management.
* * *
The Project is expected to be completed by June 30, 2004.
SCHEDULE 3
Procurement and Consultants’ Services
Page  10
Section I.
Procurement of Good and Works
Part A:
General
1.
Goods and works shall be procured in accordance with: (a) the provisions of 
Section I of the "Guidelines for Procurement under IBRD Loans and IDA Credits" 
published by the Bank in January 1995 and revised in January and August 1996, 
September 1997 and January 1999 (the Guidelines); and (b) the provisions of the 
following Parts of this Section I.
2.
In paragraphs 1.6 and 1.8 of the Guidelines, the references to "Bank member 
countries" and "member country" shall be deemed to be references, respectively, to 
"Participating Countries" and "Participating Country".
Part B:
International Competitive Bidding
1.
Except as otherwise provided in Part C of this Section, goods shall be procured 
under contracts awarded in accordance with the provisions of Section II of the 
Guidelines and paragraph 5 of Appendix 1 thereto.
2.
The following provisions shall apply to goods to be procured under contracts 
awarded in accordance with the provisions of paragraph 1 of this Part B.
(a)
Grouping of contracts
To the extent practicable, contracts for goods shall be grouped in bid packages 
estimated to cost $100,000 equivalent or more each.
(b)
Preference for domestically manufactured goods and domestic contractors
The provisions of paragraphs 2.54 and 2.55 of the Guidelines and Appendix 2 
thereto shall apply to goods manufactured in the territory of the Borrower and works 
to be carried out by domestic contractors.
Part C:
Other Procurement Procedures 
1.
National Competitive Bidding
(a) 
Goods estimated to cost less than $50,000 equivalent per contract, up to 
an aggregate amount not to exceed $400,000 equivalent; (b) works estimated to cost 
less than $20,000 equivalent per contract, up to an aggregate amount not to exceed 
$100,000 equivalent; and (c) printing services, may all be procured under contracts 
awarded in accordance with the provisions of paragraphs 3.3 and 3.4 of the Guidelines.
2.
International or National Shopping
(a)
Goods, including books, estimated to cost less than $30,000 equivalent 
per contract, up to an aggregate amount not to exceed $200,000 equivalent, may be 
procured under contracts awarded on the basis of international or national shopping 
procedures.
(b)
Civil works estimated to cost less than $20,000 equivalent per contract, 
up to an aggregate amount not to exceed $100,000 equivalent and furniture, may be 
procured under contracts awarded on the basis of national shopping procedures, all in 
accordance with the provisions of paragraphs 3.5 and 3.6 of the Guidelines.
3.
Direct Contracting
Books which must be purchased from the original publisher; and equipment and 
spare parts which need to be compatible with existing equipment of a proprietary 
nature; may all, with the Association's prior agreement, be procured in accordance 
with the provisions of paragraph 3.7 of the Guidelines.
Page  11
4.
Procurement from UN Agencies
Vehicles, computers and office equipment estimated to cost $70,000 equivalent or 
less per contract up to an aggregate amount not to exceed  $100,000 equivalent, may be 
procured from the Inter-Agency Procurement Services Office (IAPSO) of the United 
Nations Development Program (UNDP), in accordance with the provisions of paragraph 3.9 
of the Guidelines.
Part D:
Review by the Association of Procurement Decisions
1.
Procurement Planning
Prior to the issuance of any invitations to bid for contracts, the proposed 
procurement plan for the Project shall be furnished to the Association for its review 
and approval, in accordance with the provisions of paragraph 1 of Appendix 1 to the 
Guidelines. Procurement of all goods and works shall be undertaken in accordance with 
such procurement plan as shall have been approved by the Association, and with the 
provisions of said paragraph 1.
2.
Prior Review
(a)
With respect to: (i) each contract for goods and works estimated to cost 
the equivalent of $50,000 or more, and (ii) the first two procurement packages for 
goods and works, irrespective of their single or aggregate values, the procedures set 
forth in paragraphs 2 and 3 of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines shall apply.
(b)
With respect to each contract for goods to be procured through direct 
contracting and  estimated to cost the equivalent of $20,000 or more, the following 
procedures shall apply:
(i)
prior to the execution of any contract under shopping procedures, 
the Borrower shall provide to the Association a report on the 
comparison and evaluation of quotations received;
(ii)
prior to the execution of any contract procured under direct 
contracting procedures, the Borrower shall provide to the 
Association a copy of the specifications and the draft contract; 
and
(iii)
the procedures set forth in paragraphs 2 (f), 2 (g) and 3 of 
Appendix 1 to the Guidelines shall apply.
3.
Post Review
With respect to each contract not governed by paragraph 2 of this Part, the 
procedures set forth in paragraph 4 of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines shall apply.
Section II.
Employment of Consultants
Part A:
General
1.
Consultants’ services shall be procured in accordance with: (a) the provisions 
of the Introduction and Section IV of the Guidelines: "Selection and Employment of 
Consultants by World Bank Borrowers" published by the Association in January 1997 and 
revised in September 1997 and January 1999, subject to the modifications thereto set 
forth in paragraph 2 of this Part A (the Consultant Guidelines); and (b) the 
provisions of the following Parts of this Section II.
2.
In paragraph 1.10 of the Consultant Guidelines, the references to "Bank member 
countries" and "member country" shall be deemed to be references, respectively, to 
"Participating Countries" and "Participating Country".
Page  12
Part B:
Quality- and Cost-based Selection
1.
Except as otherwise provided in Part C of this Section, consultants’ services 
shall be procured under contracts awarded in accordance with the provisions of Section 
II of the Consultant Guidelines, paragraph 3 of Appendix 1 thereto, Appendix 2 
thereto, and the provisions of paragraphs 3.13 through 3.18 thereof applicable to 
quality- and cost-based selection of consultants.
2.
The following provisions shall apply to consultants’ services to be procured 
under contracts awarded in accordance with the provisions of the preceding paragraph.  
The short list of consultants for services for the preparation of evaluation reports 
and technical documents, estimated to cost less than $50,000 equivalent per contract, 
may comprise entirely national consultants in accordance with the provisions of 
paragraph 2.7 of the Consultant Guidelines.
Part C:
Other Procedures for the Selection of Consultants 
1.
Least-cost Selection
Services for audits estimated to cost less than $50,000 equivalent per contract 
may be procured under contracts awarded in accordance with the provisions of 
paragraphs 3.1 and 3.6 of the Consultant Guidelines.
2.
Selection Based on Consultants’ Qualifications
Services for technical assistance under Part D of the Project estimated to cost 
less than $50,000 equivalent per contract may be procured under contracts awarded in 
accordance with the provisions of paragraphs 3.1 and 3.7 of the Consultant Guidelines.
3.
Single Source Selection
Services which are estimated to cost less than $200,000 equivalent per contract 
or more in exceptional circumstances, may, with the Association's prior agreement, be 
procured in accordance with the provisions of paragraphs 3.8 through 3.11 of the 
Consultant Guidelines.
4.
Individual Consultants
Services for tasks that meet the requirements set forth in paragraph 5.1 of the 
Consultant Guidelines shall be procured under contracts awarded to individual 
consultants in accordance with the provisions of paragraphs 5.1 through 5.3 of the 
Consultant Guidelines.
Part D:
Review by the Association of the Selection of Consultants
1.
Selection Planning
Prior to the issuance to consultants of any requests for proposals, the proposed 
plan for the selection of consultants under the Project shall be furnished to the 
Association for its review and approval, in accordance with the provisions of 
paragraph 1 of Appendix 1 to the Consultant Guidelines.  Selection of all consultants’ 
services shall be undertaken in accordance with such selection plan as shall have been 
approved by the Association, and with the provisions of said paragraph 1.
2.
Prior Review
(a)
With respect to each contract for the employment of consulting firms 
estimated to cost the equivalent of $50,000 or more, the procedures set forth in 
paragraphs 1, 2 (other than the third subparagraph of paragraph 2(a)) and 5 of 
Appendix 1 to the Consultant Guidelines shall apply.
(b)
With respect to each contract for the employment of individual 
consultants estimated to cost the equivalent of $20,000 or more, the qualifications, 
Page  13
experience and terms of employment of the consultants shall be furnished to the 
Association for its prior review and approval.  The contract shall be awarded only 
after the said approval shall have been given.
(c)
With respect to all contracts for services, irrespective of their single 
or aggregate values, the terms of reference for such services shall be furnished to 
the Association for its prior review and approval.
3.
Post Review
With respect to each contract not governed by paragraph 2 of this Part, the 
procedures set forth in paragraph 4 of Appendix 1 to the Consultant Guidelines shall 
apply.
SCHEDULE 4
Implementation Program
1.
The Borrower shall:
(a)
maintain policies and procedures adequate to enable it to monitor and 
evaluate on an ongoing basis, in accordance with indicators set forth in Schedule 6 to 
this Agreement, the carrying out of the Project at the federal and regional levels and 
the achievement of the objectives thereof;
(b)
prepare, under terms of reference satisfactory to the Association, and 
furnish to the Association, on or about June 30, 2003, a consolidated report 
integrating the results of the monitoring and evaluation activities performed pursuant 
to paragraph (a) of this Section, on the progress achieved in the carrying out of the 
Project during the period preceding the date of said report and setting out the 
measures recommended to ensure the efficient carrying out of the Project and the 
achievement of the objectives thereof during the period following such date; and
(c)
review with the Association, by September 30, 2003, or such later dates 
as the Association shall request, the consolidated reports referred to in paragraph 
(b) of this Section, and, thereafter, take all measures required to ensure the 
efficient completion of the Project and the achievement of the objectives thereof, 
based on the conclusions and recommendations of the said report and the Association’s 
views on the matter.
2.
The Borrower shall maintain: (a) CSC responsible for procurement, disbursement, 
accounting and audit of the Project; (b) IDE responsible for academic development, 
implementation and marketing of services; and (c) the Regional Centers responsible for 
the implementation locally of the Project, all with staff in number and with 
experience satisfactory to the Association, including at CSC, a Project finance 
officer and a procurement specialist.
3.
The Borrower shall: (i) maintain the PIM for the implementation of Project; (ii) 
take all measures necessary to ensure that the Project is carried out in conformity 
with the PIM; and (iii) not amend or waive any provision thereof which in the opinion 
of the Association will materially and adversely affect the implementation of the 
Project.
4.
The Borrower shall cause CSC to prepare and furnish to the Association by June 
30 each fiscal year or such later date as the Association shall request, a 
consolidated annual work program and budget for the following FY.
SCHEDULE 5
Special Account
1.
For the purposes of this Schedule:
Page  14
(a)
the term "eligible Categories" means Categories 1 through 4 set forth in 
the table in paragraph 1 of Schedule 1 to this Agreement;
(b)
the term "eligible expenditures" means expenditures in respect of the 
reasonable cost of goods and services required for the Project and to be financed out 
of the proceeds of the Credit allocated from time to time to the eligible Categories 
in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 1 to this Agreement; and
(c)
the term "Authorized Allocation" means an amount equivalent to $500,000 
to be withdrawn from the Credit Account and deposited into the Special Account 
pursuant to paragraph 3 (a) of this Schedule, provided, however, that unless the 
Association shall otherwise agree, the Authorized Allocation shall be limited to an 
amount equivalent to $250,000 until the aggregate amount of withdrawals from the 
Credit Account plus the total amount of all outstanding special commitments entered 
into by the Association pursuant to Section 5.02 of the General Conditions shall be 
equal to or exceed the equivalent of  SDR 800,000. 
2.
Payments out of the Special Account shall be made exclusively for eligible 
expenditures in accordance with the provisions of this Schedule.
3.
After the Association has received evidence satisfactory to it that the Special 
Account has been duly opened, withdrawals of the Authorized Allocation and subsequent 
withdrawals to replenish the Special Account shall be made as follows:
(a)
For withdrawals of the Authorized Allocation, the Borrower shall furnish 
to the Association a request or requests for deposit into the Special Account of an 
amount or amounts which do not exceed the aggregate amount of the Authorized 
Allocation. On the basis of such request or requests, the Association shall, on behalf 
of the Borrower, withdraw from the Credit Account and deposit into the Special Account 
such amount or amounts as the Borrower shall have requested.
(b)
(i)
For replenishment of the Special Account, the Borrower shall 
furnish to the Association requests for deposits into the Special 
Account at such intervals as the Association shall specify.
(ii)
Prior to or at the time of each such request, the Borrower shall 
furnish to the Association the documents and other evidence 
required pursuant to paragraph 4 of this Schedule for the payment 
or payments in respect of which replenishment is requested. On the 
basis of each such request, the Association shall, on behalf of 
the Borrower, withdraw from the Credit Account and deposit into 
the Special Account such amount as the Borrower shall have 
requested and as shall have been shown by said documents and other 
evidence to have been paid out of the Special Account for eligible 
expenditures. All such deposits shall be withdrawn by the 
Association from the Credit Account under the respective eligible 
Categories, and in the respective equivalent amounts, as shall 
have been justified by said documents and other evidence.
4.
For each payment made by the Borrower out of the Special Account, the Borrower 
shall, at such time as the Association shall reasonably request, furnish to the 
Association such documents and other evidence showing that such payment was made 
exclusively for eligible expenditures.
5.
Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 3 of this Schedule, the Association 
shall not be required to make further deposits into the Special Account:
(a)
if, at any time, the Association shall have determined that all further 
withdrawals should be made by the Borrower directly from the Credit Account in 
accordance with the provisions of Article V of the General Conditions and paragraph 
(a) of Section 2.02 of this Agreement;
(b)
if the Borrower shall have failed to furnish to the Association, within 
the period of time specified in Section 4.01 (b) (ii) of this Agreement, any of the 
audit reports required to be furnished to the Association pursuant to said Section in 
Page  15
respect of the audit of the records and accounts for the Special Account;
(c)
if, at any time, the Association shall have notified the Borrower of its 
intention to suspend in whole or in part the right of the Borrower to make withdrawals 
from the Credit Account pursuant to the provisions of Section 6.02 of the General 
Conditions; or
(d)
once the total unwithdrawn amount of the Credit allocated to the eligible 
Categories, minus the total amount of all outstanding special commitments entered into 
by the Association pursuant to Section 5.02 of the General Conditions with respect to 
the Project, shall equal the equivalent of twice the amount of the Authorized 
Allocation.
Thereafter, withdrawal from the Credit Account of the remaining unwithdrawn amount of 
the Credit allocated to the eligible Categories shall follow such procedures as the 
Association shall specify by notice to the Borrower. Such further withdrawals shall be 
made only after and to the extent that the Association shall have been satisfied that 
all such amounts remaining on deposit in the Special Account as of the date of such 
notice will be utilized in making payments for eligible expenditures.
6.
(a)
If the Association shall have determined at any time that any payment out 
of the Special Account: (i) was made for an expenditure or in an amount not eligible 
pursuant to paragraph 2 of this Schedule; or (ii) was not justified by the evidence 
furnished to the Association, the Borrower shall, promptly upon notice from the 
Association: (A) provide such additional evidence as the Association may request; or 
(B) deposit into the Special Account (or, if the Association shall so request, refund 
to the Association) an amount equal to the amount of such payment or the portion 
thereof not so eligible or justified. Unless the Association shall otherwise agree, no 
further deposit by the Association into the Special Account shall be made until the 
Borrower has provided such evidence or made such deposit or refund, as the case may 
be.
(b)
If the Association shall have determined at any time that any amount 
outstanding in the Special Account will not be required to cover further payments for 
eligible expenditures, the Borrower shall, promptly upon notice from the Association, 
refund to the Association such outstanding amount.
(c)
The Borrower may, upon notice to the Association, refund to the 
Association all or any portion of the funds on deposit in the Special Account.
(d)
Refunds to the Association made pursuant to paragraphs 6 (a), (b) and (c) 
of this Schedule shall be credited to the Credit Account for subsequent withdrawal or 
for cancellation in accordance with the relevant provisions of this Agreement, 
including the General Conditions.
SCHEDULE 6
Performance indicators
For the purpose of this Agreement, the Borrower agrees that Project performance 
will be measured by the Indicators below, unless otherwise agreed by the Association:
·
Demand for the different types and topics of distance learning (DL) courses in 
Addis Ababa and the regions;
·
Percentage of available time the central and regional GDLN interactive video 
facilities are actually used (available time is Monday through Friday from      9 a.m. 
to 9 p.m.);
·
Percentage of  GDLN central and regional link costs met from other  revenue 
sources  such as: (a) renting video link services to other government agencies, the  
private sector and donors; (b) selling internet access to  the general public 
especially at regional centers; (c) subscriptions from private individuals 
participating in internet based courses; (d) revenues from computer literacy training; 
and (e) donor funding of specific courses;
Page  16
·
Learning achievement by course, delivery mode, and tutoring support;
·
Learner satisfaction by course, delivery mode, and tutoring support;
·
Time to completion by course, delivery mode, and tutoring support; and
·
Cost effectiveness of learner achievement by delivery mode.
