Documuat of
The World Bank
FOR OMCIAL USE ONLY
Report N0o 12544
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
MI-ACASCAR
AGRICULTURAL SECTOR ADJUSThENT CREDIT
(IDA CREIDIT 1691-MAG AND SFA CREDIT A-16-NAG)
NOVEMBER 24, 1993
MIICRORAPHICS
Report No:        12544
Type: PCR
Agriculture Operations Division
South-Central and Indian Ocean Department
Africa Regional Office
This document has a restricted distribution and may be asd by recipients only in the performance of
their o:icdal dties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
Currency Unit: Malagasy franc (FMG)
1985                US$1 = FMG 662
1986                US$1 = FMG 676
1987                US$1 = FMG 1069
1988                US$1 = FMG 1407
1989                US$1 = FMG 1603
1990                US$1 = FMG 1494
1991                US$1 = FMG 1835
ABBREVIATIONS
AflB         African Development Bank
ASAC         Agricultural Sector Adjustment Credit
BFV          Commercial Bank (Banky Fampandrosoana ny Varotra)
BNI          Industrial Development Bank (Bankin' ny Indostria)
BTM          Nationat Rural Development Bank (Bankin' ny Tantsaha Mpamokatra)
COROI        State t.ading company (Comptoir de Commerce et de Representation de
l'Ocean Indien)
EIB          European Investment Bank
EMSAP        Economic Management and Social Action Project
FMG          Malagasy franc (franc malgache)
FNUP         National Consolidated Equalization Fund (Fonds, National Unique de
PNrdquation)
GDP          Gross Domestic Product
IDA          International Development Association
IMF          International Monetary Fund
ISAC         Industrial Sector Adjustment Credit
ITPAC        Industry and Trade Policy Adjustment Credit
MPAEF        Ministry of Livestock and Forestry (Ministere de la Production Animale et
des Eaux et Forets)
MPARA        Ministry of Agricultural Production (Ministere de la Production Agricole et
de la Reforme Agraire)
O:L          Open General License
PCR          Project Completion Report
PIP          Public Investment Program
PSAC         Public Sector Adjustment Credit
SDR          Special Drawing Right
SFA          Africa Facility Credit
UNDP         United Nations Development Program
UNIDO        United Nations Industrial Development Organization
USAID        United States Agency for International Development
WFP          World Food Program



FOR OFCIAL USE ONLY
THE WORLD BANK
WashiMntO  D.C 20433
U.SA
OPeIffm Evdudon
November 24, 1993
MEMORANDUM TO THE ECT  DRECrORS AMT  PRESNT
SUBJECD    Project Completion Report on Madagascar
Agricultural Sector Adjustment Credit aDA Cr. 1691-MAG and SA Cr. A-16EMAG)
Attached is the Project Completion Report on Madagascar Agricultural Sector Adjustment
Credit (IDA Cr. 1691-MAG and SFA Cr. A-16.MAG) prepared by the Africa Regional Office. Part
H was requested from the Borrwer but was not received.
The adjustment operation was consistent with both Government policies and Bank support
strategy. The rice liberalization component, the core of the reform program, was successfully
implemented, even though the proces proved bumpier than anticipated. The intended reforms wore,
in the event, fully implemented, and the anticipated benefits are being reached.
In contrast, compliance with other policy changes was poor, and the rationale and justifcation
for teleasing the Credit's second tranche are questionable. Eventualy, however, these other policy
changes were either effected under, or rendered irelevant by, the two subsequent adjustment creds
(Industry and Trade Policy, and Pubhc Sector).
The outcome of the operation is thus rated as satisfactory, and its achievements as likely to
be sustainable. The Credit included no institutional development objectives.
The PCR is complete and informative. An audit is in process.
Attachment
-Tisdoumnthas a reSWWte distbuaon OM may be used by ecw  o*  nb th a& we ome of
thel ofL  duds ft contrds may not ostw  be dscosed wfthot wadd Bank auIbd



FOR OMCIL USE ONLY
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
MADAGASCAR
AGRICULTURAL SECTOR ADJUSTMENT CREDIT
(IDA Credit 1691-MAG and SFA Credit A-16-MAG)
TABLE OF CONTENTS
PREFACE .............................................
EVALUATION SUMMARY ......................................... iii
PART I: PROJECT REVIEW FROM BANK'S PERSPECTIVE ....................  1
Project Identity .............................................   I
Background ...............................................  I
Credit Origin and Genesis ......4...............                               4
Credit Objectives and Description ............................ 6
Credit Implementation ...........................   8
Implementation of Individual Components ...........................   9
Credit Inpact and Sustainability ............................  8
Istitutional Perfomance  ...........................   20
PART II: PROJECT REVIEW FROM BORROWER'S PERSPECTIVE ....                   .........  24
PART III: STATISTICAL INFORMATION  ............           ..      ................   25
Table 1: Related Bank Loans/Credits  .............................  25
Table 2: Credit Data .........                                                26
Table 3: Credit rTmetable: Original and Actual Dates ...................  26
Table 4: Cumulative Credit Disbursement ..........................  27
Table 5: Use of Bank Resources ................................   28
MAP IBRD 20035R
This document has a restrcted distribudon and may be used by recipients only in the performance
of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
MADAGASCAR
AGRICULTURAL SECTOR ADJUSTMENT CREDIT
(IDA Credit 1691-MAG and SFA Credit A-16-MAG)
PREFACE
This is the Project Completion Report (PCR) for the Agricultural Sector Adjustment Credit
(ASAC) to Madagascar. Tle Credit was approved by the Board on May 8, 1986 and comprised of:
IDA Credit 1691-MAG in the amount of SDR 19 million, Africa Facility Credit A-16-MAG in the
amount of SDR 31 million and grants from the Govc-nment of Japan in the amount of Y600 million
and from the Government of Germany in the amount of DM10 million. The original closing date
of June 30, 1988 was extended three times to June 30, 1990. The final disbursement was made in
October 1990; Credit 1691-MAG and SFA Credit A-16-MAG were fully disbursed.
This PCR was prepared by the Agriculture Operations Division, Country Department III of
the Africa Region (Preface, Evaluation Summary, Parts I and IlH). It is based on the Project briefs,
the President's Report and Credit Agreements, preparation and supervision reports, correspondence
between the Bank and the Borrower, consultant and internal Bank studies, memoranda and interviews
of Bank staff, Government officials and private operators.
The Government was sent Parts I and Im of the PCR on March 26, 1992. No comments
were received, despite the follow-up from the Resident Mission.



iii
PROJECT COMPlEIJON REPORT
MAIDAGASCAR
AGRICULTURAL SECTOR ADJUSTMENT CREDIT
(IDA Credit 1691-MAG and SFA Credit A-16-MAG)
EVALUATION SUMMARY
Background
1.    The Agricultural Sector Adjustment Credit (ASAC), approved in May 1986, was the second
in a series of four adjustment operations extended by IDA to Madagascar since 19&i. Initially. the
Government and the Bank adopted a cautious strategy and agreed to begin addressing the many
structural distortions affecting the economy sector by sector, first in industy and then in agriculture.
After ASAC, the adjustment process gained momentum and Government moved to a broader agenda
of policy reforms supported by the Industry and Trade Policy Adjustment Credit ITPAC) in 1987
and the Public Sector Adjustment Credit (PSAC) in 1988.
2.    When ASAC was prepared in 1984-85, the agricultural sector was heavily taxed both directly
and indirectly through price controls and currency overvaluation, and Government intervention
dominated the internal and external marketing of major agricultural products and inputs. A large
share of public investment in the agricultural sector went into large-scale and capital intensive
operations managed by the state. As a result of Madagascar's balance of payments difficulties,
agricultural inputs as well as consumer goods were extremely scarce In rural areas. Government had
started to partially lit mralize the domestic marketing of rice in 1983, but poor management of the rice
imports had resulted in periodic rice shortages on urban markets and extremely high seasonal price
fluctuations.
Credit Objectives and Design
3.    ASAC's objectives were: (i) to improve the returns on scarce resources in agriculture by
financing from public sources only selected high priority investmer.ts; (ii) to put into place a coherent
rice strategy to restore market confidence, improve productivity and reduce pressure on the balance
of payments; (Iii) to provide better incentives to farmers and improve marketing networks; and (iv) to
help formulate consistent strategies for the next phase of adjustment. The package of policy reforms
supported by ASAC concerned mainly the management of rice imports after full liberalization of
domestic rice trade, the removal of input subsidies and transfer of input distribution to commercial
operators, improvements in the public investment program for agriculture, improved pricing of edible
oils and export crops, and various studies and action plans to prepare a follow-up sector adjustment
credit.
4.    At the identification stage, a more ambitious program was envisaged, covering four key
subsectors (rice, export crops, edible oils, beef). It was later decided that ASAC should concentrate
on the completion of reforms in the rice subsector as a main priority, while gradually moving into
other subsectors, such as edible oils and export crops, and improving overall resource allocation in



iv
agriculture.
S.    During project preparation, the politically sensitive qLestion of rice marketing had given rise
to intense debate between Government and the Bank. Government wanted to maintain its monopoly
and price controls on the purchase of rice in the two surplus areas (Lac Alaotra and Marovoay), while
the Bank considered the opening of these areas to private trade, as had already been done in the rest
of the country, an essential condition. Shortly before negotiations, following a meeting between the
President of Madagascar and the Regional Vice-President of the Bank, it was agreed that the Bank,
with the assistance of other donors, would help Government set up a buffer stock of imported rice,
provided Government would open up all areas to private trade and adopt appropriate practices for the
counter-seasonal release of imported rice on the domestic market. Detailed operational arrangements
for the management of the buffer stock of imported rice, which became the major component of
ASAC, were worked out during negotiations.
6.    The total funding for ASAC of about US$60 million equivalent (including grant financing)
was to be disbursed in two tranches, the first upon effectiveness and the second upon satisfactory
progress in implementing the agreed package of sectoral reforms. Financing was provided for US$42
million equivalent for agricultural inputs and, if needed, rice imports to complement the contributions
of other donors, US$3 million for veterinary products, US$5 million for incentive goods (i.e.
consumer durables to improve production incentives in ural areas) and US$10 million for tractor and
transport equipment.
Credit Implementation
7.    ASAC was approved on May 8, 1986, after a last minute confirmation by the President of
Madagascar of the opening up of all rice producing areas to private trade. Mainly due to
administrative delays, the Credit did not become effective until November 18, 1986 (a delay of four
months). First tranche disbursements toek thirty-two months instead of the twelve to sixteen months
originally anticipated, in part due to sluggish demand for commercial imports of fertilizers and other
agricultural inputs, particularly after the mid-1987 devaluation. Moreover, the two subsequent Bank
supported adjustment operations, nTAC and PSAC, made foreign exchange available to banks and
importers under adminL rative procedures which were less restrictive and time-consuming than those
of ASAC.
8.    The release of the second tranche, originally expected in 1987, took place on May 1, 1989.
Besides slow disbursement of the first tranche, several factors contributed to this delay, including the
large devaluation of mid-1987. This devaluation deepened and strengthened the agricultural market
reform process, but also affected the pace and direction of the liberalization program and required
some adjustments in the specific reforms agreed under ASAC. Despite an agreement to disburse
ASAC's second tranche funds on the same terms as those applying to ffPAC and PSAC, full
disbursement of the second tranche was not completed until October 1990. ASAC was closed on
June 30, 1990, after three extensions of the original closing date of June 30, 1988.
9.    Rice management program. The essential element of the rice management program agreed
under ASAC was, in addition to the full internal trade liberalization, an automatic mechanism for
putting imported rice on the domestic market whenever the market price exceeded a trigger price,
set during ASAC negotiations at a level providing adequate incentives for private sector purchase and
storage of domestic production. It had been further agreed that the official distribution of rice (i.e.



v
the Government operated ration scheme that provided rice at sub-market prices to urban residents),
also based on imported rice, would be gradually phased out from 80,000 tons in 1986 to 20,000 tons
In 1989, and that sales under official distribution would cover the full cost of imported rice at the
prevailing exchange rate, including transportation, storage and distribution costs. An annual rice
import program was to be submitted by Government to the Bank for approval.
10.   In general terms, the rice management program was implemented as agreed under ASAC
during the first 1986-87 season. The buffer stock went into operation in November 1986 at the
beginning of the pre-harvest season, by selling imported rice at a fixed price- in wholesale lots. This
intervention was very successful; with a relatively modest volume of sales, it held rice prices
throughout the pre-harvest season at a level only slightly higher than the sales price of the buffer
stock. After the painful price fluctuations of the previous year, the stable prices brought about by
the buffer stock were highly appreciated in Madagascar. The full liberalization of domestic rice trade
in April 1986 had also resulted in intense competition for paddy purchases, which had pushed
farmgate prices up and induced farmers to increase their paddy production for the following year.
As a result of this, combined with favorable weather conditions, prospects for the 1987 harvest were
quite good.
11.   Starting in late 1987 and until 1989, however, rice imports were used to support
Government's political interests. The rules agreed under ASAC were largely circumvented, and
Government went ahead with imports that were in excess of actual needs for buffer stock
replenishment. A semi-private agency (PROCOPS) imported rice commercially that was sold
throughout the year to urban consumers at sub-market prices. This policy, which continued
throughout 1988 and 1989, disrupted domestic rice trading activities and caused operating losses to
traders who passed them on to farmers in the form of lower farmngate prices, thus contributing to a
slow down of the growth of rice production in subsequent years. As the Credit Agreement only
imposed limits on public sector imports, the Bank protested but could not take any legal action.
12.   Government intervention in the domestic rice market was significantly reduced in 1990, when
the private sector accounted for the first time for a large share of rice imports and the bufferstock was
abolished in 1991. Government's stated policy is now to rely mainly on the private sector for rice
imports needed to complement the official grants that it may receive from external donors and, except
for special emergencies or disaster areas, to allocate external rice donations to commercial operators
at a price reflecting their full commercial value. Rice remains nonetheless a highly political
commodity, which entails significant uncertainty for commercial operators.
13.   Export crops. Under ASAC, the producer price of coffee was raised significantly in 1986
and 1987, and the special rebate which discriminated in favor of parastatal enterprises in the
collection, processing and storage of coffee was eliminated. These measures did not translate into
any increase in coffee production and/or exports, because producer prices in real terms and relative
to rice remained unattractive, and because of the dilapidated state of the road network and the absence
of significant measures to improve traders' incentives. The latter were subsequently introduced under
rTPAC and PSAC, with the abolition in 1988 of the state monopoly on exports of majors crops other
than vanilla (i.e. coffee, clove and pepper). However, these measures came too late, as international
coffee prices collapsed following the suspension of the International Coffee Agreement in 1989.
14.   Edible oils. Government had agreed in late 1985 to an increase in the ex-factory price of
groundnut and other edible oils, but not to the full liberalization of edible oils prices which the Bank



vi
thought iecessary. Instead, it had been agreed under ASAC that Government would prepare and
agree with the Bank on an action ptogram for the edible oils subsector and, prior to second tranche
release, take appropriate steps for its implementation. The Bank iwtially insisted on this action
progrm, the prepartion of which was made difficult by the unclear allocation of responsibility and
insufficient collaboration between the various ministries involved (agriculture, industry, commerce).
After mid-1988, the Bank decided that it was best to rely instead on the general trade liberalization,
export promotion and parastatal restructuring measures supported under MTPAC and PSAC. The
edible oils subsector presently remains heavily dependent on donations of unrefined oil and/or
imports, and the groundnut production, which had undergone a substantial decline throughout the late
1970s and early 1980s, Is still stagnant.
15.   Inputs pricing and distribution. Under ASAC, the Ministry of Agriculture (MPARA)
continued to disengage itself from the direct distribution of fertilizer and other chemical inputs, and
leased most of its input stores to commercial operators, including parastatals. It had been agreed that
input subsidies would be reduced to a maximum of 7% of c.i.f. by the time of ASAC effectiveness,
and fully eliminated by second tranche release. However, the devaluation of mid-1987 translated into
a sharp increase in the border price of imported inputs, at a time when abundant supplies of fertilizer
were availabe on the domestic market, as a result of increased aid donations (representing about 50%
of total supplies). At the insistence of the MPARA, the Bank shifted its position in 1988 from a
policy of full import parity pricing of donated fertilizer to a policy which would instead allow the
disposal of fertilizer through an auction system that would still promote the development of
commercial channels. In 1988, MPARA finally opted for an administrative allocation system of
donated fertilizer to established operators, at a price 20% to 30% below import parity. This policy
is still in effect.
16.   Public investment program for agriculture. Seven projects of doubtful economic value
included in the agricultural Public Investment Program (PIP) had been questioned by the Bank during
ASAC post-appraisal, and it had been agreed that they would be reexamined. Three were rural
development and/or irigation projects which were either dropped from the PIP or reshaped in
consultation with the Bank. The most contentious projects were agro-industrial investments in oil
crops (oil palm, soya and copra) and cashew which were both of doubtful economic viability and
inconsistent with Government's stated policy of disengagement from direct production and marketing
activities. Two of them (oil palm and cashew) were new projects with an ensured source of external
finance., which were executed as originally planned in the PIP, despite Bank suggestions to the
contrary
17.   In 1987, several new externally-financed irrigation projects were introduced in the PIP which,
as pointed out by ASAC supervision missions, were inconsistent with the strategy agreed between
Government and the Bank. An agreement was reached to drop some of these projects, and reassess
the others. From 1988 onwards, dialogue between Government and the Bank on the PIP has been
pursued in the broader context of ITPAC and PSAC.
Credit Impact
18.   Most of the impact came from the policy reforms introduced under ASAC, in particular from
the rice management program which was the core of this operation. During the 1986-90 period,
domestic paddy production increased at an average rate of close to 3.5% per year. Although this
growth was aided by favorable weather and has slowed down since then, with a resulting average



vii
growth rate of only around 2.5% per year for the whole period 1986-92, it nonetheless represents
a significant improvement over the stagnation which had prevailed throughout the 1970s and early
1980s. Rice imports, which exceeded 200,000 tons per year on average during 1980-83, have
stabilized at an average level of around 70,000 tons per year over the 1987-90 period.
19.   Although rice consumerprices became significantlyhigher in real terms with the liberalization
of domestic markets, most urban consumers have benefited from the liberalization of internal rice
trade and, at least during the 1986&87 pre-harvest season, from the sr'ccessful operation of the buffer
stock. Official rice prices were hardly enforced before their elimination, and Government's attempts
to control the domestic market together with poor timing of the release of imports had translated until
mid-1986 into wild fluctuations of consumer prices and periodic rice shortages which badly hurt
consumers. Thereafter, rice became available in adequate quantity throughout the year, and inter-
seasonal ptice fluctuations have remained in a reasonable range throughout the second half of the
1980s and early 1990s; these gains have, however, been pardy set back from mid-1991 onwards, with
the onset of political turmoil and recurring foreign exchange shortages. A significant proportion of
the population, both in urban and in rural areas, nonetheless continues to live below poverty level,
thus facing serious difficulties in securing adequate food supplies. Specific measures are needed to
help these vulnerable groups, and the Bank has started in late 1988 to support Government's efforts
to address this problem under the Economic Management and Social Action Project (EMSAP). Also,
a Food Security and Nutrition Project was approved in 1993.
20.   The direct and immediate impact of ASAC on agricultural production other than rice was
marginal. Increases in the producer price of coffee supported by ASAC in 1986 and 1987, although
substantial, did not translate into increased production and/or exports, mainly due to the dilapidated
state of the transport network in coffee producing areas, the absence of significant measures to
improve traders incentives and the collapse in international coffee prices. The edible oils subsector
remains heavily dependent on oil donations or imports.
21.   On the whole, the performance of the agricultural sector in Madagascar has shown some
progress but remains nonetheless disappointing. During the 1984-PO period, the agricultural sector
grew at an average rate of 2.6% annually, which compares favorably with the performance of the late
1970s and early 1980s but still remains modest and masks a wide disparity in performance among
subsectors. Most of that growth originates from the fisheries and to a lesser extent the livestock
sectors, which together grew on average 4.9% annually between 1984 and 1989. By contrast, the
performance of the crop sub-sector has been much more modest, with an average growth of only
1.5% per year during the 1984-89 period, which is well below the 3% population growth rate.
Within the crop subsector, most of the growth has come from rice and to a lesser extent from other
foodcrops. Traditional exports crops (coffee, vanilla, cloves), faced with increased international
competition, have stagnated or regressed, and this has not been compensated for by the emergence
of alternative export crops.
22.   In order to sustain and expand agricultural growth, iuprovements will be needed
simultaneously on several of these fronts. Appropriate and consistently followed macro-economic
policies (exchange rate management, tariff and trade policies, fiscal regime, etc.) will also be essential
for preserving and building upon the gains which have been made under ASAC and other adjustment
operations. Political stability and consensus is an obvious pre-requisite for achieving this, together
with well conceived and coherent support from external aid agencies.



viii
Conclusions and Main Loessons
23.   Ihe main lessons learnt from the experience gained under ASAC can be summarized as
follows:
(a)   the adoption of a phased and gradual approach to sectoral adjustment, as has been the
case under ASAC., has its merits but nonetheless results in substantial foregone
benefits; in Madagascar, the external liberalization of major export crops other than
vanilla (i.e. coffee, clove, pepper) occurred only at a late stage in the adjustment
process, at a time when world coffee prices had already collapsed to a level that
considerably reduced private sector incentives to engage in this sector;
(b)   the Bank should be fimer in reacting to serious lapses in program implementation.
Government's renewed intervention in the rice market in the 198749 perod and its
going ahead with investments outside the agreed upon PIP are cases in point;
(c)   the trends in paddy production since 1986, point out the benefits which can be drawn
from a sustained policy of minimal market intervention;
(d)   special programs of targeted food subsidies should have been put in place
simultaneously with the establishment of the buffer stock; this would have helped
ease the transition for the poorest segments of the urban population, particularly after
the mid-1987 devaluation;
(e)    greater coherence between the strategies followed by Government and the various
external donors or lending agencies is needed in order to improve the PIP process;
and
(t)    in the case of commodities for which grants in kind represent a major share of
domestic supplies, as was the case under ASAC for fertilizers and edible oils,
pricing policies need to be worked out carefully, taking into account the potentially
distortional effects of this type of aid on prices and the absorptive capacity of the
market.



PROJECT COMPLETON REPORT
MADAGASCAR
AGRICULTURAL SECTOR ADJUSTMENT CREDIT
(IDA Credit 1691-MAG and SFA Credit A-16-MAG)
PART I: PROJECT REVIEW FlROM BANK'S PERSPECTIVE
1.    Project Identity
Project Name:       Agricultural Sector Adjustment Credit (ASAC)
Credit Number
MDA Credit:         1691-MAG
SFA Credit:         A-16-MAG
Region:             Africa
Country:            Madagascar
Sector:             Sectoral Adjustment Credit
2.    Background
2.1   In the decade following independence in 1960, Madagascar's economy grew at an average
annual rate of about three percent. Agriculture was responsible for much of this growth, with a
positive per capita increase in rice production and a substantial growth of agricultural exports. This
growth process was, however, highly dependent on external funding and continued reliance for
expertise on the former colonial power.
2.2   Starting in 1972, the Malagasy authorities introduced sweeping changes in the political and
economic management of the country. Inward-looking policies aimed at self-sufficiency in industry
and agriculture, most of the largest private companies were nationalized, interventionist practices
characterized by price controls and administrative regulations were adopted, and direct or indirect
state control over major agricultural marketing activities was established. Real GDP rose at an annual
rate of less than one percent between 1970 and 1978 as agricultural output stagnated and Madagascar,
which had been self-sufficient in food production and a net exporter of rice, became increasingly
dependent on food imports (especially for rice). Between 1978 and 1980, in an attempt to stimulate
the expansion of Madagascar's stagnating economy, the Government embarked on a public investment
policy which included several large aned economically non-viable projects. This policy was financed
by a substantial increase in external borrowing. Combined with declining terms of trade, this led to
a large public sector deficit and rising inflation, together with a heavy external Jebt burden. By
1982, real per capita GDP had fallen by an estimated 28 percent from its 1973 level.
2.3   Faced with an unsustainable resource gap, the Government began implementing financial
stabiization measures in 1981, with International Monetary Fund (IMF) assistance. Policy
adjustment from 1981 to 1985 focused mainly on containing aggregate demand. During this period,
the Government deficit was substantially reduced through cutbacks in public expenditure; the
remaining deficit was financed increasingly by foreign loans on concessionary terms. On the external



2
side, the current account deficit was significantly reduced. With stagnating export receipts and
increasing external interest payrnents, the brunt of adjustment fell on imports, which dropped by more
than half in real terms between 1980 and 1985. The stabilization program succeeded in arresting the
decline in real GDP, but economic per capita growth remained negative.
2.4   In the second half of the 1980s, the focus of economic management moved from the urgent
need of financial stabilization with IMF assistance towards supply-oriented adjustment measures
supported by the Bank and the IMF. The main policy instruments used during the 1983-88 period
included increases in producer prices of major commodities followed by a gradual decontrol of most
-prices and other internal and external trade liberalization measures, together with significant
devaluations in real terms. In 1982, the Malagasy franc (FMG) w:.s pegged to a trade-weighted
basket of currencies 1/ and a series of devaluations followed. By mid-1989, the real effective
exchange rate had fallen to 45% of its level at the beginning of the decade. Non-tariff barriers to
imports were gradually eliminated, and a step-by-step freeing up of foreign exchange allocation
culminated in July 1988 with the introduction of a non-discretionary Open General License (OGL)
system of foreign excnange allocation for merchandise imports. In the next phase of adjustment,
from 1988, an increased emphasis was put on budgetary reform aiud public enterprise privatization.
Agricultural Sector Policies and Performance Prior to 1986
2.5   Starting in 1974, the marketing of paddy and rice throughout the country had been a state
monopoly impleminted through state companies and/or parastatals with Government majority
participation. Decentralized local govermnent authorities were also heavily involved in the primary
marketing of paddy and the official distribution of rice. A single price for paddy purchase and for
retail rice sales was set by the central Governmenw, at a level that was insufficient to provide producer
incentives and significantly below import parity, but that provided substantial consumer subsidies.
The problems of managing the official marketing circuits and enforcing the marketing monopoly
became increasingly acute, and the share of domestic production officially marketed declined from
about 241,000 toris of rice in 1975/76 (representing an estimated 12% of total production) to 93,000
tons or 5% of domestic production in 1982/83. V Faced with stagnating paddy production,
declining official purchases and increasing consumer demand due to population growth and low
consumer prices, the Govermment had to rely increasingly on rice imports in order to supply the
urban markets through the subsidized official channels. Rice imports, which had been negligible
throughout the 1960s and early 1970s when Madagascar was a net exporter of rice, increased steadily
to reach a high of 287,000 tons in 1982. Consumer subsidy for rice also increased regularly between
1972 and 1981 to reach an aggregate amount of 19 million FMG or 2.5 percent of GDP, exceeding
the total budget (operating and investment) of the Ministry of Agricultural Production. In theory,
subsidies were financed through a special equalization fund, the "Fonds National Unique de
P&requation" (FNUP), whose resources were derived from surpluses of export crop stabilization
funds. However, clear arrangements for computing and paying for the subsidy were never worked
out, and the parastatal agencies involved in the marketing of rice suffered substantial losses and
experienced serious fmancial problems.
1/    Although Madagascar left the franc zone in 1973, the Malagasy franc remained fixed at 50
FMG per French fri.nc until 1982.
2/    Eighty percent of rice production is for auto-consumption.



3
2.6   In 1982, as part of the financial -stabilization efforts undertaken with IMF support, the official
retail price of rice was increased by 82%, eliminating explicit consumer subsidies at the prevailing
exchange rate. Further measures were taken in subsequent years to promote domestic paddy
production and improve urban supply. Private sector marketing of paddy and rice was legalized in
1983, with the exception of the two "reserved areas" of Alaotra and Marovoay, representing about
25% of marketed production, where the Government monopoly and price controls were maintained
in order to help supply the official distribution channels. The producer price of paddy was gradually
increased from a fixed price of FMG 47 per kg in 1982 to a floor price of FMG 85 in 1985, and the
ceiling price of rice to the consumer was eliminated in 1985. In the 1983-85 period, quantity
restrictions were imposed on rice imports as part of the IMF Standby agreements. Several problems
did arise during this initial phase of reform of the domestic rice market. First, farmers in the
monopoly reserved areas were excluded from the incentives of market competition. Second, the
authorities disposed of imported and domestically-procured rice stocks in the post-harvest market for
political celebrations, in 1985, which not only depleted Government stocks but also depressed prices
and encouraged speculation among traders. For these reasons, the supply response was delayed. By
end 1985, rice prices on the domestic market had risen sharply, which brought ad hoc trade controls
and gave rise to widespread skepticism about the benefits of economic liberalization.
2.7   Stabilization funds for export crops were established shortly before independence, and the
corresponding pricing mechanism remained basically unchanged until the second half of the 1980s.
A detailed price structure was issued at the beginning of each marketing season, setting the prices
and margins at every level in the marketing chain from producer to exporter. The initial purpose of
this system was to protect domesth; operators from excessive fluctuations in international prices, and
provide a mechanism for financing crop development from export profits. Government's direct
intervention in the marketing of export crops was considerably reinforced after 1973, when all trade
in agricultural commodities was officially brought under public control.  The largest private
companies involved in the processing and export of coffee and cloves were nationalized in 1975. In
the following two years, state trading companies were given a monopoly for handling exports of
coffee, cloves and pepper on behalf of Government, and the role of the private sector became
confined to the purchase, processing and storage of these commodities. Although free competition
prevailed in primary marketing and processing of these crops, the state trading companies had a
competitive edge over private firms as they received a special commission amounting to 10% of
export crop revenues. The Government also exerted a broad range of administrative and financial
controls over trade in vanilla and other agricultural export commodities.
2.8    Export crops became a major source of Government revenues and the corresponding increases
in taxes and levies resulted in a steady decline in real producer prices. This contributed to a
stagnating export crop production. Incentives to diversify exports started in 1984, with the
elimination of all taxes on non-traditional agricultural exports (i.e. commodities other than coffee,
cloves, vanilla and pepper). Producer price increases for coffee in 1984 and 1985 amounted to a total
real increase of about 15 percent, but they still remained significantly below the levels received in
the early 1970s, and remained unattractive relative to the price of rice.
2.9    Most industrial crops (in particular cotton, sugarcane and oilseeds) were purchased from the
producers by parastatals involved in the processing of these crops, at a price that was fixed by
Government. With a view to protect consumers, producer and/or ex-factory prices were only
infrequently revised with little regard for actual trends in production costs, which discouraged new
investments in the production and processing of these crops. Cotton production stagnated at a low



4
level in the 1970s, and the edible oils industry faced increasing difficulties in securing adequate
supplies mainly as a result of steadily declining groundnut production from the mid-1970s onwards.
The ex-factory price of groundnut oil, which had been previously maintained at a low level giving
rise to a high cost parallel market, was also increased in late 1985 from FMG 750 per kg to FMG
1150. Ambitious plans to develop soybean, coconut oil and oil palm production were developed in
the late 1970s and early 1980s with the help of external donors; the economic viabilitv of some of
these investments was questioned by the Bank and gave rise to controversy during ASAC's
preparation and implementation.
2.10   The provision of inputs and services to rural producers also fell largely to the public sector,
and underwent a steady deterioration throughout the late 1970s and early 1980s. During this period,
commercial fertilizer imports were severely curtailed as a result of foreign exchange restrictions and
became mainly confined to a few parastatals dealing with sugar and cotton production. Limited
quantities were granted by external donors under aid programs, and sold to farmers at subsidized
prices through a network of retail outlets managed directly by the Ministry of Agricultural Production
(MPARA); in 1982, MPARA started to transfer its fertilizer distribution activities to a state trading
company (Comptoir de Commerce et de Representation de l'Ocean indien, COROI). The availability
of all other types of agricultural inputs (pesticides, veterinary products, etc.) and equipment was also
limited because of insufficient foreign exchange allocations, and farmers' access to improved seeds
and planting materials was further constrained by extremely restrictive quarantine regulations on
imports.
2.11   More generally, all services in rural areas (including the management of large and medium
size irrigation schemes, rural credit, research, extension and veterinary services, etc.), which were
typically under the responsibility of public agencies or enterprises, quickly deteriorated in the late
1970s and early 1980s. This, together with increasing transportation problems due to the dilapidated
state of the road network, declining real producer prices for most agricultural products, a-I
increasing shortages of consumer goods in rural areas, led to a withdrawal of farmers into a
subsistence economy and a sharp decline in marketed output.
3.    Credit Origin and Genesis
3.1    An Initial Project Brief for ASAC was issued in May 1984. Policy reforms to be supported
by the credit, as envisaged at that stage, were both of a general nature (i.e. integration of counterpart
funds of external assistance and of FNUP resources into regular budget mechanisms; improvements
in public sector procurement; and streamdining of inter-sectoral management responsibility between
agriculture, industry, commerce and transport) and commodity specific, with an emphasis on
marketing and pricing policies for rice and other agricultural products, transfer of agricultural inputs
distribution to commercial channels, improved resource allocation and management in agriculture,
and parastatals reform. Action programs for key subsectors (rice, beef, export crops, edible oils)
were to be agreed with Government, and a Bank credit of US$35 million was proposed in order to
finance the foreign exchange costs of implementing these programs over a three-year period. Bank
financing was to cover the importation of agricultural inputs, credit for the rehabilitation and
development of processing plants and other farming or agro-industrial ventures, inputs and equipment
for relaunching seed production, purchases of vehicles for transport in rural areas, and a rural roads
pilot program. A second Agricultural Institutions Technical Assistance Project (Cr. 1709-MAG), also
under preparation at that time, was expected to provide the required support for additional policy



5
analysis and strategy formuiation during implementation.
3.2    During further preparation, the scope of the proposed credit was gradually scaled down and
its time span reduced to a two-year period, and financing focused on quick-disbursing balance of
payments support. The rural roads pilot program was dropped as it was to be handled through on-
going and future infrastructure projects, and the seed production component was reduced to a reform
of the quarantine regime to facilitate the introduction of new crop varieties in Madagascar. The
proposed policy package became explicitly focused on the completion of reforms already initiated by
Government in the marketing and pricing of rice, with measures of more limited scope for other
agricultural commodities and for parastatals reform which were mainly designed to prepare the next
phase of sectoral adjustment. It was decided that part of the credit would be allocated to the
importation of consumer durables for rural areas. The total credit amount was then estimated at
US$25 million, and procurement and disbursement were to be done through the allocation of foreign
exchange to conunercial importers.
3.3    At a later stage, it was decided that the credit line for sectoral investments should be detached
from ASAC and handled separately. This led to the Second Agricultural Credit Project (Cr. 1804-
MAG).
3.4    The politically sensitive question of rice marketing gave rise to intense debate during and after
the appraisal mission of May 1985. A commitment to open up the reserved areas to free market
competition was viewed by the Bank as an essential pre-requisite for restoring producers and traders
incentives and promoting increased domestic production. The Government of Madagascar was,
however, reluctant to commit itself on this matter until a rice security strategy could be put in place.
Access to the large rice surplus of the reserved areas was considered by Government as its best
insurance against urban rice shortages and possible political unrest, and the importance of retaining
this monopoly had in fact increased following the sharp curtailment of rice imports in 1984 and 1985
under the IMF Standby agreements. During appraisal and post-appraisal missions, Government
policy towards edible oils also emerged as another contentious issue. Government was hesitant to
allow full liberalization of edible oil prices, arguing that other constraints (ack of seed) were the
main limiting factors to domestic groundnut production. For export crops, it was agreed that the
10% special commission benefiting parastatals would be gradually eliminated and that Government
would increase the producer price of coffee. Management of the export crops stabilization funds and
of FNUP resources were to be improved, and studies would be carried out in order to examine
options for simplifying the pricing and taxation system for export crops and promoting the
diversification of agricultural exports. Detailed terms of reference for studies on the management of
counterpart funding and on the finances of decentralized local authorities including their involvement
in the taxation of agricultural products were prepared.
3.5   In December 1985, conditions for negotiations (i.e. announcement by Government of
acceptable prices for paddy in the reserved areas, and for ex-factory edible oil) were met. During
a visit to Madagascar in early November, the Regional Vice President had agreed with the President
of Madagascar that the Bank would encourage other donors to finance the establishment of a rice
buffer stock and participate itself on a last resort basis, as a Quid pro quo for the opening of reserved
a:eas to private traders and the adoption of appropriate practices for counter-seasonal release of
imported rice on the domestic market. Definition and mechanics of the buffer stock were worked
out during negotiations.



6
3.6    At the Loan Committee meeting of December 1985, several committee members questioned
the proposal for a rice buffer stock to be fmanced by the Bank. It was clarified that the proposal was
for the Bank to define with Government a program to manage rice-imports and their sale. The Bank
would encourage the donor community to finance Government rice inports on concessional terms,
.and would provide financing for these imports only as a last resort. As post-appraisal missions had
identified several projects of doubtful economic value in the draft 1986488 agricultural public
investment program, the Chairman of the Loan Committee meeting also stated that the Credit should
be presented to the Board only when the Bank would be satisfied with the agricultural PIP. The Loan
Committee agreed on negotiations for a US$60 million package (including grant financing), of which
US$45 million would be allocated for agricultural inputs including the possibility of rice buffer stock
financing, US$5 million for incentive goods and US$10 million for transportatio-1 equipment and
spare parts.
4.    Credit Objectives and Desceiption
4.1    The objectives of ASAC, as described in the President's Report, were: (i) to improve the
returns on scarce resources in agriculture by financing from public sources only selective investments
of high priority; (ii) to put into place a coherent rice strategy to restore market confidence, improve
productivity and reduce pressure on the balance of payments; (iii) to provide better incentives to
farmers and improve marketing networks; and (iv) to help formulate consistent strategies for the next
phase of adjustment.
4.2    ASAC was designed to support a deepening of the sector policy reforms initiated by
Government in the first half of the 1980s and put them into a coherent framework, thus allowing
expected benefits to materialize. To help restore credibility to the reform program, which had so far
largely fallen short of its goals, the Bank felt that the Government should tackle the rice problem
first, which was one of the main causes for resistance to liberalization among political forces, while
continuing to move gradually with other areas such as edible oils and export crops and improving
overall resource allocation in agriculture. Progress under ASAC was expected to set the stage for
a follow-up sector adjustment credit that would expand into edible oils and export crops, and the use
and management of export crops receipts. 3I
Credit Conditlonafity
4.3    The full liberalization of domestic rice trade was a condition of Board presentation. It was
agreed that Government would manage its rice imports in accordance with principles agreed with the
Bank during negotiations. The rice management program was summarized in an annex to the letter
of development policy, and the corresponding technical parameters (i.e. trigger price for sales of
imported rice on the domestic market, quantities of rice to be distributed each year to low-income
consumers through official channels, rules for the replenishment of Government's buffer stock of
imported rice) had also been agreed upon during negotiations. Before October 31 of each year,
Government was to submit to the Bank for approval its rice import program for the following year
and the corresponding financing plan. Government was also to fiunish to the Bank quarterly reports
on rice inports and stock management. The implementation of a rice management program
3I    President's Report, paras 35 and 39.



7
acceptable to the Bank was a condition for second tranche release.
4.4    Under ASAC, Government was to submit to the Bank by end October 1986 a program for
the promotion of private sector participation in the marketing of agricultural products, and to take
appropriate action for its implementation in particular through improvement in credit access and
streandining of administrativeprocedures. A study and action plan on local government finances was
also required prior to second tranche release, with a view to finding alternative sources of local
revenues to the taxation of agricultural products and promoting their free circulation within the
country.
4.5   The ex-factory price of groundnut oil had been increased by Government in late 1985 to a
level that was judged acceptable by the Bank, pending the completion of an edible oils strategy study
that was being launched by Government with the help of UNDPIUNIDO, under terms of reference
agreed with the Bank during negotiations. Based on the results of this study, Government was to
agree with the Bank on an action program for the edible oils subsector and take appropriate action
for its implementation as a condition for ASAC second tranche release.  For export cs.
Government had already reduced the special commission for parastatals to 7% prior to Board
presentation, and it was to be further reduced to a maximum of 4% by April 1987 and eliminated by
April 1988. The setting of producer prices for coffee in accordance witha methodology acceptable
to the Bank was a condition of Credit effectiveness. Studies were to be carried out, and
corresponding action plans presented to the Bank prior to second tranche release, on: (i) the
disposition of the surplus generated by export crops, including the future of the export crop
stabilization funds; A/ and (ii) Madagascar's potential and comparative advantage in coffee
production, and the administration of export crops. 51 The implementation of improved pricing
systems for major export crops was a condition for second tranche release.
4.6    ASAC also supported the elimination of subsidies on agr.cultural inpMt, and the transfer of
corresponding distribution activities to commercial (rather than Ministry-operated) channels. Average
subsidies on agricultural inputs, which amounted to an estimated 30% for fertilizer and even more
fur pesticides, were to be reduced to a maximum of 7% of c.i.f. cost by the time of Credit
effectiveness, and to be fully eliminated thereafter as a condition for second tranche release (except
for a naximum of 5% on pesticides and for pesticides used for demonstration purposes by the
extension service). As a condition for second tranche release, Government was to implement a
program acceptable to the Bank for the promotion of the role of commercial enterprises in the
importation and marketing of agricultural inputs and veterinary products. ASAC credit proceeds were
to be used for the importation of inputs and other goods by local commercial firms, thus also
contributing to the development of commercial channels for input distribution. In order to facilitate
farmers' access to improved seed varieties developed abroad, new quarantine regulations were to be
enacted as a condition of Credit effectiveness.
A/    It had been agreed during negotiations that this study would be financed with remaining funds
under Credit 881-MAG (Mangoky Agricultural Development Project).
These studies were to be carried out jointly with the Bank as part of its sector work. In
addition, funds were to be provided under the forthcoming second Agricultural Institutions
Technical Assistance Project (Cr. 1709-MAG) for the elaboration of an export crop
development and diversification program.



8
4.7   Following the questions raised during post-appraisal on the public investent program (PIP)
for agriculture, Government had agreed to undertake new feasibility studies and/or furnish additional
information to the Bank before proceeding with the contentious projects (which included two agro-
industrial projects respectively for oil palm and cashew nut, a copra project, three rural development
or irrigation projects, and a soybean production project to be dropped). Under ASAC, Government
was to consult with the Bank on any change on the agricultural PIP for the years 1986-1988 and
1987-1989, and to seek the Bank's agreement prior to proceeding with any new investment costing
the equivalent of US$5 million or more. The adoption of a 1987-89 PIP for agriculture acceptable
to the Bank was a condition for second tranche release.
Disbursement and Procurement Mechanisms
4.8   The total credit proceeds of about US$60 million equivalent (including an IDA credit of
SDR 19 million and a SFA credit of SDR 31 million, together with a grant from Japan of Yen 600
million and a credit from Germany of DM 10 million) were to be disbursed in two tranches, the first
one (US$32.5 million equivalent) released upon loan effectiveness and the second one (US$27.5
million equivalent) contingent upon satisfactory progress in carrying out the sectoral adjustment
program. Financing was provided for US$42 million equivalent for agricultural inputs and, if
needed, rice, US$3 million for veterinary products, US$5 million for incentive goods and US$10
million for tractor and transport equipment.
4.9    Agricultural inputs, incentive goods and equipment financed under the Credits were to be
purchased abroad by local commercial firms, with the exception of some veterinary products that
maight be purchased by Government and rice imports that would be allowed only as a last resort after
consultation between Government and the Bank. For fertilizers, pesticides, veterinary products,
tractors and tires for transport equipment, it had been agreed during negotiations that Government
would invite bids from importers and allocate the required foreign exchange to the lowest bidders.
A limit of US$3 million equivalent per importer had been set in order to avoid collusion among a few
importers. As a general rule, importers using foreign exchange from ASAC proceeds were required
to provide evidence that they had followed the procurement procedures agreed with the Bank. In
order to manage the financing of imports under ASAC, Government was to enter into subsidiary
agreements with the three national banks (BTM, BFV and BNI) who would act as intermediaries with
importers, and provide the required support for implementing the agreed procurement and foreign
exchange allocation mechanisms.
5.    Credit Implementation
5.1    Effectiveness. ASAC became effective on November 18, 1986, about four months behind
original schedule. Late effectiveness was mainly due to administrative delays in drawing up the
manual on import procurement procedures and finalizing the corresponding subsidiary agreements
with intermediary banks. After effectiveness was declared by the Bank, public announcement of the
availability of ASAC funds was made by Government only in early January, thus contributing to
further delays in initial disbursements.
5.2   Second tranche release. The release of the second tranche, originally expected in May 1987,
took place in May 1989 only. Besides slow disbursement of the first tranche, several factors
contributed to this delay, including initial disagreements on several projects included in tl:e public



9
investment program for agriculture, and difficulties in defining the contents of the edible oils action
program and the corresponding steps to be taken by Government prior to tranche release. The Bank's
position on the elimination of fertflizer subsidies was significantly softened before second tranche
release, on the grounds that available supplies from donations largely exceeded potential domestic
demand at fl import-parity prices.  After Initial successes that translated into a significant
improvement of producer and trader incentives, performance under the rice management progrun had
quicldy deteriorated with the onset of the 1988-89 election campaign and the resumption of rice
distribution to urban consumers at sub-market prices. By the time of second tranche release,
however, it was felt that significant results had been obtained under this difficult and politically-
sensitive component of ASAC, and that Government had carried out the rice management program
in conformity with the Development Credit Agreement.
5.3    Disbursements. First tranche disbursement took thirty-two months, instead of the twelve to
sixteen months originally anticipated. Tbis was pardy due to sluggish demand for commercial
imports of fertilizers and other agricultural inputs after the mid-1987 devaluation. A contributing
factor was also the progressive introduction of the market-based OGL system of foreign exchange
allocation, which the Bank supported under its subsequent adjustment operations. The Industry and
Trade Policy Adjustment (ITPAC) and the Public Sector Adjustment (PSAC) Credits made foreign
exchange available to banks and importers under administrative procedures that were less restrictive
and time-consuming than those required under ASAC. This difficulty was solved upon ASAC second
tranche release, as it had been agreed in advance during negotiations of n`PAC that coherence would
be ensured by disbursing ASAC funds, after second tranche release, under the OGL import regime.
5.4    ASAC's second tranche was nonetheless fully disbursed only in October 1990, mainly due
to administrative delays on Government side. In December 1989, the Bank agreed on an exceptional
basis to finance petroleum products from ASAC proceeds.
6.    Implementation of Individual Components
Rice management program
6.1   The rice agreement worked out during ASAC negotiations was primarily a program to
manage rice imports and their sale, in a way that would restore producers and traders incentives and
allow Madagascar to regain self-sufficiency.  Underlying the agreement was acceptance of
Govermment's monopoly on importing rice until 1990, when self-sufficiency would be attained and
rice imports would no longer be needed. The essential element of the rice management program was
the sale of imported rice on the domestic market when the market price exceeded a trigger price, set
during negotiations at an initial level of FMG 480 per kilogram. .6I While providing adequate
incentives to producers and traders, this mechanism also aimed at containing excessive seasonal price
fluctuations which had been disrupting the market and badly hurting consumers in previous years.
It was also agreed that the official distribution of rice (i.e. the Government operated ration scheme
that provided rice at sub-market prices to urban residents), based on imported rice, would be
I    This trigger price of FMG 480 had been calculated at 40% above the average market price
of the post-harvest period, so as to provide adequate incentives for private sector purchase
and storage of local production.



to
gradually reduced from 80,000 tons in 1986 to 20.000 tons in 1989. Tese sales, aimed at potecting
low-income consumers, were to be done during the pre-harvest period (i.e. from November to end
of April) when rice is usually in short supply and expensive, at a price that was set during
negotiations at FMG 265 per kilogram for 1986. 7/ Part of Government stock of imported rice
could also be used, if needed, to help victims of natural catastrophes.
6.2    Given Government's monopoly, all imports of rice including donations as well as commercial
shipmens were expected to pass through the 'buffer stock' of imported rice, which was to be
repenished automatically whenever it fell below the agreed level of 14,000 tons. Although an annual
target for rice imports was to be agreed between Government and the Bank, no absolute limit was
imposed on rice imports, since it was essential for Government to be in a position to effectively
intervene whenever the market price exceeded the trigger price.
6.3   Before ASAC effectiveness, the liberalization of domestic rice trade in the reserved areas at
harvest time In April 1986, resulted in intense competition between commercial operators, both
private and parastatal. This pushed paddy prices far beyond their controlled level of the previous
year which, together with the stock-building behavior of farmers and commercial operators, resulted
in higher rice prices on urban markets than originally expected in the post-harvest period.
Govemment reacted by increasing its official distribution of rice which reached about 89,000 tons
by end-July 1986, thereby exceeding the limit originally set for the full year. ZI The July
supervision mission found that no arrangement had been made by Government to curtail the volume
of its official distribution. It was agreed, however, that responsibility for rice management would
be assigned to MPARA, and that official distribution would be limited to 35,000 tons fur the
remainder of the year; the import target for 1986, originally set at 105,000 tons during ASAC
negotiations, was revised accordingly to 134,000 tons. From August to the end of the year, official
distribution was effectively curtailed to 34,000 tons. The revised import target was, however, largely
exceeded with the arrival in the last quarter of the year of a shipment of 38,000 tons of rice financed
by a USSR credit, which brought total 1986 imports to about 162,000 tons. The Bank had not been
previously informed of this shipment, which was part of a larger agreement negotiated by the
President during a visit to USSR in January 1986. This, together with continuing uncertainties on
Govermment's commitment to respect the agreed ceiling on official distribution, gave rise to serious
concerns within the Bank as to whether or not ASAC should be made effective. 2/
I/    Although lower than expected market prices, this price was not subsidized since it had been
calculated so as to cover the full cost of rice imports, including transport, storage and selling
costs.
J/     It had been agreed during ASAC negotiations that Government would continue official
distribution after the 1986 harvest in case market prices in Antananarivo by end April would
still be higher than FMG 420/kg, which turned out to be the case.
2/    The supervision mission of October 1986 was informed that the President wished to use the
USSR rice to increase official distribution. In its supervision report dated November 3,
1986, the mission recommended that ASAC should be suspended in this case, since the
ASAC agreement was, by its very nature, not legally enforceable in detail, which made
mutual confidence between Government and the Bank essential to the success of this
operation.



6.4    Government began to intervene in the market according to the trigger price in November
1986, when ASAC was declared effective. During the 1986-87 pre-harvest season, these
interventions were carried out in accordance with the principles agreed during negotiations, and they
stopped, as planned, at harvest time by end April 1987. During that period, over 34,000 tons of rice
were received in the buffer stock as a grant from USAID and the World Food Program (WFP).
About 14,300 tons of imported rice were sold from the buffer stock, mostly in Antananarivo at the
agreed price of FMG 4501kg. These interventions, although relatively modest in volume, were very
successful in stabilizing the pre-harvest consumer prices, in sharp contrast with the skyrocketing
prices that had prevailed a year before. Prospects for the 1987 harvest were also very good, in part
due to the high producer prices that had prevailed in 1986.
6.5   In January and February 1987, official distribution was again increased temporarily to a level
tat could not be sustained without breaching the overall agreement of a maximum of 60,000 tons
for 1987. Government's commitment to this ceiling for official distribution was reaffirmed in March
1987, at which time it was also agreed with the Bank that official distribution would provide no
financial subsidy to the consumer (i.e. the selling price would be adjusted as needed to reflect the full
cost of rice imports and distribution), LO/ and an import target of 90,000 tons for 1987 was
accepted. Following the April 1987 harvest, however, the domestic market was glutted with rice.
A gcod harvest combined with the sale of rice from the previous season, which dealers had
accumulated in expectation of a substantial price rise during the pre-harvest period that had not
materialized as a result of the successful operation of the buffer stock. T-.e Bank advised that rice
shipments fnanced by the USSR, due to arrive during the post-harvest period, should be postponed
even though they were not in excess of the previously agreed import target. These shipments
nonetheless arrived, and by October 1987 there were some 40,000 tons of imported rice in the buffer
stock, part of which was approaching the end of its shelf-life and starting to deteriorate, with a
further 25,000 tons of rice financed by USSR expected to arrive between November and January.
There was no immediate use for these stocks under the agreed ASAC rules, since domestic market
prices were lower than both the trigger price, maintained at FMG 480/kg, and the import-parity price
for official distribution, which had increased to over FMG 400/kg following the substantial
devaluation of mid-1987. Options presented by the Bank supervision missions in order to dispose
of excessive stocks included possible exports to neighboring countries (which was considered by the
Bank as the best alternative), the exchange of newly harvested paddy for deteriorating rice, and/or
sales of deteriorating rice in the provinces up to a volume of 10,000 to 20,000 tons. The latter was
the option followed by Government, and over 14,000 tons of rice were auctioned or sold at a discount
price between end-1987 and mid-1988. In October 1987, Govermment also announced that traders
were free to import and export rice.
6.6    By the end of 1987, it became clear that Government was moving from its primary concern
with price stability to the use of imported rice to meet political, and to a lesser extent social,
objectives. As noted in the aide-memoire of the October 1987 supervision mission, the 1988 election
campaign was expected to lead to substantial gifts of imported rice to political parties from their
supporters abroad, and Government had stated that these gifts were to be eonsidered as "political
imports" rather than official imports. This clearly meant that they would be exempt from the rules
for import management agreed under ASAC, and would thus be used as a substitute for official
IQ/   This commitment was also part of an IMF Standby agreement requiring that official
distribution should be priced so as to avoid any fiscal subsidy.



12
distribution. The February 1988 supervision mission reported that the rice program was no longer
functioning as intended. PROCOOPS, a cooperative wholesale supplier owned by the President's
AREMA political party, had started to play a large part in the urban market for rice during the
closing months of 1987, supported by a direct political gift of 10,000 tons of rice from the President
of North Korea to the President of Madagascar. This had the effect of holding market prices at or
just below FMG 400/kg, effectively undercutting the possible operation of the official buffer stock.
Although this clearly contravened the spirit of the ASAC agreement, Government was not legally
violating the letter of this agreement since PROCOOPS was a private operator and its sales were
based on non-official rice donations.
6.7   The Bank attempted to reverse this situation through a Memorandum of Understanding signed
in March 1988 by the Minister of Agriculture and the Bank's Department Director, which set an
import target of 60,000 tons for 1988 including official imports as well as private donations and
reaffirmed that Government would not release its existing stocks and any other official imports prior
to the next pre-harvest season, when it would auction rice with a reserve price of at least
FMG 400/kg. It further stated that in the meantime Government would encourage the sale of
privately donated rice in remote areas and ensure that these donations did not affect the market.
These measures were to be announced publicly, to give private traders the assurance they needed to
make adequate farmgate purchases of paddy, and thus support the producer price. Rice sales at low
prices nonetheless continued throughout 1988, even during the post-harvest season. All imported rice
moved through the new circuit that had replaced official distribution, inchiding existing rice stocks
as well as new imports financed by USSR (23,000 tons) and Japanese (about 8,100 tons) grants.
-1J PROCOOPS was the largest distributor. It did not operate on a commercial basis; it sold
below market and then used the proceeds to purchase local rice for further rounds of resale below
both costs and market values. According to the data from MPARA, the buffer stock set under ASAC
did not operate throughout 1988. Due to the large stocks accumulated from previous years, total rice
imports for 1988 came to about 31,000 tons, which was the lowest volume since 1971.
6.8   In November 1988, market prices began climbing rapidly. The 1988 harvest had been lower
than in 1987, as a result of poor climatic conditions together with a reluctance by farmers to increase
rice production. In late December, Government communicated to the Bank its concern that further
price increases were likely since its stocks were low and no imports on order, and made a strong plea
for an authorization to import 30,000 tons of rice using ASAC financing. The Bank replied that it
would accept to act as a lender of last resort, as agreed under ASAC, provided Government would
sell its remaining stocks at a price of at least FMG 500/kg and thereafter dispose of new shipments
at a minimum price of FMG 480/kg through the auction system previously agreed in March. 12/
1_1    Madagascar Agricultural Sector Adjustment Credit: Evaluation of the Buffer Stock, March
1991, AF3AG.
121   Earlier auctions or sales done since the March agreement had not respected the reserve price
condition. The rationale for a price of at least FMG 500/kg for immediate sales was that the
market price had already reached FMG 650/kg in December and was still climbing, so that
intervention at a price around FMG450/kg or lower would have been a waste of effort and
would have only contributed to promoting further speculation. The Bank reconmmended in fact
that initial releases should be made at an even higher price, possibly as high as FMG 600/kg,
with a gradual lowering thereafter to a levei that should not go below FMG 500/kg.



13
Further discussions led to a lowering of the price for immediate sales to FMG 450/kg, and to the
actual importation by Government of 27,000 tons of rice which the Bank had agreed to refinance
under ASAC, after second tranche release. This rice order was received in two shipments in January
and February 1989, followed in March by a further 15,000 tons as a grant from WFP and other
donors.
6.9   In the meantime, internal Bank discussions had led to a decision that the short-run tactics of
intervention in the rice market should from now on be left at Government's discretion. Accordingly,
the final Memorandunm of Understanding signed with the Minister of Agriculture in January 1989
stated that, during the period from January to April 1989, Government would continue to take what
steps it could to promote the aims and intentions of the ASAC agreement, so as to ensure that during
this period the final retail price of locally produced rice would never fall below FMG 515/kg and rice
imports from all sources would not exceed 40,000 tons. This agreement marked the end of active
Bank intervention in the management of Government rice imports. During 1989, Government
continued to intervene on the rice market both in the pre-harvest and in the post-harves. season, and
total rice imports amounted to 89,000 tons.
6.10   The buffer stock was closed in 1990, with a final theoretical stock calculated by MPARA at
1,956 tons. Govemment's stated policy is now to rely mainly on the private sector for rice imports
needed to complement the official grants that it may receive from external donors. The rice import
tariff, which had been 5%-10% since the 1987 liberalization of rice external trade, was increased to
30% in January 1991 in order to protect domestic production. In 1990, Government received only
2,800 tons of grant rice from Japan, and a further 73,000 tons were imported by commercial
operators (parastatals and private). Reportedly due to foreign exchange and credit shortages as well
as strikes in the transport sector as a result of political unrest, total imports in 1991 decreased to
39,400 tons of which close to 28,800 tons were grant rice. According to MPARA estimates, only
6,200 tons of grant rice were planned for 1992, against a total import requirement of close to 98,000
tons for bridging the gap with the next harvest in March 1993.
Other crop pricing and marketing aspects
6.11   The program for the promotion of private sector participation in the marketing of agricultural
products was never prepared in detail by Government. After initial reminders, the Bank decided in
October 1987 to drop this requirement under ASAC, since it was felt that this complex question
would be better handled in the broader context of other on-going (ffPAC) and forthcoming (PSAC)
structural adjustment operations.
6.12   The study on local government finances was initiated as planned at the time of ASAC
effectiveness, and was finally completed in February 1989 through collaboration between an inter-
ministerial committee chaired by the Ministry of Finance and a local consulting firm. ._/ By the
time of second tranche release, the corresponding action plan had not yet been developed as originally
required under the ASAC agreement. However, since the issues involved raised the question of
political and administrative decentralization of government and were therefore politically sensitive,
the Bank felt that it was better to defer the preparation of this action plan until the on-going national
13J.   Some limited funding to help carry out this study was provided under the second Agricultural
Institutions Technical Assistance Project (Cr. 1709-MAG).



14
elections were over.
6.13 Although the completion of this study took more time than originally anticipated, and It
remained mainly descriptive and d;d not lead to any concrete decision or action plan, it was a useful
tool for fostering initial discussion among the various ministries concerned with the issue of
decentralization. The main rationale for including this study under ASAC was that taxes on
marketing transactions were (and still are) a main source of revenue for decentralized local
government authorities. A number of crucial issues emerged from the study, which are stili pending
today (need to better define the responsibilities devolved to the various levels of local government,
and the degree to which they should be given independent access to the tax base). Alternative sources
of local revenues to the taxation of agricultural products, such as a land tax, also need to be further
explored.
6.14   Export crops. Before ASAC effectiveness, Government raised the producer price of coffee
from FMG 3951kg to FMG 600/kg for the 1986 harvest. In early 1987, the Bank discussed with
Goverunent authorities its draft study on Madagascar's potential and comparative advantage in coffee
production, 4JA and the producer price was subsequendy increased to FMG 800/kg for the 1987
harvest. The Bank study underlined the importance of the coffee subsector for foreign exchange
earnings, and strongly advocated further increases in real producer price at the expense of
Government's fiscal revenue, in order to boost coffee exports and foster increased private investment
in the subsector. It was, however, overtaken by events, as international coffee prices collapsed in
1987 and the International Coffee Agreement was suspended in 1989. Starting with the liberalization
of coffee exports in 1988, the producer price announced by Government became an indicative price
and was raised to PMG 950/kg.
6.15   A study on administrative constraints to agricultural exports was completed by the Bank as
planned in January 1987, j1/ and further dialogue on this matter was pursued under ITPAC and
PSAC rather than ASAC. Although arrangements were made before ASAC effectiveness for the
recruitment of consultants to carry out the study on export crop stabilization funds, the signature of
the contract was delayed and the final report was issued only in May 1988. The main purpose of this
study was to examine the existing export crop stabilization system and make recommendations for
its improvement. By the time it came out, however, this study was largely obsolete since
Govermnent made a decision in 1988 to abolish the state monopoly on exports of coffee, cloves and
pepper. As a result of this decision and other export promotion measures supported by the Bank
under IMAC and PSAC, Government had largely fulfilled and even exceeded the modest
conditionality of ASAC concerning export crops. Stabilization fund levies were replaced by explicit
export taxes as a source of Government revenue, and dialogue between Government and the Bank
on the level of these taxes, and on the restructuring and/or privatization of parastatals, has been
pursued in the context of lTPAC and PSAC. However, important recommendations made in the
study of the vanilla subsector went unheeded, despite a slide in Madagascar's world market share.
JA/   Madagascar Coffee Subsector: Economic Analysis and Recommendations, Report No. 6548-
MAG, February 27, 1987.
_S/   Madagascar: Administrative Constraints to Agricultural Exports, Report No. 6595-MAG,
January 16, 1987.



6.16   Edible oils study and action program. The draft study on edible oils done by a consulting
firm under UND"IIUNIDO financing which had been initiated in mid-1986, was reviewed and
commented on by the Bank in early 1987 and the final report was issued in June 1987. The purpose
of this study was to examine options for reviving the edible oils production and processing industry,
based on an assessment of past policies, an analysis of comparative advantage for the various oil
crops, and an examination of the scope for rehabilitating existing processing facilities. The main
criticisms of the Bank on the draft study related to the absence of comparative advantage analysis for
domestic production, and the need to further analyze the impact of import liberalization and the
pricing and taxation policy for commercial imports and oil donations. Some of these issues obviously
had a bearing on the future of the Antalaha oil-palm project, which was then the subject of intense
debate. Government's exchange rate and trade policies were also rapidly evolving in early 1987, with
large devaluations and ongoing negotiations for trade liberalization measures under 1TPAC. The
study of the consulting firm was therefore partly obsolete by the time it was issued, and it also failed
to address the questiot of respective public and private sectors roles in the rchabilitation and
development of the oil industry. It was then agreed that updating and complementary analysis would
be done as part of the action program which was to be presented by Government prior to ASAC
second tranche release.
6.17 A document on the edible oils sector was finalized by MPARA in August 1988, which
addressed the technical aspects of primary production and artisanal transformation, with an emphasis
on groundnut and coconut, and also made general recommendations on the pricing of imported oil
donations in order to protect domestic consumers and preducers. 16f However, a comprehensive
action plan covering industrial and trade aspects as well as primary production, with a clear indication
of policy measures and other steps to be taken by Gc,/ernment for the rehabilitation and development
of the edible oils sector, was never actually prepared. Although the Bank had previously 3trongly
insisted on the need for such an action program, it decided after mid-1988 that this approach was too
rigid and that it was best to rely on the general trade liberalization, export promotion and parastatal
restructuring measures supported under ITPAC and PSAC. It was felt that these measures, together
with other ongoing efforts to improve the delivery of research, extension and other producers
services, would provide a sound and strong enough basis to promote efficient use of existing
industrial assets, and bring about a revival of the edible oils productiou and processing industry in
line with Madagascar's comparative advantage. The control of ex-factory prices of edible oils had
already been eliminated in late 1987 as a condition of effectiveness for ITAC, and the public
enterprise restructuring and/or liquidation program to be supported under PSAC applied to parastatals
involved in the oil processing industry. Government had also taken steps, with the support of
USAID, for auctioning donated oil in bulk at the port. In early 1989, Government confirmed in a
letter to the Bank the main features of its policy in the edible oils subsector, including its intention
to support the expansion of artisanal oilseed processing and the rationalization of its refining industry.
This letter was considered by the Bank as satisfactory for meeting the condition for ASAC second
tranche release.
WI   Donations of unrefined soybean oil from USAID provided most of the raw materials for the
domestic refining industry, and had become a major source of edible oil for urban
consumption following the decline of domestic groundnut oil production i- I the 1970s and
early 1980s.



16
Inputs pricing and distribution
6.18   New quarantine regulations were enacted prior to ASAC effectiveness, which greatly reduced
the time needed for the importation of most seeds and other planting materials. MPARA also pursued
its disengagement from direct distribution of fertilizer and other chemical inputs. The number of
input stores managed by MPARA went down from over 500 in 1985 to only about 10-20 in 1988,
with the balance either closed or, in most cases, leased to commercial operators including private
operators as well as the parastatal COROI. Fertilizer grants from external donors, which were
previously handled on behalf of MPARA exclusively by COROI, were allocated from 1986 onwards
to the operator offering the- lowest charge for customs clearance and port handling. Prior to the
introduction of the OGL system for foreign exchange allocation, the mechanisms agreed for the
allocation of ASAC proceeds also played a key role in promoting increased private sector involvement
and competition in the commercial importation and subsequent distribution of agricultural inputs and
veterinary products. About ten commercial operators, most of them private, were regularly involved
in fertilizer distribution from 1987 onwards, and the previous state monopoly on the importation and
distribution of veterinary products was progressively dismantled. Tle newly introduced competition
among importers and distributors led to a substantial decrease in marketing margins both for
commercial imports and for fertilizer donations.
6.19   However, only mixed progress was achieved in the removal of fertilizer subsidies, which,
together with market distortions resulting from fertilizer donations and low domestic demand, limit
the scope for development of a commercial network. In 1986 and early 1987, the limit of 7% of
c.i.f. cost for fertilizer subsidy agreed under ASAC was basically respected. The large devaluation
of June 1987 did, however, translate into a sharp increase in the border price equivalent of imported
inputs, which in turn reduced farmers demand at a time when abundant supplies of fertilizer were
available on the domestic market, as a result both of imports made under ASAC and increased
external aid donations. MPARA reacted in August 1987 by pricing a recently arrived donation at
the pre-devaluation exchange rate. The underlying rationale was that available supplies, which were
mosdy donations, largely exceeded the potential domestic demand at world price levels; it was also
argued thai selling donated fertilizer below world market prices would not entail any fiscal subsidy
from Government, and thus be consistent with the ASAC agreement.
6.20   The Bank made several unsuccessful attempts during 1988 to convince MPARA to auction
donated fertilizer in small lots, so as to attract competitive participation from small as well as large
operators and dispose of all available fertilizer donations in a non-discriminatory fashion. In fact,
in 1988 and 1989 donated fertilizer was sold to commercial operators by MPARA at a fixed price,
which tvas about 20% to 30% below its border price value, but still too high to allow immediate
disposal of all available supplies. The main argument of MPARA was that the price should not be
too low, so as to avoid further destabilization of commercial operators and prepare the ground for
the re-establishment of ordinary commercial imports from 1990 onwards; for similar reasons,
MPARA also argued that it was desirable to be selective in the choice of recipients of donated
fertilizer, so as to eliminate the merely occasional operators.
6.21   In subsequent years, fertilizer donations continued at a level which has been variable but
usually lower than in 1987-88, and commercial operators have also adjusted their commercial imports
downwards compared to the first years of ASAC implementation. The present policy is to allocate
donated fertilizer to established coperators, but at a price which in principle reflects the full value of
these donations. Despite this improvement, administrative allocation of donated fertilizer to



17
commercial operators still results in 4 significant degree of uncertainty for these operators, and is
prone to lead to discrimination and/or undue practices. Efforts have been made by MPARA to
inform operators of planned shipments of donated fertilizer. Pricing also remains an issue, since
donations are usually made in large shipments at a lower c.i.f. price than smaller scale conmmercial
imports, and are not subject to the same transaction and financial costs as commercial imports.
Public investment program
6.22   Among the seven projects in the agricultural Public Investment Program (PIP) which the Bank
had questioned during post-appraisal, thr;e were rural development or irrigation projects. As agreed
during ASAC negotiations, consultants were hired by Government in mid-1986 in order to carry out
a feasibility study of the proposed middle-west development project, which was set aside from the
PIP in its original form because of its high costs and low returns. Government also furnished
additional information on the Androy development project in the southern part of the country, -which
was discussed in detail with the Bank in early 1987. After further study, it was agreed in late 1987
that the third project (Ankaizina irrigation) would be incorporated into the Irrigation Rehabilitation
Project supported by the Bank and other donors. In 1987, several new externally-financed irrigation
projects were introduced in the PIP, which was inconsistent with the strategy agreed between
Government and the Bank to concentrate available resources on the rehabilitation of existing
perimeters. An agreement was reached to drop some of these projects, and to reassess others.
6.23   The most contentious projects identified during ASAC post-appraisal were agro-industrial
investments for oil crops (soya, oil palm and copra) and for cashew nut production. The main
reservations of the Bank concerned the size and the economic and financial viability of these
investments, as well as the proposed ownership and management options which were inconsistent with
Government's stated policy of disengagement from direct production and marketing activities. Prior
to ASAC effectiveness, the July 1986 supervision mission found that, irrespective of the agreement
reached during negotiations, the Ministry of Livestock and Forestry (MPAEF) had already taken steps
to award contracts for investment in the cashew plant. This project was executed by MPAEF as
originally planned, with the creation of a parastatal enjoying monopoly rights on cashew exports.
171 The soya production project included in the agricultural PIP aimed at providing raw materials
to the Mamisoa plant, which had been built in the late seventies as part of an ambitious plan to
produce soybean oil and cake. This project was dropped from the agricultural PIP as requested by
the Bank, but actual steps to liquidate the plant, which operated uwider the aegis of the Ministry of
Industry, were initiated only in 1988. The copra project to be managed by the parastatal
SOAVOANIO was reexamined as agreed during ASAC negotiations.
6.24   Following ASAC approval in May 1986, the Antalaha oil palm project gave rise to intense
debate which lasted unt.l 1988. 181 A consulting firm was recruited by Government in mid-1986
as agreed under ASAC, in order to carry out a new feasibility study for the project. The terms of
reference also reqtired the consultant to consider possible alternative projects, although the Bank had
requested to drop this provision since the identification of new projects should have awaited the
17/   This monopoly was, however, not actually enforced.
ill    As originally proposed, this investment consisted of the creation of 1350 ha of state
plantations, together with a processing plant.



18
conclusions of the edible oils study which was being initiated at the same time. The new feasibility
study, 19l completed in October 1986, confirmed the very low economic viability of the original
Antalaha project design, and proposed an alternative investment in a nearby area which was larger
and more costly but had a significantly higher rate of return. 20/ In late 1987, the consulting firm
developed a proposal for a phased project, starting in the original location with a possible extension
thereafter to the alternative location, together with some cost saving measures which improved the
economic and financial viability. The Antalaha oil palm project was implemented on this basis from
1988 onwards.
6.25   At the time of ASAC second tranche release in May 1989, the Bank considered that the
agricultural PIP had been signiftcantly improved and fulfilled the requirement for tranche release.
From 1988 onwards, dialogue between Government and the Bank on the national public investment
progran, including agriculture as well as other sectors, has been pursued in the broader context of
ffPAC and PSAC.
7.    Credit Impact and Sustainability
7.1   In the short run, the funds made available under ASAC helped alleviate the serious foreign
exchange crisis that Madagascar was facing in the mid-1980s. The support provided by the Bank for
the establishment of a rice buffer stock, together with the introduction of improved procedures for
the management of Government rice imports, were instrumental in attracting additional rice grants
from USAID and WFP during the 1986-87 pre-harvest season, contrasting with the shortages of the
previous year. Agreement by the Bank to finance rice imports in early 1989, at a time when
Government rice stocks were reportedly low, also helped Government and consumers weather the
election campaign with sufficient rice supplies. ASAC furthermore contributed to supplying the
transportation and primary processing sectors with spare parts and materials, thus facilitating the
marketing of agricultural products. The funds provided under ASAC for the importation of
agricultural inputs and incentive goods had a positive impact on agricultural production, given the
generally low level of imported inputs used in agricultural production in Madagascar.
7.2    Most of the impact came from the policy reforms introduced under ASAC, in particular from
the rice management program which was the core of this operation. During the 1986-90 period,
domestic paddy production increased at an average rate of close to 3.5% per year. Although this
growth was aided by favorable weather and has slowed down since then, with a resulting average
growth rate of only around 2.5% per year for the whole period 1986-92, it nonetheless represents
a significant improvement over the stagnation which had prevailed throughout the 1970s and early
1980s. Rice imports, which exceeded 200,000 tons per year on average during 1980-83, have
stabilized at an average level of around 70,000 tons per year over the 1987-90 period.
12/   This study was financed by the Bank with remaining funds under Credit 881-MAG (Mangoky
Agricultural Development Project).
2Q/   The alternative design allowed savings in road and other transport infrastructure due to its
more favorable location, and consisted of 1800 ha of state plantation together with 1200 ha
of smallholder plantations.



19
7.3    Following the liberalization of domestic marketing of paddy initiated in 1983 and completed
in 1986, the number of private traders, transporters and rice millers in the main paddy producing
areas grew substantially. Increased competition for paddy purchases translated into a significant
increase in producer prices from 1983 onwards. Part of these initial gains to the producers have,
however, been temporary since real producer prices fell in 1987 and 1988 due to abundant supplies
on the domestic market, together with the resumption of rice distribution to urban consumers at sub-
market prices. This policy, which continued in 1989, disrupted domestic rice trading activities and
caused operating losses for traders who passed them on to farmers in the form of lower farmgate
prices, thus contributing to slowing down the growth of rice production in subsequent years.
Government intervention in the domestic rice market was significantly reduced in 1990, when the
private sector accounted for the first time for a large share of rice imports. Since 1991, the
Government-operated buffer stock established under ASAC has been closed and Government's stated
policy, except for special emergencies or disaster areas, is to allocate external rice donations to
commercial operators at a price reflecting their full commercial value. Rice remains nonetheless a
very political commodity, which entails significant uncertainty for commercial operators.
7.4    Although rice consumer prices became significantly higher in real terms with the liberalization
of domestic markets, most urban consumers have benefited from the liberalization of internal rice
trade and, at least during the 1986-87 pre-harvest season, from the successful operation of the buffer
stock. Official rice prices were hardly enforced before their elimination, and Government's attempts
to control the domestic market together with poor timing of the release of imports had translated until
mid-1986 into wild fluctuations of consumer prices and periodic rice shortages which badly hurt
consumers. Thereafter, rice became available in adequate quantity throughout the year, and inter-
seasonal price fluctuations have remained in a reasonable range throughout the second half of the
1980s and early 1990s; these gains have, however, been partly set back from mid-1991 onwards, with
the onset of political turmoil and recurring foreign exchange shortages. A significant proportion of
the population, both in urban and in rural areas, nonetheless continues to live below poverty level,
thus facing serious difficulties in securing adequate food supplies. Specific measures are needed to
help these vulnerable groups, and the Bank has started in late 1988 to support Government's efforts
to address this problem under the Economic Management and Social Action Project (EMSAP). Also,
a Food Security and Nutrition Project was approved in 1993.
7.5   The direct and immediate impact of ASAC on agricultural production other than rice was
marginal. Increases in the producer price of coffee supported by ASAC in 1986 and 1987, although
substantial, did not translate into increased production and/or exports, mainly due to the dilapidated
state of the transport network in coffee producing areas, the absence of significant measures to
improve traders incentives and the collapse in international coffee prices. The edible oils subsector
remains heavily dependent on oil donations or imports.
7.6    On the whole, the overall performance of the agricultural sector in Madagascar has shown
some progress but remains nonetheless disappointing. During the 1984-90 period, the agricultural
sector grew at an average rate of 2.6% annually, wh.^h compares favorably with the performance
of the late 1970s and early 1980s but still remains modest and masks a wide disparity in performance
among subsectors. Most of that growth originates from the fisheries aad to a lesser extent the
livestock sectors, which together grew on average at 4.9% annually between 1984 and 1989. By
contrast, the performance of the crop sub-sector has been much more modest, with an average growth
of only 1.5% per year during the 1984-89 period, which is well below the 3% population growth
rate. Within the crop subsector, most of the growth has come from rice and to a lesser extent other



20
foodcrops. Traditional exports crops (coffee, vanilla, cloves), facing difficult conditions and poor
prospects on the international market, have stagnated or regressed, and this has not been compensated
for by alternative export crops.
7.7    This poor performance, although partly explained by the deterioration of Madagascar's terms
of trade, is largely due to the remaining price and market distortions as well as structural constraints
which have only been partially addressed so far. External trade liberalization for traditional export
crops other than vanilla occurred only at a late stage in the adjustment process, at a time when world
coffee and clove prices had already collapsed to a level that considerably reduced private sector
incentives to engage in this sector. The prices and market for vanilla, which is a major export crop,
still remain strictly controlled and decisions have yet to be made on the new strategy to adopt in order
to maintain Madagascar's position on this increasingly competitive market. Government's control
and/or direct involvement in the importation and exportation of several crops (e.g. rice, coffee,
cloves) and in the production and processing of industrial crops (e.g. sugar, cotton, edible oils) have
only been belatedly and partially reduced and often remain distortional, and the pricing and
management of food aid (e.g. rice, edible oils) also tends to be detrimental to domestic production
and creates considerableuncertainty for commercial operators. Other structural non-price constraints,
which are equally important and have probably not received adequate attention so far, relate mainly
to deficiencies in the credit system, transportation and conununications bottlenecks and, more
generally, the low quality of most agricultural services currently provided by the public sector
(irrigation management, research, seed production and distribution, extension).
7.8   In order to sustain and expand agricultural growth, improvements will be needed
simultaneously on several of these fronts. Appropriate and consistently followed macro-economic
policies (exchange rate management, tariff and trade policies, fiscal regime, etc.) will also be essential
for preserving and building upon the gains which have been made under ASAC and other adjustment
operations. Political stability and consensus is an obvious pre-requisite for achieving this, together
with well conceived and coherent support from external aid agencies.
8.    Institutional Performance
Borrower Performance
8.1    On the whole, Government showed a commitment to sector policy reform and economic
adjustment which was mitigated by the following factors: (i) the difficulties inherent to a transition
from a highly controlled economy, dominated by state enterprises and direct Government control of
all aspects of economic activity, to a totally different type of market-based economy; (ii) a legitimate
concern for the social costs of this transition in a country where a large fraction of the population
lives at or below poverty level, which has translated into a gradual and cautious, even at times
hesitant, approach to economic adjustment; and (iii) the persistence of deeply entrenched and closely
intertwined political and economic interests, which has influenced the phasing of the adjustment
process and has contributed to the postponement and/or partial implementation of some major
reforms.
8.2    Government's commitment to ASAC's rice management rogram has been uneven,to the
extent that it fully supported the objective of reducing seasonal price fluctuations on urban markets
through the operation of the rice buffer stock, but was much less convinced of the need to maintain



21
domestic prices at a high enough level and manage the buffer stock in a consistent and predictable
way, so as to provide adequate price incentives to producers and traders in order to stimulate
domestic production. After one year of successful operation of the buffer stock, which generated
important benefits both to consumers and producers, Government largely reverted back to its earlier
practice of selling large quantities of rice throughout the year to urban consumers at sub-market
prices. Ihis was prompted in part by legitimate social concerns and the need to facilitate, at least
for the poorest fraction of the population, the difficult transition which urban consumers had to face
following the large devaluation of mid-1987. It also points out a basic deficiency of ASAC and other
Bank-supported adjustment operations, which until late 1988 did not consider the short term social
implications of introducing drastic economic reforms in a country like Madagascar, which has a fairly
large urban population with a significant proportion of very poor people. However, the distribution
of rice at subsidized prices which was undertaken by Government from end-1987 onwards was largely
political in nature, and no real attempt was made to organize it in a way that would benefit directly
and mainly the poor, while minimizing market disruption. Beginning in late 1987, the Bank made
under ASAC several offers to help Government develop a system of targeted food subsidies, using
part of the rice accumulated in the buffer stock, but Government did not support this initiative at that
time.
8.3   Improvement in the public investment program (PIP) for agriculture has been slow, both
under ASAC and thereafter, which reflects the still limited canacity of agricultural ministries
(MPARA and MPAEF) to adapt to their new role and mandate in the context of a liberal economic
environment. Under ASAC, MPARA and MPAEF have similarly been slow in relinquishing control
over the allocation of credit proceeds to commercial operators for the importation of agricultural and
veterinary inputs. There is also a tendency for some investment decisions to be overly influenced
by donor willingness to provide finance. The Bank's approach to improving the agricultural PIP
could, however, have been more forceful.
8.4    Weak inter-ministerial coordination, and at times unclear allocation of responsibilitiesbetween
MPARA and other technical ministries involved in the agricultural sector (Ministry of Comnmerce,
Ministry of Industry, MPAEF), have affected in particular the outcome of the edible oils study, which
was clearly a case where primary production, industrial and trade aspects all needed to be tackled
together, and incorporated into a comprehensive strategy and action program. Unclear allocation o
responsibilities between central Government and decentralized local authorities also resulted in mixed
signals to farmers and local traders as to the extent of Government's willingness to liberalize domestic
markets and trade. Particularly in the early years of ASAC implementation, some local authorities
did introduce new controls on rice prices and limited the transfer of paddy to other regions. This
problem, which has only been touched on under ASAC, still constrains the development of other
market-oriented agricultural production activities.
Bank Performance
8.5    Rice management program. The support provided by the Bank for the establishment of a
Government operated buffer stock was mainly motivated by the need to provide a guarantee and
reassurance to Government during the transition period towards full liberalization of domestic rice
trade. In this respect, the Bank has been flexible and has shown a capacity to adopt a pragmatic and
realistic solution to help Madagascar move gradually towards a more liberal system of economic
management. The implementation of the rice management program was, at least in its early years,
closely followed by the Bank supervision missions, who were able to provide timely and generally



22
adequate practical advice for managing rice imports under the new system. The increase in domestic
paddy production which ensued from the liberalization of internal rice trade, and the successful
operation of the rice buffer stock during the 1986-87 pre-harvest season, demonstrated both the
benefits of increased reliance on market forces and the scope for controlling excessive seasonal price
fluctuations through modest but timely market interventions, rather than the full-fledged control which
Government had unsuccessfully attempted to implement in the past. This success was instrumental
in convincing a large fraction of the population, as well as many of the political groups in
Madagascar, of the benefits of economic liberalization, thus preparing the ground for a subsequent
deepening of the adjustment process.
8.6   The Bank has, however, consistently underestimated the Government's dedication to low rice
prices for urban consumers, and the importance of the parallel system of distribution which emerged
at the end of 1987 and continued throughout 1988 and 1989. The elimination of the official
distribution system after the mid-1987 devaluation was well received in the Bank, as it allowed to
move more quickly towards the elimination of remaining economic distortions, but the fact that it also
created an obvious and perhaps legitimate incentive for Government to establish an alternative, and
hence parallel, distribution circuit was overlooked; this might have happened even in the absence of
an election campaign, the advent of which only made things worse. Given its awareness of the
importance of poverty in Madagascar, and its general concern with food security, the Bank should
have addressed the question of food distribution and targeted subsidies thoroughly and in a timely
manner, at a much earlier stage. This would have provided an incentive for increased Government
commitment to the rice management program, and would also have given the Bank a better case for
opposing the subsequent diversion of food imports to meet purely political objectives.
8.7   To the extent that the Bank had recognized from the beginning that quantified targets and
performance indicators could not be locked in the Development Credit Agreement, its only recourse
was the provision that, as a condition for second tranche release, the rice management program
should have been carried out in a manner acceptable to the Bank. In practice, the Bank was
extremely reluctant to apply this provision, although it was clear both to Bank staff and to
Government that the spirit, if not the letter, of the Agreement had been circumvented from end-1987
onwards.
8.8   Other ASAC components. The rationale for focusing ASAC on the liberalization of internal
rice trade and the management of rice imports was largely dictated by Government's own priorities,
as well as the urgency of restoring credibility in the reform process which had only been partially
completed in this sub-sector and had given rise to widespread skepticism. In retrospect, substantial
foregone benefits could have been derived from an early emphasis on reforming the management of
export crops, at a time when international market conditions were still relatively favorable. Attempts
to achieve quicker progress on this issue during ASAC preparation were, however, rejected by
Goverrnent.
8.9   The role of imported chemical inputs in Madagascar's agriculture was overestimated under
ASAC. Although it was and still remains a legitimate objective in itself, the time spent and priority
given to improving the pricing and distribution system for fertilizer was out of proportion with its
real importance for most farmers. More benefits could be expected from an improvement in
Madagascar's seeds multiplication and distribution system, a subject which was only touched on under
ASAC. The excessive importance given to fertilizer and other chemical inputs, which was
highlighted by the mid-1987 devaluation but could have been anticipated at the time of ASAC



23
preparation and appraisal, has also contributed to the slow disbursement of ASAC funds.
8.10 llte Bank's position on fertilizer subsidies and on the need for an action plan for edible oils
has been shifting over time, in a manner that was not always coherent and consistent. The -staff in
charge of ASAC supervision changed over time, and some of the staff involved at the same time had
a different perspective on these issues which, in the absence of a consensus and a clear decision
making process within the Bank, resulted in mixed signals to Government and also some loss of Bank
credibility, both towards Government and other donors who had started applying full import-parity
pricing of fertilizer under their own projects on the basis of the Bank's initial position under ASAC.
8.11   Several important topics on which studies were commissioned under ASAC have not yet been
addressed, despite their relevance to sector and economic reform. This applies in particular to the
study on local government finances, and the edible oils action plan. In principle, these aspects were
to be covered under subsequent adjustment operations. The delicate and complex question of local
govenment finances, whose implications go beyond the agricultural sector, has not been tackled yet.
No significant development has taken place either in the edible oils sub-sector, desp.-e the policy
reforms implemented under ITPAC and PSAC.
8.12   The Bank should also have recognized more clearly the limits and constraints imposed by the
conflicting demands of various donors and external lending agencies and, to the extent that it was
possible, perhaps played a more active role in helping Government coordinate external interventions
in the agricultural sector. The problems faced under ASAC in this regard concerned both externally-
financed investments included in the PIP, which were inconsistent with the new economic policy of
Government, and issues arising from the disposal on the domestic market of food aid (rice, edible
oils) and fertilizer donations. In the case of commodities for which grants in kind represent a major
share of domestic supplies, as was the case for fertilizer and edible oils, pricing policies need to be
worked out carefully taking into account the potentially distortional effects of this type of external
aid.
8.13   Credit documentation. Detailed working papers together with terms of reference for studies
to be conducted under ASAC had been prepared by the preparation and appraisal missions. The
Bank's project and correspondence files are, however, increasingly incomplete towards the end of
ASAC's implementation period, as indicated by cross-references to memorandums or letters and/or
relevant documentation handed over by Bank staff which are not available in the project files. Files
held by the resident mission are even more incomplete and scattered. The filing of some studies
supported by ASAC under the specific, and sometimes remote, projects which have contributed to
their financing also complicates the collection of sector specific information and studies.



24
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
MADAGASCAR
AGRICULTURAL SECTOR ADJUSTMENT CREDIT
(IDA Credit 1691-MAG and SFA Credit A-16-MAG)
PART 1I: PROJECT REVIEW FROM BORROWER'S PERSPECTIVE
No comments were received.



25
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
MADAGASCAR
AGRICULTURAL SECTOR ADJUSIMENT CREDIT
(IDA Credit 1691-MAG and SFA Credit A16-MAG)
PART III: STATISTICAL INFORMATION
Table I: Related Bank LoanslCredits
Loan/Credit Title                Purpose                                                      month/Year of   Status
____________________________     _____________________________________________     ________    Approval         ____pp o a
Agricultural Institutions        To assist Government in identifying action programs for   February 1982   Closed
Techrnical Assistance Project   achieving specific sector objectives (particularly                              June 30, t987
(Cr. 1249-NAG)                   concerning the rice sub-sector), and to initiate a
process of long-term agricultural reform through
institution buitding and a redefinition of sector
investment programs and policies. II/
Second Agricultural              To strengthen management of sector policy and                 June 1986        Closed
Institutions Project             institutions, to reinforce financial resource                                  December 31,
(Cr. 1709-MAG)                   management, to improve sector planning, to improve                             1992
poiicy and economic anatysis, and to strengthen market
development and export performance. ?1/
Second Agricultural Credit       To support institutional strengthening of the National    may 1987             Ongoing
Project                          Rural Development Bank (tB). and to meet foreign
(Cr. 1804-HAG)                   exchange costs of new investments and expansion or
improvement of existing ventures in agriculture
(production and primary processing/ marketing). P_/
211     Prior to the ASAC, the Agricultural Institutions Technical Assistance Project (Cr. 1249-
MAG) had been the major vehicle for sector dialogue between Government and the World
Bank, and it has also provided finance for the preparation of many elements of ASAC.
221     The policy analysis and institutional strengthening measures of this project were specifically
designed to support the Government's Agricultural Sector Adjustment Program, thus
complementing the ASAC.
D1      This project was designed as a complement to the ASAC, in order to provide investnent
funds needed to help entrepreneurs respond to Govermment's policy and to create economic
opportunities in the agriculture sector.



26
Table 2: Credit Data
Amounts (million)
(as of December 31, 1990)
____________________      _  ~gOrijinat    Disbursed    Cancel led     Reoaid     Outstandin
IDA 1691-NlAG  (SOR)               19.0          19.0          0.0         0.0            19.0
SFA A-16-NAG  (SDR)                31.0          31.0          0.0         0.0            31.0
Sub-total (SOR)                    50.0          50.0          0.0         0.0            50.0
Japanese grant (Yen)              600.0          n.a.         n.a.        n.a.            n.a.
German contribution  (ON)          10t.0         n.a.         n.a.        n.a.            n.a.
Table 3: Credit Timetable: Original and Actual Dates
! _______________|__________        Ornfgnal/Plannad Credit Dates     Revised/Actual Dates
Initial Project Brief                                                may 17, 1984
Final Project Brief                                                  May 14, 1985
Negotiations                                                          December 23, 1985 - March 7, 1986
Letter of Development Poticy       March 24, 1986
Board Approval                                                       Nay 8, 1986
Signing of Credit Agreements                                         May 20, 1986
(IDA, IFA)
Effectiveness                      June 30, 1986                      November 18, 1986
Second tranche release             March 31, 1987                    May 1, 1989
Closing Date                       June 30, 1988                      June 30, 1990



27
Table 4: Cumulative Credit Disbursement
Amount (million)
FY 87        FY 88         FY 89         FY 90         FY 91
IOA 1691-MAG  (SMR)            Ptanned             10.24         19.00        19.00         19.00        19.00
Actual              3.29          9.32         10.40         16.71        19.00
SfA A-16-NAG  (SMR)            Planned             16.74         31.00        31.00         31.00        31.00
Actual              5.80         12.98         1S.18        24.21         31.00
Totat  (SMR)                   Planned             27.00         50.00        50.00         50.00        50.00
Actual              9.09         22.30         25.58        40.92         50.00
Actual as X   of                    34            45            51            82          100
Pl.n.ed
Japanese grant  (Yen)                               n.a.          n.a.         n.a.          n.a.          n.a.
Genman contribution  (OM)                           n.a.          n.a.         n.s.          n.a.          n.a.



Tabte 5: Use of Bank Resources
A. Bank Staff Inputs
Fiscal Year
82       83                 s 85    86       87       88       89       90       91       92        93        Total
Project Preparation and Pre-      3.3     47.6    29.9       48.8                                                                                 129.6
appraisal
Appraisal'                                         32.3      12.6    47.7                                                                          92.6
Negotiations                                                          17.1                                                                         17.1
Supervision                                                            2.3     40.3    34.6      15.5      0.2                                     92.9
Project Completion Report                                                                                                    5.0       10.0        15.0            B
'Total                            3.3     47.6      62.2     61.4    67.1      40.3    34.6      15.5      0.2      0.0      5.0      10.0        347.2



29
B. Mission Data
Project Stase             month/Year        so. weeks   No. Persons   Man-weeks         Date of re wort       Ratire
tdentificattin            April 1984              2.5            3           8
Pr-a'ppraial              June 1984               2.5            4           8          July 16. 1984
Preparation               September 1984          1              1            1         October 5, 1984
October 1984            1.5           5            8          December S. 1984
February 1985           1.5                        2          April 3, 1985
Appraisat                 May/June 1985           3.5            4           14         June 26, 1985
(Issues paper)
Past-Appraisal            Septerber 1985          2.5            3            8         October 16  1985
September 1985          2             2            4          n.a.
Supervmisin               July 1986               2              2           4          Juty 22, 1986
October 1986            1              1           1          November 3, 1986
January 1987            2             3            6          March 12. 1987
Nay 1987                3             1            2          June 22  1987
July 1987               3             3            6          August 11t 1987
October 1987            1.5           2            3          November 30, 1987
February 1988           3             2            3          June 20. 1988
July 1988               2             2            3          August 12 1988
Hovweber 1988           3             1            1          n.a.
Canpietlon                November 1992           2              1           2          December 1989



MAP SECTION
I



IBRD 20035R
r~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~M A- .'                                                                           n
FMA tan        R                                                                               - r,r' +S 
' ' JUtr~inwotW"arlQE ' vrd-6**
Ch.*~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~n   *. vttna
f   t rrW   ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~~~'   /~~~
4    AZeeh                                                    '  i         
q9, xei * ~~~~~~~~~~-T. -ta
s  F"7 {t <w# - s ; ,so"
cas S.Sk 4teo;^ t                               .a"fwo                          o 
.,    .               t     S       "     i t       "         A             ":,   ne          1E   '',t'             10~M4~;7  itr
- e / X we 7 -jF k_ l
8 /  \ -q>Mtt ^   -x- -  \        -     r4       ~~~~itt - ze-    t-
-T+                        -                           \ -*           jAbtndak
W \\ ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~Z;L-.TAN, Z ANeIA  Vb>-To4
^   ttst2<   -                     >A                                            ,?
J   \  z .>   AnS    54 \1,  tA4roZAMS  Al
,   W t*!a m bo X ~~~~~~~~~~ - A  fFandr  v    </7~~~~~AfR
/ 5 ^a~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~NE I  



