D_su of
The World Bank
FOR OMCIAL USE ONLY
C "e. /6" 7           ck9
Report No. P-4197-MAG
REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION
OF THE
PRESIDENT OF THE
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
TO THE
EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS
ON A
PROPOSED CREDIT OF SDR 19 MILLION
AND A
PROPOSED AFRICAN FACILITY CREDIT OF SDR 31 MILLION
TO THE
DEMOCRATIC REPUBLIC OF MADAGASCAR
SUPPORTING AN
AGRICULTURAL SECTOR ADJUSTMENT OPERATION
April 8, 1986
IThis document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance
of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENT
Currency Unit:    Malagasy Franc (FMG)
Conversion rate at September 30, 1985: US$ 1  = FMG 655
FMG 100 = US$ 0.15
ABBREVIATIONS AND GLOSSARY
CCCE            Caisse CeTntrale de Cooperation Economique
(French Capital Aid Agency)
FED             Fonds Europeen de Dgveloppement
FNUP            Fonds National Unique de P&rEquation
ITC             International Trade Center
KFW             Kreditanstalt fUr Wiederaufbau
MPAEF           Ministere de la Productioa Animale et des Eaux
et Forets (Ministry of Livestock and Forestry)
MPARA           Ministere de la Production Agricole et de la
R&forme Agraire (Ministry of Agriculture)
UNDP            United Nations Development Program
GOVERNMENT FISCAL YEAR
January 1 - December 31



FOR OFFICLIL USE ONLY
MADAGASCAR
AGRICULTURE SECTOR ADJUSTMENT OPERATION
CREDIT AND PROGRAM SUMMARY
Borrower:    Democratic Republic of Madagascar
Amount:      IDA: SDR 19 million (US$20 million)
Special Facility for Africa: SDR 37.5 million (US$40 million)
including a Special Facility Credit of SDR 31 million
(US$33 million) and a Special Joint Financing of:
Y 600 million (US$3 million), Japan; and
DM 10 million (US$4 million), FRG KfW
Terms:       Standard for IDA and the African Facility
Program Description:
Objectives:  (i) to support the 1986-87 phase of the
Government's program to increase production and
incomes by making its agricultural economy more
market-oriented; (ii) to help prepare the next phase
of the reform program (1988-90) and (iii) to provide
foreign exchange for imports needed to realize fully
benefits associated with the reform program.
Benefits: Price and market reform would benefit
primarily the farming population, whose terms of trade
have deteriorated sharply over the past decade.
Increased production, particularly rice, over the next
years will benefit urban dwellers. Finally, import
substitution and higher exports will improve the
balance of payments.
Risks: Failure of the economy to grow would reduce
the political sustainability of reform. IDA support
would help smooth the transition to a market-based
agricultural economy. Further establisbment of a
sound rice management program would go a long way
towards allaying the Government's immediate concern
about consequences of urban shortages. Finally,
policy reforms aimed at increasing marketed surpluses
are expected to elicit a strong response; this should
enhance the adjustment prograW's credibility and
sustainability. In light of the above, the risk
associated with the operation is considered to be
within acceptable limits.
ITh docuent has a restrctd distnbuton and may be used by ecients only in the pefonmance of 1
ther officiad dutiu Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorzation.



- ii -
First     Second
Tranche    Tranche     Total
CUS$ milljon)
Agricultural inputs, materials,       27.5        27.5         55.0
equipment, spare parts, veterinary
supplies and rice
Rural incentive goods                  5.0         -           5.0
Total            32.5         27.5        60.0
Financing Plan                             Amount           US$ equivalent
(million)
IDA                                       SDR 19             20.0
Special Facility for Africa               SDR 31             33.0
Special Joint Financing:
Grant from Japan                      Y 600              3.0
Credit from Germany (KfW)             DM 10              4.0
60.0
Estimated Disbursements 1/:
IDA FY        1987    1988
(US$ million)
Annual.        33.0    27.0
Cumulative     33.0    60.0
Rate of Return:               Not applicable.
Staff Appraisal Report:      No Staff Appraisal Report was prepared.
1/ Priority would be given to disbursing SFA proceeds.



INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION OF THE PRESIDENT
TO THE EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS ON PROPOSED CREDITS
TO THE DEMOCRATIC REPUBLIC OF MADAGASCAR
FOR AN AGRICULTURE SECTOR ADJUSTMENT OPERATION
1.        I submit the following report and recommendation on a proposed
IDA credit of SDR 19 million (US$20.0 million equivalent), and a proposed
African Facility credit of SDR 31 million (US$ 33 million equivalent) to
the Democratic Republic of Madagascar to finance an Agriculture Sector
Adjustment Operation. Special Joint Financing of Y 600 million (about US$
3 million equivalent), DM 10 million (about US$ 4 million equivalent) would
be provided by Japan and the Federal Republic of Germany, respectively.
PART I - THE ECONOMY
2.        A report entitled  Country Economic Memorandumn dated March 18,
1986, was distributed on March 24, 1986, to the Executive Directors and to
participants in the Madagascar Consultative Group. It is available as
document 5996-MAC and its main conclusions are reflected below. Country
data sheets are provided in Annex I.
3.        Madagascar, with a population of 9.7 million and a per capita
income of about US$265 in 1984, is among the poorest countries in the
world. It is a sparsely settled country, with a population density of
about 17 persons per square kilometer. Although Madagascar is generally
well endowed with natural resources and a variety of soils, there are
considerable regional variations in ecology and climate. The central
plateau, the most economically advanced region, has a subtropical to
temperate climate. The south is the poorest region with an arid climate
and infertile soils. The eastern region has a tropical climate and,
although the region is rich agriculturally, crops are frequently devastated
by cyclones. The western part of the country comprises extensive
pastureland with some tropical agricultural production along the coast.
Agriculture accounts for about 40 percent of GDP; over 85 percent of the
population lives in rural areas, and agricultural products account for
about 80 percent of the country's export earnings.
4.        In the decade following independence in 1960, Madagascar's
economy grew at an average annual rate of about three percent. Agriculture
was responsible for much of this growth, while manufacturing, benefitting
from increased protection, gained in relative importance. The years
following 1972 marked a watershed in Madagascar's economic and political
development. After the 1972 and 1975 revolutions, an inward-looking
economic policy was geared to self-sufficiency and consolidation of the new
regime's socialist aims through decentralization to new local government
institutions (the fokonolona system), nationalization of industrial,
trading, and agricultural enterprises, and moves towards collectivization



- 2 -
of agriculture. Towards the end of the 1970s this movement was overlaid by
a policy of rapid industrialization with emphasis on capital intensity,
accompanied by pricing and marketing policies heavily biased towards urban
consumers.
5.        During the decade 1973-82 real per capita GDP fell by an
estimated 28 percent. The major contributing factors to this decline were:
(i) The widespread nationalization of economic activity and suppression of
private initiative, accomplished by taking over numerous enterprises and
creating new parastatals, gave rise to a large and unmanageable public
sector. (ii) Regulatory intervention in the economy increased
substantially; price controls were generalized and enforced with greater
vigor than before, local authorities assumed broad new powers, government
marketing monopolies were established, and import restrictions and exchange
controls tightened. (iii) Many policy actions led to neglect of agriculture
and fostered the growth of manufacturing for domestic markets, including
the establishment of numerous enterprises of doubtful economic value.
6.        The Government's attempts in the late 1970s to stimulate
expansion of Madagascar's stagnating economy through a large public
investment program contributed to an economic crisis beginning in 1980-81.
The share of investment in GDP, which had averaged around 13 percent from
1970 to 1978, increased sharply to 25 percent in 1979-81. The financing of
this massive investment program contributed to a large public sector
deficit (about 18 percent of GDP by 1980), inflation in excess of 30
percent both in 1981 and 1982, and a sharply increased debt service burden
(the debt service ratio,before rescheduling, rose sharply from about four
percent of export earnings in 1978 to 46 percent in 1981, nearly 75 percent
In 1984, and 90 percent in 1985). The debt service burden has been largely
responsible for the severe shortage of foreign exchange which has been a
critical constraint to economic activity. Contributing to this shortage
was a drop in export earnings as the terms of trade for agricultural
exports weakened and as domestic consumption expanded. This drop was
accentuated by declining agricultural production due to an overvalued
exchange rate, low controlled producer prices, and state interference with
the marketing of agricultural products. Industrial exports, which had
never been encouraged, suffered a further blow through the impact of the
foreign exchange shortage on the availability of raw materials and spare
parts.
7.        Faced with an unsustainable resource gap (equivalent to 17Z of
GDP in 1980), Government began implementing stabilization measures in
1981. In the years which followed, aggregate expenditure was steadily
reduced and gross savings increased, especially from 1983. Among specific
measures taken to reduce aggregate demand, the most notable actions were on
the exchange rate and on consumer subsidies. In nominal terms, the average
rate of the FMG vis-a-vis the SDR depreciated by about 75X during 1982-85,
and after adjustment for domestic and trading-partner inflation the real
depreciation of the FMG approximated 25%. The Government more than doubled
the nominal price of rice distributed through official channels; consumer
subsidies on imported rice were eliminated. Madagascar's stabilization
efforts also included tax measures,expenditure cuts, increases in prices



-3-
of public enterprise goods and services, and sharply curtailed imports. In
addition to fiscal restraint, tight bank credit ceilings were employed to
reduce inflation.
8.        Between 1980 and 1985, agricultural output fluctuated.
Production of paddy, a staple item, remained at around 2 million metric
tons per year. Madagascar had to continue importing rice throughout the
period, although the volume imported declined steadily from a peak 356,000
metric tons in 1982 to about 105,000 metric tons in 1985. The decline in
rice imports, however, was due to foreign exchange scarcity rather than any
marked increase in domestic self-sufficiency. Production of other food
crops (maize, potatoes, cassava, sweet potatoes) grew steadily and
significantly for these crops as a result of increased rice prices. With
the exception of cotton and sugar cane, the production of industrial and
export crops generally stagnated (e.g., tobacco, coffee, pepper) or
declined (e.g., groundnuts, butter beans). The output of two other
principal export crops, vanilla and cloves, was restrained by limited world
market demand for these products.
9.        The output of the industrial sector declined sharply between 1980
and 1982, and again in 1984; modest growth obtained in 1983 and 1985 did
not make up for the decline in the other years. Industrial manufacturing
capacity has been heavily underutilized in recent years owing to shortages
of domestically supplied agricultural raw materials, and of imported inputs
and spare parts. The construction industry also remained slack, judging
from data on gross fixed capital formation. Between 1980 and 1982, all
types of construction - residential, non-residential and other - declined
heavily. In the following years, residential and other construction grew a
little, but the volume of activity was constrained by continuing restraint
in investment expenditures and shortages of construction materials.
10.       On the policy front, Government initiated positive changes in
industry, easing pricing controls, improving the administration of foreign
exchange allocation, and, as recently as June 1985, legislating a new
Investment Code. The new Code provides clearer and more automatic
incentives and aims to attract foreign private investment. Here again, the
recent initiatives need to be strengthened by extending the export earnings
scheme (the EPI account) to a greater number of bona fide exporters,
rationalizing the tariff system, and quickly completing the practical rules
and regulations of the new Investment Code.
11.       Owing to the slow growth of agriculture and industry, the
transport sector had less merchandise and fewer passengers to carry
throughout 1980-85 although, within the period, there was some upturn in
road and rail traffic in 1983 and 1984. The traffic that was required had
to be carried at high cost given the dilapidated state of the transport
system. Until recently, however, costs could not be covered as the
administered tariffs were set too low, thus further discouraging the
provision of services. To improve the transport system and policy
environment Goverrment selected an  economic networ,c  of about 10,000 kms
of primary and secondary roads for priority rehabilitation; established a
road fund for maintenance; and permitted tariff increases for the roads,
railways, and the national airline.



- 4 -
12.       Public Finance.  During the 1978-80 period, the country
experienced an unprecedented growth in public capital expenditures financed
by external loans, leading to substantial budget deficits and accumulation
of indebtedness and arrears. Successive adjustment measures adopted
between 1981 and 1985 progressively reduced the magnitude of the deficit
and domestic arrears. The bulk of the fiscal adjustment has been
accomplished by cutting expenditures, with a lower investment level,
contained payroll expansion, and a reduction in materials and supplies used
for government activity. The current budget balance turned positive in
1983 and remained so during 1984 and 1985. The size of the current
surplus, however, remained small relative to the need to increase public
savings. The overall deficit declined from 18.4% of GDP in 1980 to 8.7Z in
1982 and 4.8% in 1984. It was estimated at approximately 4.7% of GDP in
1985.
13.       Revenue.  Total revenue declined from 17.9% of GDP in 1980 to
15.7% in 1985. The tax structure was altered frequently with yearly changes
in the tax rate system. The tendency was to increase tax rates on income
and imports, without visible results on e'fective tax revenue, this being
partly due to unsatisfactory tax administration, partly to increased tax
avoidance, and partly to reduced imports. Extrabudgetary revenues
represented a growing share of total government revenue, with surplus from
export stabilization funds yielding the main contribution in this
category.
14.       Expenditure.  Improvement in fiscal performance was mostly the
result of tight control of expenditures. Between 1980 and 1985, central
government expenditures increased by only 26%, representing a substantial
decline in real terms. The ratio of expenditures to GDP over the period
declined steadily from 36.3% in 1980 to 20.4% in 1985. The main factor in
this decline was cutbacks in capital expenditures from the unsustainable
level of 1980. In real terms, capital expenditures declined by 15% per
year during 1980-85.
15.       Monetary developments during 1980-85 were generally in line with
fiscal developments, reflecting implementation of stabilization measures.
Throughout the period, the growth of credit to Government was reduced, and,
beginning in 1982, credit to the non-government (i.e., parastatal and
private) sectors generally expanded faster than credit to the Government.
16.       Domestic inf..ation in Madagascar was reduced considerably after
1982, from about 30% in 1981 and 1982 to approximately 10 percent in 1985.
This performance was due mainly to demand management measures during the
period, and to some decline in foreign prices of Madagascar's imports. The
reduction of inflation during the period was all the more remarkable in
that it occurred at a time when the Malagasy Franc was depreciating.
Madagascar's balance of payments remained weak throughout 1980 despite
substantial annual reductions in the volume of imports to the point of
adversely affecting economic activities. To a large extent, the
position remained weak owing to poor export performance and heavy debt
service payments, the latter a legacy of large borrowings on hard terms
during 1978-80.



- 5 -
17.       Stabilization efforts throughout the period led to steady and
marked improvements in the resource and current balances. In dollar terms,
the resource gap in 1985 ($102 million) was less than 20% of what it was in
1980 (US$557 million); and the current account deficit in 1985 (US$237
million) less than 40% of what it was in 1980 (US$599 million).
18.       Based on the existing debt portfolio at end 1985 and after taking
into account pipeline disbursements, Madagascar will need new net capital
inflows of about US$380 million per year during the 1986-90 period to cover
current account deficits, meet scheduled debt repayments, and maintain a
modest amount of gross reserves. The conditions at which Madagascar is
able to obtain new finance and reschedule the debt are of crucial
importance and will determine if the country is able to emerge from its
low-level trap, even with a high quality policy program.
19.       Since the emergence of the debt crisis at the beginning of the
1980s, Madagascar'has managed the balance of payments by cutting imports
and rescheduling debt service payments. These are very costly options,
involving disruption of economic activities and refinancing of some
originally concessional loans at less concessional terms. Madagascar now
has probably reached a limit to further cuts in imports as these are down
to bare essentials. As to debt rescheduling, the country's creditors may
continue to accord such arrangements to Madagascar. But, to generate
significant amounts of annual debt relief, the rescheduling arrangements
would need to provide liberal coverage. Unless Madagascar would boost
export earnings and thus strengthen the balance of payments, the debt
burden would not be overcome.
20.       Relationship with DEM.  As of December 1985, the Government had
complied with all performance criteria set in the fifth standby agreement
signed in April 1985. Most of the important program targets have been
achieved and all scheduled purchases have been effected. In the second
review of the current standby, the Government has decided to accelerate the
depreciation of the exchange rate and agreed to continue this process under
the sixth standby agreement. A mission visited Madagascar in March 1986 to
negotiate a program supported by a sixth standby agreement, but
unfortunately the negotiations could not be completed since a major cyclone
affected Madagascar and the impact of the damage could not be assessed
immediately. A new mission is therefore scheduled and the stand-by is
expected to be presented for IMF Board of Executive Directors approval in
July 1986. A meeting of the Consultative Group is scheduled for April
24/25, 1986 and the Paris Club is expected to meet in July.
PART II - THE AGRICULTURAL SECTOR
A. Profile and Recent Performance
21.       Agriculture accounts for over 40% of GDP and employs 88 percent
of the population. Over half of Madagascar's production by value is for



-6-
subsistence, predominantly rice (30 percent) and beef (16 percent).
Coffee, cloves and vanilla represent about 15 percent of this production
and about three-quarters of merchandise exports. Industrial crops, notably
sugar and cotton, account for another 7 percent. About 80 percent of
overall production comes from small farmers.
22.       In spite of very favorable factor endowment, including irrigation
on about one-third of cultivated land, the sector's performance has
been highly deficient, impinging upon growth of the economy. During the
past seven years, unlike the 1960s and early 1970s, production of basic
foodstuffs and major export crops has stagnated. Groundnut production,
previously the major source of edible nils, fell to negligible levels while
other commodities, such as butter beans, declined sharply. Only cotton
contradicted this trend as production increased over the last two years.
The negative effects on the balance of payments of these developments have
been serious. Once a net exporter of rice, Madagascar's growing imports of
rice and edible oils consumed an increasing share of foreign exchange
resources, peaking at 21 percent of total export receipts in 1982.
B. Policy Issues
23.       A principal cause of faltering production has been the
Government's far-reaching control of the agricultural economy, including
direct involvement in production and administration of prices. This
conflicted with the needs anai potential of a sector dominated by private,
smallholder production, and neglected the potential economic contribution
of larger farmers and existing private marketing and processing
networks.
24.       Marketing and Pricing.  Following the 1972 revolution, both the
national and local governments intervened increasingly in the market.
Decentralized local governments (the fokonolona) were given power to
control prices and markets, and taxation on sales of agricultural products
became a main source of revenue. The result of these interventions was
wholesale disruption of private trade. In 1974 the national Government
established an official marketing monopoly for paddy and rice and by 1977
its monopoly covered virtually all agricultural and livestock products.
25.       Prices and margins were set at every level, from producer to
consumer. This led to serious distortions and production was depressed by
low official prices. Parallel markets for controlled foodcrops emerged,
but could only function with high margins. Private entrepreneurs, such as
rice and oil millers let their facilities deteriorate for lack of profit or
foreign exchange, and many plants were absorbed into the public sector.
The State-run entities were generally inefficient and suffered severe
financial problems as consumer prices were held down. In line with the
Governmeant's objective of providing rice to the entire population, imported
and domestic rice was provided through official channels at subsidized
prices. This changed dietary patterns and, together with population
growth, led to spiralling demand while per capita production fell by 20
percent over 1975-82. Subsidies imposed a mounting financial burden, and
the growing gap between production and consumption led to a heavy rice



import bill. By 1981-82, direct financial outlays on rice price subsidies
equalled total Government spending for agricultural investments and
services.
26.       Resource Allocation and Management.  While public sector
investments in agriculture expanded rapidly, private sector access to bank
credit and foreign exchange was sharply curtailed by national policies.
Returns to public investment were low because management was weak at every
level, and politica.A considerations often superseded economic choices.
External financing tended to be accepted uncritically and used
unproductively. Salaries eroded, reducing incentives in the public
service, but overall staff costs increased absorbing most of the operating
expenditures. Cost recovery was neglected, contributing to the fiscal
burden and asset erosion. Meanwhile, the private sector became
progressively decapitalized. Few private investments were made during this
period.
27.       Farmer Services.  During the 1960s and 1970s, the Government
merged input supply and rural credit with the other services it offered,
including animal health, management of large and medium scale irrigation
networks, research, extension and rural afforestation, sharply reducing the
effectiveness of their delivery. Organization, management and re6ources
all became insufficient.   Research and smallholder credit came virtually
to a standstill, and the veterinary service collapsed. The irrigation
network deteriorated badly. Subsidized inputs flowing through the
centrally managed supply system dwindled for lack of foreign exchange.
Finally, deterioration of rural infrastructure (roads, the transport fleet,
and processing plants) seriously impeded marketing and production.
28.       Sector Institutions.  The state control policy depended heavily
on the capacity of statal and parastatal institutions, which faced grave
problems. They had unclear objectives, poor management, ill-defined
relationships with local authorities, and limited qualified staff. They
proliferated in number and frequently worked at cross purposes. Financial
problems further impaired performance.
C.  The First Phase of Reform 1982-85
29.       Objectives and Strategy.  In response to these problems, at the
1983 Consultative Group Meeting for Madagascar, the Government set out the
broad outlines of a restructuring program aimed at increasing food
production and reducing imports. A second objective was to increase the
production of export crops while at the same time improving their quality.
Consistent with these goals, the following policy measures were proposed:
(a)    promotion of private, smallholder production, and de-emphasis of
parastatals and collective production;
(b)    concentration of investment in rehabilitation;
(c)    reliance on market prices;



-8-
(d)    withdrawal of the agricultural ministries and parastatals from
direct-production and commercial activities; and
(e)    improvement of essential public sector services.
30.       Some progress was made in carrying out the above, including
reduction of price ard marketing controls. In 1984 the Government prepared
for the first time a public investment program for the sector which led to
some redirection of scarce resources but still retained a dominant share of
direct production-oriented investments. The Government did, however, begln
to redress the bias against the private sector by easing administrative
controls, adopting an investment code more favorable to private investors
and allowing them some access to foreign exchange. The Government also
began to reinforce extension and research services. With support from IDA,
the two major agricultural ministries, the Ministry of Agricultural
Production (MPARA) and the Ministry of Livestock (MPAEF), were reorganized
and large personnel reductions were effected. They began to establish
performance criteria for parastatals and priorities for their
rehabilitation, restructuring, or selective divestiture. Several public
enterprises have ceased operations, staff and functions of others have been
sharply curtailed, and some production units were given to operators under
individual contracts.
31.       For livestock, marketing monopolies were no longer enforced at
the national level, but locally-imposed wholesale and retail price controls
still persist. These controls have conflicted with the improved producer
prices, forcing operating losses on the public sector slaughterhouses and
giving rise to widespread artisanal meat processing. Direct livestock
marketing by parastatals dwindled and trade largely passed to the private
sector. The animal health service was reorganized with stronger central
management, and now operates a vaccination campaign that covers about 60
percent of the cattle herd. A cost recovery policy on medicines and stud
services was adopted and put into practice.
32.       The  Government also responded to recommendations for improving
export crop marketing contained in major studies commissioned from several
international bodies.  Incentives to diversify exports were provided, with
the elimination in 1984 of all taxes on agricultural exports, excluding the
traditioral ones (coffee, cloves, vanilla and pepper). Producer price
increases for coffee in 1984 and 1985 amounted to a total real increase of
about 15 percent, which contributed to narrowing the gap with real 1975
prices. Services for coffee growers in key southeastern zone are to be
strengthened under a project appraised by the CCCE. Export promotion
activities and improvements in market and price information are being
supported by UNDP and ITC. Finally, the Government has started to
reorganize supervisory institutions, notably within MPARA and the Ministry
of Commerce, and the stabilization funds. The Government lifted marketing
and price controls on groundnuts and increased the wholesale and retail
prices of edible oil. These measures, intended to improve producer
incentives for oil crops, have been only partially successful as the
Government has continueu to control the ex-factory and consumer price at
too low a level, giving rise to a high cost parallel market. Although
technical assistance and financing for certain tree crops (oil palm,



-9-
coconut) are being provided, the viability of some of the planned
investments needs to be reassessed. For cotton, prices are still
controlled but were raised in 1985 to world levels and input sultsidies
removed. In addition, investment funds and support to producer sdrvices are
being provided under an IDA/CCCE-financed project (Cr. 1433-MAG).
Following these actions, production has responded (42,000 tons in 1985
compared to 40,000 tons expected). However, as domestic demand has
remained stable and export outlets have not yet been found, stocks are
accumulating.
33.       The most important actions during the first phase of reform
were rice liberalization. Because of the political sensitivity associated
with urban rice supply, these reforms represented a highly visible test
of liberalization. By 1982 it had become clear that existing policies were
financially unsustainable (para 25). In a widely publicized, new approach
to economic and social balance, market incentives were introduced to
promote production and urban supply. The retail price of rice was
increased by 82 percent in 1982, thus eliminating explicit consumer
subsidies while improving producer prices. In the following year, quantity
restrictions were placed on imports, and private sector marketing was
legalized, with the exception of the country's 'rice baskets' (Lac Alaotra
and Karovaoay) where the Government monopoly continued to help ensure
sufficient urban supply. To keep prices within certain limits, the
authorities legislated floor and ceiling prices for paddy and rice
respectively, but these were overtaken by market forces.
34.       In this initial phase several problems arose. To be successful,
liberalization had to elicit a substantial farmer response. The supply
response, however, was not immediate. Farmers in the monopoly areas,
accounting for 25Z of marketed production, were excluded from the
incentives of market competition. Moreover, the authorities disposed of
imported and domestically-procured rice stocks in the post-harvest market.
This not only depleted Government stocks but also depressed prices and
encouraged speculation among traders. Skyrocketing pre-harvest prices
brought ad hoc trade controls and gave rise to scepticism about the
benefits of economic liberalization. The Government therefore, is now
seeking a new approach to deal with the rice problem as part of the second
phase of the agricultural adjustment program.
35.       Proposed Strategy.  In retrospect, the first phase of the
adjustment process fell short of its goals largely because of lack of
coherence in the spectrum of Goverament policies. Incentives were not
provided for all products, accentuating the preference of farmers for
outputs with high returns. Controls on prices and markets gave room for
crop retention, speculation and black-marketing. At the same time, import
policies were not tailored to overcoming shortages and acted as a
disincentive to production. Rice, a staple in the Malagasy diet, was one
of the causes of resistance to liberalization among the political forces.
To help restore credibility to the reform program, the Association feels
that the Government must tackle first the rice problem, while continuing to
move gradually with other areas such as edible oils and export crops. The
Operation proposed in this Report supports this strategy. As part of the
Operation also, other important measures will be taken to improve resource



- 10 -
allocation, farmer incentives, marketing channels for domestic products and
imports, and farmer services. Finally, under this Operation, the program
for the next phase of adjustment will be prepared.
PART III. THE AGRICULTURE SECTOR ADJUSTMENT OPERATION
A. History
36.       IDA's involvement in agriculture policy has taken three forms:
dialogue on the policy framework, assistance in developing a rice strategy,
and support of key agricultural institutions and of technical solutions to
production constraints. An Agriculture Sector Mission visited Madagascar
in 1982 and 1983 and an Export Crop Review Mission in 1984, focussed upon
domestic and external trade policies and practices for agricultural
commodities. These themes were pursued further by a series of preparatory
agricultural missions which were in the field during 1984-86.
37.       The Operation emerged from discussions with the Government during
1983-86 on strategy to correct erosion of productivity and incomes, reduce
food imports and promote exports. The proposed IDA Credit,the African
Facility Credit and Special Joint Financing from Japan and the Federal
Republic of Germany would provide the financing needed. The Operation was
appraised in June and October 1985. Negotiations were held in Washington
and Antananarivo during most of the period from December 23, 1985 through
March 7, 1986. The Malagasy delegation was led by Mr. Jose Andrianoelison,
Minister of Agriculture. Supplementary Credit data are provided in Annex
III.
B. Objectives and Rationale for IDA Involvement
38.       The objectives are (i) to improve the returns on scarce resources
by financing from public sources only selective investments of high
economic priority; (ii) to put into place a coherent rice strategy to
restore market confidence, improve productivity and reduce pressure on the
balance of payments; (iii) to provide better incentives to farmers and
improve market-networks; and (iv) to help formulate consistent strategies
for the next phase of adjustment.
39.       Progress toward objectives will set the stage for the next
effort, which will expand into edible oils and export crops, and the use
and management of export crop receipts. The Government's preparedness to
restructure these areas and a favorable IDA assessment of the
macroeconomic framework would form the basis of a second Credit.
40.       The reform program supported by the Operation is presented in the
Government's Policy Statement on Agricultural Adjustment (Annex IV), and
the rice policy measures subsumed by this program are set out in Annex V.



- 11 -
C. The 1986-87 Adjustment Program Under the Operation
41.       Resource Allocation.  The Government has committed itself to
focussing on priority investments that are economically and financially
viable, and unlikely to attract venture capital. Application of these
criteria to the proposed 1986 public investment program for agriculture has
resulted in a 20 percent reduction in planned outlays of US$125 million
equivalent. An uneconomic oil seed project was dropped, as were several
others that were too limited to have an impact. New feasibility studies
will be done before proceeding with agroindustrial investments for oil palm
and cashew and study results are expected to be presented to IDA by
end-October 1986. Should the outcome of these studies be favorable the
Government will seek risk capital interest. Feasibility studies will also
determine the future of two proposed rural development projects in the
middle-west and north-east of the country. A third project of this nature
will be reshaped by end-August 1986 in consultation with IDA, with the ai
of enhancing services to the farming community in the South. The
Government will seek the Association's agreement prior to proceeding with
new investments costing US$5 million equivalent or more. IDA's concurrence
that the 1987-89 public investment program for agriculture meets the
aforementioned tests would be a condition for release of the second tranche
of the Credits.
42.       Fiscal measures would also be taken.  Five state-run agricultural
trading companies have a competitive edge over private firms as they
receive an important share of export crop revenues as a subsidy. The
Government has agreed to eliminate these transfers and, in 1986, reduced
them by one-third. They will be similarly lowered next year and by April
30, 1988, all transfers will have been phased out, representing savings on
the order of US$20 million annually which will accrue to the national
budget.
43.       Subsidies on agricultural inputs sold through the official system
will also cease. Average fertilizer subsidies amount to an estimated 30%
and pesticides range even higher. By the time of Credit effectiveness, the
Government will have reduced them to not more than seven percent of their
equivalent c.i.f. cost. Prior to release of the second tranche, no input
subsidies would be provided, except for a maximum of five percent of the
cost of pesticides, and pesticides used for demonstration purposes by the
extension services.
44.       The Rice Strategy Package.  With the aim of regaining
self-sufficiency by the 1990s, the Government has decided to correct the
weaknesses of past reform efforts. This is to be done by giving the
maximum of incentives to producers through the freeing of domestic
production, processing, trade flows and prices from all controls. The
Government will also operate a stock of imported rice to: (a) dampen
excessive seasonal price fluctuations until traders gain confidence that
markets will not be subject to destabilizing interventions; (b) provide
supply to certain categories of consumers for social welfare purposes; nd
(c) cover emergency needs in the aftermath of natural disasters. The stock
is to be constituted and maintained by imports.



- 12 -
45.       In the context of the above strategy, and as part of the proposed
Operation, the following policy measures have been agreed upon:
(a) the monopsony areas, Lac Alaotra and Marovoay, will be opened.
From April 15, 1986, producers in these zones may sell their paddy or rice
to any traders, and traders, millers and hullers may compete freely. Trade
flows in these areas and throughout the country will be unrestricted;
(b) the supply of social welfare rice would be phased out over the
next five years in line with anticipated production response. Meanwbile,
sales would take place only during the period of shortage, from November
through April, in line with volumes and prices agreed annually with the
Association. For 1986, the volume would be limited to 85,000 tons
(compared with 105,000 tons in 1985), and the retail sale price has been
set at FMG 265 per kilo. Although this price is lower than expected market
prices, it is not subsidized and includes transport, storage and selling
costs; and
(c) the operation of a stock to moderate abnormal price spirals would
be guided by a trigger price. Open market sales from the stock would
commence when retail prices reach a predetermined level that -triggers-
such sales. The trigger price, to be agreed annually with the Association,
would be set high enough to encourage strong private sector activity and to
enable the Government to recover fully the costs of the stock program.
For the 1986-87 season, the agreed price has been calculated at 40 percent
above the average market price during the post-harvest period, when dealers
are normally purchasing for stock. This would permit a dealer margin which
may be considered over-generous by some standards, but is necessary in
Madagascar because of the scarcity of credit and the history of public
sector interventions in the market.
46.     The smooth functioning of the above system will depend upon
efficient stock management, and several measures have been agreed to
achieve this. First an import program has been agreed upon with the
Government and, by end-October in each of 1986 and 1987, the program for
the following year will be established by the Government with IDA's
concurrence. Because the volumes needed to satisfy demand in open market
transactions activated by the trigger price cannot be forecast with
precision, the import program will be reviewed regularly with IDA and
adjusted if necessary. Secondly, a volume threshold for the stock has been
set, at which the stock manager will automatically order a new shipment to
avoid dealer speculation undermining the system. Third, measures will be
taken to ensure efficient procedures for placing orders, making payments
and obtaining delivery. Finally, the program will be monitored closely.
The Government will provide the Association with quarterly reports on
imports and stock management, and a first review by the Government and IDA
of operations is planned for July.
47.    Import financing will be provided by donors and the Government.
IDA's r-'e is that of a last-resort source of foreign exchange, to
guarantee and underwrite the functioning of the system in the event that
need arises.  The nature of an open-market operation, supplying all tha.t is
demanded at a given price, entails some risk that quantities will exceed
targets. Aaalysis suggests a 5% likelihood of open-market volumes reaching



- 13 -
30,000 tons under the price rule. At this level, the Association may
finance marginal imports, but at lower levels financing should not be
needed. IDA's readiness to stand behind the Government as it uses
market-influencing, rather than controlling instruments is expected to
result in normalizing farmer and market expectations. Once this happens,
the new policies should be self-sustaining.
48.   Farmer and Market Incentives.  To underscore its intentions and
thereby encourage investment, the Government has recently promulgated new
legislation endorsed by IDA. It confirms that agricultural prices will not
be subject to controls, except for certain industrial exports (cotton,
sugar and tobacco) and high-rent taxable crops (coffee, cloves, vanilla and
pepper). Methods and schedules for setting prices for these commodities
are sound (Annex IV). Prior to Credit effectiveness, the Government will
announce next season's coffee price following agreed procedures. Edible
oil remains controlled not at the farmgate, but ex-factory. Pending the
results of an oils strategy study (para. 52), the Government has recently
raised the ex-factory price to FMG 1,100 compared to the past FMG 550. As
an interim measure, this is considered satisfactory. Finally, before
Credit effectiveness, new quarantine regulations will be enacted permitting
farmers access to improved seed varieties developed abroad, thereby opening
the door to greater returns and output.
49.    In addition to balancing better the terms of competition between
public and private trading companies (para. 42), the Government intends to
take measures to encourage private trading networks. The areas where
improvements are likely to have a strong impact - access to credit and
streamlining of administrative procedures - are addressed in an action
program prepared by the Government. This program wiln be finalized in
agreement with IDA by October 31, 1986, and then carried out.
50.    The Government will also accelerate the handing over of agricultural
inputs to commercial interests, from the import stage through retail
sales. The proposed Credit will help with this divestiture by making
available to importers foreign exchange for a wide variety materials and
equipment used by farmers. For its part, the Government has recently
closed more than 70 sales outlets previously operated by MPARA.  In 1987
supply networks on the economically-active Central plateau will be fully
served by commercial firms. Continued progress will be reviewed in the
course of the Operation.
51.       Preparation for Medium-Term Adjustment.  To carry the
restructuring process over the medium term, the Government will carry out
studies to formulate coherent strategies for edible oils and export crops.
Problems associated with taxation of agricultural transactions will also be
addressed. This choice reflects economic priorities including balance of
payments considerations.
52.       An edible oils study, to be financed by UNDP under terms of
reference agreed with the Association, will examine options for reviving
production and the processing industry. The influence of past policies on
performance will be assessed and alternatives weighed. The comparative
advantages of the different oil crops will be considered, as well as the



- 14 -
scope for rehabilitation of existing processing facilities. Prior to
second tranche release, the Government will present a plan of action for
the subsector acceptable to the Association.
53.       Export studies would focus upon prospects for increasing and
improving the quality of traditionally traded products, and for
diversifying the export base. MPARA would draw up strategies responsive to
these prospects for discussion with IDA by June 1987. Technical assistance
support would be provided under the Proposed Second Agriculture
Institutions Development Project which will be presented shortly for
consideration by the Executive Directors. Further, the Government will
participate with the Association in an analysis of the country's
comparative advantage in world coffee markets. Before the second tranche
of the Credit, the Government will prepare an action program consistent
with the results of this analysis.
54.       Within the same period, the Government will present action plans
for improving export crop administration and the management of resources
generated by sales abroad. Present export licensing and contract approval
procedures act as disincentives and thus need to be brought into line with
national policy. Export-generated resources are mainly handled outside the
budgetary system. Part of these resources accrue to the stabilization
funds which do not perform the function implied. Among other things, they
finance investments in export-producing areas, but do so outside the public
investment program framework. Another channel for export receipts is an
account maintained in the Central Bank (the FNUP), which is used for
diverse purposes on an ad hoc basis. All of these areas will be reviewed
in light of the Government's commitment to strengthening economic
management. Prior to credit effectiveness, the Government will employ
suitably qualified consultants, under terms of reference which have been
agreed with IDA, to analyze the impact of present practices and recommend
corrective measures consistent with the principles of sound economic
management. As a condition of second tranche release, a plan of action
that takes account of study results would be presented to the Association.
D. Financing
55.       Credit Channeling.  Credit proceeds would be disbursed in two
tranches, with the second one contingent upon satisfactory progress in
carrying out the adjustment program. The IDA Credit of US$20 million
equivalent, Special Africa Facility of US$31 million equivalent and Special
Joint Financing of US$9 million equivalent would finance a broad range of
agricultural imports. The US$60 million equivalent financing package
reflects two-years' estimated foreign exchange needs to permit producers,
traders, and processors to take advantage of production opportunities.
Goods, materials and equipment financed under the Credits would be
purchased abroad by local commercial firms, with the exception of some
veterinary products that may be purchased by the Government. The
Government is moving away from the administrative allocation of foreign
exchange imposed in the past. Unrestricted access to foreign exchange for
a small range of products was introduced during 1985 in connection with the



- 15 -
IF Standby.  Under the proposed Operation, importers will also be granted
foreign exchange on a first-come first-served basis, up to a ceiling to
avoid collusion among a few importers. Financing provided for most items
is expected to cover fully residual demand. For those few where demand far
exceeds financing possibilities and raises the prospect of severely
directing foreign exchange away from primary inputs, a cap has been set on
the amount of proceeds from the Credits that may be expended on them. Such
items include veterinary supplies, incentive goods, and tractors and
transport equipment.
56.       Financing is provided for US$42 million equivalent for
agricultural inputs and, if needed, rice, US$3 million equivalent for
veterinary products and animal protection materials and US$10 million for
tractors and transport equipment. US$5 million of the Credits would be used
to import consumer goods that are predominantly used in rural areas. This
would avoid the current shortages of such goods from blunting the impact of
higher farm prices. The specific goods to be financed are lanterns, hand
pumps, hand sewing machines, outboard motors and transistor radios. These
items were chosen because they are traditionally highly appreciated by
producers, and because total demand is limited so that relatively small
resources can meet total national demand (to avoid resale at scarcity
prices).
57.       Procurement.  Procurement of lots valued above US$1.0 million
equivalent would follow the Bank's ICB guidelines. International shopping
would be used for lots between US$200,000 and US$1.0 million, and for
tractors and tires. Below US$200,000, standard procedures of the purchaser
would be followed. Local competitive bidding procedures will be used for
fertilizer. Non-proprietary spare parts would be secured by seeking offers
among a list of potential suppliers approved by IDA. Rice would be
obtained using standard commercial practices. Pesticide purchases will
exclude chemicals that pose known environmental hazards.
58.       Disbursements and Audit.  The first tranche (US$ 32.5 million
equivalent.) would be available upon effectiveness, and the second (US$ 27.5
million equivalent) about nine months later provided conditions of tranche
release are met. Proceeds from the IDA Credit would be disbursed against
100L of the foreign cost of eligible goods. Similarly, SFA and Japan will
together cover 100X of such costs of goods financed from these sources. A
Special Account for IDA deposits would be established in the Central Bank,
with an initial deposit of US$ 4 million equivalent. A second Account
would be opened for SFA and the Japanese participation, with a total
initial deposit of US$ 7 million equivalent. KFW may agree to use the
latter account or open its own. The Central Bank would manage and maintain
the Accounts and prepare requests for replenishment. All disbursements
will be fully documented, except that those for imports costing less than
US$200,000 will be based on statements of expenditure. The Credits are
expected to disburse over two years, with completion by September 30, 1988.
E. Expected Economic and Social Impact
59.       The Government's overall economic program encompasses reforms
which lie beyond the scope of this Operation. It is therefore difficult to



- 16 -
isolate the direct impact of agricultural reforms. The table below
summarizes the expected effects of the Government's program in comparison
with the absence of adjustments. The improvements indicated reflect
implementation of all the policy measures in the ongoing sector reform
programs and economy-wide reforms in domestic resource mobilization and
allocation, and export promotion.
Projection of Selected Economic Indicators
1980-1985               1986-1990
With Adjustment   Without Adjustment
Growth Rates in                       Program              Program
Constant Prices
GDP                       -0.9           3.0                 2.0
GDP, per capita           -3.6           0.3                -0.8
Exports GNFS              -0.6           4.1                 2.5
Imports GNFS            -16.5            2.1                 2.0
of which: food            -6.6          -16.2                2.5
capital goods -23.7             1.1              -0.9
intermediate goods -5.6             2.4                1.1
Ratios                     1980      1985          1990            1995
With   Without  With  Without
Current account balance    20%         10%       7%      11%     3Z      8%
as X of GDP
Debt service ratio a/       17%        49%     32%       69%    25%    48%
X of export
a/ after debt rescheduling
60.       The recovery program should permit higher levels of imports than
in recent years, particularly basic wage goods and production inputs.
Given Madagascar's present low import capacity, the enhanced external
support is needed. As recovery takes hold, the country's own capacity to
finance intermediate imports would increase as a result of higher export
earnings and declining food imports.
61.       Madagascar's export sector would have to grow substantially if
the economy is to extricate itself from pervasive foreign exchange crisis
and an excessive debt burden. Exports are projected to grow at 3.8Z per
year for 1987-90 and to accelerate to 5.8% thereafter. Over the next ten
years, export volumes are projected to rise to the peak levels attained
prior to the mid-1970s.
62.       This requires firm measures to strengthen the incentives,
infrastructure, and institutions along the entire spectrum of production,
transportation, and marketing of Madagascar's dozen or so traditional
export items and potential import-substitutes. This would be a major task
seafood), past policy has resulted in stagnation (e.g., vanilla, graphite,



- 17 -
cotton fabrics) and decline (e.g., coffee, pepper, sugar, meat, butter
beans, sisal) of volumes.
63.       Madagascar's data are too fragmentary and uncertain to underpin
an estimate about the magnitude and timing of the supply response to the
1986-87 agricultural adjustment program. However, experience across
countries indicates that, during periods of sector rehabilitation, when
prices are adequate and there is excess capacity, large production
increases are associated with eliminating input bottlenecks. This is the
expected response in Madagascar. In the improved policy environment, the
inputs financed shculd yield high returns. For example, at present price
relationships, NPK fertilizer for rice should bring net benefits about
double its cost. Thdere is reason to believe that returns to other
inputs/equipment should be as high or higher, given shortages over the last
several years. If rice and fertilizer are representative, returns to
Credit financing of say US$20 million in the first year could easily exceed
US$40 million, or more than two percent of agricultural production. The
impact of supplying the marketing and primary processing sectors with
spares and materials is expected to be considerable.
64.       The improved pricing and marketing framework,  as well as the
more favorable environment for economic activity in general, will ensure
far higher returns to agricultural investments than in the past decade.
Hence, development programs to be promoted in the future (extension
services, plant materials, credit) will yield greater benefits than in the
past. Because Madagascar's prospects depend heavily on agriculture, and
the latter can prosper only to the degree that the environment is conducive
to growth, it is difficult to exaggerate the importance of this effect.
65.       Income effects would be strongly positive for farmer families.
They produce over 40 percent of gross national product, but farm income is
about one-sixth of the income realized by the non-farm population. The
terms of trade between agriculture and other sectors would shift in favor
of the former because of pricing reforms and increased access to inputs.
Input prices will increase with the elimination of subsidies, but this will
be more than offset by higher farmgate prices and input availability. In
Madagascar about 300,000 families (equivalent to the entire urban
population) grow coffee, usually in combination with other crops. On
average each such family sells about 200 kg of coffee per year. If their
incomes, which are above average for the entire farm population, are about
3/4 of the country-wide mean, an increase of 50 percent in the producer
coffee-price alone would imply a one-fifth increase in income. Needless to
say, the employment impact would also be strongly positive, because
smallholder agriculture is very labor intensive.
66.       As for the urban population, the Government has already had to
take measures to reduce their real income. Since 1982 the quantity of
imported rice has decreased by two-thirds. Also, the domestic price has
been allowed to increase in real terms.   Before these austerity measures,
the urban population was spending two-thirds of its income on food,
including 23 percent on rice. As incomes have fallen, this share has
become larger. The adjustment process may imply still higher real prices
for rice and its substitutes (maize, cassava) for the next three years or



- 18 -
so. The Government and IDA are convinced that this is justified in view of
the need to expand agricultural production. Continuation of official rice
distribution over this period will assist the Government in mitigating the
impact on the most vulnerable group, the urban poor.
67.       Risks.  The risks associated with this Operation lay heavily on
the determination of the Government to pursue the required adjustment
policies on a sustainable basis. The assurances contained in the
Government's policy letter point to commitment to market-oriented growth.
Key in this is the rice policy supported by IDA. The program agreed for
carrying it out should go a long way towards allaying the Government's
immediate concern about urban food shortages. Policy reforms aimed at
increasing marketed surpluses should elicit a strong response; this should
enhance the adjustment program's credibility and sustainability.
Continuing assistance from IDA would enable imports needed for economic
recovery over the medium term and provide the Government with encouragement
to proceed with reform.
PART IV - BANK GROUP OPERATIONS IN MADAGASCAR
68.       Overall Lending Levels and Sectoral Composition.  IDA credits to
Madagascar amount to US$492.6 million (including US$29.9 million from the
Special Fund) and Bank loans total US$32.6 million. Bank Group assistance
to Madagascar has been concentrated in the key areas of infrastructure
(including urban and social infrastructure), agriculture and energy. Since
the start of Bank Group involvement in Madagascar, about 34 percent of Bank
Group lending has been for transport, 29 percent for agriculture, 12
percent for electric power and petroleum, 12 percent for industry and
water, 3 percent for technical assistance and 4 percent for education, 3-
percent for urban development and 3 percent for cyclone rehabilitation.
IFC has four investments in Madagascar in textiles, footwear, and
fisheries. Annex II contains a summary statement of past loans and IDA
credits as of September 30, 1985.
69.       Agricultural Lending.  The Bank has supported 14 agricultural
projects, of which five have been completed and five are under execution.
This has included three livestock development, four irrigation and two
forestry projects, and one for each of agriculture credit, rice
intensification and cotton development. Between 1972-79, several projects
faced severe problems as a consequence of Government policy and other
constraints. As a result, no new agricultural projects were approved
between 1975 and 1979 and virtually no formal sector work proved feasible.
70.      Rtecent credits for the Lac Alaotra (Cr. 1337-MAG) and Cotton
(Cr. 1433-MAG) Projects (both cofinanced by the Caisse Centrale de
Cooperation Economique) focus upon restoring rice and cotton production. A
Second Village Livestock Project (Cr. 1211-MAG) supports development of
livestock services for traditional producers and provides for sector-wide
policy reviews. A credit for Irrigation Rehabilitation (Cr. 1249-MAG),
cofinanced by the Caisse Centrale and the FED, is assisting with
rehabilitation of smaller irrigation networks, subsequent maintenance, and



- 19 -
strengthening of government services in this sector. The Agricultural
Institutions Technical Assistance Project (Cr. 1249-MAG) addresses sector
policy and institutional issues.
71.       Infrastructure Lending.  Four credits have provided for the
construction of all-weather highway links between the island's different
regions and three credits have been made for road maintenance and
rehabilitation. There have been credits to improve Madagascar's main port
of Toamasina and to support the railways modernization efforts. Urban
infrastructure development has benefitted from a water supply and
sanitation credit for the capital city of Antananarivo. In addition,
studies for urban development financed by the UNDP with the Bank as
Executing Agency led to approval of an urban development credit (US$12.8
million in FY84). A US$15 million credit for cyclone damage rehabilitation
was made in 1984. Energy projects have received growing Bank Group
attention. IDA participated with several co-lenders in the financing of
the large Andekaleka hydroelectric project, which was successfully
completed in June 1982. Two credits (for US$12.5 million and SDR 10.7
million) for petroleum exploration support the Government's efforts to
develop a domestic supply of hydrocarbons and to improve planning in the
energy sector. Both projects are proceeding well. Over US$250 million in
exploration development by foreign oil companies has been generated by
promotion under one of the projects.
72.       Other lending.  A first US$5 million DFC credit was made to the
Industrial Development Bank of Madagascar (BNI) in 1980. A follow-up US$ 5
million DFC credit, forming part of an Industrial Sector Credit of US$ 40
million, became effective in August 1985. In adda.tion, a credit for an
accounting and audit project was signed in June 1981 and a new credit for
training auditors, accountants and managers has been approved by the Board
on February 26, 1986.
73.       Implementation Problems.  Problems have arisen in the execution
of a number of projects, mainly delays, cost overruns, deficiencies in
managemeLt, and inadequate financial performance of project agencies.
Current problems center on difficulties linked to the country's economic
crisis, notably the acute shortage of foreign exchange and budget funds and
institutional problems related principally to the parastatal system. The
Bank approach has been to maintain supervision and to address the generic
problems through every instrument available, from the Consultative Group
through the Country Implementation Review (the most recent was June 1985),
including the macroeconomic, sectoral and project-level dialogue, technical
assistance and secondment staff. The Government has been responsive and
there have been significant improvements in Government portfolio management
and a reduction in implementation problems.
74.       Project Evaluation.  Since the start of the Bank/IDA program in
Madagascar, eight projects have been completed and audited by the
Operations Evaluation Department. Audit Report No. 1622 of December 1976
on the first Lac Alaotra project concluded that the project was generally
successful. However, the Impact Evaluation Report No. 3600 of August 1981
concluded that earlier assessments of project performance had been
over-optimistic, and that the actual rate of return was probably negative.



- 20 -
The Audit Report No. 1143 of April 1976 of the first education project
concluded that the education and manpower training objectives were
satisfactorily achieved. The Audit Report No. 5434 of January 29, 1984 on
the first Railway Project concluded that due to overruns and delays in
implementation the project had to be downscaled and that the estimated
rateof return was less than 10%. The Audit Report No. 1559 of April 1977
on the Beef Cattle Development Project concluded that the project had
contributed little to Madagascar. The Audit Report No. 2143 of July
1978 concluded that the Third Highway project was well justified and had a
good rate of return despite substantial cost overruns. Report No. 2299 of
December 1978 concluded that the physical objectives of the Tamatave Port
Project were satisfactorily achieved but pointed out that the institutional
objective was not accomplished during project implementation because of
inadequacies in the staffing of the port authority. Audit Report No. 5403
of December 28, 1984 covered two agricultural projects: the Morondava
Irrigation and Rural Development Project was assessed to be a profoundly
disappointing operation, but the Village Livestock and Rural Development
Project contributed to laying the groundwork for more effective services
for traditional livestock owners, with good prospects for sustainability.
75.       Bank Strategy and Future Program.  The Bank strategy is to
support the Government's efforts to rehabilitate and restructure the
economy by:
(a)    promoting policies and programs aimed at reforming incentive
structures, to make the economy more market-responsive and provide a more
favorable climate for private sector initiative and investments, and
providing financial and other support for appropriate policy programs;
(b)    supporting adoption of viable sectoral strategies aimed at
rehabilitating productive and economic infrastructure and establishing
conditions for long-term growth, and providing financial and technical
assistance to implement these programs;
(c)    strengthening the institutions responsible for macro and sectoral
economic and financial policy formulation and management; and
(d)    helping Madagascar mobilize donor aid and to make effective use
of donor financial, technical, and debt relief support.
76.       On the assumption of continued Government responsiveness,
the Bank is supporting Government adjustment efforts by emphasizing
policy-based lending as the main vehicle of Bank financial assistance.
Additional sector policy-based operations in agriculture and industry would
be prepared. These would support continued market deregulation, export
promotion, cost recovery, private investments, case-by-case parastatal
rehabilitation, and sector institution building. A core lending program
will also be supported which accords priority to the rehabilitation of
productive and economic assets, and addresses longer-term issues in human
resource development, health, agricultural research, and environmental
degradation. Overall, future lending would concentrate on agriculture,
industry, energy, transport and health.



- 21 -
77.       Aside from sector and project-level efforts, the main vehicle for
aid coordination has been the Consultative Group. Making the Consultative
Group a more effective means of addressing Madagascar's payment problems is
an important part of Bank country assistance strategy. This would
contribute to resolution of the country's external financial problems.
Donor and creditor support of a comprehensive financing strategy, combined
with a sound Government program to stimulate real growth offers the best
prospects for future development. This implies active participation by the
Government and the IMF in the preparation of meetings, and Bank focus on
longer-term structural adjustment issues.
78.       In addition to a substantial economic and sector work program,
the Bank is supporting the Government in policy analysis and selected
institution-building through technical assistance. Further, two secondment
positions have been recently approved, and the Bank's Resident mission has
been augmented by a resident economist. SPPF resources have and will
continue to be used to provide technical support for future policy-based
work, as well as to help strengthen investment planning, programming and
budgeting.
PART V - RECOMMENDATIONS
79.       I am satisfied that the proposed IDA Credit would comply with the
Articles of Agreement of the Association. I am also satisfied that the
proposed African Facility Credit would comply with provisions of Resolution
No. IDA 85-1 of May 21, 1985. I recommend that the Executive Directors
approve the proposed IDA Credit and the proposed Africa Facility Credit.
80.       I am further satisfied that the proposed Grant would comply with
the provisions of the Exchange of Notes between Japan and the Association
dated November 20, 1985 and recommend that the Executive Directors approve
the administration by the Association of the proposed Japanese Grant.
A. W. Clausen
President
*ttachments
Washington, D.C.
April 8, 1986



-22-                                               Annex 1
1 of 4
MADAGASCAR            - SOCtAL INDtCATORS DATA SHCET
MAAGASCAR                           RE      CEGROUPS (WzEICGTD AVCRAreS) /a
HOST                     (MSr RECeNT ESTIMATE) lb
9 RCENT        LOW [COME ARICA          MIDDLE INCOME
19601!     19701k ESTINATELk        SOUTH Or SAHARA      AFRICA S. OF SAHARA
a, (sDusm sQ. MO
TOTAL                             587.0      5N7.0       587.0
AGRCULTRtAL                       361.2      363.7       370.5
GM PU CP    CIOS)                      .-         *-        310.0             238.8                   10b3.8
mum com_nmS F  CPI
(KLOGAMow   OF OIL  QmnVALeNT)     28.0       60.0        41.0              62.3                    581.5
FOrmaoN  A  vITAL STATSTn
FOPIJATION,HID-TEAR (THOUSANDS)   536Z.0    6785.0      9452.0
URBAN PWIoAo" CX oP TOTAL)         10.6       14.1        20.4              20.1                     32.0
POPULATUIO PROJETONS
POPULATION IN YEAR 2000 (MILL)                          16.2
STATInOAR PaPULATION (MILL)                             55.0
POPULATION ICHUFIU                                       1.9
POPULATION DENSm
PER SQ. KM.                       9.1       11.6        16.1              33.2                     65.1
PEu SQ. EK. KRI. LAS             11.8       18.7        24.8             112.8                    124.8
POPULATION ACE STRUCTURE (Z)
0-14 nRS                        42.5       43.6        46.3              46.0                     45.6
15-64 YRS                        54.2       52.9        50.2              50.8                     51.5
65 AIID ABO                       3.2        3.3         3.4               2.9                      2.7
POPULATION CRO1  RATE (X)
TOTAL                             1.9        Z.4         2.6               2.9                      2.9
URBAN                             5.0        5.2         5.3               6.'                      5.1
CRUDE BIRTH RAE (PER THOUS)        43.8       43.7        46.7              47.2                    47.0
CHIE DEATH RATE (Pu THUS)          25.0        19.7       17.6              17.8                     15.0
CROSS REPRODucTION RATe             2.8        2.9         3.2               3.3                      3.2
FAMILT PLAHIN
ACCEPTOlS. AWiAL (TCOUS)
USERS (X OF MARRIED W             ..         ..          ..                3.3                      6.4
OO A 
INDEI OF FOOD PROD. PEu CAPItA
(1969-71-100)                      89.0      102.0        94.0              83.3                     82.9
PER CAPITA SUPPLY OF
CALORIES CZ 0F REQUIREMENTS)    109.0       110.0      114.0              87.7                     9B.5
P-rINS (GRAM  IER DAY)           61.0       60.0        59.0              51.9                     55.4
OF WHIC ANIMAL AS PULSe         18.0        17.0       15.0 /c           18.7                     16.5
CHWLD (ACES 1-4) DEATH RATE        20.2       15.8        10.0              23.1                     16.6
rALs
LIFE ERPECI. AT BIRTH (TEARS)      38.8       44.7        49.4              47.8                     52.0
INFANT HOE. RlAT (PER tUS)        109.0       89.0        66.0             119.5                    108.8
ACCESS TO SAFE WATXER (IPOP)
TOtAL                             ..        11.0        21.0 Id           27.1                     42.4
URBAN                             ..        67.0        8o.x Td           63.5                     67.5
RURAL                             ''         1.0         7.0o7Td          19.3                     35.8
ACCZSS TO ECRA DISPOSAL
(z OF POPULATION)
TOTAL                             ..         ..          9.0 /d           26.5                     28.9
URSAN                             ..         8.0         9.0 7;           65.6                     57.7
URAL                              ..         ..          9.0 7i           20.8                     20.7
POPULATION PER PRYSICIAN         8720.0    10170.0    10220.0 Ie         27901.7                  11791.7
POP. PER NURSINC PERSON          3060.0 /f  3350.0      3670.0 77         3308.4                   2459.8
POP. PER HOSnTAL BED
TOTAL                           420.0       350.0      510.0 /e         1273.6                    981.1
URBAN                           150.0 /f   210.0       240.0 7T          428.2                    368.8
RURAL                           600.0 7T    480.0       520.0 77        3292.5                   4371.9
A0hlSSIONS PEA HOSPITAL BE         ..         ..          ..                ..                      27 ?
MrS
AVERAGE SIZE OF HOUSEHOLD
TOTAL                             ''         5.8
URBAN                            .,          5.3
RURAL                    5'                  5.9
AVERARE NO. OF PERSONS/ROOM
TOTAL                             ..          ..
RMA                               ..          ..
RURAL
PIRCGITAGE OF DWELLINCS WITH ENACT.
TOTAL                             ..          ..
URA                               ..          ..
RURAL                             ..          ..



-23-                                               Annex 1
2 of 4
ILDAGASCAR            - SOCIAL INDICATOS DATA 
ADAGASCAR                           REFERCC GROS (UHEGCT  AVZRAGES) /a
NMST                     COST RECINT ISTMATC) lb
190b  191jb _RoCa"I          LOV INCOR  AFRICA        111011  LCn
19/                j Is7eESTIM&/-   SoUm OF SAHARA       AFRICA S. OF SAHARA
ADJUSrED ENROLUIENT RATIOS
PRIMAR:  TOTAL                   52.0        88.O      100.0 /a            67.8                     95.7
KALE                   58.0       95.0         ..               77.6                    100.0
FrLE                   45.0       31.0         ..               54.9                     83.2
SECONDARY: TOUAL                  4.0        11.0       14.0 /c            13.5                     17.3
HALE                    5.0       O3.0         ..               17.9                     25.0
FEMALE                  3.0        9.0        ..                 9.1                     14.8
VOCATIONAL CZ OF SECONDARY)         9.1        8.7         ..                13.2                      5.9
PUPIL-TZACHEt RATIO
PRIMRY                           70.0        65 J       55.0               44.9                     41.1
SECONDARY                        24.0        20.0       23.0 /c            27.4                     Z5.5
COESONUYI
PASSENCER CARS/THOUSAND POP         4.1         6.8        7.1 Ic             3.8                     20.8
RADIO RECEIVEILSITOUSAND POP       15.3        79.7      206.5               55.8                    107.8
TV RECnIvERS/TBUS   pop             ..          0.3        7.7                2.6                     20.8
NEUSPAPER ("DAXLY ENERAL
INT]RUST') CIRLATION
PER TiOOSAND POPUATION             7.8         7.8        6.0                5.0                     18.4
CINEMA ANNUAL ATTENDACECAPITA       0.5 If      0.7        ..                0.5                       0.4
TOTAL LABOR FORCE (THOUS)        2943.0      3570.0     4602.0
Fl2ULE (PERCENT)                 46.2        45.4       44.1               34.2                     36.2
AGRICOLTURE (PERCNT)             93.0        90.0       87.0 /d            77.5                     54.5
NDIISrSRY (PERCENT)               2.0         3.0        4A 7;i             9.7                     18.3
PARTICIPATION RATE (PERCUNT)
TOTAL                            54.8        52.6       48.7               39.3                     36.8
NALE                             60.7        58.8       54.7               50.9                     47.1
FEMALE                           49.4        46.7       42.8               28.1                     27.2
ECONOMC DEPENDENcr RATIO            0.8         0.9        1.0                1.3                      1.3
INCO DISIZEU
PERCENT OF PRIVATE ICOMD
RECEIVED a!
I-cEEsT 5S or DO     5       IOm/  41.0                                     .
HIGHEST 20S oF NOUsENOs          60.1
STM zoz OF sUUSENOLDS             5.2         .
LacsT iC7 OF HUSmSLDS            13.0 .
IY ur cR
ESTIKATED A850UIIC POVERTY INCOME
LEVEL (USS PER CAPITA)
URuN                               ..         ..       150.0 Ie           165.5                    590.7
RURAL                             ..          ..         W.E71             95.0                    275.3
ESUMED RELATIVE POVERTY INCOM
LEEL (USS PER CAPITA)
URBAN                             ..          ..       135.0 /c           113.1                    545.6
RURAL                             ..          ..        86A0 7             67.6                    201.1
ESTIATED POP. BEOW ABSOLUTE
POVRTY INCmE LEV  C(S)
URBAN                             ..          ..        50.0 /C            36.6
RURAL                             ..          ..        50A 7;             61.8
NOT AVAIIABL
NOT APPLICABLE
NOTES
/a  The group averages for each indScator are popLatibeighted arit'  tic ue&n. Covra  of countr_es
among the indicators depe_  on availablty of date and In not unform.
/b   Unlies otberwiae noted. "Data for 1964? refer to my year betumen 1959 and 1961; Deta for 1970' betw_e
1969 and 1971; and data for "Mt lcat Estimate" betwen 1981 and 1983.
/c   _i77; Id 1980; /a 1978; If 1962;  , Populaton.
JUNE. 1985



Annex 1
-24 -                                       3 of 4
MADAGASCAR: ECONOMIC INDICATORS
GROSS DOMESTIC PRODUCT IN 1984
Annual Rate of Growth
USS Mln.        Z       1970-78        1978-84
GDP at Market Prices                                             2,382 . 9     100.0       -0.1           -.
Consumption                                                      2,172.4        91.2      -0.7             0.0
- Private                                                     (1,849.8)      (77.6)    (-0.9)          (-6.3)
- Public                                                        (322.6)      (13.6)    (-0.1)          (1.9)
Gross Domestic Investment                                          324.3        13.6       -4.4           -6.4
Current Account Balance                                           -252.2       -10.6
Exports of Goods, NFS                                              388.7        16.3       -0.7           -8.9
Imports of Goods, NFS                                              502.4        21.1      -6.2           -9.9
OUTPUT LABOR FORCE AND PRODUCTIVITY IN 1984
Value added /I         Labor Force        VA per Worker
USS Mn.      1         '000      Z             USS
Agriculture                                      1,007.6     42.3        4,356   88.1            231.3
Industry                                           371.1      15.6          135    2.7         2,749.2
Services                                         1,004.2      42.1          454    9.2         2,211.8
Total/Average                                    2,382.9    100.0        4,945  100.0            482.0
GOVERNMENT FINANCE
Central Government
F1G Bln            Z of GDP
1984     1982      1983     1984
Current Receipts                                                            273)0       15.2      15. 7     77
Current Expenditures                                                          197.7     16.1      14.2      14.4
Current Deficit                                                                45.3     -0.9       1.0       3.3
Capital Expenditures                                                          107.6      7.5       7.2       7.8
Foreign financing (net)                                                        36.6      5.1       3.8       2.7
MONEY, CREDIT, and PRICES
1978     1979       1980      1981    1982      1983     1984
- - (Billion FHG Outstanding at the End of the Period) - -
Money and Quasi Money                            141.0    173.G      206.0    250.0   276.0    271.5    321.0
Bank Credit to Public Sector                      49.0     99.0      176.0    238.0   269.0    307.0    338.0
Bank Credit to State Enterprises                 101.0    121.0      150.0    165.0   198.0    229.6    288.0
and Private Sector
- - - - - - - -(Percentage or Index Numbers)- - - - - - - -
Money and Quasi Money as Z of GDP                 29.0     29.1       29.9      30.7    27.7      22.2     23.4
GDP Price Deflator (1970-100)                    195.7    217.9      250.6    313.7   403.9    490.3    540.5
Annual percentage changes in:
GDP Price Deflator                               6.8     11.3       15.0      25.2    28.6      21.5     10.2
'Bank Credit to Government                       75.0    102.0       77.8      33.0    13.7      14.3     10.1
Rank Credit to Other Sectors/2                   5.2     19.8       24.0      10.0    20.0      16.2     25.2
Note:  All conversions to dollars in this table are at the average exchange rate prevailing during the
period cove-ed.
At market prices.
,?     Private Sector and State Enterprises.



Annex 1
- 25 -                                                 4 of 4
BALANCE OF PAYMENTS                                                 MERCHANDISE EXPORTS (AVERASE 1980-84)
1982    1983    1984 /I                                                 US5 Mn.       S
TUSS Million.)
Coffee                                      135.0       38.8
Exports of Goods 6 N.F.S.          380.2   356.4   388.7          Vanilla                                      38.6        11.1
Imports of Goods 6 N.F.S.          651.7   550.7   502.5          Cloves                                       47.2        13.6
Fishing products                             19.7        5.7
Resource Balance                    -271.5  -194.3  -113.8          Meat products                                 7.1         2.0
Textiles                                     10.7        3.1
Factor Income, Net                 -99.0  -112.6  -141.8          Petroleum products                            8.7        2.5
Private Transfers, Net              -1.4    -1.2      3.5         Mineral products                             13.5        3.9
Other commodities                            67.0        19.3
Current Account Balance             -371.9  -308.1 -252.1           Total                                       347.6       100.0
Official Unrequited Trsnsfers         72.3    60.8    67.8        EXTENAL DEBT, DECEMBER 31, 1984 /3
USS Mn.
Net MLT Borrowing:                    121.3   196.8   168.0
Public Debt. Incl  guaranteed                        2,120.6
Disbursements                      209.9   193.6   120.8          Non-Guaranteed Private Debt
Amortization                      -181.3 -195.7  -175.4           Total Outstanding A Disbursed                        2,120.6
Debt Relief                         92.7   198.9   222.6
DEBT SERVICE RATIO FOR 1984 14
Other Capital (net) /2                186.9    36.5    41.5                                     _
Public Debt, Inl. guaranteed /5                         33.3
Change in Reserves                    -8.6    14.0  -25.2
(increase - - )                                                   lBRD/IDA LENDING, Sept.30 , 1985
USS millions
RATE OF EXCHANGE                         1982    1983    1984                                                      IBRD        IDA
Outstanding & Disbursed                      27.7      308.7
USS1.00 - FMC                       349.74  430.45  576.60          Undisbursed                                            180.5
FNCI    - UIS5                      0.0029  0.0023  0.0017          Outstanding  tcl. Undisbursed
27.7      89.2
/1 Provisional estimates.                                             3 Paris Club agreed to reschedule about $120 million in March
I2 Includes net IM? credit, state and private short term                1984; London Club, 8195 million in May 1984.
capital, arrears and consolidated arrears. and errors             4 Debt service payments as X of goods and services.
and omissions.                                                   /f  After effects of debt rescheduling arrangements ,and
including payments oE arreares and IMF repurchases.
EA2IO
March 1986



- 26 -
ANNEX II
Page 1 of 2
STATUS OF BANK GROUP OPERATIONS
IN THE DEMOCRATIC REPUBLIC OF MADAGASCAR
A. Statement of Bank Loans and IDA Credits (as of September 30, 1985) 1/
Loan or
Credit
Number    Year   Borrower    Purpose                 Bank   IDA    Undisbursed
-----(US$ Million)
Twelve Credits and Five Loans
have been fully disbursed                            32.57  139.93
CR  817-MAG  1978   Madagascar  AndekalekaII                    40.60 2/ 3.03
CR  881-MAG  1979   Madagascar Mangoky - Agriculture            12.00     2.24
CR 938-MAG  1979   Madagascar  Highways V                       24.00     0.57
CR  977-MAG  1980   Madagascar  Industrial Bank - BNI            5.00     0.92
CR 1002-MAG  1980   Madagascar  Water/Sanitation                20.50     7.95
CR  903-HAG  1979   Madagascar  Railways II                     12.50      1.66
CR 1016-MAG  1980   Madagascar  Petroleum Exploration           11.50     5.30
CR 1064-MAG  1981   Madagascar  Agriculture Bank - BTM           2.30     0.99
CR 1086-MAG  1981   Madagascar  Plain of Antananarivo T.A.    11.50       3.63
CR 1155-MAG  1981   Madagascar  Accounting and Audit            15.00    10.78
CR 1161-MAG  1981   Madagascar  Forestry II                      5.70      1.21
CR 1211-MAG  1982   Madagascar  Village Livestock II 4/         15.00    11.27
CR 1249-HAG  1982   Madagascar  Agriculture Institutions         5.70     2.69
CR 1298-MAG  1982   Madagascar  Tsimiroro Heavy Oil
Exploration                  11.50     5.00
CR.1337-MAG  1982   Madagascar Lac Alaotra                      18.00    15.69
CR.1391-HAG  1983   Madagascar  Sixth Highway                   25.00    22.38
CR.F04-HMAG  1983   -____--20.00    18.21
CR.1433-MAG  1983   Madagascar Cotton Development                7.90     7.43
CR.F008-MAG  1983   _                      -    -                9.20     8.29
CR.F1497-MAG 1983   Madagascar Urban                            12.80    12.80
CR.1526-HAG  1984  Madagascar Cyclone Rehabilitation            15.00    10.69
CR.1541-MAG  1985   Madagascar Industrial Assistance            40.00    38.27
CR.1589-MAG3/1985   Madagascar Irrigation Rehab.                12.00    12.00
TOTAL                              32.57  428.05   180.49
of which has been repaid          4.88    3.46
TOTAL now outstanding              27.69  424.59
Amount sold
of which has been repaid            -     6.40
TOTAL now held by Bank and IDA    28.96  489.23
TOTAL undisbursed                                     180.49



- 27 -
ANNEX II
Page 2 of 2
B. Statement of IFC Investments (as of June 30, 1985)
Loan    Equity    Total
(USs MillionT
1977    Sotema - Textile Kill at Majunga        11.00    0.29      11.29
1980    Bata - Shoe Manufacturing in
Antananarivo                          1.25     -          1.25
1983    Pevheries de Nossi-Be                   2.57    0.18        2.70
1985    Cotona, S.A. at Antisirabe              6.65    0.17        6.82
22.06
1/ The status-of projects listed in Part 'A' is described in a separate report
on all Bank/IDA-financed projects in execution, which is updated twice
yearly and circulated to the Executive Directors on April 30 and October 31.
2/ Including a supplemental credit of US$10.0 million of 1980.
31 Not yet effective.



- 28 -
Annex III
1 of 2
MADAGASCAR
AGRICULTURAL SECTOR ADJUSTMENT OPERATION
Supplementary Data Sheet
Timetable of Key Events
(a)  Preparation                    1984-85
(b)  Appraisal                      May/June 1985 and October 1985
(c)  Negotiations                   December 23, 1985-March 7, 1986
(d)  Planned date of effectiveness June 30, 1986
Conditions of Effectiveness
Prior to credit effectiveness, the Government would:
Ca) set 1986 coffee prices following procedures agreed upon with IDA
(para. 48);
(b) put in effect the revised quarantine regulations agreed with the
Association (para. 48); and
(c)  make satisfactory arrangements for carrying out studies on local
government finances and the management of export crop receipts,
including the future of the stabilization funding the the FNUP
(paras. 52-54).
Special Conditions
(a) prior to going ahead with projects mentioned in paragraph 45, the
Government would provide evidence of their economic
justification;
(b) new investments costing US$5 million or more would be added to
the agriculture investment program only after obtaining IDA's
concurrence (para. 45);
(c) by end-October in each of 1986 and 1987, a rice import program
for the following year would be agreed (para. 47);
(d) subsidies paid to agricultural trading companies would be reduced
by three percentage points by April 30, 1987, and the five
remaining percentage points by April 30, 1988 (para. 42);



- 29 -
Annex III
2 of 2
Conditions for Second Tranche Release
Release of the second tranche of US$27.5 million of the credits would
be contingent upon:
(a)  adoption of a 1987-89 public investment program for agriculture
acceptable to IDA (para. 41);
(b)  carrying out of the agreed pricing systems for major export cros
and the rice management program (paras. 46 and 48);
(c)  implementation of the private market development program (para.
49);
(d)  the transfer of input supply to commercial interests and the
promotion of private markets, as provided in the agreed programs
(paras. 49 and 50);
(e)  the elimination of subisidies on agricultural inputs except for a
maximum of five percent of the cost of pesticides and for
pesticides used for demonstration purposes (para. 43);
(f)  presentation to IDA of results of studies and action plans for
edible oils, coffee production, promotion of agricultural
exports, local government finances, export crop administration
and the management of export crop-generated resources (paras.
52-54); and
(g)  prior to March 1987, or other agreed date, the Association would
review the Government's progress in implementing the program set
forth in the Letter of Development Policy.



- 30 -
Annex IV
1 of 8
DEVELOPMENT POLICY LETTER
1.      For the past few years, Madagascar has been facing a serious
economic and financial crisis. There have been output declines in all
sectors. In agriculture in particular, which represents 35Z of GDP, food
production is not keeping pace with population growth, and the output of
industrial products and export goods has declined. The financial crisis is
the consequence, on the one hand, of the decline in export proceeds, 80X of
which are generated by agricultural products for which the exportable
volume has declined and world market trends have been unfavorable. On the
other hand, there have been rapid increase in external debt service, which
increased from US$94 million in 1980 to US$314 million in 1983 as export
receipts from goods and services dropped from US$518 million to US$358
million, thus placing draconian limits on the capacity to import. Economic
growth therefore depends on the development of agriculture, on which also
depend the food supply of the population, the provisioning of inputs to
industry, and the boosting of export receipts. For this reason the
1983-1985 program accorded priority to agriculture and to the role of small
farmers in the increase of agriculture output, and the 1984-1987 plan
allocates the lion's share of resources to the agricultural sector within
the framework of a policy aimed at:
-  achieving food self-sufficiency, in particular in rice, animal
protein and edible oils, by 1990;
- developing and diversifying export products such as coffee,
vanilla, cloves, pepper, meat, fisheries products, maize,
manioc and cowpeas;
- providing the raw materials to domestic industry: cotton,
sugar, cane, tobacco, hides, meat, milk, wood and paper pulp,
etc.
2.       In order to achieve these objectives, the strategy adopted by the
Government consists in:
- refocusing the role of the ministries responsible for
agriculture on the functions of production support, policy
formulation and monitoring of the sector, leaving production
and marketing operations proper to the farmers and to privat.e
or semipublic operators;
- rehabilitating production infrastructures: irrigation
networks, feeder roads, trucks, ports, storage facilities,
slaughterhouses;
- deregulating marketing and the prices of products of
agriculture and agrobased industries, except for a limited
number of products (see attachment);



- 31 -                           AnnexIV
2 of 8
- differentiating the policy toward semipublic enterprises
depending on whether they engage in production activities or in
providing services to producers. In the first case, their
rehabilitation will be defined on a case-by-case basis by
rehabilitating them financially by changing the management, by
entering partnership with private sector, etc. In the second
case, by providing resources on the basis of an agreed Annual
Work Program;
- increasing economic returns by improving the resource
allocations.
3.       Within the framework of this strategy, the capacity for planning,
formulating economic policy and management of the two ministries
responsible for agriculture has been strengthened since 1983 with the
assistance of the International Development Association (IDA Credit
1249-MAG) which helped to reorganize, improve methodology and provide
training and equipment. The rationalization of resource allocation
necessitated a reduction in labor force of 3,000 employees in January 1983
and the introduction of budgetary systems which will be in place in fiscal
1986. Seventy-three (73) sales outlets for agricultural inputs have been
turned over to private operators and a number of state farms placed on
rental-management contracts.
4.       Services to producers have been improved by the following actions:
- rehabilitating agricultural irrigation networks in the large
perimeters (Lac Alaotra with IDA and CCCE assistance, Marovoay
using AIF and German assistance, Bas Mangoky with IDA
assistance) and in smaller perimeters (microirrigation by
assistance for ELF);
- reorganizing agronomic research, namely by creating a Research
and Development Department at the National Research Center for
Rural Development (FOFIFA) and coordinating the programs of the
F(FIFA with the two Ministers;
- improving the extension services to rice growers in the
Hauts-Plateaux region (IFAD Rice Production Development
Operation where the qualifications of extension agents where
have been upgraded), to cotton planters whose production has
doubled in two years (with IDA and CCCE assistance to HASYMA,
the state monopoly in charge of cotton) and to livestock
farmers in the faritany of Mahajanga (FAFIFAMA, operation to
revitalize cattle farming in the faritany of Mahajanga,
financed by IDA);
- creating a Fisheries Directorate in charge of promoting the
development of small scale fishing and planning and regulating
large scale fishing;
- the distribution of inputs turning over gradually to private
sector.



-32-                            Annex IV
3 of 8
5.       These direct actions have been accompanied by a number of measures
to encourage small farmers to increase production.
-  Decree No. 83-191 eliminated the government monopoly on rice
marketing throughout the territory except in the reserved areas
of Lac Alaotra and Marovoay where the producer price of paddy
rice is set at FMG 100 for grade C II for crop year 1986;
-  the producer price of paddy rice was increased by 81 percent in
three years, rising from a fixed price of FMG 47 kilogram in
1982 to a floor price of FMG 85 in 1985;
-  Decree No. 85199 of June 25, 1985 eliminated the ceiling price
of rice to the consumer;
-  the producer price per kilogram of coffee was increased from
FMG 280 for crop year 1983/84 to FMG 395 for crop year 1985/86,
an increase of 41%, a trend that will be continued and
confirmed for the 1986/87 crop year;
-   new legislation creating and regulating Water Management to
small farmers participating in the financing and management of
production infrastructures;
- financial recovery measures at certain development companies
have been initiated with the assistance of lenders such as IDA,
KfW and CCCE;
- the decree of December 2, 1985 set the price for refined
groundnut oil, which was increased from FMG 758,507 to
FMG 1,156,000 per packaged ton ex-factory (or an increase of
52.4% from 1984 to 1985) pending an overall study on this
subsector whose the results are expected in the first half of
1987. This study to be conducted in accordance with the
principles of the new marketing strategy (free competition in
the marketing of agricultural products) will define a coherent
strategy for the development of the subsector.
6.      Finally, other measures concerning the agricultural sector in
general, and the parastatals sector in particular, have been taken. Thus:
-  the subsidies to parastatals have been eliminated, except for
support, training and maintenance activities undertaken on
behalf of Government;
-  a few parastatals have been either liquidated (FIFATO,
development corporation in the Toliary region) or turned over
on rental-management contracts to private operators (a number
of nursery centers, the state coffee farm at Bree-Kax, etc.).
-  vigorous recovery programs have been instituted or are being
prepared for other parastatals, involving staff reduction
(FIFABE, SODEM0, Toly, etc.), financial rehabilitation and
sometimes joint-ventures with private sector.



-33 -Annex IV
4 of 8
7.       All these actions undertaken since 1982/83 will bring the recovery
of the national economy, and the agricultural sector in particular; they
will be continued to achieve the objectives set for 1990.
For the 1986/87 period, the Government's efforts will focus on:
- introducing a more favorable environment for the marketing of
agricultural products, and for the development and
diversification of exports;
-  implementing a policy of food security;
- increasing and improving the use of resources available to
agriculture;
- improving assistance to producers.
8.       Thus, new legislation on marketing of agricultural products will
be promulgated in early 1986. Except for a limited number of products for
which the prices (floor prices or ex-factory prices), methodology for price
setting is given in appendix, the marketing agricultural products -will be
free. In the case of coffee, cloves, and pepper, state intervention will
be limited to the final stage of exporting and an indicative price
differential (floor price, guaranteed f.o.b. price) will be set within
which the various intermediaries will operate freely. The floor price to
the producers will be set according to the objectives of increasing
production of high value products.  During the same period, Government will
implement a program to develop domestic marketing circuits, including
appropriate actions on investment and financing requirements.
An action program for export crops will be introduced to diversify
and increase productive capacity and to provide incentives to exporters,
including improving administrative procedures.
Operators involved in the marketing of traditional export products
(coffee, cloves, pepper) will be treated equally by gradually eliminating
the 10% commission, lowering it by 3 percent in 1986, 3 percent in 1987,
and the eliminating remaining four percent in 1988. A study on the future
of the Stabilization Funds and the use of the resources generated by the
subsector (FNUP), the results of which will be available toward March 1987,
would consider a revision of this schedule and propose additional of
reforms to be implemented during the following period.
9.       The various policy measures taken by the Ministry of Agriculture
and described elsewhere should result in food self-sufficiency by 1990.
Imports will still be necessary until that time. The management of these
imports will be within the framework of an overall food strategy based on a
global, rational and coherent approach to the management of available rice
supplies. Three major concerns will guide the formulation of this
strategy:
1. the need to ensure that the poorest consumers have a regular
supply at stable prices;



Annex IV
- 34 -                               5 of 8
2. the need for an intervention stock to enable the Government to
regulate prices;
3. the need for security stock to deal with natural disasters.
The implementation of this strategy will allow the Government to
consider opening up the reserved areas. It is essential, however, if the
strategy is to have some chance of success, for the Government to be
assured of the financial support of donors and the World Bank group.
At the same time, the Ministry of Livestock and Fisheries will
focus its efforts on:
- a rationale exploitation of halieutic resources namely those
still unexploited tuna, crayfish, crabs and shrimps;
- a larger share of the domestic market to be supplied by
industrial fishing;
- dairy production and pork and chicken production.
The decision to formulate and implement a National Environment
strategy reflects Government commitment to elaborate a national development
strategy aiming at conserving the environment and managing natural
resources.
The three prongs of Government program are as follow:
- alerting, educating and training the people on the actions
necessary to conserve and promote ecosystems whose elements are
the natural factors of production (land, water, climate);
- revising and consolidating existing legislation;
- intensifying direct actions in support of conservation of
nature; an action program to prevent deforestation,
bushfire,erosion of hillsides, soil conservation and
restoration, reforestation, and improvement of natural forest.
10.      As regards the management of financial resources for the
agriculture, the Government will continue the efforts already undertaken to
improve the procedures for allocating, managing and monitoring resources.
A working party has been established to study and propose methods for an
effective management of counterpart funds from grants and loans from
external sources. Furthermore, the study on the export crops subsector
provide conclusions regarding the system of taxation and the management of
FNUP. Finally, with IDA assistance within the framework of the Second
Agricultural Institutions Project, the Government will set up a working
party to study the budgeting, the resource allocation process, and the
monitoring and follow-up of the use of funds.



_ 35 -                               Annex IV
6 of 8
Still within the framework of a more effective management of the
limited available resources, in 1983 Government began to implement a
coherent Public Investment Program (PIP), the instrument for carrying out
its objectives. PIP grants priority to the agricultural sector by
allocating to it 40% to 45% of the available resources, mostly for
financing the rehabilitation of production infrastructures and, to a lesser
degree, financing the enterprises engaged in strategic activities.
Beginning in 1986, the three-year sliding PIP will be determined in the
framework of the 1986-1990 Five-Year Development Plan, which sets priority
for the rice, edible oil and meat sectors. Funding will go on a priority
basis to projects affecting these sectors, the selection of which will be
determined as a function of clearly defined criteria; economic and
financial rates of return on the one hand, but also coherency at
intrasectoral and intersectoral level.
11.      The success of the steps taken vis-a-vis the producers will depend
to a great extent on the implementation of a credit policy more adapted to
the needs of the agricultural sector in general and to those of the
individual producers in particular: the credit policy that the Government
will draw up will give preference to the rural sector, by extending the
banking network, selecting the financial conditions for agricultural credit
and establishing close ties between the extension services and the banking
network. Development of agricultural credit will naturally result in great
reliance on BTM. Rehabilitation of its portfolio and strengthening of its
management, as well as a substantial increase in its resources, will thus
be at the top of the list of concerns of the Government.
12.      The steps to improve extension services will be undertaken in the
light of studies to be carried out in 1986 and 1987 with regard to specific
subsectors (edible oils, export crops, food crops). In addition, a master
plan for agricultural extension work adapted to the Malagasy situation will
be developed to complement the measures already operational in the
irrigation subsector.
These actions will benefit from the reform of the quarantine
system, which will make it possible to strengthen the cooperation between
Malagasy agricultural research and the external research institutes, and to
revive the policy of introducing high-yield varieties.
They will take into account the Government's policy of gradually
transfering the supply of inputs and veterinary goods to commercial
operators, with sales prices ultimately reflecting real costs.
This transfer will be carried out according to the capabilities of
the commercial operators and the existence of a market. As regards the
Hauts Plateaux, where the conditions have already been met, the transfer
will be completed in 1987. In the costal areas, supply will be carried out
by HASYMA for all the operational sites in the cotton production areas, by
the development corporations in their own area of action, by the sugar
companies for the areas of Ambilobe, Namakia, Brickaville and Nosy-Be, and
by DAA in the ares where its presence is essential in order to carry out a



-36 -                                   Annex IV
7 of 8
promotion effort until commercial operators can take over. As regards
veterinary products, 25% are scheduled to be marketed by commercial
operators in 1986, and 50% in 1987 depending on the infrastructural
arrangements that may be devoted specially to the operation.
13.      The Malagasy Government is convinced that the set of actions
described above, steps it will take with energy and determination, will
give a new burst of activity to Malagasy agriculture, and accordingly to
the economy as a whole. It is looking confidently toward 1990, and is all
the more confident that it will be able to count on the support of the
bilateral or multilateral aid agencies, in the first rank of which is the
World Bank.



AM :  SYSEM CF HAM==  AMD EIMS CF AR IA3 L FROMM
RIAR                                                                                         DM  CY PUrA-
PROMM                  rLMM               Mmua s  =n   sim       PRIM  SYSM           SErDim(F PRIM AnorCiC               PRIM
Iftuat             MFPARA-MD-MA  Decree  Free oopetritim         Mlinimm price to     Reference zoe:             March
producer             Vakixsikaratra
Mthod: At least
Wfbrder price
calcAlated at the
armt rate of
Cotton                                     Pwchuse by HASMA    Price set by spe-   Referere mu:                  October
calists              South
Method: idea
Soybeans           MPAAM4UR  Decree  Free campetition            Mlnimu price to      Reference zoe:             September
producer             MiAntm  Vaddwn
karatra
Method: i_
Paddy              Preset                 Free copetition        Hinida price to      Reference zes:            October
legislation                                  producer              Hauts-Plateau  and                                    w
Decrees 83.191 and                                                 la2 Alaotra
85.199
Future
MPAM44fl Decree
&'garcazw          MIPARA4C-MEE  Decree   CollUetion by suar  Final price basal   First partial payint:
refineries            on results (system   50X of price for pre-
of partial py-       vious season. Second
mnts)                partial paymnt:
Hlfway dtogh season;
balance at end of
season,
Thbacco                                    Purobase by (FMWAT    Price set by         Reference zomu:           October
specialists          Hauts-PlateacG
00
Coffee, vanilla,  MPARA-MC Decree         Free competition       Minium yrice to      Reference zom:             Coffee: April          C0
cloves, pepper                            except in the final  producer (indi-        East coast                Vanll1a: September      co
export pme            cative margins)      Metbod: Prictli  at       Cloves: July
narginal ooet corres-    Pepper: NbMeber
pndixg to the target
volum of pro&rtion
Othar products                            Free competition



- 38 -
ANNEX V
1 of 3
Rice Management Program
1.        Wishing to assume its responsibilities for domestic supply as
correctly and effectively as possible, the Government has made a critical
analysis of the present supply system. In the light of recent experience,
it has decided to undertake a number of reforms to improve the system and
provide for the expeditious and coordinated management of the country's
rice supplies. To that end, the Government has decided to establish a
special unit with the task of formulating government policy on management
of the rice sector, putting this policy into effect, and coordinating the
activities of the various economic agents involved in the collection,
storage, distribution and sale of rice.
2.        The collection, processing, shipment and sale of rice are open to
all, private entrepreneurs as well as State companies. The role of the
State is to ensure the smooth functioning of the system, to facilitate the
operations of those involved, to intervene indirectly in order to lessen
price fluctuations, and to ensure supplies for the neediest consumers.
3.        Private operators and State companies engage in collection and
milling as they wish. The rice unit will enter into contracts with one of
the State companies for:
- the importing of rice;
- the fcrwarding, with its own facilities or any other means, of
imported rice earmarked for the official distribution system.
4.         On the basis of past experience the Government has decided to
provide for official distribution t'irough the local administrations to the
lowest-income consumers. provision will be made for official distribution
during the pre-harvest gap, using part of the imported rice. The
Government will agree with the Bank on the quantity to be distributed and
on the rate of decrease in the coming years.
5.        To avoid surges of price due to speculation, when the price in
the market for five consecutive days exceeds the agreed price the unit will
put imported rice on the market in lots of at least one ton, following
procedures that it will determine.
6.        In emergencies caused by natural disasters the Government may
distribute art of the available rice in order to supply the affected
population.
7.        So that it may act efficiently and to prevent the stock of rice
available to the Government from falling too low, the unit will draw up
precise rules for obtaining further imports. it will issue orders for next
shipments when the total stock of rice falls to a predetermined level.



39                         Annex V
2 of 3
8.        Prior to October 31 of each year, the Government will agree with
the World Bank on a total target for rice imports in the following year.
That target, which may be revised, will be set on the basis of per capita
consumption compatible with dietary habits in terms of calories and the
production target that the Government has set for the year in question.
The Government will periodically inform the Bank of:
- the production outlook;
- quantities marketed by the public sector;
- stocks held by State companies;
- buffer stocks available for Government intervention;
- quantities already used in such intervention.
If it appears that the initial import projections are being exceeded, and
no other sources of financing are immediately available, the Government
will submit a request to the World Bank for financing of the rice imports
from the proceeds of the Agricultural Sector Adjustment Credit. The
modalities of this request will be specified at a later date.
9.        The Government has decided to introduce this new system in April
1986. The Government and the World Bank agree to consult prior to July
1986 in order to evaluate the functioning of the new system and if
necessary to revise the paramters on the basis of experience.
10.       If at the end of May 1986 the price of rice has not fallen
sufficiently with respect to the highest price reached during the preceding
pre-harvest period, the Government will continue official distribution.
until that price has fallen enough to be accessible to the neediest
groups. If during the harvest period the market price exceeds the trigger
price for intervention, the buffer stock will be placed on the market under
the terms set forth in paragraph 5.
11.       For 1986 and 1987, in the event that, in areas previously
classified as -reserved", the price of rice increases excessively, the
Government may distribute rice originally set aside for intervention in the
market, in order to supply the urban populations of those areas.
12.       In the event that in areas remote from the national distribution
system, the price of rice reaches unusual levels, the Government may divert
a limited quantity of the stocks originally set aside for intervention in
the market in order to supply the urban populations of those areas.
13.       In the event that the price of rice after the harvest is
significantly lower than the price projected for that period, the
Government and the Bank will revise downward the intervention prices
preferred to paragraph 5 as agreed.
14.       The Government expects that under these conditions it will be in
a position to ensure the supply of rice to the Malagasy population, without
the need for:



- 40 -
Annex V
3 of 3
-  introduction of administrative controls that can hinder free
competition and the free movement of goods;
- continuation of the system of reserved areas.
On March 31, 1986 the Government will announce the opening of the
reserved areas for April 15, 1986 and will provide for free competition in
marketing and the free movement of paddy and rice.



18D 1940
*?                               C                              i                                4i                              b                     :
MADAGASCAR                                                                                  GA
AGRICULTURAL INVESTMEN                                                                                 Anseoranano
LINE OF CREDIT PROJECT                                                                              +
LOCATION OF 8TM  OFFICES
RFPRLIVrAT,ON O/F LA PZAfM
G    Groups                     Pawd yoed&
G                      -      ofmg.&fwA
A    Swcsd  S                   All.a*w.  oads                            +S   +             +            N A
B   csid 0sia _ _         Non.- 6fr  dBen       s                    Hell-wilF
aurn.sma-uses zssawsujsAa....
Sewn -Ag it..            Ci-. d. ,
5ab-oencbez _ R>lrs~~~~~~~AabWt
A.,p-gtPs                                        -/.        n7.                                     1
Aonfperv                                                                              6'dor"   A     o _ }
Um.l --                                  -                 I                  >b
> _    ,,_,,,_           tI~~~~~ObahO
GA                    A   s         vz  ,.
Mds.ne <t {~~~~~~ .ms....s,i.                      Fsorvr.ssann
Ma~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~A  - I                           --          .~'   A ',"'          I
e.        |5                                                     Toamasisia
StMo ow.o ._iI# . umrdboAaw -- tien
n ~ ~          ~          ~          ~          ~4                                                                             to't/' J
:~~~~~,' B                                                                 T r   ,e /sis,
to~~~~~~~~~~~~|@v. ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~    ~      ~      ~      ~     ~     ~    Vm s*3aa.s a. -a b  -.'fa
Antsir5 w                                                    a o ra
-20r                                   c. .  ,                                              N    zr
, *: ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~OaybeS T   q1h.flf.
A                                   t.5c .- sA. a
_.A                                         C~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ie?.V.   sas.... hs..
Aooibincrd ~ ~ ~ ~  ~    ~     ~    ~ ~ ~ r qhr         a"  d *vbo
WW.-Q. *?- ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~~clw 3Sydo
AFRICA
nasgWEEas 9i    50    10     50                                 A.beiwnb.
______________________                                                                          M~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~AOADAGASCAR
MILFS D  so ~~~a-> MG                                                ohoeo
NOV-EMBER 1985






