M ftc)
AFRICAN FACILITY CREDIT NUNBER AF-16 MAG
African Facility Credit
Agreement
(Agricultural Sector Adjustment Credit)
between
DEMOCRATIC REPUBLIC OF MADAGASCAR
and
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
as ADMINISTRATOR of the
SPECIAL FACILITY FOR SUB-SAHARAN AFRICA
Dated                             , 1986


﻿AFRICAN FACILITY CREDIT NUM4181R AF-16 MAG
AFRICAN FACILITY CREDIT AGREEMENT
AGREEMENT, daced               '   I          , 1986, between
DEMOCRATIC REPUBLIC OF MADAGASCA4 (the Borrower) and        INTER-
NATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION as ADMINISTRATOR of the SPECIAL
FACILITY FOR SUB-SAHARAN AFRICA (the Administrator).
WHEREAS (A) the Executive Directors of the International
Development Association (IDA) have established by Resolution No.
IDA 85-1 of May 21, 1985 (the Resolution), the Special Facility
for Sub-Saharan Africa (the African Facility) constituted by
funds, which shall be contributed by the International Bank for
Reconstruction and Development (the Bank) and other donors, and
administered by IDA, acting as Administrator of the African
Facility, for the purpose of, and in accordance with, the
provisions of the Resolution;
(B)  the   Administrator  has   received  a   letter,   dated
March 24, 1986, from the Borrower describing a program of
actions,  objectives   and  policies   designed  to   improve  the
efficiency of the agricultural sector of Madagascar (hereinafter
called the Program) and declaring the Borrower's commitment to
the execution of the Program;
(C) the Borrower has also requested IDA to provide addi-
tional assistance towards the financing of the Program and, by an
agreement of even date herewith between the Borrower and IDA (the
Development Credit Agreement), IDA is agreeing to provide such
assistance in an aggregate principal amount equivalent to nine-
teen million Special Drawing Rights (SDR 19,000,000) (the IDA
Credit);
(D) the Borrower intends to contract from Kreditanstalt fUr
Wiederaufbau (KfW) a financial contribution from the Federal
Republic of Germany under the Special Joint Financing Agreement
for the Special African Facility in an amount equivalent to ten
million Deutsche Mark (DM 10,000,000) in support of the Program;
(E) The Borrower intends to contract from the Association
acting as Administrator on behalf of Japan (the Japanese Agree-
ment) in accordance with the arrangement agreed upon by an
exchange of letters, both dated November 20, 1985, between Japan
and the Association to support the Joint Program of Action for
Sub-Saharan Africa a grant in an amount equivalent to six hundred
million Yen (Y 600,000,000) in support of the Program;


﻿-2-
WHEREAS the Administrator has agreed, on the basis, inter
alia, of the foregoing, to extend the African Facility Credit to
the Borrower in support of the Program upon the terms and
conditions set forth in this Agreement;
NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:
ARTICLE I
General Conditions; Definitions
Section 1.01. The "General Conditions Applicable to Develop-
ment Credit Agreements" of the International Development Associa-
tion, dated January 1, 1985, with the modifications set forth
below (the General Conditions) constitute an integral part of
this Agreement:
(a) the term "Association", when used in the General Condi-
tions, means the International Development Association acting as
Administrator of the African Facility, except in the phrase
"member of the Association" in Sections 2.01 (5), 4.02 (b) and
6.02 (e) thereof;
(b) the terms "Development Credit Agreement", "Credit" and
"Credit Account", when used in the General Conditions, are
amended to read as "African Facility Credit Agreement", "African
Facility Credit" and "African Facility Credit Account", res-
pectively;
(c) the last sentence of Sec '-on 3.02 and the second sen-
tence of Section 5.01 are deleted; and
(d) in Sections 6.02 and 7.01, the term "Association" shall
also include the International Development Association acting in
its own capacity.
(e) Section 2.01, paragraph 9 shall be modified to read:
"The term 'Project' means the imports that may be,
fitanced out of the proceeds of the African Facility
Credit pursuant to the provisions of Schedule 1 to the
African Facility Credit Agreement".
Section 1.02. Unless the context otherwise requires, the
several terms defined in the General Conditions and in the Pre-
amble to'this Agreement have the respective meanings therein set


﻿-3-
forth and the following additional terms have the following mea,n-
ings:
(a) "Part II member of IDA" means a member of IDA with res-
pect to which the terms and conditions of membership are those
prescribed in the Articles of Agreement of IDA for countries
whose names are listed in Part II of Schedule A to those
Articles;
(b) "Special Account B" means the account referred to in
Section 2.02 (c) of this Agreement;
(c) "Reserved   Areas"   means   the  territories   of  the
Fivondronana of Ambatondrazaka, Amparafaravol and Marovoay and of
the Firaisana of Madirovalo;
(d) "BNI" means Bankin'ny Industria;
(e) "BTM" means Bankin'ny Tantsaha Mpamokatra;
(f) "BFV" means Banky Fampandrosoana ny Varotra; and
(g) "Intermediaries" means, collectively, BNI, BTM and BFV.
ARTICLE II
The African Facility Credit
Section 2.01. The Administrator agrees to lend to the Bor-
rower on the terms and conditions set forth or referred to in the
African Facility Credit Agreement, an amount in various curren-
cies equivalent to thirty-one million Special Drawing Rights
(SDR 31,000,000).
Section 2.02. (a) The amount of the African Facility Credit
may be withdrawn from the African Facility Credit Account in
accordance with the provisions of Schedule 1 to this Agreement,
as such Schedule may be amended from time to time by agreement
between the Borrower and the Administrator, for expenditures made
(or, if the Administrator shall so agree, to be madO) in respect
of the reasonable cost of goods and services required for the
Project described in Schedule 2 to this Agreement and to be
financed out of the proceeds of the African Facility Credit.


﻿-4-
(b) Withdrawals shall be made only on account of expendi-
tures for goods produced in, or services supplied from, the
territories of: (i) any Part I member of IDA; (ii) any country
designated by the Administrator as meeting the Provisions set
forth in paragraphs 4 (f) (ii) and (iii) of the Resolution.
(c) The Borrower shall, for the purposes of the Project,
open and maintain in dollars a special account (Special
Account B) in its Central Bank on terms and conditions satisfac-
tory to the Administrator. Deposits into, and payments out of,
Special Account B shall be made in accordance with the provisions
of Schedule 3 to this Agreement.
Section 2.03. The Closing Date shall be June 30, 1988 or
such later date as the Administrator shall establish. The Admin-
istrator shall promptly notify the Borrower of such later date.
Section 2.04. (a) The Borrower shall pay to IDA a commitment
charge at the rate of one-half of one percent (1/2 of 1%) per
annum on the principal amount of the African Facility Credit not
withdrawn from time to time. The commitment charge shall accrue
from a date sixty days after the date of the African Facility
Credit Agreement to the respective dates on which amounts shall
be withdrawn by the Borrower from the African Facility Credit
Account or shall be cancelled.
(b) The commitment charge shall be paid: (i) at such places
as IDA shall reasonably request; (ii) without restrictions of any
kind imposed by, or in the territory of, the Borrower; and (iii)
in the currency specified in this Agreement for purposes of
Section 4.02 of the General Conditions or in such other eligible
currency or currencies as may from time to time be designated or
selected pursuant to the provisions of that Section.
Section 2.05. The Borrower shall pay to IDA a service charge
at the rate of three-fourths of one percent (3/4 of 1%) per annum
on the amount withdrawn from the African Facility Credit Account
and outstanding from time to time.
Section 2.06. Commitment charges and service charges shall
be payable semiannually on May 1 and November 1 in each year.
Section 2.07. The Borrower shall repay to IDA the principal
amount of the African Facility Credit in semiannual installments
payable on each May 1 and November 1 commencing November 1, 1996


﻿-5-
and ending May 1, 2036. Each installment to and including the
installment payable on May 1, 2006 shall be one-half of one
percent (1/2 of 1%) of such principal amount, and each install-
ment thereafter shall be one and one-half percent (1-1/2%) of
such principal amount.
Section 2.08. The currency of the United States of America
is hereby specified for the purposes of Section 4.02 of the
General Conditions.
ARTICLE III
Particular Covenants
Section 3.01. The Borrower shall: (i) enter into agreements
with the Intermediaries for the purpose of carrying into effect
the imports in support of the Program to be financed out of the
proceeds of the African Facility Credit, the terms and conditions
of such agreements to include those set forth in Schedule 5 to
this Agreement and the relevant provisions of the Manuel de Pro-
cedure and to be acceptable to the Administrator; and (ii) issue,
promptly, import permits for licensed importers for goods to be
financed out of the proceeds of the Special Facility Credit and
shall make available the foreign exchange needed therefor.
Section 3.02. Except as the Administrator shall otherwise
agree, procurement of the goods to be financed out of the pro-
ceeds of the African Facility Credit shall be governed by the
provisions of Schedule 2 to this Agreement.
Section 3.03. The Borrower shall carry into effect an over-
all rice management program, including marketing, distribution
and import of rice, as such program was agreed upon by the Bor-
rower and the Administrator.
Section 3.04. (a) The Borrower shall ensure that, upon
effectiveness of this Agreement and until the provisions of para-
graph (b) of this Section shall apply and subject to the excep-
tion set forth in paragraph (b) (ii) of this Section, subsidies
on agricultural inputs shall not exceed 7% of the c.i.f. cost of
any such inputs, or the equivalent thereof.
(b) Upon release of the second tranche and thereafter, the
Borrower shall ensure that: (i) subject to the exception set
forth in (ii) of this paragraph, no subsidies are made for


﻿-6-
agricultural inputs; and (ii) subsidies for pesticides shall not
exceed 5% of the import parity price of any such pesticide,
provided, however, that no limitation shall apply on subsidies
for pesticides used for temporary demonstration purposes carried
out in conjunction with agricultural extension services of the
Borrower.
Section 3.05. (a) The Borrower and the Administrator shall,
from time to time, at the request of either party, exchange views
on the progress achieved in carrying out the Program and the mea-
sures specified in Schedule 4 to this Agreement.
(b) Prior to each such exchange of views, the Borrower
shall furnish to the Administrator for its review and comments a
report on the progress achieved in carrying out the Program, in
such detail as the Administrator shall reasonably request.
Section 3.06. The Borrower shall: (i) consult with the
Administrator on any change of the public investment program in
agriculture for the years 1986 through 1988 and for the years
1987 through 1989; and (ii) furnish to the Administrator for
approval  any   additional  investment   estimated  to  cost   the
equivalent of $5 million or more before initiating any such
investment.
Section 3.07. The Borrower shall:
(a) by October 31, 1986 and October 3', 1987, submit to
the Administrator for approval the rice import program for the
following calendar year and a financing plan therefor; and
(b) at the end of each quarter during implementation of the
Program, furnish to the Administrator a report in such detail as
the Administrator shall reasonably request on the actual rice
imports made by the Borrower during the preceding twelve month
period and on the disposition thereof.
Section 3.08. The Borrower shall reduce the special commis-
sion paid by the Borrower to publicly owned enterprises for their
activities related to the exportation of agricultural products by
at least three percentage points by April 30, 1987 and eliminate
the remaining commission by April 30, 1988. In case the study on
export crop referred to in paragraph (e) (ii) of Schedule 4 to
this Agreement recommends a faster pace of elimination of such
commission, the Borrower shall take all measures necessary to
carry into effect such recommendations.


﻿-7-
Section 3.09. By October 31, 1986, the Borrower shall submit
to the Administrator for approval a program relating to the
promotion of the participation of the private sector in the
marketing of agricultural products and, thereafter, the Borrower
shall take appropriate actions for its implementation.
Section 3.10. (a) The Borrower shall maintain or cause to be
maintained records and accounts adequate to reflect in accordance
with sound accounting practices the operations, resources and
expenditures financed out of the proceeds of the African Facility
Credit.
(b) The Borrower shall:
(i)  have the accounts referred to in paragraph (a) of
this Section including Special Account B for each
fiscal year audited, in accordance with appro-
priate auditing principles consistently applied,
by independent auditors acceptable to the Adminis-
trator;
(ii)  furnish to the Administrator, as soon as avail-
able, but in any case not later than six months
after the end of each such year, a certified copy
of the report of such audit by said auditors, of
such scope and in such detail as the Administrator
shall have ,easonably requested; and
(iii) furnish to the Administrator such other informa-
tion concerning said accounts and the audit
thereof and said records as the Administrator
shall from time to time reasonably request.
(c) For all expenditures with respect to which withdrawals
from the African Facility Credit Account were made on the basis
of statements of expenditure, the Borrower shall:
(i) maintain or cause to be maintained, in accordance
with paragraph (a) of this Section, separate
records and accounts reflecting such expenditures;
(ii)  retain, until at least one year after the comple-
tion of the audit for the fiscal year in which the
last withdrawal from the African Facility Credit
Account was made, all records (contracts, orders,


﻿-8-
invoices, bills, receipts and other documents)
evidencing such expenditures;
(iii) enable   the  Administrator's   representatives   to
examine such records; and
(iv) ensuee that such separate accounts are included in
the annual audit referred to in paragraph (b) of
this Section and that the report thereof contains,
in respect of such separate accounts, a separate
opinion by said auditors as to whether the pro-
ceeds of the African Facility Credit withdrawn in
respect of such expenditures were used for the
purposes for which they were provided.
ARTICLE IV
Remedies of the Administrator
Section 4.01. Pursuant to Section 6.02 (h) of the General
Conditions, the following additional events are specified:
(a) An event has occurred which shall make it improbable
that the Program, or a significant part thereof, will be carried
out.
(b) (i) Subject to subparagraph (ii) of this paragraph:
(A) the right of the Borrower to withdraw the
proceeds of any grant or loan made to the
Borrower for the financing of the Program
shall have been suspended, cancelled or ter-
minated in whole or in part, pursuant to the
terms of the agreement providing therefor; or
(B) any such loan shall have become due and pay-
able prior to the agreed maturity thereof.
(ii) Subparagraph (i) of this paragraph shall not apply
if the Borrower establishes to the satisfaction of
the Administrator that: (A) such suspension, can-
cellation, termination or prematuring is not
caused by the failure of the Borrower to perform
any of its obligations under such agreement; and
(B) adequate funds for the Project are available


﻿-9-
to the Borrower from other sources on terms and
conditions consistent with the obligations of the
Borrower under this Agreement.
Section 4.02. Pursuant to Section 7.01 (d) of the General
Conditions, the following additional events are specified, namely
that any event specified in paragraph (b) (i) (B) of Section 4.01
of this Agreement shall 6ecur, subject to the proviso of para-
graph (b) (ii) of that Section.
ARTICLE V
Effective Date; Termination;
Designation of Administrator
Section 5.01. The following events are specified as addi-
tional conditions to the effectiveness of the African Facility
Credit Agreement within the meaning of Section 12.01 (b) of the
General Conditions:
(a) all conditions precedent to the effectiveness of the
Development Credit Agreement and the Japanese Agreement, other
than the effectiveness of this Agreement have been fulfilled;
(b) the Borrower has signed agreements with the Interme-
diaries in compliance with the provisions of Section 3.01 of this
Agreement;
(c) the Borrower has: (i) made adequate arrangements for
the carrying out of a study on local government finances; and
(ii) employed consultants for the carrying out of a study on the
disposition of the surplus generated by export crops including
the future of the export crop stabilization funds;
(d) the Borrower has set producer prices for coffee in
accordance with a methodology acceptable to the Administrator;
and
(e) the Borrower has introduced new quarantine regulations
acceptable to the Administrator.
Section 5.02. The date sixty (60) days after the date of
this Agreement is hereby specified for the purposes of Sec-
tion 12.04 of the General Conditions.


﻿- 10 -
Section 5.03. The obligations of the Borrower under Sec-
tion 3.04 (b) of this Agreement and the provisions of Sec-
tion 4.02 of this Agreement shall cease and determine on the date
on which the African Facility Credit Agreement shall terminate or
on the date 10 years after the date of this Agreement, whichever
shall be the earlier.
Section 5.04. In the event that the Executive Directors of
IDA decide to terminate the functions of IDA as Administrator of
the African Facility pursuant to paragraph 10 of the Resolution,
the Administrator may, by notice to the Borrower, designate
another party which, on the date specified in such notice, shall
assume part or all of the rights and obligations of the Admin-
istrator under this Agreement in accordance with the Resolution
and such decision of the Executive Directors, as specified in
such notice.
ARTICLE VI
Representative of the Borrower; Addresses
Section 6.01. The Minister of the Borrower responsible for
Finance is designated as representative of the Borrower for the
purposes of Section 11.03 of the General Conditions.
Section 6.02. The following addresses are specified for the
purposes of Section 11.01 of the General Conditions:
For the Borrower:
Ministere aupres de la Presidence
de la R6publique charge des Finances
et de l'Economie
Antananarivo, Madagascar
Cable address:                         Telex:
MINFIN                                224889
Antananarivo
For the Administrator:
Administrator of the African Facility
(International Development Association)
1818 H Street, N.W.
.Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America


﻿- 11 -
Cable address:                           Telex:
INDEVAS                             440098 (ITT)
Washington, D.C.                    248423 (RCA) or
64145 (WUI)
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their
duly authorized representatives, have caused this Agreement to be
signed in their respective names in the District of Columbia,
United States of America, as of the day and year first above
written.
DEMOCRATIC REPUBLIC OF MADAGASCAR
By JwI SL
01  Authorized Representative
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
as ADMINISTRATOR of the SPECIAL FACILITY FOR
SUB-SAHARAN AFRICA
By IS L      O_Qc C I% KV    2~
Regiona Vice President
Eastern and Southern Africa


﻿- 12 -
SCHEDULE 1
Withdrawal of the Proceeds
of the African Facility Credit
1.   The table below sets forth the Categories of items to be
financed out of the proceeds of the African Facility Credit, the
allocation of the amounts of the African Facility Credit to each
Category and the percentage of expenditures for items so to be
financed in each Category:
Amount of the
Credit Allocated             % of
(Expressed in         Expenditures
Category               SDR Equivalent)       to be Financed
Tranche I     Tranche II
(1) Seeds, fer-         10,850,000   10,850,000)
tilizers                                  )
pesticides,                               )
herbicides,                               )
agricultural                              )
tools, animal                             )
traction equip-                           )
ment and spares,                          )
natural fibers                            )
sacking for agri-                         )
cultural produce,                         ) 90% of foreign
equipment and                             ) expenditures
spares for pri-                           )
mary process-                             )
ing of agricul-                           )
tural produce,                            )
equipment and                             )
spares for                                )
artisanal fish-                           )
eries, forest                             )
industries and                            )
the medicinal                             )
plant industry,                           )
and rice                                  )


﻿- 13 -
Amount of the
Credit Allocated             % of
(Expressed in         Expenditures
Category               SDR Equivalent)       to be Financed
Tranche I     Tranche II
(2) Veterinary pro-      775,000        775,000)
ducts and sup-                            )
plies for animal                          )
protection                                )
(3) Lanterns,          2,480,000               )
hand pumps,                               )
hand sewing                               )
machines,                                 )
outboard                                  )
motors, and                               ) 90% of foreign
transistor                                ) expenditures
radios                                    )
(4) Agricultural       2,635,000      2,635,000)
tractors and                              )
related equip-                            )
ment and spares,                          )
and spare parts for                       )
transport equip-                          )
ment and tires                            )
TOTAL       16,740,000     14,260,000
2.   For the purposes of this Schedule the term "foreign expendi-
tures" means expenditures in a currency other than that of- the
Borrower, and for goods produced in, or services supplied from,
any country other than the Borrower which is (A) a Part II member
of IDA, or (B) is designated by the Administrator as meeting the
provisions set forth in paragraph 4 (f) (ii) or (iii) of the
Resolution;
3.   Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph I above, no
withdrawals shall be made in respect of:
(a) payments made for expenditures prio- to the date of
this Agreement; and


﻿- 14 -
(b) no withdrawal shall be made and no commitment shall be
entered into to pay amounts to the Borrower or others in respect
of expenditures to be financed out of the proceeds of the Special
Facility Credit allocated to Tranche II of the Special Facility
Credit in the table set forth in paragraph 1 of this Schedule
unless the Administrator shall be satisfied, after an exchange of
views described in Section 3.05 of this Agreement, with the pro-
gress achieved by the Borrower: (i) in the carrying out of the
Program; and (ii) in taking the actions set forth in Schedule 4
to this Agreement; and
(c) expenditures for rice imports unless the Borrower shall
have established, to the satisfaction of thr Administrator, that
additional financing is required for rice imports in excess of
levels agreed upon with the Administrator in conformity with the
provisions of Section 3.07 (a).
4.   Each application of the Borrower for withdrawal of funds
from the Special Facility Credit Account shall be deemed to be a
request to withdraw funds from the credit account established for
the purposes of the Japanese Grant and the funds to be withdrawn
pursuant to such application shall be apportioned by the Adminis-
trator, as nearly as practicable in the circumstances between the
African Facility Credit and the Japanese Grant in the ratio 9:1
or such other ratio as shall be agreed between the Administrator
and Japan.


﻿- 15 -
SCHEDULE 2
Procurement
Part A: International Competitive Bidding
1.   Except as provided in Part B hereof, goods shall be procured
under contracts awarded in accordance with procedures consistent
with those set forth in Sections I and II of the "Guidelines for
Procurement under IBRD Loans and IDA Credits" published by the
Bank in May 1985 (the Guidelines). For purposes of the African
Facility Credit Agreement, all references in the Guidelines to
the Bank and to loans shall be deemed to be references to the
Administrator and to the African Facility Credit, respectively.
2.   The eligibility requirements set forth in Section 2.02 (b)
of this Agreement shall be stated in the tender documents for the
procurement of such goods.
Part B:   Other Procurement Procedures
1.   Contracts for goods other than spare parts and fertilizers
estimated to cost less than the equivalent of $1,000,000 but more
than $200,000 and contracts for tractors and tires may be pro-
cured by seeking bids by direct invitation from at least five
suppliers from three different countries eligible under the
Guidelines.
2.   Contracts for goods other than spare parts and fertilizers
estimated to cost less than the equivalent of $200,000 may be
procured on the basis of the normal procurement procedures of the
purchaser of such goods.
3.   Contracts for spare parts other than proprietary spare parts
may be procured by seeking bids by direct invitation from a list
of potential suppliers approved by the Association.
4.   Contracts for fertilizers may be awarded on the basis of
competitive bidding advertised locally.
5.   Contracts for proprietary spare parts may be purchased
directly from suppliers of such spare parts.
6.   No pesticides shall be procured for the purpose of the
Credit which shall be included in a negative list of pesticides
agreed upon by the Borrower and the Association.


﻿- 16 -
7.   Contracts for rice shall be procured in accordance with
standard commercial practices.
Part E: Review by the Administrator of Procurement Decisions
1.   Review of invitations to bid and of proposed awards and
final contracts:
(a)   With respect to each contract estimated to cost the
equivalent of $1,000,000 or more, the procedures set forth in
paragraphs 2 and 4 of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines shall apply.
Where payments for such contract are to be made out of Special
Account B, such procedures shall be modified to ensure that the
two conformed copies of the contract required to be furnished to
the Administrator pursuant to said paragraph 2 (d) shall be
furnished to the Administrator prior to the making of the first
payment out of Special Account B in respect of such contract.
(b) With respect to each contract not governed by the pre-
ceding paragraph, the procedures set forth in paragraphs 3 and 4
of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines shall apply. Where payments for
such contract are to be made out of Special Account B, such
procedures shall be modified to ensure that the two conformed
copies of the contract together with the other information re-
quired to be furnished to the Administrator pursuant to paragraph
3 of said Appendix 1 shall be furnished to the Administrator as
part of the evidence to be furnished pursuant to paragraph 4 of
Schedule 3 to this Agreement.
(c) The provisions of the preceding subparagraphs (a) and
(b) shall not apply to contracts on account of which the Admin-
istrator has authorized withdrawals from the African Facility
Credit Account on the basis of statements of expenditure. Such
contracts shall be retained in accordance with Section 4.01 (c)
(ii) of this Agreement.
2.   The figure of 15% is hereby specified for purposes of para-
graph 4 of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines.


﻿- 17 -
SCHEDULE 3
Special Account B
1.   For the purposes of this Schedule:
(a) the term "Eligible Categories" means the Categories set
forth in the table in paragraph 1 of Schedule 1 to this Agree-
ment;
(b) the term "Eligible Expenditures" means expenditures in
respect of the reasonable cost of goods and services required for
the Project and to be financed out of the proceeds of the African
Facility Credit allocated from time to time to the eligible Cate-
gories in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 1 to this
Agreement; and
(c) the term "Authorized Allocation" means an amount equiv-
alent to $7,000,000 to be withdrawn from the African Facility
Credit Account and deposited into Special Account B pursuant to
paragraph 3 (a) of this Schedule.
2.   Except as the Administrator shall otherwise agree, payments
out of Special Account B shall be made exclusively for Eligible
Expenditures in accordance with the provisions of this Schedule.
3.   After the Administrator has received evidence satisfactory
to it that Special Account B has been duly opened, withdrawals of
the Authorized Allocation and. subsequent withdrawals to replenish
Special Account B may be made as follows:
(a) On the basis of a request or requests by the Borrower
for a deposit or deposits which add up to the Authorized
Allocation, the Administrator shall, on behalf of the Borrower,
withdraw from the African Facility Credit Account and deposit
into Special Account B such amount or amounts as the Borrower
shall have requested.
(b) The Borrower shall furnish to the Administrator re-
quests for replenishment of Special Account B at such intervals
as the Administrator shall specify. On the basis of such
requests, the Administrator shall withdraw from the African
Facility Credit Account and deposit into Special Account B such
amounts as shall be required to replenish Special Account B


﻿- 18 -
with amounts not exceeding the amount of payments made out of
Special Account B for Eligible Expenditures. All such deposits
shall be withdrawn by the Administrator from the African Facility
Credit Account under the respective Eligible Categories, and in
the respective equivalent amounts, as shall have been justified
by the evidence supporting the request for such deposit furnished
pursuant to paragraph 4 of this Schedule.
4.   For each payment made     by  the  Borrower out of Special
Account B for which the Borrower requests replenishment pursuant
to paragraph 3 (b) of this Schedule, the Borrower shall furnish
to the Administrator, prior to or at the time of such request,
such documents and other evidence as the Administrator shall rea-
sonably request, showing that such payment was made for Eligible
Expenditures.
5.   (a) Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 3 of this
Q. -dule, no further deposit into the Special Account B shall be
made by the Administrator when either of the following situations
first arises:
(i) the Administrator shall have determined that all
further withdrawals should be made directly by the
Borrower from the African Facility Credit Account
in accordance with the provisions of paragraph (a)
of Section 2.02 of this Agreement; or
(ii) the   total  unwithdrawn   amount  of  the   African
Facility Credit allocated to the Eligible Catego-
ries, minus the amount of any outstanding special
commitment entered into by the Administrator pur-
suant to Section 5.02 of the General Conditions
with respect to Program, shall be equal to the
equivalent of twice the amount of the Authorized
Allocation..
(b) Thereafter, withdrawal from the African Facility Credit
Account of the remaining unwithdrawn amount of the African
Facility Credit allocated to the Eligible Categories shall fol-
low such procedures as the Administrator shall specify by notice
to the Borrower. Such further withdrawals shall be made only
after and to the extent that the Administrator shall have been
satisfied that all such amounts remaining on deposit in Special
Account B as of the date of such notice have been or will be
utilized in making payments for Eligible Expenditures.


﻿- 19 -
6.   (a)  If the Administrator shall have determined at any time
that any payment out of Special Account B (i) was made for any
expenditure or in any amount not eligible pursuant to paragraph 2
of this Schedule, or (ii) was not justified by the evidence
furnished pursuant to paragraph 4 of this Schedule, the Borrower
shall, promptly upon notice from the Administrator, deposit into
Special Account B (or, if the Administrator shall so request,
refund to the Administrator) an amount equal to the amount of
such payment or the portion thereof not so eligible or justi-
fied. No further deposit by the Administrator into Special
Account B shall be made until the Borrower has made such deposit
or refund.
(b)  If the Administrator shall have determined at any time
that any amount outstanding in Special Account B will not be
required to cover further payments for Eligible Expenditures, the
Borrower shall, promptly upon notice from the Administrator,
refund to the Administrator such outstanding amount for crediting
to the African Facility Credit Account.


﻿- 20 -
SCHEDULE 4
Tranche Release
Actions referred to in paragraph 3 (b) (ii) of Schedule I to
this Agreement:
(a) the Borrower has taken all measures necessary to ensure
that no subsidies are paid for agricultural inputs with the ex-
ception of pesticides;
(b) the Borrower and the Administrator have agreed upon an
action program for the implementation of the recommendations of
the edible oil study and the Borrower has taken appropriate
actions therefor;
(c) the Borrower has adopted a public investment program in
agriculture covering the years 1987 through 1989; such program to
be acceptable to the Administrator;
(d) the Borrower has carried out, in a manner acceptable to
the Administrator, programs relating to: (i) the promotion of the
role of commercial enterprises in the importation and marketing
of agricultural inputs and veterinary products; (ii) improved
pricing systems for major export crops; and (iii) the rice
management program;
(e) the Borrower has furnished to the Administrator its
comments on, and an action plan for the implementation of the
recommendations, of the following studies: (i) the study on
Madagascar's potential and comparative advantage in coffee
production; and (ii) the study on export crop administration; and
(f) the Borrower has furnished to the Administrator the
results of the following studies, including an action plan for
the implementation of the recommendations thereof: (i) the study
on local government finances; and (ii) the study referred to in
Section 5.01 (c) (ii) of this Agreement.


﻿- 21 -
SCHEDULE 5
The terms and conditions of agreements to be entered into
between the Borrower and the Intermediaries shall include:
(a) the following obligations of the Intermedaries:
1.   to ensure that the imports to be financed out of
the proceeds of the African Facility Credit shall
be procured in compliance with the provisions of
Schedule 2 to this Agreement;
2.   to maintain and submit to the Borrower, on a
quarterly basis, a summary of imports of goods
financed out of the proceeds of the African
Facility Credit;
3.   to furnish to the Borrower, together with the
application   for  an  import   license,  proforma
invoices showing specifications, quantities and
unit prices of the goods to be imported;
(b) the right of the Intermediaries to charge a commission
amounting to 0.5% of the proceeds of the funds of the
Credit passed on by the Intermediaries to importers;
and
(c) the right of the Borrower to terminate the agreement
with the respective Intermediary if such Intermediary
fails to perform its obligations under its agreement
with the Borrower.


﻿INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
CERTIFICATE
I hereby certify that the foregoing is a true
copy of the original in the archives (f the Interna-
tional Development Association.
In witness whereof I have signed this Certifi-
cate and affixed the Seal of the Association
thereunto the  J .I      day of
198  .
FOR SECRETARY


