Page  1
INTEGRATED SAFEGUARDS DATASHEET 
APPRAISAL STAGE 
 
I.  Basic Information
 
Date prepared/updated:  06/10/2009 
Report No.:  AC4392
1. Basic Project Data  
 
Country:  Honduras 
Project ID:  P070038 
Project Name:  Enhancing Competitiveness: Trade Facilitation and Productivity 
Improvement Project 
Task Team Leader:  Thomas Edward Haven 
Estimated Appraisal Date: May 19, 2003 
Estimated Board Date: October 21, 2003 
Managing Unit:  LCSPF 
Lending Instrument:  Specific Investment 
Loan 
Sector:  General industry and trade sector (35%);General public administration sector 
(20%);Vocational training (20%);Ports, waterways and shipping (20%);Micro- and SME 
finance (5%) 
Theme:  Trade facilitation and market access (25%);Other financial and private sector 
development (25%);Export development and competitiveness (24%);Legal institutions 
for a market economy (13%);Small and medium enterprise support (13%) 
IBRD Amount (US$m.): 
0.00 
IDA Amount (US$m.): 
28.06 
GEF Amount (US$m.): 
0.00 
PCF Amount (US$m.): 
0.00 
Other financing amounts by source:  
 BORROWER/RECIPIENT 
3.38 
 
Central American Bank for Economic Integration 
2.35 
 Inter-American 
Development 
Bank 
25.00 
 Financing 
Gap 
-25.00
5.73 
Environmental Category: B - Partial Assessment 
Simplified Processing 
Simple [] 
Repeater [] 
Is this project processed under OP 8.50 (Emergency Recovery) 
or OP 8.00 (Rapid Response to Crises and Emergencies) 
Yes [ ] 
No [X] 
2. Project Objectives 
The development objective of the project is to improve the Borrower's investment climate 
and local firms' capacity to export in order to prepare the Borrower to benefit from trade 
opportunities under existing and new trade promotion agreements. The project would 
achieve its objective by: (a) supporting policy and legal reforms; (b) strengthening 
existing institutions and creating new institutions to improve competitiveness; (c) 
providing advisory services and financial support to micro, small and medium enterprises 
(MSMEs) and to firms operating in the most dynamic local industries to facilitate access 
to export markets and productivity improvements; (d) financing small scale initiatives to 
improve productivity of selected areas by upgrading local infrastructure, promoting 
Page  2
business innovation and use of technology; and (e) increasing MSMEs' access to training 
and advisory services.   
 
3. Project Description 
The Project consists of 6 components:  
 
1. Investment Climate: To promote competition and consumer protection, reduce 
administrative barriers for registering and operating firms, and improve and reduce 
logistics and infrastructure costs.  
 
2. Promotion of Private Sector Innovation:  To support the creation of a Technological 
Innovation Center (CITE) for artisan and tourism work, to promote foreign direct 
investment, and to develop a national quality system.  
 
3. Improving Skills of Labor Force: To support accreditation activities of educational 
institutions and to promote policies that facilitate labor training.  
 
4.  Local Competitiveness (Improvement in Economic Development in Selected Pilot 
Areas): To develop competitiveness plans in four pilot areas with the objective of 
reducing obstacles to firm growth.  
 
5. Communication Campaign on Themes Related to Competitiveness: To spread the 
National Competitiveness Program to establish support for planned reforms.  
 
6. Project Coordination: Operational activities of the Coordination Unit of the Project   
 
4. Project Location and salient physical characteristics relevant to the safeguard 
analysis 
Project activities cover many regions throughout the country, including large cities and 
smaller, rural areas.  Indigenous populations are primarily in two regions covered by the 
project: Biosfera del Rio Plátano and Copán Ruinas.  The project is expected to have a 
positive social impact in these regions since activities target indigenous populations as 
primary beneficiaries. Also, the project includes the construction of several works, mostly 
minor in size. The Project is taking measures to ensure that the livelihoods of indigenous 
peoples are taken into account. The Bank and the coordinating agency, FIDE, have 
ensured that these works do not have a negative environmental or social impact.   
 
5. Environmental and Social Safeguards Specialists 
Ms Mary Lisbeth Gonzalez (LCSSO) 
Mr Gunars H. Platais (LCSEN) 
Ms Kimberly Vilar (LCSSO) 
 
Page  3
6. Safeguard Policies Triggered
 
Yes No 
Environmental Assessment (OP/BP 4.01) 
X
Natural Habitats (OP/BP 4.04) 
 X 
Forests (OP/BP 4.36) 
 X 
Pest Management (OP 4.09) 
 X 
Physical Cultural Resources (OP/BP 4.11) 
 X 
Indigenous Peoples (OP/BP 4.10) 
X
Involuntary Resettlement (OP/BP 4.12) 
 X 
Safety of Dams (OP/BP 4.37) 
 X 
Projects on International Waterways (OP/BP
 
7.50) 
 X 
Projects in Disputed Areas (OP/BP 7.60) 
 X 
II.  Key Safeguard Policy Issues and Their Management 
A. Summary of Key Safeguard Issues 
1. Describe any safeguard issues and impacts associated with the proposed project. 
Identify and describe any potential large scale, significant and/or irreversible impacts: 
Environment (OP/BP 4.01):  A second order restructuring in 2007 added a number of 
small scale works and therefore the Safeguards Advisory Team (SAT) recommended the 
reclassification of the project from category "C" to "B".  An Environmental Management 
Plan was completed as a consequence of this reclassification and did not find any large 
scale, significant, and/or irreversible impacts.  As part of the second order restructuring, 
the Environmental Management Plan was disclosed both in-country and through the 
InfoShop. A Bank supervision mission in February 2009 also found the potential impact 
minimal of the construction of two larger works, the National Metrology Lab and a 
technology center. An onsite supervision was undertaken of the installation of three wood 
drying kilns in: (1) Brus Laguna, Gracias a Dios Department, situated in the cultural zone 
of the Biosphere Reserve; (2) Bonito Oriental, Colón Department, in the buffer zones of 
Valles de Sico and Paulaya; and (3) Dulce Nombre de Culmí, Olancho Departament, in 
the southern buffer zone of the Reserve. No significant environmental impacts were 
found.  
 
Indigenous Peoples (OP/BP 4.10):  During the 2007 restructuring, SAT also 
recommended the preparation of an Indigenous Peoples Development Plan, which 
includes a framework that can be applied because there were some undefined aspects of 
the project that could have impacted indigenous peoples.  The results of the plan did not 
find any large scale, significant, and/or irreversible impacts. As part of the second order 
restructuring, the Indigenous Peoples Development Plan was disclosed both in-country 
and through the InfoShop.  
 
Involuntary Resettlement (OP/BP 4.37):   A second order restructuring in March 2009 
was completed in part to ensure that the construction of two works - the National 
Metrology Lab and a technology center - were explicitly included in the loan agreement.  
A
mission, undertaken in February 2009, confirmed that the proposed activities do not 
trigger the Involuntary Resettlement safeguard.   
 
Page  4
2. Describe any potential indirect and/or long term impacts due to anticipated future 
activities in the project area: 
Environment (OP/BP 4.01):  The environmental risks and potential negative long term 
impacts have been evaluated as minimal or zero. However, the project is expected to have 
a
long-term positive impact on the capacity of the Secretary of Natural Resources and the 
Environment (SERNA).  The project has funded improvements in SERNA's systems to 
make obtaining an environmental license easier and more efficient.  
 
Indigenous Peoples (OP/BP 4.10):  The project has not had nor does it expect to have 
negative indirect or long term impacts on indigenous peoples.  Two sub-components have 
the potential to have a positive impact on indigenous peoples' activities related to 
increasing the capacity and earning potential of agro-forestry cooperatives in the Biosfera 
del Rio Platano and the construction and functioning of a technology center in Copan 
Ruinas.  Both activities take place in areas with large indigenous populations and will 
encourage the economic strengthening of these populations.  The project is helping agro-
forestry cooperatives in the Biosfera del Rio Platano by providing technical assistance to 
build organizational and management capacity within the cooperatives. The project also 
expects to finance two wood drying kilns, with the aim of lowering the transport costs for 
the cooperatives' sustainably harvested wood. Moreover, the project is financing training 
courses and small pieces of equipment to allow the local population to add value to 
scraps of wood left over from sustainable wood harvesting, e.g. through small-scale 
furniture production. The technology center will provide valuable training and funds to 
small entrepreneurs living in the community.  The center is expected to function beyond 
the life of the project, meaning its benefits should be sustainable for these indigenous 
populations.   
 
3. Describe any project alternatives (if relevant) considered to help avoid or minimize 
adverse impacts. 
N/A   
 
4. Describe measures taken by the borrower to address safeguard policy issues. Provide 
an assessment of borrower capacity to plan and implement the measures described. 
FIDE has demonstrated its capacity to plan, implement, and supervise safeguard policy 
measures.  FIDE is committed to ensuring project activities do not have negative 
environmental effects and are socially inclusive.  To that end, FIDE complies with the 
frameworks established in the Environmental Plan and the Indigenous Peoples Plan.  
FIDE has also accompanied and provided important inputs to the local experts contracted 
to put together the frameworks and to follow-up on new activities.  
 
Environment (OP/BP 4.01):  For the construction of works, FIDE has included in the 
contracts of the supervising firms clauses that ensure they monitor construction for its 
compliance with the safeguard frameworks.  
 
Indigenous Peoples (OP/BP 4.10):  The main activities where indigenous peoples could 
be impacted are the creation of a technology center in Copan Ruinas and project activities 
in the Biosfera del Rio Platano.  In Copan Ruinas, FIDE technical staff has been in 
Page  5
constant communication with indigenous communities, informing them of the center's 
activities and benefits.  In the Biosfera, FIDE staff has accompanied the local expert 
contracted by the Bank to research the effects of activities on indigenous populations.  
 
Involuntary Resettlement (OP/BP 4.37):   Although this policy was not triggered, FIDE 
has committed to ensuring project activities do not cause involuntary resettlement.  The 
Development Credit Agreement contains a covenant (inserted during the July 2007 
restructuring) that provides that the Borrower shall ensure that no physical or economic 
involuntary resettlement (as interpreted in accordance with the Bank's Operational Policy 
4.12) shall take place as a consequence of Project implementation. Compliance for all of 
the works will be reviewed as part of regular supervision.   
 
5. Identify the key stakeholders and describe the mechanisms for consultation and 
disclosure on safeguard policies, with an emphasis on potentially affected people. 
During project preparation, a concerted effort was made to involve all potential 
stakeholders, in order to get their opinions and commitments.  This included a public 
forum on Honduras' competitiveness where the project and its components were 
presented to a wide audience, comprising government, business, and civil society 
representatives.  
 
Environment (OP/BP 4.01):  FIDE and the Bank are working with SERNA and other 
key government agencies to ensure that project activities comply with government 
regulations.  The project has also helped develop the capacity of SERNA, by funding 
systems improvements to facilitate obtaining environmental licenses.  
 
Indigenous Peoples (OP/BP 4.10):  To complete the Indigenous Peoples Development 
Plan, the social expert consulted with potentially affected populations in both the 
Biosfera del Rio Platano and in Copan Ruinas.  In the Biosfera, the expert learned that 
populations viewed project activities as an important initiative for the community.  In 
Copan Ruinas, the expert found that the technology center is considered part of the 
strategic plan of the community and municipality.  The municipality held open forums 
with the community about the construction and implementation of the technology center.  
FIDE also worked directly with the municipality to ensure that the indigenous population 
was aware of project activities and potential benefits.  Currently, another local expert on 
social issues is consulting with populations in the region of the Biosfera to research the 
results of project activities and help the communities with future plans of action.   
 
B. Disclosure Requirements Date
 
Environmental Assessment/Audit/Management Plan/Other: 
Was the document disclosed 
prior to appraisal?
 N/A 
 
Date of receipt by the Bank 
04/14/2008 
 
Date of "in-country" disclosure 
05/12/2009 
 
Date of submission to InfoShop 
05/21/2009 
 
For category A projects, date of distributing the Executive 
 
 
Page  6
Summary of the EA to the Executive Directors 
Resettlement Action Plan/Framework/Policy Process: 
Was the document disclosed 
prior to appraisal?
 
Date of receipt by the Bank 
 
 
Date of "in-country" disclosure 
 
 
Date of submission to InfoShop 
 
 
Indigenous Peoples Plan/Planning Framework: 
Was the document disclosed 
prior to appraisal?
 N/A 
 
Date of receipt by the Bank 
11/15/2007 
 
Date of "in-country" disclosure 
05/12/2009 
 
Date of submission to InfoShop 
05/21/2009 
 
Pest Management Plan: 
Was the document disclosed 
prior to appraisal?
 
Date of receipt by the Bank 
 
 
Date of "in-country" disclosure 
 
 
Date of submission to InfoShop 
 
 
*
If the project triggers the Pest Management and/or Physical Cultural Resources, 
the respective issues are to be addressed and disclosed as part of the Environmental 
Assessment/Audit/or EMP. 
If in-country disclosure of any of the above documents is not expected, please 
explain why: 
C. Compliance Monitoring Indicators at the Corporate Level (to be filled in when the 
ISDS is finalized by the project decision meeting) 
 
OP/BP/GP 4.01 - Environment Assessment 
 
Does the project require a stand-alone EA (including EMP) report? 
Yes 
If yes, then did the Regional Environment Unit or Sector Manager (SM) 
review and approve the EA report? 
Yes 
Are the cost and the accountabilities for the EMP incorporated in the 
credit/loan? 
Yes 
OP/BP 4.10 - Indigenous Peoples 
 
Has a separate Indigenous Peoples Plan/Planning Framework (as 
appropriate) been prepared in consultation with affected Indigenous Peoples? 
Yes 
If yes, then did the Regional unit responsible for safeguards or Sector 
Manager review the plan? 
Yes 
If the whole project is designed to benefit IP, has the design been reviewed 
and approved by the Regional Social Development Unit or Sector Manager? 
N/A 
The World Bank Policy on Disclosure of Information 
 
Have relevant safeguard policies documents been sent to the World Bank's 
Infoshop? 
Yes 
Have relevant documents been disclosed in-country in a public place in a 
form and language that are understandable and accessible to project-affected 
groups and local NGOs? 
Yes 
Page  7
All Safeguard Policies 
 
Have satisfactory calendar, budget and clear institutional responsibilities 
been prepared for the implementation of measures related to safeguard 
policies? 
Yes 
Have costs related to safeguard policy measures been included in the project 
cost? 
Yes 
Does the Monitoring and Evaluation system of the project include the 
monitoring of safeguard impacts and measures related to safeguard policies? 
Yes 
Have satisfactory implementation arrangements been agreed with the 
borrower and the same been adequately reflected in the project legal 
documents? 
Yes 
D. Approvals 
 
Signed and submitted by: 
Name 
Date 
Task Team Leader: 
Mr Thomas Edward Haven 
05/22/2009 
Environmental Specialist: 
Mr Gunars H. Platais 
05/22/2009 
Social Development Specialist 
Ms Kimberly Vilar 
05/22/2009 
Additional Environmental and/or 
Social Development Specialist(s): 
Ms Mary Lisbeth Gonzalez 
05/22/2009 
Approved by: 
 
Regional Safeguards Coordinator: 
Mr Reidar Kvam 
06/10/2009 
Comments:   
Sector Manager: 
Ms Lily L. Chu 
06/10/2009 
Comments:   
