                                   Document of
                                  The World Bank

                             FOR OFFICIAL USEONLY




                                                         48697



                                 PROJECTPAPER


                             ONRESTRUCTURINGTHE


     HONDURASENHANCING COMPETITIVENESS: TRADE FACILITATION AND
                    PRODUCTIVITY IMPROVEMENTPROJECT



                                   July 17,2007




PovertyandEconomicManagementSector Unit
HondurasCountry Unit
LatinAmerica andthe CaribbeanRegion


      HONDURAS ENHANCING COMPETITIVENESS: TRADE FACILITATIONAND
      PRODUCTIVITY IMPROVEMENT PROJECT                    - PROJECT    PAPER DATA SHEET


 Date: July 17,2007                                   Task Team Leader: Pablo Fajnzylber
  Country: Honduras                                   Sector Manager: Lily L.Chu
 Project Name: Trade Facilitationand                  Country Director: Jane Armitage
  Productivity Improvement Project                    Environmental category: B

  Borrower: Republic of Honduras
I Remonsible apencv: Foundation for Investment and DeveloDmentof Ex~orts(FIDE)




  Does the restructured project require any exceptions to Bank policies?    No
 Have these been approved by Bank management?                               N/A
  I s approval for any policy exception sought from the Board?              N/A

  Original Project development objective/outcomes: to improve the Borrower's investment climate
  andlocal firms' capacity to export inorder to preparethe Borrower to benefit from trade
 opportunities under existing and newtrade promotionagreements/ to improve Honduras' ranking
  inthe WorldEconomic Forum's GrowthCompetitiveness andBusiness Competitiveness list,
  from respectively 76thand 78th(in2003) to 65th (in2008).
I Revisedproject   development objective/outcomes: N/A
  Does the restructured project trigger any new safeguardpolicies? The Project has been
  reclassifiedto a Category "B".
                                    Revised Financing Plan (SDR)
                        Source                            Local        Foreign          Total
  Borrower                                            2.47                         2.47
  IBRD/IDA                                            10.78          9.72          20.5
  Others


                                            REPUBLIC OFHONDURAS
              Trade Facilitation and Productivity Enhancement Project
                                                  Table of Contents
I. IntroductoryStatement.....................................................................................................                 1

11.  Background .........................................................................................................................

111. Proposedchanges          ............................................................................................................... 3

IV.  Analysis .............................................................................................................................. .9

V.   Expected Outcomes           ............................................................................................................ 9

VI.  Benefits and Risks        .............................................................................................................. 9

                                           CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
                                      (Exchange Rate Effective June 29,2007)
                                          CurrencyUnit            = US$
                                                  US$l.OO         = HonduranLempira 18.89
                                 1HonduranLempira = US$O.OS

                                                      FISCALYEAR
                                               January1           - December31

                                     ABBREVIATIONSAND ACRONYMS
            CABEI                        CentralAmericanBankfor Economic Integration
            CDPC                         CompetitionPolicyCommission
            CITE                         Technology Center
            CITEMM                       WoodTechnology Center
            CITEX                         TextileTechnology Center
            CSAE                          EnterpriseAdministrative SimplificationCommission
            DCA                           Development CreditAgreement
            DGPC                          ConsumerProtectionDirectorate
            DEI                           ExecutiveRevenueDirectorate
            EMP                           EnvironmentalManagementPlan
            FDI                           ForeignDirect Investment
            FIDE                          Foundationfor Investmentand Development ofExports
            GOH                           GovernmentofHonduras
            IDA                           InternationalDevelopmentAssociation
            INFOP                         NationalTrainingInstitute
            IPCDC                         Institutefor CompetitivenessPromotionandConsumerDefense
            IPDP                          IndigenousPeople's DevelopmentPlan
            MSMEs                         Micro, SmallandMediumEnterprises
            PAD                           ProjectAppraisalDocument
            PCU                           ProjectCoordinationUnit
            PDO                           ProjectDevelopment Objective
            SEFIN                         MinistryofFinance(Secretaria de Finanzasy Credit0P~blico)


                                         Vice President:                Pamela Cox
                                      CountryDirector:                  Jane Armitage
                                        Sector Manager:                 LilyChu
                                   Task Team Leader:


                                    I.IntroductoryStatement

1.      This Project Paper seeks the approval o f the Regional Vice President to introduce the
following changes in the Honduras Trade Facilitation and Productivity Improvement Project,
Credit No. 3826-HOYProject ID No. P070038, and any accompanying amendments to the
project's legal documents. The proposed restructuring falls under the category o f "second order
restructuring" as it does not involve revising the Project Development Objective or associated
outcome targets.

2.      The proposed changes include: (a) Adjusting some project components and covenants
and revising expenditure ceilings in Schedule Io f the Development Credit Agreement to adjust
to the evolving priorities o f the Borrower; (b) Assigning funds totaling US$2,080,000.00 to the
followingthree new activities.


        (i)Modernization of the HumanResources Program of the Borrower's Executive
        Revenue Directorate (Direccion Executivu de Ingresos-DEl). The Bank has discussed
        with the Borrower that technical assistancewould be obtained from the U.S. Treasury in
        the amount of US$700,000 and h d e d from the proceeds o f the credit ifthe amendment
        i s approved. This pilot program would serve as a model that could eventually be
        replicated through a larger scale humanresources reform o f the entire Civil Service. It
        would result in increased efficiency and improved governance o f the public sector, thus
        reducing administrative procedures for tax andregulatory compliance and contributingto
        improvingHonduras' investment climate.

        (ii) ofanEnterpriseUniversity(UniversidadEmpresarial)totrainprivatesector
            Creation
        managers and entrepreneurs, inthe amount o f US$1,200,000. This new Universitywould
        contribute to the international competitiveness o f the Honduran private sector by offering
        concurrent academic and practical professional training, usingthe German dual training
        model, inareas that are currently underservedby existing providers.

        (iii)Contracting o f an International Risk Rating Firm to assess and classify the risk o f
        Honduras's sovereign short, medium and long term debt, for an amount o f US$180,000.
        This activity i s expected to increase the efficiency o f debt management administrative
        procedures, and also to improve the investment climate by increasing access to and
        reducing the cost o f external financing, thus contributing to increaselocal firms' capacity
        to export.

3.      The proposed changes are deemednecessaryto facilitate the achievement o f the project's
development objective and associated outcomes, which would remain unchanged. The net effect
o f the changes inthe project scope is relatively small: three subcomponentswould be eliminated
out o f a total o f 47 original subcomponents, and three new activities would be added to existing
sub-components. The subcomponentsbeing eliminated account for less than 1.8 percent o f the
total project amount. The activities to be added to existing sub-components would account for
6.7 percent of the total project amount. A number of small adjustments to existing
subcomponentsare also beingmade, although these would not affect the project scope.



                                                   1

                                        11.Background

4.      Background.    The project was approved by the Board on October 21, 2003. The
Development Credit Agreement was signed on January 27,2004, andit becameeffective on July
23,2004. The total credit amount is SDR 20,500,000 andapproximately 30 percent o f it hasbeen
disbursedto date.

5.      Project Design. The development objective o f the project i s to improve the Borrower's
investment climate and local firms' capacity to export inorder to prepare the Borrowerto benefit
from trade opportunities under existing and new trade promotion agreements. The project would
achieve its objective by: (a) supporting policy and legal reforms; (b) strengthening existing
institutions and creating new institutions to improve competitiveness; (c) providing advisory
services and financial support to micro, small and medium enterprises (MSMEs) and to firms
operating in the most dynamic local industries to facilitate access to export markets and
productivity improvements; (d) financing small scale initiatives to improve productivity o f
selected areas by upgrading local infrastructure, promoting business innovation and use o f
technology; and (e) increasing MSMEs' access to training and advisory services.

6.      Project Design and Scope.The project contains the following components:
         A. Investment Climate
            1. Reducingfirms' anticompetitivebehavior andimprovingconsumerprotection.
            2. Reducing administrative procedures.
            3. Improvingquality andreducing costs o finfrastructure and logistics.
         B. PromotingPrivate Sector Innovation
            1. Creating andsupporting technology centers for the wood andcraft sectors.
            2. Promotinghigher value foreign direct investment.
            3.  Developingandimplementinganational quality system.
         C. Improving Skills o fthe Labor Force.
        D. LocalCompetitiveness: ImprovingEconomic Development inSelectedPilotAreas.
         E. Communication CampaignonBroadThemes Relatedto Competitiveness.
         F. Project Coordination.

7.      Project Performance to Date. Based on the latest supervision missioncarried out inApril
2007, the rating for the achievement of the project's development objective continues to be
"Satisfactory". Implementation Progress has been rated "Satisfactory" and so has the
performance o f the implementingagencies concerned. The FM and Procurement ratings are also
"Satisfactory" and there has been no increase in fiduciary risk to Bank funds. The Project has
made good progress after the mid-term review o f July 2006. Disbursements during the second
and third quarters of FY07 increasedby 90 percent inSDR terms (99 percent inhistorical USD
terms) with respectto the same quarters o f FY06.

8.      Project Performance to Date: Component A. The project has already generated
significant outputs and outcomes including the following. The project has provided technical
assistance in support o f new competition policy legislation and the establishment o f the agency
in charge of implementingthis policy (component A.1). Through administrative simplification
efforts (component A.2), the project has generated important results in terms o f reductions in



                                                2

DoingBusiness indicators regardingthe time to register property (from 25 days to 1 day between
March o f 2005 and March 2007), register businesses at the main municipalities (from 25 to 1
days), and register with the social security administration (from 7 to 1 days). In the area of
infrastructure, component A.3 has contributed to the international security certification o f Puerto
Cortes.

9.       Project Performance to Date: Component B. Component B.l o fthe project has supported
the creation o f a technology center (CITES) that i s already providing training and technical
assistance services to small and medium enterprise from the wood and furniture sector. Work i s
also underway to establish a CITE for the craft sector. With regardto FDIpromotion (component
B.2), the project can be credited for havinghelped attract investments that have generated 1,100
jobs, and i s starting to implement proactive campaigns in selected sectors. Component B.3 has
supported the creation o f new operational national bodies in the areas o f metrology and quality
standards and accreditation, while it is startingto implement a program to train quality auditors
andhelp increasethe numberofquality certifiedprivatefirms.

 10.     Project Performance to Date: Component C. Inthe area o f training (component C), the
project has failed inits attempt to modernize the national state-ownedtraining institute (INFOP),
but it has helped implement aspects of the current training legislation that promote the
development o f private worker training providers. Moreover, the project i s helping to develop
standards for certifying worker skills, and it is helpingto develop curricula and supporting pilot
initiatives to improve the quality and relevance o f training courses provided by private and
public institutions.

 11.     Project Performance to Date: ComponentsD and E. Component Dhashelped implement
Local Economic Development Strategies in 5 regions o f the country, having generated tangible
results in Copan Ruinas, namely the training o f tourism sector workers and the conclusion o f a
feasibility study for improving the sewage and water system, both activities considered critical
for increasing local competitiveness. In Comayagua, the project has helped increase exports o f
fruits and vegetables to the U.S., by means o f helping activate an existing thermal treatment
plant. Finally, component E of the project can be credited for an increasing discussion of
competitiveness policy issues inthe press (428 positive articles on the topic have beenpublished
since the project .began,or 76 percent o fthe goal for the whole project).

                                      111.ProposedChanges

 12.     Reasonsfor Project Restructuring. The proposed project restructuring aims at addressing
some minor shortcomings in the original project design, which were identified in a July 2006
midterm review and in two supervision missions in October 2006 and April 2007. The
corresponding adjustments are expectedto remove minor roadblocks to project implementation.

 13.     Proposed Changes. In particular, the proposedrestructuring includes, first, small changes
inthe set of activities to be financed within certain components (see below). These changes are
aimed at eliminating activities that are no longer viable or necessary and to add others that are
deemedcritical to generatethe expectedproject outcomes andto facilitate the achievement o f the
project's development objectives. Second, the proposed restructuring includes revisions in the



                                                  3

expenditure categories to be financed within existing activities (e.g. adding the financing o f
minor works or equipment in activities where only consultancies had been included in the
original budget). As a result o f the above, changes are also proposed in the overall maximum
amounts to be financed within each expenditure category. Third, as a result o f the above
mentioned changes, the proposed restructuring also includes changes inrelevant definitions and
loan covenants. As noted above, there are no changes to the development objectives or
associated outcomes. Instead this amendment includes a series o f small changes to make the
project function more efficiently. Each proposed change i s preceded by the relevant section
and/or project component to be amended in the Development Credit Agreement (DCA). The
changes are presented in the order in which they appear in the DCA. Changes to the Project
Agreement (PA) are also noted. The following are the proposed changes.

a) General Conditions. Amend the General Conditions to facilitate the use o f the latest Country
   Financing Parameters for Honduras (approved February 25, 2005). The new parameters
   allow the Bank to finance up to 100percent o f expenditures as well as taxes.
b) Dejhitions.
       a. CITEX Eliminatemention o f the textile technology center (CITEX) which was to be
           funded by the Central American Bank for Economic Integration (CABEI). The
           necessary funding from CABEI never materialized and the corresponding activity
           will notbeimplemented with Bankfunding.
       b. CDPC and DGPC. Modify the definition of IPCDC as the Borrower's has decided
           (with the agreement o f the Bank) to have separate agencies for implementing
           respectively the country's Competition and Consumer Protection policies. The Bank
           already expressed its agreement with this decision via the partial waiver o f
           disbursementcondition 3(b) (Schedule 1ofthe DCA) that was signed on October 26,
           2006.
       c. Type A Eligible Entity and Type A Matching Grant Agreement. Eliminate these
           definitions. Type A matchinggrants were meant to fund administrative simplification
           activities within government offices. The matching grant format was found to be
           unfeasible when applied in the context of government agencies (as opposed to the
           private sector). This change does not affect the project scope or objectives, as
           administrative simplification activities will still be funded, but just not through
           matching grants (see section e), items c. andd. below).
       d. EMP. Introduce the definition of EMP as the Borrower's plan for the environmental
           management o fthe Project, satisfactory to the Association.
       e. IPDP. Introduce the definition o f IPDP as the Borrower's Indigenous Peoples
           Development Plan for the Project, satisfactory to the Association, which includes
           inter alia, the framework to be applied in cases where the presence or collective
           attachment o f indigenous peoples to the Project cannot be pre-determined. OD 4.20
           which is the directive that was ineffect at the time the project was prepared does not
           distinguish between "plan" and "framework".           The aforementioned definition
           therefore provides for the scenario, where there may be someundefined aspectso f the
          project that may impact indigenous peoples.
c) Loan covenants.
       a. Infrastructure (Section 3.08). Remove the covenant to establish and thereafter
          maintain an integrated transport regulatory agency. Creating such an agency i s no



                                                4

        longer a priority o f the Borrower, nor does the Bank team consider it key to achieving
        the project's development objectives.
     b. FDI. (Section 3.10). Remove the requirement to define and implement a financing
        mechanism for FIDE'Sinvestment promotion strategy. Creating such a financing
        mechanism i s no longer a priority o f the Borrower, nor does the Bank consider it key
        to achieving the development objectives.
     c. EMP and the IPDP. Include a covenant stating that throughout Project
        implementation, the Borrower shall cause FIDE to comply with the EMP and the
        IPDP, and ensure that no physical or economic involuntary resettlement (as
        interpreted in accordance with the Association's Operational Policy (OP 4.12)) shall
        take place as a consequenceo fProject implementation.
d) Schedule I: Withdrawal of theproceeds of the credit.
     a. Section I: Credit allocation by expenditure categories. Remove all the funding from
        categories 3(b) and 7 which should be closed and adjust the amounts o f the credit
        allocated to remainingexpenditure categories (e.g. works, goods, consultant services)
        to take into account actual and planned expenditures. This entails a reallocation o f
        funds within the original total amount of the credit (SDR20,500,000), which remains
        the same. The "percentage of expenditures to be financed" in each category are also
        being adjusted upwardsin several cases. For example, the percentage o f goods to be
        financed i s being increased from 88 percent to 93 percent. These changes are in line
        with the current country financing parameters, which allow up to 100 percent
        financing in all categories. Despite the percentage increases, the absolute amount o f
        counterpart funding (in US dollars) remains the same. This i s possible since the loan
        i s denominated in SDRs and the dollar/SDR exchange rate has increased since the
        signing of the loan. In addition, fhds are being reallocated from some of the
        matching grant expenditure categories-which        were financed at 100 percent-to
        other categories that are being financed at below 100 percent. In short, this change
        will not result inareduction intotal financing or project scope.
     b. Section 2: definitions. For thepurposes of ScheduleI:
             i.theterm"communications services" (a)willincludeexpendituresforwritten
                pressmediaadvertising;
             ii.the term "incremental operating costs" (c) will include travel related to
                supervision for PCU staff (hotel, transport andper diem expenditures);
            iii.theterm"traininglworkshops" (e) willincludetraininglworkshopsforPCU
                staff.
            iv. the definition of the term "Type A Matching Grants" is suppressed for the
                reasons listedabove.
     c. Section 3 (b): Amend the disbursement conditionthat was partially waived to remove
        mention o f the competition agency which has already been established. The approval
        andenactment of a new Consumer Protection Law inform and substance satisfactory
        to the Bank will now be a condition o f disbursement for goods and
        traininglworkshops under Part A.l (d) of the Project. This disbursement condition is
        included to ensure that the Borrower remains accountable for the modernization o f
        the legal and institutional framework for implementing the Borrower's consumer
        protection policy.




                                              5

     d. Section 3 (e): Add a disbursement condition for payments in excess of SDR
        33,392.96 (this figure being the amount already disbursed for this category) for the
        works expenditures category stating that the Borrower and FIDE have to adopt the
        IPDP and the EMP ina manner satisfactory to the Association.
     e. Section 3  a:Adda     disbursement condition for payments for expenditures coveredby
        disbursement categories corresponding to goods and consultants under component D
        o f the project stating that the Borrower and FIDEhave to adopt the IPDP ina manner
         satisfactory to the Association.
e) Schedule2: Description of theproject.
     a. Component A.l(b). Add text to indicate that technical assistance will be provided
         separately to the agencies in charge o f consumer protection and competition policy
         (as opposedto a single agency incharge o fboth, as envisioned inthe originalproject
         design).
     b. Component A.l(c) and (d). Include text regarding the use of the credit for
         strengthening not only CDPC and the DGPC, but also the municipal offces incharge
         o f implementing, jointly with DGPC, the borrower's consumer protection policy. In
         addition, allow for the financing o f two vehicles, respectively for CDPC and the
         DGPC, that are deemed necessaryto conduct these agencies' field work, and for the
        temporary financing of specific operating and training costs o f the competition and
         consumer protection agencies. In particular, the credit would finance the rental o f
         offices for the CDPC for one year, and reproduction and printing o f advertisement
        materials and trainingrelated to the Consumer Protection Law for the DGPC. Finally,
         addition o f the financing of minor works to establish the offices of the CDPC. These
         changes are necessary since the government has not provided an adequate budget for
        the CDPC and the DGPC during their first year o f operations. The wording changes
        to this component would also remove mention o f the timeline for the preparation o f
         an evaluation report on the combined competition and consumer protection agency.
        The original wording specified an evaluation report for the first two and a half years
         o f the agency's operation, however, giventhe recent establishment of the competition
         agency (the consumer protection agency still hasn't been established), there is not
         enough time left in the project to complete this 2.5 year requirement. The activities
        relatingto the DGPC are addressedseparately in(d) to facilitate the discrete effect o f
        the disbursement condition.
     c. Component A.2.(b) and (d). Include support o f the CSAE through the provision o f
         operating costs to include office space rental and minor office remodeling works. In
         Component A.2.(d), include the financing o f minor works, consultancies, internet
         communications costs and incremental operating costs to support process re-
         engineering inthe Government offices referred to inA.2.(c). These changes substitute
         for the original plan to use type A matching grants to fimd administrative
         simplification activities within government offices, a mechanism that proved
        unfeasible inthe context o fgovernment agencies (as opposedto the private sector).
     d. ComponentA.2(g). Include the provisionoftechnical assistancefor the modernization
        o f the human resources system o f the Executive Revenue Directorate (Direccion
        Executiva de Ingresos-DEI), so as to increase the efficiency and improve the
        governance o f that institution. This pilot program would be executed with Technical
        Assistance from the US Treasury and would serve as amodelthat could eventually be



                                              6

  replicated through a larger scalehumanresources reform o fthe entire Civil Service. It
  would result in increased efficiency and improved governance o f the public sector,
  thus reducing administrative procedures for tax and regulatory compliance, and
   contributing to improvingHonduras' investment climate.
e. Component A.2(h). Include the provision o f advisory services to assess and classify
   the risk of Honduras's sovereign short, medium and long term debt. This activity i s
   expectedto contribute to increasing the efficiency o f debt management administrative
  procedures, and also to increase the competitiveness o f the Honduran private sector
  by increasing access to and reducing the cost of external financing, thus contributing
   to improvethe investmentclimate andlocal firms' capacity to export.
f. ComponentA.3(d). Removal ofthe subcomponentthat specifies technical assistance
   and training for the creation of the transport regulatory agency, which will not be
   created (see above). Removing this component does not impact the relevant
   development objective-facilitating      firm access to export markets-since    the lack of
   a transport regulatory agency i s not considered a roadblock to exporting, andthere are
   severalother project subcomponentsdesignedto facilitate exports.
g. Component A.3(e). Remove mention of studies on the efficiency o f the Borrower's
   distribution chain and on the needs to concession other ports. These studies are not
   prioritieso fthe current government.
h. ComponentB.1.Addtheprovisionofsoftware, onevehicle, operating costs, purchase
   o f data bases for CITEMM (wood technology center) and the design o f quality labels
   for CITEMM and the CITES Artesania (crafts). In addition, eliminate text that
   indicates that the project will create a CITE for the textile sector (see above).
i.ComponentB.2(a).Removementionofthedevelopmentofabusinessplanbasedon
   sector studies for FDIpromotion in strategic areas. It was determined that a business
   planwas not required-it      was possible to move straight from the sector studies to the
   execution ofthe national investment promotion strategy without such a plan.
j. FDI: Component B.2(c). Remove mention of the design of an industrial sector
   diversification program in free zones and industrial parks. This component i s no
   longer relevant giventhe Borrower's lack o f development o f free zones.
k. Component B.3@). Allow for the financing of goods and minor complementary
   works (inaddition to the currently allowed training and advisory services) to improve
   the quality o f private and public laboratories in the Borrower's national quality
   system. Inparticular, some critical public laboratories currently suffer from an acute
   lack o f adequate equipment, and insome cases, adequate physical space. Support for
   goods was envisaged inthe original project description, but through matchinggrants.
   This change allows for more flexibility in the financing o f needed improvements in
   critical public labs, i.e. with or without matching grants.
1. Component C.2. Remove C.2.(a) mentions o f carrying out a survey o f training
  policies and incentives used in other countries. This survey i s no longer considered
   necessary given the expertise made available through the hiring o f appropriate
   consultants to assist with the design o f training policies. Include, the following new
   items, considered to be a priority for developing the borrower's policy framework in
   the area o fworker training: (d) design o f a national policy for labor force training; (e)
   carrying out a study to develop training policies to promote employment and job
   creation (0 carrying out a study on the linkages between labor force training and



                                           7

  technical education (8) carrying out the design o fthe strategy for training for internet-
  basedjobs   .
m. Component (2.3. Adds the provision of equipment, training, and technical assistance
  to upgrade the quality of the training by other public and private providers of worker
  training in strategic sectors, besides INFOP, the public training institute. Currently,
  the subcomponent only authorizes such assistance for INFOP. Private training
  providers fill critical gaps inmany professional areas where INFOP's offerings have
  fallen short. Add also the provision o f works, software, reference materials,
  reproduction and printing services to upgrade the quality o f the training o f those
  entities, and explicitly include financing for the establishment o f a new Enterprise
  Management University (Universidud Empresuriul) to train private sector managers
  and entrepreneurs, by offering concurrent academic and practical professional
  training.
n. Component C.4. Development ofstandardsand curriculums (excluding accreditation
                                                                             ,
  o f curriculums and certification of training centers given that required legislation has
  not been passed) for public and private training providers in areas related to private
   sector development and competitiveness: in addition to training and consulting
   services add the provision o f reference materials, and reproduction and printing
   services and eliminate the provision of equipment (deemed unnecessary).
0. Component    C.5. Expand the usage of matching grants to firrns to include the
  provision o f technical assistance (besides goods, services, training, and incremental
  operating costs) to develop in-house training, and add support for the development o f
  business management practices. The current language o f the subcomponent only
  covers support for in-house training. However, to enhance the competitiveness o f
  targeted SMEs, additional capacity building will be necessary beyond simply the
  provision ofworker training.
p. Component D.~(c).    Remove the limitation on the number o f Selected Pilot Areas
  where feasibility studies and minor works can be carried out. The current wording
  only allows for studies andworks inone area; however, it has since become apparent
  that supporting such projects i s critical for increasing local competitiveness in the
  other areas where the project is active.
q. Component D.3(a). Include the provision o f goods andminor works (besides training
  and advisory services), as part of the capacity and institution building activities
  targetedto the localprivateandpublic sectors to enhancebusinessdevelopment.
r. Component D.3@).Include the financing of minor works and the purchase of
  audiovisual and computer equipment for local government offices and local
  Chambers o fCommerce inthe pilot regions selected.
s.Component F. Includethe financing o f goods, minor works and incremental operating
  costs for supporting the operation o f the Office o f the Presidential Competitiveness
  Commissioner inan amount not to exceedUS$200,000.00.




                                         8

                                            IV. Analysis

14.     The Task Team's assessment i s that the proposed changes do not have any major effects
on the original economic, financial, technical, institutional, or social aspects o f the project as
appraised. No exceptions to Bank policies are involved. The restructured project will finance a
number of small scale works andtherefore SafeguardsAdvisory Team (SAT) has recommended
that the restructured project be re-classified as Category "B". The SAT has also recommended
the preparation of an Environmental Management Plan and an Indigenous Peoples Development
Plan which includes a fkamework to be applied in cases where the presence or collective
attachment o f indigenous peoples to the Project cannot be pre-determined, in accordance with
OP 4.01 and OD 4.20.

                                      V. ExpectedOutcomes

15.     The proposed changes will not affect the project's development objectives. The outcome
targets and indicators-as   listed in Schedule 2 o f the Project Agreement and Section A.2 o f the
Project Appraisal Document (PAD)-also        will not change.

                                      VI. Benefits andRisks

16.     There are no new risks that are introduced through the proposed restructuring. Inthe past
slow project implementation has resulted from institutional and legal obstacles that have now
been mostly overcome. However, the proposed changes are still necessary to expedite the
execution of some project components. In other words, this restructuring i s designed to reduce
existing risks o f slow project implementation. The changes introduce relatively minor retrofits to
the project components, allowing them to conform to the government's current priorities, as well
as to realities on the ground that were not foreseenwhen the project was originally designed.




                                                  9


