                                                                                 48041
                           DATA SHEET FOR PROJECT PAPER


  Date: March 3,2009                            Task Team Leader: Thomas Haven
  Country: Honduras                             Sector Manager: Lily Chu
  Project Name: Trade Facilitation and          Country Director: Laura Frigenti
  Productivity Improvement Project              Environmental category: B
  Project ID: ~070038
  Borrower: Republic of Honduras
  Responsible agency: Foundation for Investments and Development of Exports (FIDE)
  Revised estimated disbursements (Bank FYISDRm)
  FY                 2005          2006       2007         2008         2009      2010
  Annual              3.03         1.46        2.17        4.01         5.5       4.33
  Cumulative     I    3.03         4.49        6.65        10.67      1 16.7    1 20.50

I Revised
  Current closing- date: December 31,2009
           closing date [if applicable]:
  Indicate if the restructuring is:

  Board approved          -

  RVP approved            - -
                           X

 Does the restructured project require any exceptions to Bank policies?     No
  Have these been approved by Bank management?                              N/A
 Is approval for any policy exception sought from the Board?                N/A

                                                                           I
 Revised project development objective/outcomes [If applicable]




 Does the restructured project trigger any new safeguard policies?
 No
                                Revised Financing Plan (SDRm.)
                      Source                       Local        Foreign          Total
 Borrower                                       2.47                         2.47
 IBRD/IDA                                       10.78        9.72            20.5
 Others
 Total                                          13.25        9.72            22.97


I. Introductory Statement

This Project Paper seeks the approval of the Executive Directors to introduce the
following changes in the Honduras Trade Facilitation and Productivity Improvement
Project, Credit No. 3826-HO, Project ID No. PO70038 and any accompanying
amendments to the project's legal documents. The proposed changes make more explicit
and clarify the financing of works that were envisaged in the previous restructuring of
July 17, 2007. Specifically, the construction of the national metrology laboratory will be
added to a sub-component and the construction of a technology center will be made more
explicit in another sub-component. This Project Paper also describes all of the works
being financed by Project, given that previous amendments have expanded the number of
works from what was originally foreseen in the PAD. Finally, some adjustments are
made to the output indicators. A reallocation of loan proceeds and partial extension of the
project closing date are being processed separately in line with Bank guidelines.

11. Background and Reasons for Restructuring

Background. The project was approved by the Board on October 21, 2003. The
Development Credit Agreement was signed on January 27,2004, and it became effective
on July 23, 2004. The total credit amount is SDR 20,500,000 and approximately 66
percent of it has been disbursed to date.

Project Design and Scope. The development objective of the project is to improve the
Borrower's investment climate and local firms' capacity to export in order to prepare the
Borrower to benefit from trade opportunities under existing and new trade promotion
agreements. The project would achieve its objective by: (a) supporting policy and legal
reforms; (b) strengthening existing institutions and creating new institutions to improve
competitiveness; (c) providing advisory services and financial support to micro, small
and medium enterprises (MSMEs) and to firms operating in the most dynamic local
industries to facilitate access to export markets and productivity improvements; (d)
financing small scale initiatives to improve productivity of selected areas by upgrading
local infrastructure, promoting business innovation and use of technology; and (e)
increasing MSMEs' access to training and advisory services.

The project contains the following components:
A. Investment Climate
        1.Reducing firms' anticompetitive behavior and improving consumer protection
       2. Reducing administrative procedures
       3. Improving quality and reducing costs of infrastructure and logistics
B. Promoting Private Sector Innovation
       1. Creating and supporting technology centers for the wood and craft sectors
       2. Promoting higher value foreign direct investment
       3. Developing and implementing a national quality system
C. Improving Skills of the Labor Force
D. Local Competitiveness: Improving Economic Development in Selected Pilot Areas
E. Communication Campaign on Broad Themes Related to Competitiveness
F. Project Coordination

Project Performance to Date. Based on the latest supervision mission carried out in
November 2008, the rating for the achievement of the project's development objective
continues to be "Moderately Satisfactory". Implementation Progress has also been rated
"Moderately Satisfactory", as has the Procurement rating. The Financial Management
Rating is "Satisfactory". In June 2008, the closing date was extended from September 30,
2008 to December 31, 2009 to enable the Project to better meet its objectives. As of
February 2009, SDRs 13.6 million had been disbursed, out of a total of SDRs 20.5
million, or 66 percent of the total.

Works Financed by the Project. The original project design envisaged works in the
following sub-components for a total of SDRs 530,000 (roughly US$ 830,000 at today's
exchange rate):
    B.1. Creating and supporting technology centers for the wood and craft sectors
    (specifically in Part B.l (a) (ii) of the Project in Schedule 2 to the Development
    Credit Agreement); and
    D. Local Competitiveness: Improving Economic Development in Selected Pilot
    Areas (specifically in Part D.2 (c) of the Project in Schedule 2 to the Development
    Credit Agreement).

The July 2007 2ndorder restructuring expanded the number of sub-components in the
Development Credit Agreement (DCA) that could finance works to include the
following:
    A.1. Reducing firms' anticompetitive behavior and improving consumer protection
    (specifically in Part A.1 (c) (vii) of the Project in Schedule 2 to the DCA);
    A.2. Reducing administrative procedures (specifically in Part A.2 (d) of the Project in
    Schedule 2 to the DCA);
    B.3. Developing and implementing a national quality system (specifically in Part B.3
    (b) of the Project in Schedule 2 to the DCA);
    C. Improving Skills of the Labor Force (specifically in Part C.3 of the Project in
    Schedule 2 to the DCA);
    D. Local Competitiveness (specifically in Part D.3 (a) and (b) of the Project in
    Schedule 2 to the DCA).
    F. Project Coordination (specifically in Part F.2 of the Project in Schedule 2 to the
    DCA).
The July 2007 restructuring also increased the amount of the disbursement category for
works to SDR 1.49million (about US$2.2 million).'

The current restructuring would not make works eligible in any new components. With
the reallocation of loans proceeds being processed separately, the project would finance
SDRs 2.19 million (equivalent to about US$3.28 million) in works. Given that this is a
significant expansion from the amount originally envisaged, it is worthwhile to explicitly
detail what works the Project has financed or plans to finance (see Table 1). The amounts
of the works described in the Table 1 are for the total amount of each construction. The
disbursement percentage in the DCA for works is 93%, so out of the US$3.42 million
detailed in the table, the Bank is expected to finance about US$3.18 million. This figure

'Ina subsequentreallocation of loan proceeds in April 2008, the Works disbursement category was
adjusted to SDRs 1.413million.

       does not exactly match the US$3.28 million allocated to the Works disbursement
       category mentioned above due to changes in the exchange rate between SDRs and dollars
       over the life of the project (including a small cushion to account for possible future
       changes in the exchange rate).

       Table 1: Works Financed or To Be Financed by the Project
                                Estimated                                                              Completion
 No.        Name of Works                                Brief Description of Work
                               Cost                                                                    Date (Est.)

 A.l    Reducing Firms' Anti-Competitive Behavior and Improving Consumer Protection

        Remodeling of the
        offices of the                      Remodeling of the first floor of the offices, including
  1     Comision de Defensa    $16,015      removing some walls, painting, installing air              June 2007
        y Promoci6n de la                   conditioning and electrical wiring
        Competencia
1     1
1A.2   1Reducing Administrative Procedures                                                           I             I
        Cabling and electrical
        installations-                      Provide network cables to connect computers and
  2     SE;,                   $15,000      servers, as well as server room installations in the       April 2009
        COHDEFOR, Portal                    organizations mentioned.
        Em resarial
1B.l I Creating    and Supporting CITESin the Wood and Craft Sectors                                  I
                                            The building will be approximately 752 m2,
                                            distributed over 2 levels. On the first will be the
        Construction of the                 principle entrance, reception and information, mini-
        CITES-Artesania/       $464,771     bodega, bathrooms, training and exhibition multiple         July 2009
        Turismo                             use room, administrative offices, labs, and various
                                            workshops. On the second will be the exhibition
                                            area and multiple use rooms.
        Developing and Implementing a National Quality System
                                           IThe building will be approximately 1200m2,
        Construction of                     distributed over 2 1ev;ls. The firs; floor will include
        National Metrology                  special labs for measurement equipment and national
        Laboratory, including               samples. Part of the first level will be for offices for   November
        installations for the               technical staff and a drop-off and pick-up area for           2009
        National Quality                    equipment that needs calibration. The second floor
        System                              will be for other National Quality System offices and
                                            a multiple use room for training and a cafeteria.
        Remodeling of the
        installations for the
                               $5,000       Installation of sinks and bathrooms                        June 2009
        Legal Metrology
        Laboratory
        Improving Skills of Labor Force

                                            Construction of physical installations of the
        Classroom building
                                            Universidad Empresarial Jose Cecilio del Valle,            November
        for the "Universidad   S911y81
                                            which consist of 14classrooms, bathrooms; and an              2008
        Empresarial"
                                            administrative area.

I    I
 D      Local Competitiveness: Improving Economic Development in Selected Pilot Areas

                                       An information center to serve tourists that visit
   Construction and
                                       Copan Ruinas and the archeological park, to promote
   equipment for tourist
                          $18,981      local tourist f m s , and to make available information  March 2009
   information kiosk in
                                       that could facilitate linkages with other national
   Copan Ruinas
                                       tourism services.

   Construction of                     Construction of a dyeing locale for women working
   workshop for                        with the microenterprise, GRUTECA. Construction
   microentrepreneurs                  will improve the physical space for this activity and
                          $68'000                                                               March 2009
   that work in dyeing                 therefore increase the quality of production and
   in Copan Ruinas                     elevate their competitiveness in the local artisanal
   (GRUTECA)                           market of Copan Ruinas.
                                       Rehabilitating the convention center so that it has
   Rehabilitating the                  sufficient capacity to house numerous audiences,
9  multiple use room in   $120,000     thereby assisting tourist firms in the region that       May 2009
   Copan Ruinas                        currently do not have adequate spaces for large
                                       events.
   Minor works in
   productive
   decentralized units                 Complete the improvement and expansion of
10 (SMEs) to start a      $106,382     physical installations of workshops of 5 clothing        June 2009
   maquiladora industry                producing SMEs.
   in the southern region
   of the country
   Construction of two
                                       Construction of a processing plant for the false fi-uit
   pilot centers for the
                                       of cashews, of which they are currently only
   processing and
                                       harvesting 10%of the total production. Taking
   storage of cashews
                          $148,038     greater advantage of this product will allow farmers     June 2009
   for small producers in
                                       to offer products with greater value-added,
   the southern region
                                       generating increased income and opportunities for
   (one in Choluteca and
                                       work.
   one in Valle)
                                       Development of civil works necessary for the facade
   Redesign of the
                                       of the municipal market to harmonize its architecture
   municipal market and
l2                        $80,000      with the historical center of the city of Ojojona and    April 2009
   rehabilitation of food
                                       to include it as another tourist destination, increasing
   market in Ojojona
                                       the length of stay of visitors to Ojojona.
                                       Generate greater value-added in forestry activities
                                       and increase the volume of exports of wood pieces
   Construction of three
                                       fi-omagro-forestry cooperatives in the Reserva del
   wood-drying ovens in
                                       Hombre y Biosfera del Rio Platano through the
13 theUReservadel         $60,000                                                               June 2009
                                       construction of 3 wood-drying ovens that will
   Hombre y Biosfera
                                       improve the quality of final products by producing
   del Rio Platano"
                                       wood with the degrees of humidity requested by
                                       clients.
   Repairing of                        The work included the automating of the
14 hydrothermal plant     $63,820      hydrothermal treatment system, rehabilitation of the     April 2007
   for mango processing                cooling tower, relocation of the packaging line, etc.
   Total                  $3,420,293

  Additional details about the largest works in the table are described below:
           Construction of the CITES-ArtesanidTurisrno for US$464,771. The PAD
           envisaged providing facilities for the technology centers (CITES)financed by the
           Project. Specifically, the PAD says that "the project will support the creation of
           the main CITEartesania Center in Tegucigalpa and of .three small technical units
           in Copan (stone and Mayan souvenirs), Santa Barbara (natural fibers) and La

        Ceiba (or Trujillo)" (p. 67). Early in the project's execution, it was decided that
        only the main CITEartesania would be constructed in Copan. This amendment to
        the DCA will make clear that the "provision of facilities" described in the DCA
        includes the construction of a building.
        Construction of National Metrology Laboratory (including installations for the
        National Quality System) for $1,342,475. The main reason for this restructuring is
        to make this construction eligible, as described below.
        Classroom building for the "Universidad Empresarial" for $911,811. This
        building was added to the project as part of the July 2007 restructuring. The 2007
        restructuring Project Paper states "Add also the provision of works...to upgrade
        the quality of the those entities [public and private training providers], and
        explicitly include financing for the establishment of a new Enterprise
        Management University (Universidad Empresarial)...". Since the Project Paper
        did not explicitly mention the construction of a new building, it is worth
        highlighting here that a new classroom building was constructed as part of this
        component.

Reasonfor the Restructuring. The reason for the restructuring is to expand and clarify the
definition of eligible works in the Project. Specifically, the construction of the national
metrology laboratory will be added to a sub-component and the construction of a
technology center will be made more explicit in another sub-component. The
construction of the laboratory has been in the planning stages for the past 2.5 years, with
the support of the Project. The Development Credit Agreement currently only permits the
financing of "complementary minor works" in this sub-component. Given that the
laboratory is a two-story, stand-alone structure, a modification to the DCA is necessary to
finance the construction.

The restructuring will also modify the list of output indicators described on page 3 of the
PAD and in Schedule 2 of the Project Agreement. The reason for the modification is to
increase the level of specificity of the indicators to better capture the project results and
to correspond to what is currently monitored in the Implementation Status and Results
Reports. There are sufficient hnds in the credit to cover the proposed changes and no
additional funding is being requested.

111.Proposed Changes

The proposed changes would expand the scope of sub-component 3 "Developing and
implementing a national quality system" of Part B "Promoting Private Sector Innovation"
of the Project. Specifically, the changes would modify the following clause in Schedule
2, Part B.3 of the Credit Agreement: "3. Developing and implementing a national quality
system in the Borrower's territory through:...(b) provision of goods, complementary
minor works, training and advisory services to improve the quality of private and public
laboratories in the Borrower's territory". In addition to complementary minor works, the
construction of the national metrology lab would be made eligible. Office space on the
second floor of the laboratory would be used to house the national quality organizations
(accreditation, metrology, and standards) created with support from the Project.

This change is justified to meet the objective of developing a national quality system as
described in the PAD. Specifically,the sub-component objective in the PAD is to "Build
awareness of, and a demand for, a national quality culture; facilitate the establishmentof
quality measurement, standards, testing, and certification services; and promote the
application and certification of quality and environmental management systems to
increasethe productivity and competitiveness of the private sector." (p. 72).

As one of the means to achieve this objective, the PAD describes financing "capacity
building for the national metrology laboratory" (p. 74) and includes as a performance
indicator "National Metrology Laboratory fully operational" (p. 75). Yet, no financing for
the actual construction of the lab was described in the PAD. Given that the Government
does not have adequate resources to undertake the construction without Project support,
there is no way that this indicator can be achieved without the proposed change. The
constructionof the lab would also allowthe Projectto finance the necessary equipment to
make the lab operational. Given that the construction and equipping of the lab would be
finished shortly before the project closing date, it is unlikely that the lab would be fully
operational before the project closes. However, without this restructuring, no national
metrology laboratory would exist. The office space on the second floor of the lab would
further the project's goals of developing a national quality system by providing a more
adequate space for the national quality system entities created with Project support.

The restructuring would also add a small clause to the sub-component of the Project for
"Creating and supporting technology centers for the wood and craft sectors" (Part B.l).
The clause would affect Schedule 2, Part B.l(a)(ii) of the DCA and make it explicit that
the "provision of facilities" includes the construction of a building. Providing facilities
for the technology centers was part of the original project design, and this amendment is
only meant to make that explicit.

Adjustments to output indicators. The list of output/monitoring indicators on page 3 of
the PAD and Schedule 2 of the Project Agreement is shown in Table 2 below:

 Table 2: Original output/monitoring indicators
 Part A: Investment Climate
     Reduction of business registrationtime by 40%
     Reduction of business registration cost
     Reduction of unit cost and increase in volume of cargo handled by Puerto CortCs

 Part B: Promoting Private Sector Innovation
     Number of Micro, Small and Medium Businesses(MSMBs) using Innovation Technology Centers
     (CITEs) financedby the project
     Increase in FDI diversificationfollowing implementation of the Investment Promotion Strategy
     financed by the project
     Increase in the number of laboratoriesaccreditedby internationalinstitutions
     Increase in the number of firms obtaining quality certifications(large firms and MSMEs will be
     monitored separately)

 Part C: Improving Skills of Labor Force
     Increase in the number of firms requesting training by INFOP
     Improved quality of INFOP courses (as assessedby the firms attendingthe courses)

 Part D: Local Competitiveness: Improving Economic Development in SelectedPilot Areas
     Increased investment (local and foreign) in the areas selected as pilots for the local competitiveness
      initiative


 The proposed restructuring would modify the list of indicators in Schedule 2 of the
 Project Agreement to include the following:

 Table 2: Proposed modified output/monitoring indicators
 Part A: Investment Climate
     Reduction of time to start a business by 40%
     Reduction of time spent dealing with construction licenses

     Increase in volume of cargo handled by Puerto CortCs

 Part B: Promoting Private Sector Innovation
     Number of Micro, Small and Medium Businesses(MSMBs) using InnovationTechnology Centers
     (CITEs) financed by the project
     Number of new jobs created through FDI promotion activities
     Increase in the number of laboratorytests accredited accordingto internationalstandards

     Increase in the number of f m s obtaining quality certifications(large f m s and MSMEs will be
     monitored separately)

 Part C: Improving,Skills of Labor Force
     Number of SMEs receiving training through project-financedcourses
     Number of public and private training centers strengthened with project support

I-
 Part D: Local Competitiveness: ImprovingEconomic Development in SelectedPilot Areas
     Increased investment(local and foreign) in the areas selected as pilots for the local competitiveness
     initiative


 The reasons for the changes are as follows:
 Part A. In the first indicator, "business registration time" was replaced by "time to start a
 business". This adjustment is to align the wording with the Doing Business indicator that

is used to monitor the results. "Reduction of business registration cost" was replaced by
"Reduction of time spent dealing with construction licenses" since project activities have
concentrated much more on the latter. This change also broadens the scope of the
investment climate monitoring since business registration is already covered in the first
indicator. The reduction of unit costs was removed fiom the Puerto CortCs indicator since
unit costs for the port have not changed since 1999 by agreement between the National
Port Company (Empresa Nacional Portuaria) and the Shipping Association (Asociacidn
de Navieros), so there is nothing to monitor.

Part B. The "increase in FDI diversification.. ." indicator was replaced by a much more
concrete measure: "Number of new jobs created through FDI promotion activities". This
provides a clearer measure of impacts since how to measure FDI diversification was
never defined in the PAD. The international laboratory accreditation indicator was
refined to make it better reflect what is important in laboratory accreditation. What
matters for the accreditation of testing and calibration laboratories is that they have
specific tests (that are relevant to the country context) accredited by an internationally
recognized accreditation authority according to ISOIIEC 17025. Hence, this indicator was
changed to measure the number of "laboratory tests accredited according to international
standards" rather than simply the "number of laboratories accredited by international
institutions."

Part C. The Project's involvement with INFOP (the National Institute of Professional
Training, Instituto de Formacidn Profesional) has been much lower than originally
anticipated and, as a result, the July 2007 restructuring broadened the component
description to finance other training providers besides INFOP. The proposed change
aligns the indicator with the previous restructuring by broadening it to cover firms and
workers receiving training from project-financed activities outside of INFOP.

Outcome indicator. According to page 3 of the PAD, the outcome indicator is the
following (the outcome indicator is not mentioned in the Development Credit Agreement
or the Project Agreement):
        "Improvement in Honduras' ranking in the World Economic Forum's Competitiveness
        list, fiom 75" (in 2003) to 65th (in 2008). This improvement should be driven mainly by
        an improvement in Microeconomic Competitiveness ranking (Business Environment and
        Companies Performance), for which the goal is that Honduras should move fiom 78th (in
        2003) to 65th (in 2008). (The Macroeconomic Index, which is the second determinant of
        the overall Competitiveness Ranking and is outside the scope of this project, is also
        expected to improve based on the Government's planned macroeconomic reforms.)

        As agreed at the Project Concept Document Review Meeting, after the ICA study is
        completed, this indicator will be replaced by a figure (fiom the ICA study) that is easier
        to monitor and more directly related to the interventions financed under the project."


The World Economic Forum has changed its methodology and no longer measures the
indices mentioned in the outcome indicator. For that reason, and since the PAD explicitly
mentions replacing the indicator with one "that is easier to monitor and more directly
related to the interventions financed under the project", the indicator was replaced via an
indicator refinement exercise in the May 2008 ISR. The purpose in mentioning the
change here is to ensure transparency. The indicator was replaced by Honduras' ranking
in the Ease of Doing Business index published by the World Bank Group. The new

baseline is Honduras ranked 112 in Doing Business 2006 (Ease of Doing Business
rankings are not available before DB 2006)~.The new target is Honduras ranked 104 in
Doing Business 2010 (based on the same country sample used in 2006)

The Ease of Doing Business indicator is directly impacted by project activities that target
3 of the 10 sub-indices that make up the ranking. A new indicator from investment
climate assessments was not used (as suggested in the PAD) since there is no ICA survey
that would fall close to the end of the project and capture project impacts. Moreover, the
scope of the Doing Business indicator is similar to the World Economic Forum's
Microeconomic Competitiveness ranking. Hence, this change is considered a refinement
of the original outcome indicator, rather than a material change to it.

IV. Analysis

The proposed changes do not have a major effect on the original economic, financial,
technical, institutional, or social aspects of the project and no exceptions to Bank policies
are involved. The changes do not raise the environmental category of the project or
trigger new safeguard policies. The previous project restructuring in July 2007 included a
number of small works, and at that time the Project was upgraded to an environmental
category B. An Environmental Impact Assessment and Environmental Management Plan
and Indigenous Peoples Development Plan were then prepared and approved by the
Regional Safeguards Coordinator in July 2008. The Environmental Impact Assessment
and Environmental Management Plan included the construction of the national metrology
laboratory and the technology center (CITES-Artesania/Turismo)as part of the works
foreseen by the project. In addition, the potential environmental impacts of the two works
were reviewed by the Bank in February 2009 (and found to be low), and the project
implementing unit has followed through on measures to ensure that the works are in
compliance with the Environmental Management Plan.

A mission was undertaken in February 2009 by a Bank resettlement specialist to review
the status of the proposed technology center and the national metrology lab. The mission
confirmed .that the proposed activities do not trigger the Involuntary Resettlement
safeguard. Moreover, the Development Credit Agreement contains a covenant (inserted
during the July 2007 restructuring) that provides that the Borrower shall ensure that no
physical or economic involuntary resettlement (as interpreted in accordance with the
Bank's Operational Policy 4.12) shall take place as a consequence of Project
implementation. Compliance for all of the works will be reviewed as part of regular
supervision. Given these measures, the Regional Safeguards Coordinator confirmed that
the Involuntary Resettlement safeguard is not triggered.

The lab construction will be partially financed by gains from exchange rate changes
between the dollar and Special Drawing Ri hts (the project budget is in dollars while the
loan amount is denominated in SDRs)!                     The remainder will be financed by the

 The Doing Business Report usually comes out in the fall of the preceding year, meaning that data in
Doing Business 2006 is from mid 2005.
 All Borrowers in Honduras have been notified that these exchange rate gains, as well as the losses, are for
the Borrower's account, as indicated in the Disbursement Guidelines, and thus the Project Coordination
Unit will assume the risk of any financing shortfall in case the exchange rates change in the future.

elimination of smaller consultancies and goods purchases that have been determined to be
either less feasible given the amount of time remaining in the project or of less
importance to achieving the objectives of the project.

V. Expected Outcomes

The proposed change will not affect the project's development objective, outcome
targets, or outcome indicator. The outcome indicator was previously refined in an ISR
and the output indicators are being adjusted, as detailed above.

VI. Benefits and Risks

The restructuring does not introduce any new risks to the achievement of the
development objective.

