                                                                                                       93480
Improving Competitiveness Across Sectors in Honduras
                                                                                                       May 8, 2012




 Improving Competitiveness Across Sectors in Honduras


Overview
The project is responsible for advancing various reforms that have improved the Honduras
business climate and competitiveness and directly benefitted over 1,400 micro, small, and
medium enterprises (MSMEs).


Challenge
In 2003, Honduras had a gross national product (GNP) per
                                                                   More Results
capita of US$860, a high incidence of poverty, and poor
social indicators. Economic growth had been low and

                                                                   1,400
variable for over 30 years, and between 1997 and 2000,
gross domestic product per capita (GDP) contracted 1.6
percent, largely due to the effects of Hurricane Mitch. The
overriding challenge for reducing the country’s poverty and        micro, small, and medium
                                                                   enterprises (MSMEs) were
inequality rates in the long-term was to break the cycle of        directly benefitted
low and narrowly-based economic growth. Achievement of
sustainable and equitable growth required not only
macroeconomic stability but also an approach that addressed
productivity constraints – such as low private investment.
                                                                   200%
                                                                   increase in sales by 2010
Approach
The World Bank employed a cross-sector approach that
addressed a broad range of obstacles to private sector
development, from burdensome business registration
procedures to lack of adequate training options to inefficient     US$34.3
                                                                   million
logistics. The project was designed specifically to advance
the Central America Free Trade Agreement’s complementary
agenda. More specifically, project activities aimed to respond
to identified weaknesses that might prevent Honduras from          was the total cost of the project
taking full advantage of the new trade agreement. The Bank
relied on a multifaceted design, reflecting expectations that it
would address a wide variety of issues. Examples of
                                                                   LEARN MORE
activities included, among others, establishment and
strengthening of a competition commission and a consumer            World Bank (2003-2010)
protection directorate, the implementation of one-stop-shops        Enhancing Competitiveness:
to facilitate business registration, the establishment of a         Trade Facilitation and
                                                                    Productivity Project
technology innovation center for crafts and tourism, provision
of matching grants to firms to obtain international
certifications, and the strengthening of public and private
training institutes.
Results
The “Enhancing Competitiveness” project had several important results, including:

       In the first year after the first reforms, business registrations jumped 60 percent from
       4,201 to 6,705 firms in 2006 following the establishment of business portals in
       Tegucigalpa and San Pedro Sula.

       By providing Puerto Cortes with new equipment and technical assistance, the port was
       able to obtain international certification from the International Maritime Organization. The
       certification helped the port become a reliable and secure international trading hub, with
       cargo managed by the port climbing from 7 million tons of cargo in 2004 to 8 million
       tons in 2009.

       Sector-specific Foreign Direct Investment campaigns led to 33 new investments, US$60
       million in new foreign investment, and 5,815 new jobs by 2009.

       The establishment of national quality institutions – the Office of Accreditation, the
       Honduran Metrology Center, and the Honduran Standards Organization – resulted in
       the accreditation of 11 laboratories, 2,000 equipment calibrations, and the publication of
       69 standards.

       Matching grants helped 110 firms (including 87 MSMEs) obtain quality certifications,
       creating a multiplier effect that saw 324 firms with certification in 2010, compared with
       only 25 in 2004.

       Training activities for 394 SMEs in the bean, coffee, and shrimp sectors led to a 150
       percent increase in productivity, and a 200 percent increase in sales by 2010.

       Training provided to 150 small producers of mango and oriental vegetables resulted in a
       30 percent increase (or higher) in income, and mango producers became first-time
       exporters by 2009.



Bank Contribution
The total cost of the project was US$34.3 million. The Bank contributed US$28.8 million
through a loan from the International Development Association (IDA). The Government of
Honduras contributed US$5.5 million.


Partners
The project implementation agency, the Foundation for Investment and Exports (Fundación de
Inversión y Exportaciones - FIDE), was the Bank’s main counterpart and principally responsible
for most of the project’s impacts. The project benefitted from strategic relationships with
several partners, such as the Ministry of Finance, the Ministry of Natural Resources and the
Environment, the National Quality Council, the Commission for the Defense and Protection of
Competition, the Consumer Protection Directorate, the National Port Protection Commission,
and municipal governments. Other project partners included the Multilateral Investment
Guarantee Agency, International Finance Corporation, the Honduran Council on Private
Enterprise, and private training institutions.


Moving Forward
The vast majority of reforms and impacts from project activities will continue after the close of
the project. In some cases, the government has already taken ownership of project activities,
such as the reforms in the competition and consumer protection agencies. In other cases, the
private beneficiaries, such as matching grant recipients or local competitiveness participants,
are leveraging the project’s investments to continue to improve their businesses or to obtain
other financing.


Beneficiaries
The beneficiaries for the project were three broad groups. The first was the private sector in
general that benefitted from reduced costs of doing business, improved technology and skills,
and increased export opportunities. The second group was more specifically MSMEs and firms
operating in high-growth potential sectors ( maquila , tourism, forestry, and agricultural
industries). The third group was selected government institutions, such as the National Quality
Council. Beneficiaries also included lower-income segments of the population, particularly with
the local competitiveness activities that targeted and assisted small producers in vegetables,
shrimp, cashews, and mangos. Also, artisans that benefitted from the technology innovation
center for crafts and tourism were primarily lower-income indigenous women.
