Document of
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Report No: 19726
IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
(CR-23570)
ONA
CREDIT
IN THE AMOUNT OF SDR 21.8 MILLION (US$30.6 MILLION EQUIVALENT)
TO THE
KINGDOM OF NEPAL
FOR THE
BASIC AND PRIMARY EDUCATION PROJECT
May 10, 2000
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the
performance of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without
World Bank authorization.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
(Exchange Rate Effective June 1999)
Currency Unit = Nepalese Rupees (NRs.)
NRs. 68.00 = US$ 1.00
US$ 0.0147 = NRs. 1.00
FISCAL YEAR
July 16 - July IS
ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS
APA              Annual Plan of Action
APL              Adaptable Program Loan
CDC              Curriculum Development Center
DANIDA           Danish International Developmnent Agency
DEO              District Education Office(r)
DOE              Department of Education
GER              Gross Enrollment Ratio
HMG              His Majesty's Government
IDA              International Development Association
MHPP             Ministry of Housing and Physical Planning
MOE(C)           Ministry of Education (and Culture)
MTR              Mid-term Review
NFE              Non-formal Education
NFEU             Non-formal Education UnitiBPEP
NGO              Non-Governmental Organization
OSP              Out-of-School Program
PCTDU            Primary Curriculun and Textbooks Development Unit
PEP              Primary Education Project
PIU              Project Implementation Unit
PTTU             Primary Teacher Training Unit
RCs              Resource Centers
RCDU             Resource Centre Development Unit
REDs             Regional Education Directorates
RME              Research, Monitoring and Evaluation
RP               Resource Person
SLC              School Leaving Certificate
SMC              School Management Comrnittee
UNICEF           United Nations Children's Fund
UPE              Universal Primary Education
WEP              Women's Education Program
Vice President:   Mieko Nishimizu
Country Director:   Hans M. Rothenbuhler
Sector Director:   Emmanuel Y. Jimenez
Team Leader/Task Team Leader:   Grant Sinclair/Ana Maria Jeria



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
CONTENTS
Page No.
1. Project Data                                                                            1
2. Principal Performance Ratings                                                           1
3. Assessment of Development Objective and Design, and of Quality at Entry                 1
4. Achievement of Objective and Outputs                                                    3
5. Major Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcome                                      7
6. Sustainability                                                                          9
7. Bank and Borrower Performance                                                          10
8. Lessons Learned                                                                        12
9. Partner Comments                                                                       12
10. Additional Information                                                                13
Annex 1. Key Performance Indicators/Log Frame Matrix                                      14
Annex 2. Project Costs and Financing                                                      17
Annex 3. Economic Costs and Benefits                                                      20
Annex 4. Bank Inputs                                                                      21
Annex 5. Ratings for Achievement of Objectives/Outputs of Components                      23
Annex 6. Ratings of Bank and Borrower Performance                                         24
Annex 7. List of Supporting Documents                                                     25
Annex 8. HMG - Ministry of Education-Basic and Primary Education Project (1992-1998)      26
Project Evaluation Report
This docment has a restricted distnbution and may be used by recipients only in the
performance of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without
World Bank authorization.






Project ID: P010395                                       Project Name: Basic and Primary Education Project
Team Leader: Grant G. Sinclair                            TL Unit: SASED
ICR Type: Core ICR                                        Report Date: May 10, 2000
1. Project Data
Name: Basic and Primary Education Project           L/C/TF Number: CR-23570
Country/Department: NEPAL                                                Region: South Asia Regional
Office
Sector/subsector: EP - Primary Education
KEY DATES
Original           Revised/Actual
PCD:  03/31/89                                Effective: 07/01/92           07/08/92
Appraisal.  09/11/91                                  MTR: 12/31/94             01/15/96
Approval:  04/21/92                                Closing: 12/31/99            12/31/99
Borrower/lImplementing Agency: GOVT OF NEPAL/MIN. OF EDUCATION & CULTURE
Other Partners:
STAFF                Current                                   At Appraisal
Vice President:      Mieko Nishimizu                           D. Joseph Wood
Country Manager:     Hans M. Rothenbuhler                      Jochen Kraske
Sector Manager:      Emmanuel Y. Jimenez                       Martin Karcher
Team Leader at ICR:   Grant Sinclair                           Thomas Schmidt
ICR Primary Author:   Ana Maria Jeria
2. Principal Performance Ratings
(HS=Highly Satisfactory, S=Satisfactory, U=Unsatisfactory, HL=Highly Likely, L=Likely, UN=Unlikely, HUN=Highly
Unlikely, HU-=Highly Unsatisfactory, H=High, SU=Substantial, M=Modest, N=Negligible)
Outcome: S
Sustainability: L
Institutional Development Impact: M
Bank Performance: S
Borrower Performance: S
QAG (if available)       ICR
Quality at Entry: S                      S
Project at Risk at Any Time: No
3. Assessment of Development Objective and Design, and of Quality at Entry
3.1 Original Objective:
Nepal is one of the poorest countries in South Asia. During the 1980s, the extremely low levels of
most human resources indicators hindered the economic and social development of the Kingdom. Literacy
was estimated at only 35% (18% for females). The primary and non-formal education system suffered
from low enrollment, high drop-out rates, poor quality and lack of adequate school facilities. Management



problems were pervasive, with the system suffering from lack of planning, poor data and little monitoring.
Chronic underfunding of the sector hampered both the growth and the quality of basic and primary
education.
The Ministry of Education and Culture (MOEC) was well aware of these problems and had been
conducting a series of pilot projects designed to address issues of quality and access in basic and primary
education. Projects such as the earlier Primary Education Project (PEP) supported by IDA and the
Education for Rural Development (SETI) UNESCO Project were experimental in nature, focusing on
innovations designed to test methods to improve the curriculum, teaching materials, teacher training and
supervision. Although geographically scattered throughout a few districts in the country, data showed that
access, education quality and students' performance levels could be increased. In 1990, MOEC developed
a Master Plan for the subsector which emphasized the need for investments in quality improvement, access
and management. In preparing its Eighth Five-Year Plan (FY1993-97), the Government developed an
integrated nationwide program which would be financed by IDA, UNDP, UNICEF, DANIDA and JICA.
The IDA Basic and Primary Education Project (BPEP) was designed to support this program.
The major thrust of the BPEP project was to improve quality and access in the basic and primary
education sector. The Staff Appraisal Report (SAR) recognized that the BPEP project would not allow
Nepal to achieve Universal Primary Education (UPE) by the year 2000, but that it would provide a strong
foundation for later expansion. Specifically, the project had three objectives: (a) to improve the quality of
primary education; (b) to increase equitable access to primary schooling; and (c) to strengthen the
management of the formal and non-formal primary education delivery system.
3.2 Revised Objective:
n.a.
3.3 Original Components:
The project was organized into three components:
3      A quality component, which sought to: (a) simplify and make more relevant the curriculum of the
primary schools; (b) provide improved teacher instructional materials, textbooks and supplementary
materials; and (c) institutionalize a teacher supervision, support and training system.
*      An access component, which financed the strengthening of the non-formal primary education and
literacy programs. The project supported a number of initiatives to increase participation of girls, the
very poor and those living in remote areas; and renovate and construct additional classroom facilities
for primary schools.
*      An institutional development component, which supported: (a) the strengthening of MOEC's
capacity to plan, manage and monitor its formal and non-formal primary education programs; (b)
assistance to the development of MOEC's capacity to coordinate and manage donor-aided projects; and
(c) improvements in the capacity to plan and monitor physical facilities development and maintenance.
3.4 Revised Components:
n.a.
3.5 Quality at Entry:
-2-



The quality at entry is rated as satistactory in this ICR. The project was well designed and directed
towards addressing the key educational issues of the time. The objectives were relevant, clearly defined
and had a direct link to the Government's medium-term plans in the sector. The project benefited from
lessons learned from earlier projects in the sector.
4. Achievement of Objective and Outputs
4.1 Outcome/achievement of objective:
The project satisfactorily achieved its stated objectives, exceeded its physical targets and almost
fully disbursed the IDA Credit. As was typical of the design of projects of the time, no performance
indicators were described. Therefore, assessment of achievements in this ICR is based on the quantity and
quality of the project's educational inputs, the processes which were followed to accomplish the wide range
of tasks, and the outcomes as illustrated from analysis of statistical data and from qualitative reports.
The BPEP project was designed to support the Government's Basic and Primary Education
Program which recommended national objectives and strategies that were based on past project experience.
The project's SAR noted that in building the primary education system from such a low base, changes in
quality and efficiency of the primary education system would require a long-term perspective. The BPEP
was seen as the initial building block to increase the quantity and the quality of inputs required to
effectively support a national primary education system --books and educational materials, teaching skills
and competencies, classrooms and furniture, management capacity for planning and monitoring.
Simultaneously, a major goal was to make schools more accessible to a wide diversity of social groups in
very different environments, and to try out a range of strategies to raise the national literacy levels,
especially among women.
The BPEP project has laid the foundation for an efficient delivery system for better quality primary
education. There were improvements in the physical leaming environment resulting from the new and
renovated classrooms, the curriculum and textbook reform, the recurrent training of teachers and other
education officials and the increased number of female primary school teachers. These contributed to an
increase in children enrolling in primary schools, especially girls and students in remote areas, and a
moderate increase in the proportion of children completing the five-year primary school program, as well as
some improvement in their learning.
4.2 Outputs by components:
A.    Improving the Quality of Primary Education Component
(a)  Curriculum development. National curriculum goals and the objectives and expected leaming
outcomes were identified; and the content, methods and subject organization of the curriculum were
determined. The result was a revised and simplified integrated primary school curriculum for grades 1 to 5
that was gender-sensitive and increased the emphasis on health and environmental issues. There was key
stakeholder involvement in setting national goals for primary education, identifying primary education
leaming outcomes and contributing to discussions of curriculum relevance and subject organization. Skills
and expertise were developed amongst curriculum teams on how children leam and teachers teach in the
different contexts in Nepal through a three-year rolling plan. Materials were tried and tested in increasing
numbers of schools before they were finalized and distributed nationwide.
(b)  Textbook development and distribution. Textbooks, teachers guides and supplementary materials
- 3 -



were prepared based on the new curriculum. Textbooks for three subjects in grades 1 to 3, and for five
subjects in grades 4 and 5 were distributed free annually to all children in grades 1 to 3, to all girls in
grades I to 5, and to all students in the 18 remote districts of the country. The new curriculum, textbooks
and teacher guides were disseminated nationally through inservice teacher training programs. These
activities were coordinated to introduce the curriculum and textbooks for one new grade level each year
over a five-year period. The process of textbook and materials development increased participation of
teachers and students in the design and development phases; and coordinated the technical expertise of
illustrators, designers, practitioners and curriculum experts to produce improved instructional text design.
Book distribution, despite the communication difficulties throughout the country, is mostly effective.
(c)  Inservice teacher training and professional support. A cascade system of teacher training provided
rapid dissemination of the new curriculum to all teachers of all schools through the country as each grade
level was introduced. Although this provided a short introduction to the subject content and recommended
methods of the new curriculum and textbooks, there was little follow-up in the 35 districts not included in
the project. Based on the experience under the previous IDA-supported PEP project, the school cluster
model, with some adaptations, was extended from six to 40 districts in the country. Teachers received
professional support for the effective implementation of the new curriculum through Resource Persons
(RPs). However, given the low base from which BPEP started, the impact of the training varied
considerably. The RP's role is key to bringing about change in classrooms, but as the system expanded, the
selection criteria and training of RPs were diluted. Their effectiveness was therefore reduced. The
politicization of teachers, and the very frequent transfers of RPs, District Education Officers (DEOs) and
Program Coordinators (PCs) over recent years, has also decreased their effectiveness in implementing the
programs.
National assessment in the three core primary curriculum subjects started in 1997. Results showed
that mean scores in the Nepali language were 46%, in mathematics 44%, and in social studies 51%.
Results were different across the three major geographical regions with students in the Hills having slightly
higher correct responses compared with students in the Terai and the Mountains. The national assessment
of grade 3 will be carried out periodically to assess changes in national standards over the long term. In
1999, a national assessment of the three core subjects at grade 5 level was conducted and will be repeated
periodically.
B.    Increasing Equitable Access to Educational Resources Component
(a) Strengthening Non-formal Primarv Education. Literacy programs and materials were provided for
adults, especially women. Literacy facilitators were trained and a network of local supervisors for support
to literacy centers provided professional support to about 20 centers each. Programs for out-of-school
children, especially girls, were provided for those who have difficulty in attending regular primary schools.
Early childhood centers were conducted near schools that had large numbers of under-age children in grade
1, so that the young children could benefit from appropriate educational programs and their older siblings
could be retained in primary school. Equivalence has been established between out-of-school programs and
the grade 2 curriculum. About 152,000 children have benefited from these programs. But tracer studies
indicate that about 75% of the children, especially those belonging to the disadvantaged communities (so
called "hard core" groups) and those living in the most remote areas, did not transfer to the formal system.
Local support for non-formal education (NFE) programs was mobilized which resulted in wider
participation. The project's NFE unit prepared annual plans and programs, trained facilitators and
supervisors, produced and distributed materials, coordinated with NGOs (national and intemational)
engaged in NFE, and monitored program implementation.
- 4 -



(b)  Initiatives to increase participation of girls in schooling. More female teachers were recruited, and
trained, to encourage more girls to attend primary school. Scholarships were awarded to girls from
disadvantaged groups and the MOE established a Women's Education Unit (WEU). Other initiatives to
increase female participation included provision of sanitation facilities at schools, conducting alternative
programs for out-of-school children and literacy programs for women and providing early childhood
programs to allow older siblings in grades 1 and 2 (usually girls) to be able to attend regularly and without
having to 'mind' younger children brought to class with them. Females as a percentage of primary school
teachers increased from 14% in 1991 to 23% in 1997; 61% of the additional primary school teachers
appointed between 1991 and 1997 were female. Females as a percentage of primary school teachers in the
18 remote districts increased from 7% in 1991 to 16% in 1997; 64% of the newly recruited teachers were
female. There was also a significant increase of about 32% in girls' gross enrollment ratio (GER) in the 18
remote districts. The GER increased nationally from 106% (females 83%) in 1991 to 122% (females
104%) in 1997.
(c)  Renovation and construction of additional classrooms. An improved physical environment was
provided to about 800,000 children through the classroom construction and renovation program. New and
replacement classrooms were built through a community cost-sharing agreement with the School
Management Committees (SMCs) to increase acconmmodation capacity. Community construction
increased SMC ownership of schools, and is cost-effective. Instead of the standard space allocation for 35
students in each classroom, larger rooms built for classes with high enrollment and smaller rooms for
classes with low enrollment were introduced in the last year of the project in the Terai (Chitwan district).
The quality of construction could have been better with more engineers in the districts, trained supervisors
in clusters and a system of inspection and certification. Community perception of quality achieved,
however, has been generally satisfactory when compared to other local construction. Maintenance of
schools by the comnmunities remains an issue.
The project has been able to construct 14,232 new classrooms, rehabilitate 8,462 classrooms and
supply furniture allowing group activities to 13,412 classrooms. Communities constructed classrooms and
shared the cost as per agreements signed between the DEOs and the SMCs. Communities contributed from
15% to about 48% of the cost, as against 40% envisaged. In general, it took longer to complete the
construction work because of delayed contribution by the communities. However, community construction
has made possible a high degree of ownership of the school by teachers and communities and is cost-
effective as well. In spite of this, links between school, parents and communities are still weak. The
communities have to go a long way in developing their capacities. Constitution and selection of SMC
members require changes to give adequate representation to parents.
C.    Improving the Management of the Subsector Component
(a)  Strengthening MOE's capacity. In terms of implementation achievements, organizational structures
and operating procedures of the BPEP project have on the whole been effective. A foundation has been laid
to strengthen the Ministry's capacity to plan, manage and monitor education programs through the
establishment of a Policy Formulation and Coordination Committee (PFCC), a Project Implementation Unit
(PIU) and several other units at central and district levels. However, the cancellation of UNDP technical
assistance to this activity bogged down progress towards capacity building at MOE (see section 9(b)).
Towards the end of the project, a cadre of trained personnel was created by sending 204 key persons
abroad on study tours and training courses. In addition, training was provided to 4,189 Head Teachers,
639 RPs/School Supervisors, 40 Program Coordinators, and the functioning SMCs. Localized training
facilities have been created for the teachers by establishing 670 Resource Centers (RCs); 314 RC buildings
-5 -



were constructed. A better working environment has been created for the DEOs by constructing 20 office
buildings. Adequate planning freedom, financial and administrative powers were given to the PIU.
(b)  Monitoring and evaluation. Formats for planning, monitoring, evaluation of all units, and district
offices have been developed and used. Though established, the Education Management Information
System (EMIS) has been mostly working as a data collection unit. Thirty-one research and evaluation
studies have been conducted and several of them disseminated through workshops. Several major studies
to prepare the second phase (BPEP II) were finalized. A better system, capable of collecting, analyzing
and disseminating education data, as well as clearly formulated performance indicators, needs to be
developed.
(c)  Donor Coordination. Donor coordination was effectively managed by the PIU, which facilitated the
integration of project funds. Joint Annual Plans of Action (APA) have been prepared and needs for BPEP
II have been identified. The collaboration among donors begun under BPEP has been extended further in
support of BPEP II preparation. When IDA fumds were not available for some activities, other donors
supported the activities of the project, e.g., during the last year of the project.
(d)  Construction Management. Agreement between the Ministry of Housing and Physical Planning
(MHPP) and MOE collapsed early during the implementation of the project. Therefore, a Physical
Planning and School Mapping Unit (PPSMU) was added to the PIU. Standard construction designs were
developed to suit local materials and skill availability but structural details were not provided. The school
teachers have been trained to carry out routine maintenance using the maintenance manuals and the tool
kits provided for this purpose. But very few schools are doing any maintenance. Even simple cleaning of
the school compound is not done thoroughly. Although several missions recommended that the
maintenance trainers be absorbed into the system through hiring them permanently as master technicians,
these recommendations were not followed.
4.3 Net Present Value/Economic rate of r eturn:
n.a.
4.4 Financial rate of return:
n.a.
4.5 Institutional development impact:
The institutional development impact has been rated as modest. Organizational structures and
operating procedures within the PIU have on the whole been effective. However, progress towards the
project's institutional development objectives remained limited. A permanent Program Management
Division, replacing the PIU and designed to coordinate the activities of all the donors in the sub-sector, was
never established. BPEP activities have been running parallel to the regular system. This was partly due
to a planned UNDP technical assistance program which did not materialize (see Section 9(b)). MOE has
established a Department of Education (DOE) to institutionalize structures and activities that will provide
sustainability. In addition, frequent transfers of DEOs, PCs and some Unit heads have been a problem.
Project directors (PDs) were not transferred so frequently. Stability in staffing is a prerequisite for
effective institutional, technical capacity building ensuring accountability of key professionals and
administrative staff.
In spite of all this environment, a coherent policy, institutional framework and primary education
sector strategy with a clear long-term vision have been developed, which form the basis for the future
-6 -



investment program. Three major planning exercises, namely the Master Plan for Basic and Primary
Education, the Development Program, and the Project Implementation Plan, were recently conducted by
MOE staff and local consultants, using limited inputs from expatriates. Also on the positive side, better
awareness has been created among the Head Teachers and SMCs about school management and efficient
use of resources.
5. Major Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcome
5.1 Factors outside the control of government or implementing agency:
The project was designed in the period immediately prior to the introduction of democratically
elected governments in Nepal. The first national parliamentary elections were conducted in 1992, the year
the project became effective. During the last year of project implementation, the third national elections
were conducted (May 1999). In the interim, there were nine different governments due to lack of a majority
party in Parliament and frequent reforming of coalitions. An outcome of these changes was the
appointment of eight different Ministers of Education over the project period, frequent changes of civil
service personnel reflecting swings in changes in political power and the politicization of teachers as agents
of political change at the community level.
The primary education base from which the project began was very low-a large percentage of
primary school teachers had no preservice certificate of teaching, and many had educational levels of SLC
(grade 10) only. There were a series of subject syllabuses for grades 1-10, which made leaming difficult,
especially in the lower grades. Only a few textbooks were available to students. In addition, the pool of
national expertise in education areas relating to primary education was extremely limited; there was little
national expertise in child psychology, pedagogical theories and teaching practice appropriate to primary
education. This was reflected in the content of subject syllabuses and design of textbooks in use at the
time.
The cancellation of UNDP technical assistance created a gap in technical support, which hindered
the capacity building at the MOE and delayed the merger of project units into the MOE (see Section 9(b)).
5.2 Factors generally subject to government control:
The project was based on the Government's Master Plan for the primary education sector. Policies
have been consistently applied relating to curriculum, textbook distribution, recruitment of female teachers,
community cost-sharing of school construction and strategies targeted at inclusiveness of all children in
primary education. Late in the project period a Local Self-Govemance Act was passed (1999) to enhance
community participation in decision-making and service delivery, which should strengthen school
management in the future. A Teaching Service Commission Act was also passed to provide a regulatory
framework and a transparent teacher recruitment process. In addition, a five-year subsector program for
the BPEP II was developed, providing the basis for continued donors' support.
The political impact of the factors referred to under Section 5.1 above was greatest at the district,
resource center and school levels where very frequent changes occurred among DEOs, PCs and RPs. For
example, in one district there were nine different DEOs in one year and several PCs were transferred at
least once. In many cases, RPs were appointed without regard to the selection criteria and were also
frequently transferred. Moreover, the impact of the political instability during the latter years of the project
affected the stability of the civil service, weakening implementation capacity and accountability of district
administration and resulting in overly frequent transfer of field staff and inappropriate recruitments of RPs.
-7 -



In this context, it is remarkable that within the seven years of the project, so much was achieved in terms of
project implementation. It is a reflection of the commitment of all political parties to the priority of
development of the primary education sector and the dedication and innovations of project staff.
Two decisions taken midway during the project had a negative impact on the results of program
activities at school and district level, namely the change in RP status and their heavy involvement in
upgrading certificate training. The Government is aware of these and, in preparing for the second phase of
BPEP, it is reviewing the role and function of the RPs and has taken policy decisions about primary teacher
education that will lead to a coherent teacher education, training and reward system over the next few
years.
5.3 Factors generally subject to implementing agency control.
Project management has been effective at the PIU and its units responsible for curriculum,
textbook and the teacher professional support system. Management of the project at district and cluster
levels has been mainly affected by frequent transfers of field staff. A large amount of donor-supported
long-term intemational technical assistance has been provided to the project for support to the special
education programs and engineering supervisors. Extensive financial and physical monitoring has been
carried out and a number of qualititive studies conducted. There have been no problems with release of
counterpart funds, and administration by the project unit has been satisfactory. The dissemination and use
of information has not always been used effectively in decision-making. The Borrower contribution to the
ICR has been prepared and the Ministry is carrying out an independent evaluation of the project. Lessons
learned from the project have fed into the preparation of the second phase of the Basic and Primary
Education Program and the Program Implementation Plan for BPEP II which will be supported by joint
funding from IDA, Danida, EC, NORAD and Finland; and additionally, with support from Unicef and
JICA, and from ADB in the near future.
5.4 Costs and financing:
At appraisal, the project was envisaged as a combined effort of Government and all donors in
improving primary and basic education. Thus, the project cost appraisal estimates of US$136.5 million
also incorporated donor estimates of their contribution to this effort. However, because of issues of timing
or donor preference for other modes of participation and financing, actual costs do not include about
US$50 million from other donors (JICA - US$15 million, UNDP - US$7 million, UNICEF's
under-funding - US$7.68 million, ADB's separate project - US$20.2 million). Likewise, US$18 million
was estimated at appraisal as community contribution. Although communities contributed from 15 percent
to about 48 percent of classroom construction, the final aggregate figure cannot be calculated with
accuracy due to the wide range of activities and degree of participation.
The remaining difference of US$14.82 million between the appraisal estimate and final costs can be
explained by: (a) lower construction costs resulting mainly from not using another line agency in
construction management; and (b) reduced activities under a few sub-components, such as teacher
recruitment and training, and curriculum and textbook development.
The total actual project financing of $53.8 million covered the original scope of the project
(excluding the activities of donors who subsequently did not participate jointly), broken down as follows:
IDA - US$30.58 million (US$30.6 million equivalent at appraisal); Danida - US$11.09 million (US$10
million at appraisal), UNICEF - US$3.12 million (US$10.8 at appraisal); NORAD - US$0.46 million;
and HMG - US$8.55 million.
-8 -



Finally, there were no significant implementation and/or disbursement delays. Moreover, the project
closed as originally scheduled (December 31, 1999).
5.5    Procurement and Financial Management:
Despite frequent key staff changes, PIU staff carried out procurement activities smoothly under the
project. For physical activities, they were able to obtain the support of the Physical Planning and School
Mapping Unit (PPSMU). PIU staff participated in Bank procurement seminars held in Kathmandu, where
they discussed general project procurement issues in different sectors.
In general, BPEP's accounting and internal control systems were satisfactory, as they were all
standardized by HMG. PIU staff kept good physical progress and financial records on project activities,
which resulted in good accountability and financial management practice. Audit reports were generally
submitted on time.
6. Sustainability
6.1 Rationale for sustainability rating:
The project Sustainability has been rated "Likely". The Government is implementing the second
phase of the basic and primary education program, which is expected to continue and consolidate the BPEP
components, as well as expand and introduce new approaches. This will unquestionably ensure
sustainability. The BPEP II program is much larger in terms of size of investment and scope of
implementation. Some policy decisions which are being introduced, such as school and district planning,
the introduction of automatic promotion or liberal promotion in primary grades, the inclusion of parents,
women and disadvantaged community members on the SMCs, and the introduction of compulsory primary
education through a decentralized framework, enhance the prospects of sustainability of the BPEP project.
These decisions would not have taken place had BPEP not initiated them or had it not demonstrated the
positive outcome of such initiatives.
Very importantly, a number of policy documents indicate government's priority to education and,
in particular, to the basic and primary education subsector. The policy framework for BPEP II indicates
that 15% of the total budget would be allocated to the education sector with 55% made available for basic
and primary education, which would be partly supplemented by alternative sources of funding mobilized by
the communities.
In the MOE restructuring, the government has already made a meaningful effort to institutionalize
the functions of the BPEP units and their programs. The establishment of the DOE is an important step
towards institutional sustainability. The BPEP units and components have been fully integrated within the
main framework of MOE and the academic and management capability of curriculum developers, teacher
trainers, supervisors, DEOs, Resource Persons, and headmasters will ensure the continuing improvement of
the subsector and enhance technical sustainability.
Finally, the Government has also indicated that it will increase delegation of decision-making and
planning for primary education to the district, the school and the community, while helping communities
and local bodies to assume greater responsibility for basic and primary education. The recently enacted
Local Self-Governance Act (1999) provides a legal basis for devolution of authority and responsibility
from central to local levels. Increased planning, management and monitoring functions to be carried out at
-9-



districts and school levels will promote ownership of the program by the stakeholders and prepare them to
sustain local level activities.
6.2 Transition arrangement to regular operations:
Educational change and school environment are long-term processes which typically produce their
impact as a result of well-designed interventions sustained over a long period. A foundation has been laid
for future interventions through the good implementation progress of this project. BPEP II has been
developed and will be funded by a consortium of donors. The project has created the demand for new
institutions to provide organizational infrastructure, and to promote and sustain educational development.
MOE has recently decided to create such new institutions. DOE and the Non-formal Education Council
(NFEC) at the central level will take charge of formal and non-formal primary education respectively. This
in itself represents an important outcome of the BPEP program. These two institutions are to absorb the
relevant components of BPEP. The project has trained a cadre of MOE personnel who can take
responsible positions in DOE and other MOE departrnents. The challenge for the Ministry is how to
upgrade the capacity of these new as well as existing institutions. This is the task for BPEP II.
Development activities carried out under BPEP will be consolidated (in the case of curriculum
implementation and professional support for teachers through school and cluster based activities) and will
be expanded to the remaining districts. Communities and districts with the lowest participation rates and
the lowest girls GER will be given priority in resource allocation and planning. In addition, lessons learnt
from BPEP led to decisions to increase school and community planning, management and monitoring of
primary schools to improve school quality and to allocate resources. The integration of the RC/school
cluster system into the regular system still remains an outstanding issue. Despite the policy statement on
promotion of RCs in the country, it has not yet been translated into operational terms and national
strategies are not yet in place.
The multi-donor supported core investment plan for the BPEP II will release funds on an annual
basis based on need, past performance in the subsector against agreed benchmarks and within an agreed
policy framework. Key performance indicators will assess system progress over a ten-year period and
annual benchmarks for more efficient planning purposes. The indicators will address access, equity,
efficiency, leaming achievement, teacher performance and institutional capacity progress. The Policy
Framework for Basic and Primary Education sets out policies, strategies and monitoring indicators for the
subsector program and will provide the standard against which annual work plans and budgets will be
prepared, implemented and monitored. District planning and school improvement planning and monitoring
would be in compliance with the policy framework and any major change in the policy framework would be
agreed with the large donor consortium supporting the second phase. Donor coordination will be the
function of the MOE and common procedures for monitoring and reporting have been agreed. IDA has
prepared an Adaptable Program Loan (APL) for a proposed ten-year support to Nepal's Basic and Primary
Education Program. The APL received Board approval on March 29, 1999 and the three-year first phase
of the APL was declared effective on October 19, 1999.
7. Bank and Borrower Performance
Bank
7. 1 Lending:
With the possible exception of the management component and its proposed financing arrangement,
the project was well designed and directed towards addressing the key educational issues of the time. The
objectives were therefore relevant, clearly defined and had a direct link to the Govemrnment's medium-term
- 10 -



plans in the sector. The project was informed by lessons from earlier projects in the sector.
7.2 Supervision:
A total of eight full IDA missions assessed the progress at various stages in project implementation
and provided assistance in identified areas of need. The BPEP PIU prepared documentation to facilitate the
work of the missions. The missions consisted of national and international experts, with relevant
backgrounds in project management and primary education development. Due to the Bank's ongoing
reorganization during the life of the project, there were changes of Bank task team leaders (five times) and
mission members and this hampered systematic follow-up and caused some discontinuity.
7.3 Overall Bankperformance:
A very good working relationship was established and maintained among donors and the education
authorities. Supervision missions played a supportive role in policy development and the implementation of
the project, and the advice and assistance provided contributed significantly to expediting project
implementation.
Borrower
7.4 Preparation:
In 1990, MOEC developed a Master Plan for the subsector which emphasized the need for
investments in quality improvement, access and management. In preparing its plan for the Eighth
Five-Year Plan period, the Government developed a US$136.5 million seven-year integrated nationwide
program to be financed by HMG, IDA, UNDP, UNICEF, DANIDA and JICA. IDA agreed to support the
Government's program through a US$30.6 million Credit, which became effective on July 8, 1992.
7.5 Governzment inmplementation perjbrmance:
Government implementation was characterized by a high number of Ministers of Education over
the project period, frequent changes of civil service personnel (reflecting swings in changes in political
power) and the politicization of teachers as agents of political change at the community level. The impact
on the project was greatest at the district, resource center and school levels where very frequent changes
occurred in DEOs, PCs and RPs. Coordination among ministries was difficult.
7.6 ImplementingAgency:
The BPEP PIU was in charge of overall planning, programming, implementing, coordination,
supervision and monitoring of the project activities. The project unit was headed by a Project Director.
Over the life of the project, there have been three Directors, two of whom were on secondment from
Tribhuvan University; the other was a regular employee of the MOE. The leadership of the project
remained relatively stable because the last two Directors were recruited from among project staff. Many
other educational projects operating in Nepal during the same period saw more frequent changes in
leadership positions.
7.7 Overall Borrower performance:
Project components were largely implemented and IDA funds were almost fully disbursed. The
BPEP project was effective in managing donors inputs. In general, MOE made every effort to fulfill its
designated responsibilities, even at times of frequent changes in the Government. Over the years, however,
- 11 -



the Government failed to accomplish some of its responsibilities. In particular, MOE was unable to
integrate fully the BPEP components and activities within the mainstream of the Ministry during BPEP
implementation, and to regularize some of the personnel hired under the project.
8. Lessons Learned
Most key BPEP project lessons have already been incorporated in the design of the recent BPEP II project.
These are:
Quality:
Although BPEP has laid the foundation for an efficient delivery to improve the quality of
education, it did not accomplish substantial improvements in the learning and achievement of students.
Improvement in quality can be achieved where attention is focused on acquisition of basic learning skills
and by introducing an integrated approach at the school level to promote student learning, teacher
performance and school development. BPEP II is designed to adapt and expand the school cluster model
for professional support in order to improve teaching and learning in primary schools, and it will focus on
strengthening curriculum implementation especially in grades 1-3 and support grade teaching and
multi-grade teaching in small schools. Government and donors have agreed on a policy framework
supporting this next phase (BPEP II) which will provide the basis to improve efficiency and quality of
primary education in Nepal.
Access.
Strategies targeting the neediest can increase their participation in education. Interventions to
increase girls and out-of-school children enrollment and retention through the appointment of female
teachers, provision of textbooks and scholarships, sanitary facilities in schools, literacy programs for
women, early childhood programs for siblings and the strengthening of the professional support for teachers
in their schools, result in increased access and participation of primary students. Parents and local
communities must be closely involved in delivery of educational services if the needs of diverse groups are
to be met.
Institutional development:
The integration of project management structures into the regular education system is not possibie
unless there are clear reinforcing policies and a change in bureaucratic culture. A lean, field-based project
management structure with flexibility to acquire technical expertise when needed is the most appropriate
management approach, provided frequent changes in staff do not occur. Stability in staffing is a
prerequisite for effective institutions, technical capacity building and accountability among key professional
and administrative staff. In addition, good monitoring and evaluation, and sound financial management
contribute substantially to project success. Ensuring communities' ownership in school construction and
involvement in school management and teacher monitoring are essential for increasing accountability.
BPEP II will increase community management capacity through a district planning process that will
increasingly be built on school quality improvement plans prepared by communities. Project development
emphasized a strong donor willingness to support a core basic education program. Donor cooperation can
be effective provided firm funding commitments and agreements on funding arrangements and supervision
are reached before implementation begins. Execution of BPEP II by the Department of Education in the
Ministry is expected to lead to stronger ownership by the MOE as a whole.
9. Partner Comments
(a) Borrower/implementing agency:
The Borrower's independent Project Evaluation Report is attached as Annex 8. MOE and the
- 12 -



National Planning Commission have communicated in writing to IDA that this ICR is acceptable to them.
(b) Cofinanciers:
Whilst DANIDA reported that this ICR is thorough and provides a good account of
implementation of the project (Letter of March 17, 2000), UNDP commented (Letter of May 8, 2000) that
slow progress towards capacity building and the absence of a clear-cut decision on the part of Government,
led to the cancellation of their technical assistance in late 1996. Further, UNDP stated that since MOE did
not have a structure and merger plan, and MOE did not accept their September/October 1996 missions
recomrnendation for redesigning the technical assistance, UNDP had to cancel its assistance.
(c) Other partners (NGOs/private sector):
10. Additional Information
-13-



Annex 1. Key Performance Indicators/Log Frame Matrix
Outcome /m  act Indicators:
NOTE: At the time of the design of the  Component 1: (a) Proportion of teachers    The following improvements in the primary
project, it was not usual practice to include   applying improved teaching practices; and   school system have been achieved: (a) the
outcome and performance indicators in the  (b) Increased leaming achievement.  gross enrollment ratio increased nationally
SAR. Nevertheless, around the mid-term                                        from 106% (females 83%) in 1991 to 122%
review some broad indicators (listed in the   Component 2: Percentage increase in  (females 104%) in 1997; (b) the learning
adjacent column) were introduced.      enrollment and aKtendance in primary   environment has improved through enhanced
Mechanisms for monitoring these indicators  schools (boys and girls) and NFE Centers.  physical facilities, with 14,232 additional new
systematically are not yet in place. Since the                                classrooms built, and 8,462 classrooms
building-up of the primary education system   Component 3: (a) Effectiveness of work    rehabilitated; (c) curriculum and textbook
started from a low base, the BPEP was  planning, progress reporting and M&E   reform has led to the introduction of an
envisaged as the initial building block to  systems; (b) Output of resource institutions; integrated curriculum for primary education
improve primary education quality as well as  and (c) Achievement and disbursement data which facilitates leaming; (d) a
to increase access to primary educabon.    by district.                       criterion-based national assessment of three
core subjects was carried out in 1997;
results indicated that mean scores in Nepali
language were 46%, in Mathematics 44%
and in Social Studies 46%; (e) teachers have
been retrained, and female primary school
teachers increased from 14% in 1991 to 23%
in 1997; in addition, 61% of the addibonal
primary school teachers appointed between
1991 and 1997 were female; (f) the rate of
complebon of the five-year primary school
program has moderately increased; (g)
community construction increased SMC
ownership of schools and is cost effectve;
(h) MOE's capacity to plan, manage and
monitor education programs has been
strengthened; and (i) the project made
inroads in early childhood education and
non-formal education.
Output Indicators:
Curriculum Development                                                        Cumiculum (Grades I - V) = 1
Curiculum Handbook Development (Grades
- V)= 1
Content Elaboration (Grades I - V)
Textbook Development                                                          Textbooks (Core Subjects: Nepali, Math &
Social Studies in Grades I - V and English
and Science in Grades IV & V) = 19
Text Materials for Grade I and 11 on Mother
Tongue = 2
Teachers' Guide (Core Subjects + Physical
Education and Creative Arts in all five
grades) = 29
Teachers' Resource Materials = 11
Supplementary Matenals                                                        Grade IlIl Math and Nepali (Copies) 6000 +
6000= 12000
Children Materals and Supplementary
Materials = 17
- 14 -



In-service Teacher Training (No. of Teachers                                Curriculum Dissemination (Teachers) =
Trained) Program                                                            107271
Master Training Program = 564
Recurrent Training (Whole School
Approach) = 37651
Teacher Training on Grade I - V Curriculum
= 90607
2.5 Months Teacher Training = 8511
150 Hrs. Teacher Training = 3986
180 Hrs. Teacher Training = 8125
12 Day Teacher Improvement Training
(Grade Teaching) = 994
12 Day Teacher Improvement Training
(Multi-grade Teaching) = 3843
12 Day Teacher Improvement Training (Extra
Curricular) = 1448
Resource Center Development Program
Establish 500 resource centers (RCs)
Continuous Assessment Program         Minimum Leaming Achievement           Minimum Learning Achievement
Identification for Grade I - lil (Nepali, Math & Identification for Grade I - IlIl (Nepali, Math &
Social Science) = 3                  Social Science) = 3
School Facilities Construction Management                                   Maintenance Training = 7152
Program: (a) expansion and replacement of                                   Distribution of Manuals for School Building
19,000 classrooms;                                                          Maintenance = 7690
(b) essential repairs to about 6,000                                        Distribution of Tool Box = 7640
classrooms                                                                  Refurbishment of MOE Building = 1
DEO Building = 20
Pit Latrine = 330
Water Supply = 191
New Classroom Construction = 14232
Classroom Rehabilitation = 8462
Furniture for Classroom = 13412
RC Building Construction and Furnishing
314
Non-Formal Education Program                                                District Level Training for Facilitators and
Supervisors = 38626
Out of School Program (Participants) =
151853
Women's Education Program (Participants)
= 265362
Adult Education Program (Participants) =
45659
Neo-Literacy Program (Participants) = 6625
Chelibeti Program (Participants) = 19818
Special Education Program                                                   District Level Disability Survey (District)  15
Awareness Training (Peoples Trained) = 225
Hostel Management (RC Classes) = 179
Special Education Training to the Primary
Teachers = 203
Scholarships for Physical Disabled Children
= 2700
Refresher Training to the Resource
Teachers = 281
Inclusive Training (Teachers) = 84
Vocational Skill Training for Teachers = 40
Women Education Program                                                     Recruitment of Female Teacher = 4151
Training for Women Teachers = 3588
Awareness Program = 500
Training to the Resource Persons = 176
Training to the Community Motivators = 600
Early Childhood Development Program                                         Establishment of Classes - 1200
Training to Teachers = 2232
Training of Trainers = 221
- 15-



Compulsory Primary Education Program                                        Compulsory Primary Education
Implementabon (Districts) = 5
Scholarship Distribufion = 27650
Program Management                                                          Monioring Package Orientation ( DEO, PC,
RP, Overseer, NFE Facilitators and
Supervisor) = 480
District, RC and School Register (Copies) =
13384
District, RC and School Register Package
Orientation (DEO, PC and RP ) = 418
Physical facilities surveys of primary schools                              School Physical Facilities Survey (Districts)
in about half of the districts in Nepal (37)                                = 40
School Mapping (Districts) = 75
Development of Design of Primary Schools
(Mt., Hill and Terai) = 3
Management training program
Headmaster Training = 4189
End of project
-16-



Annex 2. Project Costs and Financing
Anpraisal estimate                  Actual /a
Local   Foreign                  Local   Foreign
Source                    Costs    Costs    Total           Costs    Costs    Total
IDA
Civil Works                                   9.12     6.08     15.20         16.35               16.35
Professional Fees                            0.10         -      0.10
Furniture                                     1.57     0.03      1.60          0.29                0.29
Equipment                                     0.10     0.70      0.80          0.07      0.08      0.15
Vehicles                                      0.04      1.06     1.10          0.05      0.46      0.51
Books & Journal                                 -         -      0.00          0.01                0.01
Technical Assistance
International Consultants                     -         -      0.00             -         -      0.00
Local Consultants                           0.10        -      0.10             -         -      0.00
Sub-total                 0.10      0.00      0.10          0.00      0.00      0.00
Local Training                               4.90         -      4.90          6.57         -      6.57
Salaries of Add'l Staff & Operating Costs    6.60         -      6.60          4.91         -      4.91
Operation & Maintenance                                          0.00
Buildings                                                                   0.51         -      0.51
Vehicles                                                                     1.22        -      1.22
Sub-total                 6.60      0.00      6.60          6.64      0.00      6.64
Consumable Materials                          0.16     0.04      0.20          0.06                0.06
Subtotal IDA                              22.70      7.90    30.60          30,04      0.55    30.58
DANIDA
Civil works and Professional Fees           n.a       n.a      n.a             4.11         -      4.11
Equipment                                   n.a       n.a      n.a            0.002         -       0.0
Other (parallel)                            n.a       n.a       10.00          6.98                6.98
Subtotal DANIDA                            0.00      0.00     10.00         1 1.09    0o00      1 109
Other Donors
UNICEF                                         0.00      0.00    10.80           3.12     0.00      3.12
ADB (separate financing)                     n.a       n.a       20.20         n.a       n.a      n.a
UNDP (did not materialize)                       -         -      7.00             -         -       0.0
Japan/JICA Ic                                    -         -     15.00             -         -       0.0
NORAD (Local Trg/incr. Oper Cost.)               -         -      0.00           0.46        -      0.46
HMG Nepal
Civil Works & Professional Fees                                                0.17                0.17
Furniture                                                                      0.01                0.01
Equipment & Vehicles                                                           0.01                0.01
Incremental Salaries, Consumable Mats.
& Operations and Maintenance                                                 8.35                8.35
Subtotal HMGN                             42,90      0.00    42790 /d        8.55      0.00     8.55
Total project financing                   65.60      7.90   136.50          53.25      0.55     53.80
Source: BPEP Staff Appraisal Report (March 27, 1992); MOE (BPEP).
a/ Includes actual data up to FY1997/98 and estimated expenditures for FY1998/99. Breakdown into local
and foreign actual costs has been given to the extent possible.
b/ USS amount fluctuated due to US$/SDR exchange rate; US$I=NRs 55 (1993/98); NRs 67.35 (1999).
c/ Japan's original financing did not materialize; however, JICA provided construction materials for school
construction (actual figures not available).
d/ Includes US$18 million estimated as community contribution; actual data are not available.
- 17 -



Project Costs b  Procurement Arran ements (A  raisal Estimate) (US$ million equivalent)
1. Works                            1.50            4.70           15.90           36.00            58.10
(1.50)          (4.20)          (9.60)          (0.00)          (15.30)
2. Goods                            1.50            0.70            1.60            18.20           22.00
1.50)           (0.50)          (1.40)          (0.00)           (3.40)
3. Services                         0.00            0.00            0.10           13.10            13.20
(0.00)          (0.00)                          (0.00)           (i0.10)
4. Local Training                   0.00            0.00            17.00           0.20            17.20
and Studies                     (0.00)          (0.00)          (4.90)          (0.00)           (4.90)
5. Salaries                         0.00            0.00           21.00            0.00            21.00
(0.00)          (0.00)          (6.70)          (0.00)           (6.70)
6. Operational Costs               0.00             0.00            0.20            4.80             5.00
(0.00)          (0.00)          (0.20)          (0.00)           (0.20)
Total                           3.00             5.40           55.80           72.30           136.50
(300)           (4.70)         (22.90)          (0.00)          (30.60)
a/ Includes cornmunity construction, international and local shopping and consultant selection according to
IDA Guidelines.
b/ NRB.F. means non-Bank financed.
cl Books and Journals under Goods (NBF category) include UNICEF procurement.
Project Costs b  Procurement Arran ements (Actual/Latest Estimate) (US$ million e uivalent)
1. Works                            1.60            5.02           11.13            2.88            20.63
_______________________ =(1.60)                   (4.49)         (10.26)          (0.00)          (16.35)
2. Goods                            0.42            0.15            0.41            0.00             0.98
(0.42)          (0.14)          (0.40)          (0.00            (0.96)
3. Services                         0.00            0.00            0.00            4.46             4.46
(0.00)           0.00)          (0.00)          (0.00)           (0.00)
4. Local Training                   0.00            0.00            6.57            6.10            12.67
and Studies                     (0.00)          (0.00)          (6.57)          (0.00)           (6.57)
5. Salaries                        0.00             0.00           11.21            0.00            11.21
(0.00)          (0.00)          (4.91)         (0.00)            (4.91)
6. Operational Costs                0.00            0.00            3.85            0.00             3.85
(0.00)          (0.00)         A1.79)           (0.00)           (.79)
Total                           2.02             5.17           33.17           13.44            53.80
(2.02)          (4.63)         (23.93)          (0.00)          (30.58)
Note: (a) Discrepancy between actual and appraisal estimate reflects changes in donor programs (see above financing table and section 5.4
on Costs and Financing); (b) Breakdown based on SAR estimates (ICR guidelines with this new format were issued after the ICR mission).
" Figures in parenthesis are the amounts to be financed by the Bank Loan. All costs include contingencies.
2/ Includes civil works and goods to be procured through national shopping, consulting services, services of contracted
staff of the project management office, training, technical assistance services, and incremental operating costs related to
(i) managing the project, and (ii) re-lending project funds to local govemment units.
- 18-



Project Financing by Component (in US$ million equivalent)
Anuraisal estimate (US$M)       Actual (US$M) /a /b
Components                  Local   Foreign   Total       Local   Foreign    Total
A. IMPROVING QUALITY OF
BASIC & PRIMARY EDUCATION
1. Curriculum Development                     1.2      3.0       4.2        0.2       0.5      0.6
2. Textbook Development                       4.4      7.5      11.9         0.7      1.2       1.8
3. Inservice Teacher Training                12.7      4.1      16.8        6.5       2.0       8.5
4. Additional Teacher Recruitment            13.2      -        13.2         8.0       -        8.0
5. Initial Training                           6.4      2.3       8.7        0.6       0.3       0.9
Sub-total                37.9      16.9     548.        16.0      3.9      19.9
B. ACCESS TO BASIC &
PRIMARY EDUCATION
1. Non-Formal Education                       7.4      0.1       7.5        4.6      0.05      4.7
2. Primary School Construction               27.9     15.4      43.3       14.7       8.3      23.0
Sub-total                35.3      15.5     50.8        19.3      8.3      27.7
C. INSTITUTIONAL DEVELOPMENT
1. Facilities Management                      1.1      1.1       2.2        1.1       1.0      2.1
2. Education Management Training              3.5      0.6       4.1         -         -         -
3. MOEC Strengthening                         2.0      2.9       4.9        0.1       0.2       0.3
4. Primary School Design & Maintenance        0.3       1.2      1.5         0.6      3.3       3.9
Sub-total                 6.9      5.8      12.8         1.8      4.5       6.3
Baseline cost                             80.1     38.2    118.4        37.1      16.7     53.8
Contingencies:
Physical                                     3.5      2.7       6.2         -         -        -
Price increase                               7.9      4.0      11.9         -         -        -
Sub-total                11.4      6.7      18.1         0.0      0.0       0.0
TOTAL PROJECT COSTS                          91.5     44.9    136.5        37.1      16.7      53.8
Source: BPEP Staff Appraisal Report (March 27, 1992); MOE (BPEP).
a/ The huge difference between appraisal estimate and the actual can be explained as follows: The total
SAR estimated project costs of US$136.5 million included estimated financing from: (i) ADB -
US$20 million, Japan - US$15 million; and UNDP - US$7 million. However, actual figures do not include
these financiers since (a) UNDP funding did not materialize, (b) ADB's data are not available, and (c) Japan
decided to participate only starting during FY1995 and contributing construction materials for schools only.
Also included in the SAR estimate was the amount of US$18 million as community contribution for which
actual figures are not available.
b/ These costs comprised of actual costs up to FY1997/98 and estimated expenditures for FY 1998/99.
Breakdown for local and foreign costs has been estimated in some cases.
- 19 -



Annex 3: Economic Costs and Benefits
Economic rates of return were not calculated at appraisal.
- 20 -



Annex 4. Bank Inputs
(a) Missions:
Stage oft 'roject Cycle              No. of Persos and Specialty               Performnance  ing
(eg 2 Economists, I FMS, edc.)       mplemertation     Development
Month/Year    Count        sPecialty                       Pregs              Objective
Identification/Preparation         10   General Educator, 2 Education
Specialists, Architect,
Economist, Curriculum
Development Specialist, 2
Textbook Specialists, Operations
Analyst, Non-Formal Education
Specialist
Appraisal/Negotiation
9/91                         10   General Educator, 2
2/92                               Education Specialists,
Architect, Economist,
Curriculum Development
Specialist, 2 Textbook
Specialists, Operations
Analyst, Non-Formal
Education Specialist
Supervision
6/92                           2  General Educator, Architect           S                  S
3/93                           4  Education Specialist, Economist,      S                  S
Architect, Soc. Sectors Coord.
6/93                           7  3 Education Specialist,              HS                 HS
Economist, Soc. Sectors Coord.,
Architect, Program Officer
2/94                           6  2 Education Specialist,               S                  S
Economist, Soc. Sectors Coord.
11/94                          4  3 Education Specialist, Architect     S                  S
1/96                           2  2 Education Specialist                S                  S
11/96                          2  2 Education Specialist                S                  S
6/97                           4  4 Education Specialist                S                  S
3/98                           2  Economist/Human Res.,                 S                  S
Architect
2/99                           4  Economist/Human Res.,                 S                  S
Education Specialist, Architect,
Accountant
ICR
6/99                          3   Economist, 2 Education                S                  S
Specialists, Operations
Analyst
-21 -



(b) Staff:
Stage of Project Cycle                  Actual/atsstimt|
No. Statffweeks             US$ (000t )
Identification/Preparation              20.2                       45.9
Appraisal/Negotiation                  135.9                      285.6
Supervision                            124.2                      240.8
ICR                                      12                          40
Total                                  292.3                      612.3
- 22 -



Annex 5. Ratings for Achievement of Objectives/Outputs of Components
(H=High, SU=Substantial, M=Modest, N=Negligible, NA=Not Applicable)
Rating
FMacro policies                            O H  OSUOM  O N  * NA
I Sector Policies                          O H  * SU OM  O N  O NA
X Physical                                 * H  OSUOM  O N  O NA
Z Financial                                OH OSUOM ON *NA
2 Institutional Development                0 H  O SU *M  0 N  0 NA
?Environmental                             O H  OSUOM  O N  * NA
Social
D? Poverty Reduction                O H  *SUOM  O N  O NA
O Gender                            O H * SU O M O N O NA
O Other (Please specify)
? Private sector development               0 H  O SU O M  0 N  0 NA
O Public sector management                 0 H  0 SU * M  0 N  0 NA
O Other (Please specify)
- 23 -



Annex 6. Ratings of Bank and Borrower Performance
(HS=Highly Satisfactory, S=Satisfactory, U=Unsatisfactory, HU=Highly Unsatisfactory)
6.1 Bank performance                                  Rating
E Lending                                             OHS*S Ou OHU
2 Supervision                                         OHS OS   OU  OHU
Z Overall                                             OHS OS O U O HU
6.2 Borrowerperformance                               Rating
L Preparation                                         OHS OS  O  U  O HU
F  Government implementation performance              O HS O S  0  U  0 HU
Z Implementation agency performance                   O HS O S  0  U  0 HU
t  Overall                                            O ffS    S  3 U   O HU
- 24 -



Annex 7. List of Supporting Documents
Bista, Min Bahadur. Basic and Primary Education Project (Management Component). June 1999.
Pant, Yagya R., Shiva R. Lohani. BPEP: Improving the Quality and Access of Primary Education. June
27, 1999.
Tiwari, Sudarshan Raj. Assessment ofperformance: Access: Civil Works. June 1999.
A report on quantitative performance of BPEP, 1993 - 1994.
A Study on the Physical Teaching/Learning Conditions of the BPEP Schools, Valley Research Group,
September, 1995.
A study on the impact of Grade 1 new materials on learning and teaching. CERES. 1995.
Aide Memoire, Implementation Completion Mission, June 19-30, 1999. The World Bank. Kathmandu.
June 30, 1999
Development Credit Agreement, The World Bank.
Education Statistics of Nepal (various years). Ministry of Education, Kathmandu.
Monitoring: a summary report. 1995.
National achievement study of Grade 3 children, 1997 (EDSC).
Project Implementation Plan, BPEP II. Ministry of Education, Kathmandu. 1999.
Quantitative Performance of BPEP. 1995 - 1998.
Rapid Independent Assessment of Basic and Primary Education Project. Institute for Integrated
Development Studies (IIDS), February 22, 1998.
Report of the National Education Commission. National Education Commission. Ministry of Education &
Culture, Kathmandu. 1992.
Report of the Mid-term Review Mission for BPEP. Mid-term Review Mission. 1996.
Reports of various Supervision Missions for BPEP. 1992-1999.
Staff Appraisal Report (SAR), BPEP. World Bank. 1992.
The Basic and Primary Agreement Master Plan, 1991-2001. The Master Plan Team, Ministry of
Education and Culture, His Majesty's Government. July 31, 1991.
The Basic and Primary Education Master Plan for 1997-2002. Ministry of Education. 1997.
The effect of new curriculum on the achievement of grade IV students, 1997.
The effect of new curriculurn on the achievement of grade V students, 1998.
The Ninth Plan (1997-2002). NPC. His Majesty's Government of Nepal. Kathmandu. 1997.
Workshop on 'primary school construction and design'. BPEP, Physical Planning and School Mapping
Unit, MOECSW. Kathmandu. June 1994.
- 25 -



- 26 -



