Document of
The World Bank
FOR OMCIL USE ONLY
Repot No. 13885
PROGRAM COMPLETION REPORT
ARGENTINA
DEBT AND DEBT SERVICE REDUCTION LOAN
(LOAN 3555-AR)
JANUARY 20, 1995
Country Operations Division
Country Department I
Latin America and the Caribbean Regional Office
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



CURRENCY UNIT - PESO (A$)
The peso was fixed at A$1 = US$1 as of April 1, 1991.
ABBREVIATIONS
DDSR       -     Debt and Debt Service Reduction
DM         -     Deutsche Mark
DRE        -     Debt Reduction Equivalent
EFF        -     Extended Fund Facility
FSAL       -     Financial Sector Adjustment Loan
GRA        -     Guaranteed Refinarncing Agreement
IFIs       -     International Financial Institutions
IRR        -     Internal Rate of Return
LIBOR      -     London Inter-Bank Offered Rate
MYRA       -     Multi-Year Rescheduling Agreement
PDI        -     Past Due Interest
PERAL II  -      Second Public Enterprise Reform Adjustment Loan
PSRL       -     Public Sector Reform Loan
RRP        -     Report and Recommendation of the President on DDSR Loan
TDRE       -     Total Debt Reduction Equivalent
FISCAL YEAR
January 1 - December 31



FOR OFFICMIL USE ONLY
THE WORLD BANK
Washington, D.C. 20433
U.S.A.
Office of Director-General
Operations Evaluation                                 January 20, 1995
MEMORANDUM TO THE EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS AND THE PRESIDENT
SUBJECT:   Program Completion Report on Argentina -
Debt and Debt Service Reduction Loan (Loan 3555-AR)
Attached is the Program Completion Report on Argentina - Debt and Debt Service Reduction
Loan (DDSR-Loan 3555-AR). Parts I and III were prepared by the Latin America and the Caribbean
Regional Office. Part II has not been received from the Borrower.
The DDSR loan was part of a package of external assistance to finance collateral required for
a major debt and debt service reduction Agreement under the Brady Plan. Included in this package
were set-asides from two other Bank loans, a Second Public Enterprise Reform Adjustment Loan
(PERAL II) and a Financial Sector Adjustment Loan (FSAL), as well as support from the IMF, the
Inter-American Development Bank and the Eximbank of Japan. The reduction in debt and debt service,
linked to ongoing economic reforms, was expected to generate increased confidence, both domestically
and abroad, in the government's economic management.
The DDSR Agreement was concluded successfully and Argentina's debt and debt service were
reduced considerably.  The PCR discusses in some detail the direct benefits derived from the
Agreement. Estimates of direct benefits, however, are not particularly reliable, given the difficulty of
establishing realistic counterfactuals. Furthermore, of much more importance than direct benefits are
the potential indirect benefits which come from combining a DDSR program with other structural
reforms. Viewed from this perspective, the reduced uncertainty and increased investor confidence
generated by the successful conclusion of the DDSR Agreement reinforced the positive impact of other
structural changes in Argentina.  In particular, the country's external creditworthiness increased
significantly as a result.
Thus, the outcome of the DDSR loan is rated as satisfactory. Sustainability is rated as likely
and institutional impact as modest: in the process a small group of Government specialists increased
their expertise in financial engineering.
Given the complementarity between the DDSR loan and other structural reform loans, OED will
audit this operation as part of a cluster audit including this loan, PERAL II and the FSAL.
Attachment                                (
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of their official duties. Its
contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.






FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
PROGRAM COMPLETION REPORT
ARGENTINA
DEBT AND DEBT SERVICE REDUCTION LOAN
(LOAN 3555-AR)
TABLE OF CONTENTS
PW
PREFACE   .........................................
EVALUATION SUMMARY   .                .............................
PART I. PROGRAM REVIEW FROM THE BANK'S PERSPECIIV  ....    1
A. Program Identity  ..............................                                1
B. Background ...............................   1
C. Description of the Debt Agreement .......              .............            4
D. Results ..................................   8
Debt Reduction  ...............................                              8
Cost and Benefits ..............................                            10
Debt Management Issues ..........................   15
Sustainability  ...............................                             17
E. The Bank's Role and Performance  .......               .............           17
F. Lessons from Experience ...........................   18
PART II. PROGRAM REVIEW FROM BORROWER'S PERSPECTIVE . .   20
PART III: BASIC DATA  . ...............................                                  21
Annex       Argentina - Macroeconomic Accounts ..................                        22
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of their
official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.






- i -
PROGRAM COMPLETION REPORT
ARGENTINA
DEBT AND DEBT SERVICE REDUCTION LOAN
(LOAN 3555-AR)
PREFACE
This is the Program Completion Report (PCR) for the Debt and Debt Service Reduction
Loan (DDSR Loan) to the Argentine Republic in an amount of US$450 million equivalent. The
DDSR Loan was approved on January 5, 1993; fully disbursed on March 26, 1993; and closed
on July 31, 1993.
The PCR was prepared by the Country Operations Division of Country Department I of
the Latin American and Caribbean Regional Office (Preface, Evaluation Summary, Parts I and
III). The Borrower's comments on Parts I and III, and contribution to Part II, have not yet been
received. No specific comments have been received from the Co-financiers--the IMF, IDB and
the Eximbank of Japan.
Preparation of this PCR started in February 1994 and is based on the Report and
Recommendation of the President, on the loan and implementation agreements, on internal Bank
memoranda, and on the Memorandum to the Board 'Analytic Aspects of Debt and Debt Service
Reduction Operations" (January 1992).






- iii -
PROGRAM COMPLETION REPORT
ARGENTINA
DEBT AND DEBT SERVICE REDUCTION LOAN
(LOAN 3555-AR)
EVALUATION SUlMMARY
The Debt and Debt Service Reduction Loan (3555-AR) of US$450 million equivalent was
fully disbursed in March 1993 to finance collateral required for debt and debt service reduction
(DDSR) instruments issued under the Republic of Argentina 1992 Financing Plan ("the
Agreement"). The DDSR Loan, together with a total of US$175 million in set-aside funds from
the Second Public Enterprise Reform Adjustment Loan (3556-AR) and the Financial Sector
Adjustment Loan (3558-AR), was an integral part of support for the implementation of the
Agreement from the IMF, the IDB, the Eximbank of Japan, and the World Bank which made
possible the successful completion of the Agreement.
Under the Agreement, all of eligible commercial debt (US$28.2 billion) was restructured-
-about one half of Argentina's total public external debt. Argentina exchanged US$19.3 billion
in principal debt for two new instruments, respectively involving debt reduction (discount bonds)
and debt service reduction (par bonds). Both instruments are fully collateralized as to principal,
and two semi-annual interest payments are secured through collateral instruments with a
matching maturity held by the collateral agent. In addition, Argentina regularized past due
interest (PDI) of US$8.9 billion by making a downpayment of US$700 million and exchanging
the remainder at par against non-collateralized floating rate PDI bonds.
The Agreement's implementation achieved a commercial debt reduction equivalent of 38
percent of eligible debt (including eligible PDI). Additional official lending of about US$2.1
billion was provided. The total debt reduction equivalent was 15 percent of total public external
debt. The Agreement achieved debt reduction at a substantially lower financial cost to Argentina
than an alternative market-based debt reduction operation would have entailed. These savings
are estimated at about US$3.7 billion, or 1.4 percent of GDP.
Implementation of the Agreement required Argentina to provide up-front enhancements
at a cost of about US$3.8 billion. Evaluating costs and benefits against a counterfactual
involving debt rescheduling and a PDI arrangement as included in the Agreement leads to the
following results: the net present value of financial savings amounted to US$5.3 billion, or
about 2 percent of GDP. The internal rate of return over the stream of financial savings is about
18 percent, which is well above the Bank's critical level of the social discount rate used for
project lending. This indicates significant direct benefits to Argentina from the Agreement. In
addition, the Agreement generated substantial indirect benefits as a low and permanent ceiling
on future payments to the banks reduced uncertainty about future fiscal and exchange rate
developments.



- iv -
Against a market-consistent counterfactual involving partial default, the evaluation of the
Agreement recognizes financial costs of about 1.2 percent of GDP and associated negative direct
benefits. However, much higher indirect benefits must be ascribed to the Agreement under this
counterfactual (compared to the rescheduling counterfactual), because of the link between DDSR
and economic reforms in this case. A positive net result is established.
The Agreement reduced the overall burden which the possibility of a future shortfall in
public external debt service imposes on creditors as a group. Among the reduced debt burden,
the share of commercial creditors declined and the share of official creditors increased, primarily
that of the bilaterals. Debt servicing flexibility declined due to the exchange of loans against
bonds which the Agreement explicitly exempts from future restructuring. The implications for
the Bank's exposure risk appear manageable due to greatly improved prospects for the
sustainability of Argentina's economic program.
The Agreement could not have been concluded without the lending support of the Bank
and the other donors. The Bank's performance in coordinating support, evaluating the project,
and processing the DDSR Loan and the set-asides was outstanding. With the Agreement, the
Government successfully completed a well-designed strategy for ending the debt crisis. The
Government fielded a highly competent team for negotiating and implementing the Agreement.
The analysis of the Argentine DDSR operation confirms lessons from previous DDSR
operations. Specifically: Brady operations should be undertaken only if a reform program is in
place; the concerted and menu-based approach to debt reduction leads to significant cost savings
to the debtor country compared to market-based debt reduction; due to the voluntary nature of
Brady deals, creditor banks improve their financial position; and there is a need for more
flexible pricing of the par bond option, given the objective of a balance between debt reduction
and debt service reduction. The experience of the Argentine operation also indicates that
inclusion of a new money option in the menu of options is not essential for obtaining both full
participation of creditors and substantial cost reduction compared to market-based debt reduction.



PROGRAM COMPLETION REPORT
ARGENTINA
DEBT AND DEBT SERVICE REDUCTION LOAN
(LOAN 3555-AR)
PART I. PROGRAM REVIEW FROM THE BANK'S PERSPECTIVE
A. Progrm Identity
Program Name   Debt and Debt Service Reduction Loan
Loan Number    3555-AR
RVP Unit         Latin American and the Caribbean Region
Country         Argentina
Type of Loan     Support for debt and debt service reduction (DDSR)
B. Background
1.   In the late 1970s, Argentina joined other middle-income countries in borrowing heavily
from international markets at low interest rates. External indebtedness increased six-fold during
1976-83 to about US$45 billion--approximately 35 percent of GDP and 470 percent of exports.
Public external debt issues covered persistent fiscal deficits resulting from a weak tax system,
losses of public enterprises, generous industrial promotion and a military build-up. Private debt
accumulation to a large part financed capital flight as residents sensed the unsustainability of a
macro-economic program combining fiscal expansion with exchange rate-based disinflation. In
early 1981, devaluation caused private debtors to default. Over the following five years, the
Government progressively assumed nearly all private long-term external debt.
2.    Debt Crisis. Rising international interest rates in the early 1980s lowered the ceiling on
country debt commercial banks were willing to hold. The intemational debt crisis, triggered by
the Mexican debt moratorium in 1982, quickly spread to Argentina. Voluntary credit was cut
off and extemal financing became limited to official lending and negotiated, involuntary
commercial debt reschedulings combined with modest amounts of new money. Serving interest
on the existing, mostly public debt henceforth required Argentina to absorb less than it
produced, and to transfer commensurate resources from the private to the public sector.
3.    Adverse direct and indirect effects of the debt crisis on investment and nolicies worsened
Argentina's economic decline during the 1980s, which basically resulted from delays in overdue
economic reforms. Lack of external financing directly reduced domestic investment. Investors
also were discouraged by uncertainty about future fiscal and foreign exchange developments
generated by often contentious debt rescheduling negotiations, and their failure to generate
sustainable debt service schedules. Partial term credit agreements were achieved in 1983 and
1985, but the Government repeatedly fell into interest arrears. A comprehensive Guaranteed



Financing Agreement (GRA)--with 20 years maturity, 4 years grace and a reduced spread of
13/16 percent over LIBOR--was reached in August 1987. However, it became soon apparent
that the monthly interest service of about US$250 million was fiscally unsustainable; the
Government suspended payments to the banks in April 1988.
4.    Lack of fiscal adjustment produced further adverse indirect effects because the required
external adjustment and internal resource transfer had to be brought about by other, highly
distorting means. The military government used foreign exchange restrictions to generate the
necessary shift in the resource balance--about 5 percent of GDP between 1980/81 and 1982/83.
In 1984, the constitutional government of President Alfonsin established a scheme of quantitative
import restrictions (QRs) covering virtually all competing imports. Reopening of the economy
subsequently met with the strong resistance of vested interests. A new import liberalization
process started in 1987, but proceeded only gradually, and was reversed in the turmoil of the
final months of the Alfonsin Administration in 1989.
5.    Most damaging proved the Government's inability to generate the necessary internal
transfer of resources in a non-distortive manner. Starting from a high primary fiscal deficit, this
required the authorities to rapidly implement deep public sector reforms. Preoccupied with the
South Atlantic war and its aftermath, the military authorities made no attempt at fiscal
adjustment in 1982/83, instead relying on Central Bank financing. To avoid the inflation tax,
residents responded by withdrawing from the domestic financial system and reducing currency
holdings.   This rendered  the macroeconomy inherently more unstable.   The Alfonsin
Administration conducted four stabilization programs between 1984 and 1988, but each time
inflation surged to higher levels. Significant deficit reductions were achieved, but were not
sufficient relative to available financing. In the absence of public sector reforms, furthermore,
deficit reductions relied on unsustainable or inefficient means such as non-payment of pensions
and supplier bills and taxes on trade and financial intermediation. High and unpredictable
inflation became the main impediment to a recovery of savings and investment. In March 1989,
the Alfonsin Government was forced to abandon its fourth stabilization program. Having lost
all policy credibility, it was subsequently unable to prevent a run on the currency followed by
hyperinflation. Monthly inflation peaked at 200 percent in July; real annual output declined
about 6 percent in 1989.
6.    Economic Adjustment. The shock of hyperinflation and recession provided the newly
elected President Menem, who assumed office ahead of time in July 1989, with the necessary
broad political support for addressing the root cause of Argentina's economic decline. This also
would generate the conditions for ending the debt crisis.  The new  administration--with
intellectual and lending support from the Bank--enacted profound structural reforms to eliminate
the fiscal deficits that were fueling inflation.' Over the following 2-3 years, the Government
1.    Studies prepared for the new Government included Tax Policy for Stabilization
(1989), Reforms for Price Stability and Growth (1989), and Provincial Government
Finance (1990). Lending included the Public Sector Reform Loan (PSRL, US$325
million, July 1991), which was cofinanced by the Inter-American Development
Bank, and the complementary Tax Administration Technical Assistance Loan (US$6
million, January 1989) and Public Sector Reform Technical Assistance Loan (US$18
million, July 1989). The privatization program was supported through two Public
Enterprise Reform Adiustment Loans (PERAL I in February 1991 and PERAL II in
January 1993, each in an amount of US$300 million). In addition, the Bank made a
Financial Sector Adiustment Loan (FSAL, US$400 million, January 1993).



- 3 -
extended the value added tax while removing inefficient taxes on trade and financial
intermediation, modernized the tax administration and public financial management, downsized
the public administration, suspended costly subsidies, and privatized nearly all public enterprises.
To strengthen incentives for private investment, the Government accelerated trade liberalization
and deregulated markets for goods and services. Fiscal strengthening facilitated the April 1991
Convertibility Law which fixed the exchange rate and disciplined monetary policy by requiring
the monetary base to be fully backed by international reserves. Consumer price inflation fell
from 1355 percent in 1990 to 84 percent in 1991, 18 percent in 1992 and 8 percent in 1993.
Real output recovered 18 percent in 1991-92 after a 6 percent decline in 1989 and zero growth
in 1990.
7.    Debt Strategy. Linked to the Menem reform program was a strategy to end the debt
crisis by obtaining a low, permanent ceiling on debt service to the banks. To that end, the
existing commercial debt stock (about US$31 billion plus US$5.5 billion in accumulated interest
arrears at end-1989) needed to be significantly reduced, a settlement for past due interest be
negotiated with the banks, and a substantial part of the remaining debt be transformed into fixed
rate instruments. The divestiture of public assets in the context of privatization offered a
possibility for retiring debt at a discount. However, the Government was aware that the scope
for market-based debt reduction would be limited. Progress in the reform program would
increase the market valuation of Argentine debt by raising expectations for debt repayment. In
addition, more-than-marginal debt reduction operations would increase market prices as the
remaining debt would be perceived as more likely to be serviced. As debt sellers would be
forward-looking, such operations would take place at the higher post-operation price. (As
described below, the Government retired about US$11 billion of commercial debt in 1990-92.
The secondary market price of Argentine debt increased from 13 cents (per dollar of face value)
at end-1989 over 20 cents at end-1990 and 38 cents at end-1991 to 48 cents at end-1992.)
8.    The Government set its sight on the Brady plan which had been successfully demonstrated
in the 1989 debt agreement between the Mexican Government and its commercial creditors.
Central to the Brady approach was the notion that a severely indebted country and its creditor
banks as a group have a common interest in major debt and debt service reduction (DDSR)
linked to economic reforms. This would lead to more and better domestic investments, the gains
of which can be shared. However, agreements on market-based debt reduction cannot achieve
the common objective--because of coordination problems between banks (free riding cannot be
prevented); and because the sovereign debtor country cannot credibly commit to the reforms
which, in turn, leads the banks to demand heavy front-loading. The Brady plan promised to
overcome these obstacles with a concerted and menu-based approach. Official support was
offered for comprehensive, menu-based DDSR agreements between the debtor country and the
banking community. Such agreements would minimize free riding by: (i) tailoring the menu
of options to the needs of the various banks: and (ii) requiring nearly full participation,
reinforced by the exchange of debt holdings for new instruments considered senior to loans.
Official support would mitigate the up-front liquidity crunch and would be conditional on
economic reforms.



9.    The Menem Government could not immediately access the Brady plan for two main
reasons. The cash flow impact of an agreement would have been highly negative compared to
actual zero interest payments; with the primary balance still in deficit, payments would have
been fiscally unsustainable. Relations with commercial banks, furthermore, needed to be
restored. While the fiscal position gradually strengthened in 1990-91, the Government used the
privatization program for debt-public equity conversions retiring about US$6.5 billion of
commercial debt in 1990-91 (and a further US$4.5 billion in 1992). This repaired relations with
the banks which proved eager to participate in the conversion operations. Relations improved
further when the Government resumed partial interest payments in June 1990, at a monthly rate
of US$40 million, raised to US$60 million in January 1991. By end-1991, fiscal improvement
and debt reduction appeared sufficiently advanced to seek negotiations with the banking
community about a comprehensive Brady-deal.
C. Description of the Debt Agreement
10.   Negotiations between the Government and the creditors' Working Committee on the
restructuring of principal debt and the regularization of past due interest (PDI) commenced on
January 30, 1992. The Government unilaterally increased monthly interest payments from
US$60 million to US$70 million, effective April. An "Agreement in Principle" was announced
on April 8, 1992; the final term sheet--called the Republic of Argentina 1992 Financing Plan
(the Agreement)--was distributed on June 23, 1992; and was signed on December 6, 1992. The
principal debt restructuring component of the Agreement was concluded on April 7, 1993, and
the PDI component on October 29, 1993. However, about 5 percent of the eligible principal
debt and about 13 percent of the eligible PDI had not been reconciled at the respective closing
dates; these were settled on September 27, 1993 and December 29, 1993, respectively.
11.   Terms of the Agreement. The Agreement covers all eligible principal debt and PDI
held by commercial banks--about half of Argentina's total public external debt. Principal debt
holdings could be exchanged for either of two exit instruments:
collateralized floating rate discount bonds; or
collateralized fixed rate par bonds.
Regarding eligible PDI, which includes interest on unpaid interest, participating banks had to
accept on a pro-rata basis:
a downpayment of US$700 million; and
a par exchange of the remainder against non-collateralized floating rate PDI bonds having
a backloaded amortization schedule.
The terms of the Agreement are described in more detail in Table 1.



-5-
Table 1: ARGENTINA - TERMS OF DEBT AGREEblENT
|    lMaturity       Interest ?/   |                              l
Instruments 1/       I    (years)    I   (Dercent)                                                C Collateral  Comnents
Menu of Options
1. Par Bonds (with          30 yr. bullet   Yr. 1: 4.00%        Principal secured by zero   Registered form.  DM
below-market                              Yr. 2: 4.25%       coupon U.S. Treasury          option issued in bearer
interest rates)                           Yr. 3: 5.00%       securities.  TweLve-month   form with 5.87%
Yr. 4: 5.25%      rolling interest               interest; equivalent
Yr. 5: 5.50%      guarantee at assumed rate   cost of collateral.
Yr. 6: 5.75%      of 6%, secured by cash or   Eligible for debt-equity
Yr. 7: to         permitted investments.        conversion.  Can be
maturity: 6%                                     repurchased at any price
if not in default.
2. Discount Bonds (35%      30 yr. bullet   LIBOR + 13/16%   Same as for Par Bonds,           Same as for Par Bonds,
discount on face                                             but assumed rate of 8%        but interest at LIBOR +
vaLue)                                                       for interest guarantee.       13/16% for DM option.
Past Due Interest (PDI)
1. Cash payment of                                                                            For USS400 million face
US$400 million                                                                             value of PDI.
2. USS300 million in                                            None; new instruments to    For USS300 million face
cash or new                                                  be repurchased on the         value of PDI.
instruments S                                                Closing Date.
3. PDI Bonds                12-yr.           LIBOR + 13/16%    None.                          Bearer form.
(par exchange)          maturity, 3-                                                       Payments 1-7 = 1%;
yr. grace, 19                                                     payment 8 = 5%;
semiannual                                                        payments 9 - 19 = 8%.
payments
1/      Denominated in US dollars; Dl options described under "Comments.M
2v      Payable semiannually.
3/       Subsequent to the issuance of the Term Sheet, Argentina agreed to replace collateralized Argentine
zero-coupon bonds having a market value of USS300 million with USS300 million in cash or new
instruments at the option of the holders of eligible PDI. New instruments would be repurchased on the
Closing Date.
Source: Republic of Argentina, 1992 Financing Plan.
12.    With a menu of only two exit options, Argentina's creditors were given less choice than
participants in other DDSR agreements. Notably absent was a new money option without DDSR
which in other agreements served the dual purpose of helping to finance the enhancements and
accommodating banks wishing to remain exposed because of high exit costs. The Government
was confident that financing could be obtained at lower cost. The Agreement accommodated
banks not wishing to mark their portfolio to market--the main source of high exit costs--by
requiring the Government to issue on request instruments that would never be listed on any stock
exchange, but would be freely assignable. Outside the Agreement, the ongoing debt-equity
conversion program provided debt holders with an additional exit option. Debt holdings
committed under the Agreement could be reassigned to such conversions until 75 days prior to
the closing date.



- 6 -
13.   Under the terms of the Agreement, the par bonds, discount bonds and PDI bonds are
exempt from future requests for new money or reschedulings. The Government, furthermore,
is entitled to repurchase these bonds at any time and price provided it is not in payment default
on any of them. Also, these instruments are eligible for debt-equity conversion.
14.   Implementation. The Agreement achieved virtually full participation resulting in the
restructuring of US$19.3 billion in principal debt and the regularization of US$8.9 billion in PDI
(Table 2). About 66 percent of principal debt was exchanged for par bonds and 33 percent for
discount bonds. However, these shares were obtained only after the Government and the
Working Committee had impressed on the banks the need for modifying their first selections,
which had resulted in a split of 85/15 between par and discount exchanges. As discussed below,
this indicates a mispricing of options. About 2 percent of principal debt was exchanged for
bonds denominated in Deutsche Mark, which was the only currency option other than US dollar.
TABLE 2: DEBT EXCHANGE UNDER THE ARGENTINE DEBT AGREEMENT
Eligible Debt                  New Debt
US$ Million   Percent     US$ Million   DM-denominated'
Principal Debt        19,266   100.0             16,951        1.9
Par Bond             12,653    65.7            12,653        1.3
Discount Bond         6,613    34.3             4,298        3.9
Past Due Interest      8,913   100.0              8,213        --
Cash                    700     7.9                -
PDI Bond              8,213    92.1             8,213        --
Total                 28,179                    25,164         1.3
1) in percent of new debt.
15.   The Government provided the required enhancements--principal and interest collateral
for the par bonds and discount bonds plus the downpayment on PDI--at a total cost of about
US$3.8 billion. All interest collateral and about 60 percent of principal collateral was purchased
in the market, with the remainder directly acquired from the US Treasury or Kreditanstalt fuer
Wiederaufbau. Total costs were US$27 million higher than estimated in the Report and
Recommendation of the President (RRP). This was the net result of an increase in collateral
costs per unit of debt exchanged due to falling interest rates, and a reduction in the amount of
eligible principal debt due to ongoing debt-equity conversions. Table 3 provides a breakdown
of costs of enhancements and sources of financing.



TABLE 3: ARGENTIA - USES AND SOURCES OF ENHANCEMENT FUNDS'
PDI       Par Bond Collateral    Discount Bond Collateral    Total  Expected
Downpayment  Principal   Interest    Principal   Interest  End-1993  Total 2
IMF                                                                            986        986
Augmentation                        460                                       460        460
Set-asides                                               522        4        526         526
IBRD                                                                           625        625
Additional Lending                           450                             450         450
Set-asides                                                         175       175         175
IDB                                                                            475        475
Additional Lending                  124      276                             400         400
Set-asides                                                         75         75          75
Japan Eximbank                       473                                       473        800
Government             700           419        3                    78      1,200        873
Total                  700          1,476     729         522       332      3,759       3,759
Additional Lending                 1,057     726                            1,783       2,110
Set-asides                                               522       254       776         776
Government            700           419       3                    78       1,200        873
1. Situation at end- 1993.
2. After full disbursement of funds committed by Japan's Eximbank.
16.   The Government was the sole source of funding for the US$700 million downpayment.
Direct financing for the purchase of collateral was provided by the IFIs and the Government.
In addition, Japan's Eximbank supported the Agreement indirectly by committing a total of
US$800 million in parallel financing with the IMF and cofinancing with the Bank and the IDB,
which disburses against imports. Ahead of the settlement (April 7, 1993), the IMF disbursed
US$986 million, the Bank US$710 million, the IDB US$475 million and Japan's Eximbank
US$443 million; the balance (US$445 million) was funded by the Government. As described
below, the Bank's contribution was subsequently reduced by US$85 million. On the other side,
Eximbank disbursed an additional US$30 million in parallel financing between the settlement
date and year's end. At end-1993, the balance funded by the Government was therefore US$500
million. (This is reflected in Table 3.) Eximbank disbursed a further US$125 million in March
1994; together with the expected disbursement of the balance of Eximbank's commitments, this
would reduce the Government's contribution to the funding of collateral purchases to US$173
million, which would be in addition to the US$700 million downpayment.
17.   The Bank's contribution ahead of the April 7 closing date consisted of the DDSR Loan
(US$450 million) and set-asides of US$100 million from the PERAL II and US$160 million
from the FSAL--all disbursed March 25-26, 1993. Regarding the FSAL, the loan agreement
set aside US$200 million for the purchase of discount bond collateral, with the proviso that
amounts deemed by the Bank not to be necessary for this purpose could be reallocated by the
Bank to the financing of imported goods. US$40 million were reallocated and disbursed against
imports on March 22, and US$160 million were disbursed as set-asides three days later. As



- 8 -
described above, the April 7 settlement of principal claims was incomplete because some claims
were still being reconciliated. Ahead of the September 27 settlement date, it became apparent
that some US$85 million in FSAL set-asides were not needed. Accordingly, a further US$85
million were reallocated on September 22, 1993, which lowered the Bank's total contribution
to US$625 million.
18.   Funds from the Bank were used consistent with Bank guidelines.2  Particularly, all
proceeds of the DDSR Loan financed par bond interest collateral, and all set-asides from the
PERAL II and the FSAL financed discount bond collateral. The Govemment did not see a need
to make use of a modification in the guidelines which would have allowed the use of additional
lending for the purchase of principal collateral for par bonds.3
D. Result
19.   The analysis of likely results in the RRP indicated the Argentine Brady operation would:
achieve debt reduction and cost savings (against an open market operation) on the scale of the
Mexican debt accord; generate significant financial savings and associated direct benefits as well
as indirect benefits against a counterfactual involving multi-year debt rescheduling; and greatly
reduce the burden on extemal creditors as a group, but also render debt service less flexible
increasing the risk to the Bank in case of adverse developments. As discussed in more detail
below, the analysis of actual results confirms the extent of debt reduction and cost savings of
concerted and menu-based DDSR relative to market-based debt reduction. Financial savings and
direct benefits tumed out lower than estimated in the RRP, but indirect benefits appear to be
higher. Substantial net benefits of the Agreement to Argentina also are confirmed by an
evaluation using an altemative debt service scenario consistent with market expectations of
partial default in the absence of the Agreement. Argentina's good macroeconomic performance
in the year following the conclusion of the Agreement may have mitigated the increase in risk
to the Bank resulting from the commercial debt exchange, by improving the outlook for the
sustainability of Argentina's economic program.
Debt Reduction
20.   The Agreement resembles the successful Mexican DDSR operation in the extent of debt
reduction achieved (Table 4) and costs saved compared to market-based debt reduction of the
same amount (Table 5).
2.    'Operational Guidelines and Procedures for Use of IBRD Resources to Support Debt
and Debt Service Reductions'. R89-104, May 22, 1989.
3.    'Review of the Program to Support Debt and Debt Service Reduction". R92-34,
March 9, 1992.



-9-
Concluding the Agreement reduced Argentina's commercial bank debt by the equivalent of about
US$10.8 billion, or 38 percent of eligible debt including PDI4. Net of additional official
borrowing, the total debt reduction equivalent is US$8.8 billion, or 15 percent of total public
external debt. The operation occurred at an average market price of 50
TABLE 4: ARGENTINA - DEBT REDUCION EQUIVALENT
Commercial                              Total      TDRE in
Present    Prepayment      Debt                                  Debt      percent of
Eligible    Face Value   Value of    Equivalent    Reduction    DRE in    Additional    Reduction      public
Debt      of Debt      Interest of      of        Equivalent    percent     Official    Equivalent    extend
(ED)      Reduction    Reduction     Collateral     (DRE)       of ED       Lending     (TDRE)         debt
Argentina             28,179         3,015        4,732        3,059         10,806        38        2,110        8,696       15
Discount Bonds       6,613          2,315           --        1,061         3,376        51
Per Bonds           12,653             --        4,732        1,998         6,730        53
PDI Arrangement      8,913           700            --           --           700          8
Mexico                47,170        6,034'        7,090        7,166        20,290         43        3,732        16,558      17
Venezuela             19,011         755'         2,491        1,729         4,975         26          687        4,288       13
1. Nct of new money.
2. Relative to market rates for fixed interest rate loans prevailing at the time of the operation.
TABLE 5: ARGENTINA - DEBT PRICES'
Average
Pre-deal    for Deal    Post-deal    (P2-P1)/P2                      Eligible Debt
(po)2         (Pl)3         (P2)4          xlOO         PI-Po        (US$M) 5
Argentina           39            50             63             21            11          28,179
Mexico              36            41             52             21            5           47,170
Venezuela           37            50             61             18            13          19,011
1.  Cents per dollar of face value.
2.   For Argentina, P0 is the average price in the quarter before negotiations on the Brady deal were announced; for Mexico and Venezuela,
P0 is the average price in the month before the Brady plan was announced.
3.  Market value of new portfolio as percent of face value of eligible debt including PDI.
4.   The stripped post-deal price P2 is estimated as the market value of debt after the deal minus the prepayment equivalent of collateral, plus
the amount of cash used for buybacks or donor-payments, divided by the face value of eligible debt minus the DRE, plus the amount of
cash used for buybacks or donor-payments.
5.   Face value.
cents on the dollar--estimated as the market value of the banks' new portfolio (including
enhancements) divided by the face value of eligible debt and PDI. The price of the Agreement
is about 21 percent lower than the post-deal market price at which an open market operation with
4.      The commercial debt reduction equivalent (DRE) includes: US$3.0 billion in face
value reduction through the discount bond exchange and the PDI downpayment;
US$4.7 billion in net present value of interest service reduction through the par
bond exchange; and US$3.1 billion in prepayment equivalent of collateral placed
beyond Argentina's reach. Not included are about US$400 million in interest
reduction between January 1, 1992 and the closing date resulting from the interest
arrangement included in the Agreement.



- 10-
a like amount of debt reduction would occur, indicating savings of about US$3.7 billion or 1.4
percent of GDP5.
Cost and Benefits
21.   Counterfactuals. The RRP evaluated the Agreement against an altemative scenario of
contractual debt service on principal debt rescheduled through two consecutive MYRAs and PDI
as arranged in the Agreement. Rescheduling counterfactuals have been used in the presentation
of other Bank loans in support of DDSR agreements, but have been faulted for being inconsistent
with market expectations of partial default reflected in the pre-deal prices of country debt.6
Obviously, a DDSR operation generates financial savings and associated direct benefits compared
to contractual service on rescheduled debt, but financial costs and negative direct benefits if
default is the alternative. Positive net benefits of DDSR therefore require sizable indirect
benefits against a market-consistent counterfactual, but not against a rescheduling scenario.
Depending on the counterfactual selected, the evaluation of a DDSR agreement would therefore
lead to opposite net results if the operation failed to generate significant indirect benefits.
22.   Indirect benefits of DDSR can be expected if economic reforms address the structural
problems that led to the debt crisis in the first place. The RRP correctly pointed out that
Argentina's reform program was already advanced prior to the Agreement and included difficult
to reverse reforms such as privatization. The selection of the rescheduling counterfactual was
based on the judgement that the Government would be unlikely to put at risk the benefits of
previous and planned reforms, and would therefore seek to regularize relations with commercial
banks also in the absence of the Agreement. While not consistent with market expectations, the
Region could make such judgement on the basis of better insight into the Government's
intentions. Consistent with this reasoning, the RRP did not ascribe benefits of the reform
program to the Agreement, as would be necessary in an evaluation against a counterfactual
involving partial default.
23. Financial Savings. The decline in international interest rates since the writing of the
RRP drastically lowered the interest relief related to the par bond exchange. As shown in Table
6, subsequent cash flow savings against the rescheduling counterfactual remain modest in the
1993-2000 period, but increase in the long-term when rescheduled debt would have to be
amortized.7 In net present value terms, direct financial savings from the Agreement amount to
5. The post-deal price is approximated by the price of the non-collateralized portion of the
banks' new portfolio. This stripped price is calculated as the market value of the new
instruments (including the PDI downpayment) minus the prepayment equivalent of the
collaterals, divided by the face value of the new instrunents (including the PDI
downpayment) minus the DRE. See: World Debt Tables 1993-94, Vol. 1, Box 3.3;
6.    Claessens, S., I. Diwan and E. Fernadez-Arias (1192), 'Recent Experience with
Commercial Bank Debt Reduction," World Bank, PRE Working Paper, No. 995.
7.    The Bank's LIBOR projection used in the analyses declined from 7.0 percent to 5.8
percent.



- 11 -
approximately US$5.3 billion--about 2 percent of GDP. The severe impact of the up-front costs
on liquidity is greatly mitigated by additional official lending. The RRP estimated that this
would suffice to generate a positive overall cash flow impact already in the 1993-95 period.
With lower interest relief, however, Table 6 indicates that the overall cash flow impact will be
slightly negative for the 1993-2000 period. Higher international interest rates, of course, would
improve the cash flow impact. However, the Bank's medium-term LEBOR projections, which
underly the cash flow depicted in Table 6, are consistent with the recent interest rate increase.
TABLE 6: ARGENTINA - DEBT AGREEMENT: CASH FLOW AND FINANCIAL SAVINGS
Cash Flow                    Financial Savings
1993    1994   1993-2000  2001-23        NPV      IRR
Debt Agreement
(1) Up-front Costs 1'               3,759       0        470        0
(2) Debt Service2'                   338   1,131        1,461    1,285
(3) Additional Net Transfers 31     1,728     210         39       -76
Rescheduling Counterfactual
(4) Alternative Debt Service '      1,121   1,337       1,853    1,744
(5) Subsequent Cash Flow Savings (4-2)    782  206       392      459
(6) Financial Savings (5-1)        -2,977     206         -78      459       5,336      17.71
(7) Cash Flow Impact (6 +3)        -1,249     416         -39      382
Market-consistent Counterfactual                                              -3,10V      1.02
1/     Collateral purchases plus PDI downpayment.
2/    Interest payments on new mstnuments plus amortization of PDI bonds, minus interest earnings on interest
collateral and release of interest collateral in 2023.
3/     Disbursement of additional lending (US$1,783 million in 1993 and US$327 million in 1994) net of interest and
amortization.
4/     Two consecutive MYRAs for principal debt (with total grace period of 8 years and stepped-up amortization over
16 years) and PDI arrangement.
5/     Eligible debt (including PDI) evaluated at difference between average market price of debt reduction operation
and pre-deal price of debt.
24.   In a market-consistent evaluation of the Agreement, direct financial costs to the country
(in net present value terms) are equivalent to commercial banks' gains from the Agreement. The
gains/costs are indicated by the difference between the average market price at which the
Agreement was concluded--about 50 cents on the dollar as described above--and an appropriate
pre-deal price of eligible debt not reflecting expectations of the deal (Table 5). That price is
difficult to establish both because market participants were aware of the Govemment's intention
to access the Brady plan and because prices were moving upwards due to ongoing debt-equity
conversions and good policy performance, as discussed above. Selecting the average price in
the fourth quarter of 1991--before negotiations with the banks were announced--gives a price
difference of 11 cents on the dollar. This puts the financial costs against the market-consistent
counterfactual at US$3.1 billion--about 1.2 percent of GDP.



- 12 -
25.   Direct Benefits. Financial savings due to the Agreement directly affect the liquidity of
the public sector, because the debt being converted is owed by the Government. Given
constraints on public consumption expenditures and a ban on Central Bank financing, the
Government could react by adjusting public investment; due to complementarities with private
investment, the total investment impact would be magnified. The authorities could instead adjust
domestic debt, which would affect private investment through the effect on domestic interest
rates. A summary of the direct benefits of the Agreement is provided by the internal rate of
return (IRR) of the stream of financial savings. For direct benefits to be positive, the IRR must
exceed the domestic discount rate. As shown in Table 6, the IRR is about 18 percent against
the rescheduling counterfactual. While lower than the IRR of 23 percent estimated in the RRP,
this is still well above the domestic discount rate. The critical level used in the Bank's project
lending is 10 percent. The result of significant direct benefits of the Agreement therefore is
confirmed against this counterfactual.
26.   Against the market-consistent counterfactual, the estimated IRR is just 1 percent. ( Since
up-front enhancements exceed the net present value of financial costs, subsequent cash flow
savings against this counterfactual are positive.) The IRR is way below the critical level of the
domestic discount rate, thus indicating significantly negative direct benefits.
27.   Indirect Benefits. DDSR operations are expected to improve investment incentives and
macroeconomic policy by lowering the "tax" on future output and the uncertainty over future
payments associated with the debt overhang, and increase resource transfer by increasing country
creditworthiness. As discussed below, the notion of a tax on future output appears to have little
relevance for Argentina. Indirect benefits resulting from reduced uncertainty and increased
creditworthiness, however, are pertinent for Argentina, particularly if the alternative scenario
involves default. Lower domestic interest rates due to reduced uncertainty would also lead to
indirect financial savings in countries with substantial public debt denominated in domestic
currency; however, this is not the case in Argentina.
28.   The debt overhang hypothesis states that increasing output of a highly indebted country
enables creditors to extract proportionally higher actual debt repayments. This would give rise
to a "tax" on domestic investment and reform efforts, which in turn would be reduced through
DDSR. For the hypothesis to be relevant in the context of the Argentine debt deal, the net
present value of expected service on risky debt would need to be large as a fraction of output,
and decline as a result of the operation. Valued at the pre-deal price of 39 cents, eligible debt
amounted to about US$11 billion--barely 4.5 percent of GDP in 1993. In the month following
the conclusion of the Agreement, the market value of risky commercial debt--the non-
collateralized portion of the banks' new portfolio described above--was also US$11 billion. Any
debt overhang "tax" therefore appears small in the first place, and not affected by the
Agreement.
29.   Uncertainty about fiscal and exchange rate developments adversely affects credibility and
sustainability of macroeconomic policy, and causes investors to hold back investments that would
be irreversible. High and volatile contractual payment obligations to the banks are a major
source of uncertainty, which is addressed by the Agreement. Specifically: the net present value



- 13 -
of payment obligations is reduced by 38 percent as described above; the need for often
contentious rescheduling negotiations is eliminated; and about 50 percent of interest payments
to the banks are protected against future interest rate shocks. A positive effect on uncertainty
is indicated by developments of interest rates (Figure 1 ) and exchange rate risk (Figure 2 )
during periods in which new information on the debt deal became available. Between the
quarter preceding the announcement of negotiations (1991,4) and the quarter following the
Agreement in Principle (1992,2) lending rates declined 10 percentage points and exchange rate
risk dropped 8 percentage points. Between the quarters preceding and following the conclusion
of the Agreement (1993,1 and 2), interest rates and exchange rate risk fell 7 and 2 percentage
points, respectively.
Figure 1: Argentina - Infladon and Lindng Rat..                           Figue 2: Argentina - Exohang- Rate Fdc (90 day
P.-  DOCA Aw-  Ce.&-RdP-                                                         depi ts )
50                                                                                                  DD'o Au-
20
40
-      Cw,binhd
0                                             Price Inflation    1S
Intermst Rate
0  _ _ _ _                                                      0                           
10'i       - =     2-                        =                         E =       _    s    E    2    _    s    _
P1gw. 3: A,gentina - Inettuion i Inv-stor Creit                  # af    h1gv 4: Arg-nt0na - Foreign Regowo. Transfers */
Rating.                                         GDP
40  L DOS JW_n  2 _
30                                                               i2
35                                                               2
20
Ratings                                  GDP~~loiaArrss 
15
10
25~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~
0                                                                -3
0 'x-3880o 000i)3 
I.                  T  X                                      .4D
~~~~   ~~~~~~~ ~~~~~~~                                 ./~~~~~~~a Detinod as Reourc Deficit phi. Liquid Resarn. Accunulation.



- 14 -
30.   Uncertainty had already been reduced prior to the Agreement as a result of fiscal reforms
and the convertibility program, but also the Government's strategy for regularizing relations with
commercial creditors, as described above. This achievement would likely be undone by
continued partial default--rather than debt rescheduling--in the absence of the Agreement.
Accordingly, against a market-consistent counterfactual the Agreement is associated with higher
indirect benefits.
31.   Since 1990, Argentina has experienced a dramatic improvement in its external
creditworthiness and ability to attract foreign financing, mainly as a result of domestic
developments. The country's creditworthiness as measured by the semi-annual rating of the
Institutional Investor suffered a low of 18 percent in 1990(2), when it was 21 percentage points
below the average for some 100 countries (Figure 3). It has since increased each semester and
reached 36 percent in 1994(1), just 1 percentage point below the global average. Although the
global average was affected by the entry of countries of the Former Soviet Union, the closing
of the gap between the ratings still suggests that the improvement in Argentina's creditworthiness
was predominantly due to domestic factors.  Consistent with increasing creditworthiness,
Argentina's ability to attract foreign financing improved, as indicated by the development of the
adjusted resource trar,sfer from abroad, i.e., the resource balance plus reserve accumulation
(Figure 4). As a share of GDP, the adjusted resource transfer increased from -5 percent in 1990
to 4 percent in 1993. While the increase is partly due to external factors such as the fall in
LIBOR rates and sluggish activity in the OECD space, recent analysis strongly suggests that in
the case of Argentina domestic developments have been more important.8 Domestic sources in
the case of Argentina include good policy performance, a coherent strategy for regularizing
relations with commercial creditors, and the achievement of a low and permanent ceiling on
payments to the banks through the Agreement. What role is ascribed to the Agreement,
obviously depends on the counterfactual. It would be modest against an alternative scenario
assuming that relations with the banks will be regularized through rescheduling. Against a
counterfactual of involving default, the contribution of the Agreement would be recognized as
crucial, because the debt strategy would in that case be abandoned and macroeconomic policy
would loose credibility.
32.   Development Impact. Direct and indirect benefits of DDSR contribute to long-term
changes in economic growth, investment and savings (development impact). The Bank's
projections for 1993-2000 compared to the record for 1988-92 indicate a 2.5 percentage point
increase in the growth rate, and upward changes in the GDP shares of gross investment and
national savings of 3.7 percentage points and 2.2 percentage points, respectively. Given the
impact of external developments and the complex link between domestic policy performance and
DDSR, it is difficult to quantify the development impact of the Agreement. However, it appears
8.    A decomposition analysis of the increase in net portfolio inflows into 13 middle-
income countries between 1989 and mid-1993 indicates that on average only 14
percent can be ascribed to domestic factors. Dominant domestic contributions are
shown for only three countries: Argentina (63 percent), Mexico (80 percent) and
Korea (63 percent). E. Fernandez-Arias (1994), "The New Wave of Private Capital
Inflows: Push or Pull?', Mimeo, World Bank.



- 15 -
safe to say that a Brady deal for Argentina would likely not have been agreed without the
previous dramatic improvement in domestic policies; and would not benefit development if it
did.  As argued above, the reverse may also hold in the case of the market-consistent
counterfactual, because continued default would undermine the benefits of previous adjustment
and the sustainability and credibility of macroeconomic policy. In this light, the Agreement can
be viewed as having met a necessary, but not sufficient condition for development. Against the
rescheduling counterfactual, the RRP estimated an increase of 1 percentage point in the growth
rate based primarily on direct benefits associated with a positive overall cash flow impact in the
sort-term and the medium-term. As described above, this was erased by the fall in international
interest rates since the writing of the RRP. However, output and investment actually grew much
stronger in 1992-93 than projected in the Debt Agreement scenario of the RRP, and the Bank's
long-term growth rate projections have been raised by one-half of a percentage point. It is
widely agreed that the Agreement and its successful conclusion have the main cause for the
strengthening of investor confidence underlying this development. This suggests that the RRP
took insufficient account of the indirect benefits of the Agreement.
33.   Net Benefits. Positive net benefits of the Agreement are assured against the rescheduling
counterfactual as financial savings of about 2 percent of GDP add to the development impact,
which may be on the order of one half of a percentage point increase in the growth rate. In the
case of the market-consistent counterfactual, financial costs of about 1.2 percent must be
recognized. The adverse development implications of default, however, strongly suggest a
positive net result of the Agreement. Consistent with the market-consistent counterfactual, net
benefits may also be estimated strictly on the basis of market valuations, as has been proposed
by various authors.9 In this approach, the net benefits of a Brady operation are approximated
by the financial savings against an open market operation involving the same amount of debt
reduction. As shown above, these savings are approximately US$3.7 billion, or 1.4 percent of
GDP.
Debt Management Issues
34.   The Agreement's implementation and improved economic performance reduce the burden
which the possibility of a future shortfall in public debt service imposes on Argentina's external
creditors as a group. The share of preferred creditors in the reduced burden has increased,
however, and debt service has become less flexible. With regard to the Bank's exposure risk,
this may outweigh the beneficial effect of a reduced overall burden.
9.    Bulow and Rogoff show that, under reasonable assumptions, in an open market
buyback creditors can expect to capture all indirect benefits resulting from the
reduction of the debt overhang. This suggests that the gross benefits of a Brady
operation can be approximated by the increase in the market value of the banks'
portfolio following an open market buyback of equal size; and net benefits of the
debtor country by the financial savings of the Brady operation against the open
market operation. J. Bulow and K. Rogoff (1991), "Sovereign Debt Repurchases:
No Cure for Overhang", Quarterly Journal of Economics, Vol. CVI, pp. 1219-
1235.



- 16 -
TABLE 7: ARGENTINA - EXTERNAL DEBT SERVICE RATIOS
Average   Average   Percentage
1988-92  1993-2000    Change
Share of GDP
Total DS                            5.4        3.5       -35.6
Public DS                           5.1        2.2       -55.8
Multilateral Creditor DS            1.3        0.7       -50.7
IBRD DS                             0.3        0.2       -40.0
Share of Exports
Total DS                           56.4       49.7       -11.8
Public DS                          52.6       31.8       -39.6
Multilateral Creditor DS           14.0        9.5       -32.5
IBRD DS                             3.5        2.8       -17.9
Share of Federal Revenue
Total DS                           42.5       27.4       -35.5
Public DS                          39.7       17.5       -55.8
Multilateral Creditor DS           10.6        5.2       -50.6
IBRD DS                             2.6        1.6       -40.0
Share of Public DS
Multilateral DS                    26.6       29.7        11.7
Bilateral DS                        3.0       17.0       474.1
Private Creditors DS               70.4       53.3       -24.3
Inflexible Foreign DS as Share of l/
Public DS                          43.9       79.4        80.9
Total DS                           44.2       73.3        65.7
1/   Inflexible public DS includes DS to multilaterals and holders of
Government bonds including new instruments under the Agreement. Total
inflexible DS also includes private bond issues and interest payments on
short-term debt.
35. The reduction in the overall burden on external creditors results from the Government's
increased willingness and capacity to service the remaining obligations. The option of default
has become more costly because the Government has already provided the enhancements, and
substantial benefits from the Agreement have become apparent. The increased capacity to pay
is reflected in the drastic reduction--between 1988-92 and 1993-2000--in public debt service as
a share of federal revenues (55 percent), GDP (55 percent) and exports (38 percent) as depicted
in Table 7.



- 17 -
36.   Public debt service to preferred creditors also is shown to decline sharply as a share of
GDP, exports and federal revenues, though less than for external creditors as a group (Table 7).
The associated increase in the debt service share of preferred creditors by 2.8 percentage points
appears modest, however, compared to a 14 percentage point increase in the share of bilateral
creditors. Arguably more important for the relative burden on preferred creditors is the
exchange of commercial bank loans, which are potentially subject to reschedulings and new
money calls, against bonds which the Agreement explicitly exempts from future restructuring.
This could reduce the Government's flexibility in addressing future debt servicing difficulties
should downside scenarios be realized. As shown in Table 7, the public debt service share of
preferred creditors and bondholders increases by 36 percentage points to nearly 80 percent
37.   Reduced flexibility increases the risk to the Bank in case the economic program is not
sustained and debt servicing difficulties arise, as discussed below. It is worth noting that the
Government in such case would have room for reducing other expenditures to sustain payments
to preferred creditors: the fiscal program includes expenditure increases that could be cut; the
interest collateral could be used up to pay up to 12 months in interest on the discount bonds and
par bonds, without the Government being obligated to replenish the collateral account; and, as
a last resort, the Government could seek to renegotiate registered bonds in a force majeure
situation.
Sustainability
38.   After three successful years, the Government's convertibility program is still on track.
The key factor has been growth in private sector confidence brought about by a series of
structural reforms, and establishment of a low and permanent ceiling on the Government's
payments to commercial creditors. The main risks to the program are associated with possibly
higher than expected international interest rates; failure to improve competitiveness through
productivity growth; and unforeseen political developments threatening fiscal equilibrium.
Strongly rising international interest rates could reverse capital inflows inducing a sharp
economic contraction with adverse consequences for the financial system and public finances.
Over the medium-term meeting growth expectations crucially depends on strong export growth.
In the context of the legally fixed exchange rate, this requires competitiveness to be restored
through productivity growth above rates achieved by international competitors. The authorities
would otherwise come under pressure to devalue the exchange rate, which would carry its own
inflation risk, in the context of a highly dollarized economy. A weakening of fiscal discipline
for political reasons constitutes another risk, in the context of a very open capital account. In
such an event, international reserves and therefore the monetary base could decline sharply,
which would severely test the convertibility program. However, memories of the hyperinflation
make it unlikely that the electorate will endorse in the near future populist policies that would
undermine the hard-won gains in fiscal discipline.
E. The Bank's Role and Performance
39.   Bank support for the Agreement was crucial for two main reasons. Under the currency
board arrangement, the Government could not apply reserves to the funding of enhancements.



- 18 -
Eligibility for the Bank's Program to Support Debt and Debt Service Reduction and similar
programs of other donors was therefore a necessary requirement for negotiating the Agreement;
and timely disbursement of funds was essential for settlement.  Bank staff advised the
Government early in the process that fiscal sustainability of the outcome would be a key criterion
for the Bank's support, as would be continued progress in the reform agenda. The Bank took
the lead in coordinating donor support. In this, the Bank's early and frequently updated analysis
of the merits of the deal and of funding needs proved critical, particularly with regard to timely
lending development of the IDB and Japan's Eximbank. The Bank's technical expertise was also
crucial for coordinating the required negative pledge waivers; and for the disbursement of funds-
-other than those of the IMF--into the collateral accounts on the exact date needed for the
purchase of the collateral instruments. Secondly, the Bank's seal of approval was critical for
the participation of commercial creditors. Once the final term sheet was agreed, the Bank
provided a comfort letter to the banking community, and participated in the presentation of the
Agreement in the main financial centers.
40.   The Bank kept close contact with the Government throughout the process and provided
advice. Coordination of donor support was flawless in all phases. Also, intra-Bank coordination
of the DDSR Loan, the PERAL II and the FSAL was a challenging task, which was performed
effectively and efficiently, i.e., without in any way compromising the quality of the adjustment
loans. The outstanding quality of the RRP for the DDSR Loan was recognized by the Executive
Directors. The contributions of the Bank's Cofinancing and Financial Advisory Services, Legal
Department, Loan Department, and Cash Management Department all were of high order.
F. Lessons from Experience
41.   The Agreement was the sixth in a series of debt accords between middle-income debtor
countries and their commercial creditors under the Brady plan. The experience of the
Agreement confirms lessons of the previous operations relating to the linkage between DDSR
and economic reforms; the superiority of the concerted, menu-based approach to resolving the
debt crisis; gains to creditors; and inefficiencies in the pricing of options. It also contradicts
arguments to the effect that the menu must include a new money option to obtain debt reduction
at below-market prices.
42.  In DDSR operations the debtor country incurs a heavy up-front cost to reduce and
stabilize its contractual obligations to creditor banks. To be worthwhile to the country, however,
economic reforms must address the structural sources of the debt crisis. Without reforms,
partial default as expected by the market would be the appropriate counterfactual. As shown for
the Agreement, financial savings and direct benefits of the operation would in such case be
highly negative, and so would be net benefits in the absence of indirect benefits that depend on
reforms. This supports the general conclusion of previous analyses that Brady operations should
not be undertaken without a reform program in place. Bank lending support would in such case
fail to benefit the country while shifting a part of the debt burden from private to official
creditors.



- 19 -
43.   The Agreement adds to the evidence supporting the rationale of the Brady plan. Given
economic reforms, a highly indebted country and its creditor banks as a group have a common
interest in DDSR as it leads to efficiency gains that can be shared. Concerted action, however,
is necessary to overcome problems of coordination between the banks and of credible
commitment to reforms by the sovereign debtor country. The Brady approach achieves this by
providing official support, conditioned on economic policies, for comprehensive and menu-based
DDSR agreements between the debtor country and its creditor banks as a group. As confirmed
by the Agreement, this leads to substantial debt reduction in net present value terms combined
with significant savings to the country relative to market-based debt reduction.
44.   The voluntary nature of Brady operations, as has been observed before, makes it likely
that the banks will end up with an improved financial position. The analysis of the Agreement
provides supporting evidence for creditor banks' gains. In this context, the Argentine experience
suggests that accumulated interest arrears tend to weaken the debtor country's negotiating
position. Argentina had to undertake significant reforms before it could access the Brady plan
as post-DDSR contractual payments would otherwise not be sustainable. With reforms already
made and a momentum for further reforms developed, the Government was eager to reach a
settlement, allowing the banks to hold out for larger gains.
45.   The banks' selection between the two options of the Agreement revealed a strong
preference for par bonds. Since official support for DDSR depends on a balance between debt
reduction and debt service reduction, pressure was put on the banks to accept a higher share of
discount bonds. Despite the limitation of choice, however, full voluntary participation was
achieved, which suggests that the par bond option was overpriced. The mispricing of options,
which was observed also in the Venezuela DDSR operation, results from the fixing of the
interest rate schedule of the par bond option at the date of the Agreement in Principle. At that
date, preferences of the banks are not known; particularly, interest rate expectations may change
before selections are made several months later. The Agreement thus lacked an efficient
instrument for reconciling selections with the objective of a balance between debt reduction and
debt service reduction. Such instrument could be a program of interest rate swaps.
46.   The Agreement differs from other Brady deals in offering creditor banks only exit
options, i.e., no option for maintaining their loan exposure by providing new money. The case
for including a new money option rests on the premise that some banks have very high exit costs
and would therefore only be willing to exit when the value of at least one exit instrument is very
high. Buying out the high exit cost banks using an exit menu option would dramatically increase
the cost of debt reduction; instead, allowing them to remain on the sideline would undermine
the whole menu approach. The Agreement worked on the assumption that the relevant source
of high exit costs is the regulatory requirement of some countries that banks selling part of their
loans to a given country mark to market their country portfolio. The offer of bonds never to
be traded on any stock exchange circumvented this requirement.   The outcome of the
Agreement suggests that the assumption was correct, i.e., a new money option is not required
to secure both full participation and reduced costs of debt reduction.



- 20 -
PART II. PROGRAM REVIEW FROM BORROWER'S PERSPECTIVE
Part II has not yet been received from the Borrower.



- 21 -
PART m: BASIC DATA
A. Debt and Debt Service Reduction Loan
(Loan 3355-AR)
ORIGINAL   DISBURSED   CANCELLED             REPAID        OUTSTANDING
Loan 3555-AR      US$450M       US$450M            0              0            US$450M
ORIGINAL LOAN DATES
ACTUAL
Briefing Note             06/15/92
Completion of Negotiations   11/13/92
Board Approval            01105/93
Loan Agreement Signing    02/02/93
Release (US$450 million)    03/15/93
Effectiveness             03/26/93
Loan Closing              07/31/93
CUMULATIVE LOAN DISBURSEMENT
(US Millions)
FY93
(a) Planned                  450
(b) Actual                   450
STAFF INPUTS
FY9     FY9     FY94   TOTAL
To Negotiation                 9.0    15.9    0.0        24.9
Negotiations                   0.0    13.9    0.0        13.9
Supervision and Administration    0.0  5.5     0.6       6.1
Total                          9.0    35.3    0.6        44.9
FOLLOW-ON SAL OPERATIONS
Second Enterprise Reform Adjustment Loan (3556-AR): US$300 million.
Financial Sector Adjustment Loan (3558-AR): US$400 million.



- 22 -
A-t   ARGEN4TINA -                          A Ant.
(T- p-oo -6- -h-c-God)
1991        I992         1993       W1994          995        1996         I99W7       199          199          mm
GDP 5-.h                                                     1.9          t.7          6.0         4.0          4.0         3.1          4.0         4_3          4.5         47
Glti .1pkpiu pwz.  -pt.                                     10.           9.5          3.2        1IJ           l.t         L4           1.9         2-3          2-3         2L3
GDP (1.u  bil-)                                            19.7        221-.        2S7.6       276.5       2912         3161         340.5       30          359.9        42.65
2S.-  I GDP'
T.a.1l Lnv_^u                                              14.6         16.7        It.0         19.1        19.4         197         19.9         20.1         2tU         20.6
PrwL                                                      12.4         14.M        15.9        16J          172          17.4        17.5         17.6         17.7        17.
PubU- (-o-d.d)                                             2.3          1.9         2.2         22           2.2          2.3         2.4          2.5         2.6          2.J
S.tul S                                                13.2         1l.0        14.1        15.9         16.1        16.6         16.9        17-3         17.7         1L2
1323        II.         13.1        14.1         14.3        14 5         14.7        14.9         15.1         15.4
PNblU  (4<- oldct.d)                                      (0.1)         13          1.7         1I           L9           2.0         2.2          2.4          2.6         2.
Foip. S"vr                                                  1.4          3.7         33          3.2          3.3          3.2         3.0          2.5          2.6         2.4
ICtOR (l6gd)                                                  1.6         1.9          3.3         5.3          5.6         6.0          5.          5.4          5.2          5.1
Fcd-I PubUc S5_  (  lt b..i. cs   dcnt GDP).
T.c.1 Cul t    R_                                            IL2.5       LL5          12.2         1.4         119          1.          L3 10 L3                  12          12.
T~l CtD         Eqt.&   _=                                               12.45LL      ILS         LLO          LL-5        12 5          Ma         LL6            L          LL6
InXl_t EX-YI;IYI                                            2-5          L.5          LO          LO           Li          Li           L3          L3           L2           Li
5=iml Scsrity Svw                                            0.1          0.5           1          L1          0.7         0J           0J          0.A          0.6          LO
FE N--im-d  S.-k                                             0.2          0.2          0L3         0.0        (C-O)        (0-/l    )         (0=) (0-) (O-)                00
Fublic S-inp                                                 (0.7)        0.7          1.7         L5           LO          La           LO          LO           Li           L2
CapilR P_                                                     LO          0.A          0.9         0.2          0.2         0.2          0.0         0.0          0.0         0(0
C.p"l Yxpud _                                                 1.0         OJ9          1.0         LO           LO           LO          LO           LO          LO           LO:
Nct.afl.o...IPubSt l . or                                    (0.7)        0.7          L7          0.7          0.3         0.3          0.1         0.1          0.1          0.2
Q-il-F-  9,tph.                                              0.0         (0.1)         0.0         0.1          0.1         0.2          0.2         0.2          0.2          0.2
Oou a     kc                                                 (0s7)        0.6          1.7        Ot           0.4        0(4           0.3         0.3          0.4          0.4
M .a
P,'y S-h                                                     1.3         2.2          2.7         1.7          1.4          13          1.4         1.4          13           1-3
P    lyS-ph. (.SS3                                        1.367        4.965        6.9-24      4.73        4.20         4.251        4.129       4.932        5.244        5..35
Op.Li-l P        sO...rph".(US3NM)                        L41          3.055        4.502       4.123       3.450       31651         4.629       4.932        5.246        s 255
I    4 ETi.- (VS1 M)                                      4.763        3.331        2.665       2.S14       3.192        3.429        4.564       4.663        4.664        4.601
Op-Li.    l P      hrph.G- .RatioV                         30.2         91.7        169.0       1470       l106.         106.4        105.3       105.6        114          114.z
B.l. -o P.pn.U:
E.pu GNFS (-   zh            )  (.)3)                                     (I.1)        4.4         7.5          7.5         8.0    t      .O          7.2         72           7:
E.po. GNFSCun.LGDP                                            7t          6.6          6.1         6.3          6.5         6.           7.1          713          7.6         7.
1.po1 G.NFS (._1 S rAL.)                                    66.6         58.4          7.3         4.0         40 3oA                    4.0         4.3          45           4.7
1.po,u ofGNFS/Cmn.   GDP                                     6.2          a2           7.9         7.S         7.J          7.6          7.1         7.9          7.9          7.9
Trcd. BE..  (US M)                                         4.007       (2.637)      (3t.97)     (.962)      (72671)      (2.077)      (L331)        (637)         1C3          963
C.-zAB-I.no.(5JS1M)                                       (2.766)      (t.361)      (6.477)     (L.909)     (9.721)    (10.135)      (10.138)    (10.119)    (1i.19)       (la0)
C.p.Ul A-, B.L.-. (uSI M)                                  5.562       12.353       IL477        9.70t      10.577       11.071       11.111      11.16.5       L.a6       IL-1.23
Pubr                                                     31351         3.259        L7U          101          352          482        (L55)        35             74         504
PH-                                                        _2-10       9.094       9.6u         9.07       In           10.569       11.3        10C07        IL174        12Lo10
C LA      -mB acur,.utGDP                                    (1.5)       (3.7)        (3.3)       (3.2)        (3.3)        (3.2)       (3.0)        (2.t)        (2.6)      (t-4)
D.bl 1od.on
T~lD.t b(USS M)                                           69.t30       93.369       96614      102D6       10.709       119.239      12L179      136.723      144.376      151.46
F-4p Dt (S3 Uss)                                             .        67.570       76.761      SA,936      92.871      100.759     109.0.4      116.9        12A.431      131.734
^_-,  D bt (F .L Pub. Sabt  - US3 9)                                  25.799      21.S53       17.30=      173             460       19.635      19.100       19.946       19.752
To-1 Fd.- Pbr.  S-s    Dbh                                67.402       3A.C25       1a011       75.939      15.656       75.S71       76.633      76.41        75.9Z4       75.451
For.n D.bt                                               65.Z59       st,2256     5251         56636       56,019       57.390      56.117       56.613       55.979       55,69S
f th   LT P.b. APub  G3 5950                                        49,150       56.256      36.39        56019       57,391       56.61s      54.616       55.960       55700
Doo.. c  D bt                                             2.143       251799       2Lt53       17.3C0      17.S36       164O         19.135      194.0        19.946       19,752
T-l DbuC.C          GDP                                     36.8         40A          363         36.7        37.1         37.4         37.         37.6         37.0         36.2
F nip Db h35.7                                                          29.5         29.6        30.5        31.          31.6         32.0        32.1         31.9         3U.
F.d.-l Publi Stoe                                        3A.4         25.5        2.6          21.0        19.5         16.0         16.7        13.6         14.4         13
Pnv   Sots                                                1.3          4.1          7.2         9.4        11.7         13.6        15.3         16.6         17.6        12
Doo..  Dolt (F1.  Pbli. S-t-)                               1.1         11.            . 15       6.2         6.0          5.6          St          5.4          5.1          4.7
Foro D  bt Sr              GNS                              75.2         33.0         45.         46.6        47.2         50.1         51.0        49.6         52.1         51.
M-
D3RID Eprt 4hd"ct
D3RD DSIXGNFS e                                             3.6         4.1          3.4         3.4          2.9          3.3         2.          2.6          2.5          2.3
EBRD DS   .LT PF?L P Gub. C   -..d DS  w                   10.0          6.1         -5         9.0          t.2          9.2         13          9.5          6.4          6L1
PWt. CroL DS.SLT FIYL 0lub Gr. DS f                        41.1         30.0        25J.        27.3         25.1         2.1         26.9        31.4         30.3         30.6
U- .od Prlot
D-ork   li- t,.. (.--It< >) g/                             141.0         15.3          7.2         4.0          2.9         3.0          2.7          25          25           2.5
CPI hl'.tio  h/                                             84.0         17.6          715         4.0         2.9          3.0          2.7         2.5          2.5          2.5
R.I E-h.g. R... IP.d. (19U-100)                             61.6         53.2         49.9        49.6        49.6         49.6         49.6        49.6         49.6        49 6
1IBGR V                                                      7.3          3.9          3.4         31           4.S         5.6          SJ          5.J          5J         53.
MI,Curt9 GDP                                                 3.7          4.4          5.5         5.6          5.7         5.6          5.9         6.0          60           6.1
a/ heh.d_ PNbL. ELnriP-4.. i".t.ror p3y-t.
tw Op-mtial Prory S-ph-./D-ott.o  nd Forowo Lnt1..  Pynnt of th. Pt,bl S.t .
e/ Pnr-d Cnddh- r. World B.-kJ tMF .*d ID3.
d/ N,k &&di- i.ikw oh.  fitio h-ld mat -..d 4% tor hih riL 5% fc- ..d.L. i k    6% tor brla-, ru6k -               -ri  AB&in- rs  -      yrr..l  ..4.d * a4high ri.k eorry.
*I Th. nvo hId rt _- 20%. D bt _i. ..A b fortign pwblily Vtnn._d. ..di- .. *rB bt-
e Tha nOo .t Ild not t.._d 35%. Pr(ntd .r.on  *n World Bnk. 2' *nd tDB.
S/ GDP dfl.r (P.d  -org.).
h/ Ed f y_-r,
i/ P-rcod ..g LIBOR



