A,J  J    ' -'
Document of
The World Bank
FOR OMCIAL USE ONLY
P f-r eX rt Nc. .: F- ..5'91 14-Ari    Typr-: (1' r; 
Title: I  EP  ' FF-T  3i I \E Lt ihjc3 . A-N I  -3r  -F(b AM      Repo No. P-5914-AR
.AuihFr-.: (i,T;EBRN, E-3 bE, I.I TT
Mi bin- ~~~~EPREN   EGEEbT      k
Ext. :22197¢ E(cc. : i 6f'!'2-3 r).r. . A41"t)
REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION
OF THE
PRESIDENT OF THE
INTEENATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
TO THE
EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS
ON A
PROPOSED DEBT AND DEBT SERVICE REDUCTION LOAN
IN AN AMU0NT EQUIVALENT TO US$450 MILLION
TO THE
ARGENTINE REPUBLIC
AND ON
RELATED MEASURES TO SUPPORT THE DEBT REDUCTION
PROGRAM OF THE ARGENTINE REPUBLIC
DECEMBER 11, 1992
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of
their offlcial duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



CURRENCY UNIT - PESO (AS)
The peso was fixed at A$1 - US$1 as of April 1, 1991.
FISCAL YEAR
January 1 - December 31
ABBREVIATIONS
BOCONs    -    Consolidation Bonds
BONEX     -    External Bonds
CIS       -    Commonwealth of Independent States
DDSR      -    Debt and Debt Service Reduction
DM        -    Deutsche Mark
DRE       -    Debt Reduction Equivalent
EFF       -    Extended Fund Facility
FLIRBs    -    Front-Loaded Interest Reduction Bonds
FSAL      -    Financial Sector Adjustment Loan
GRA       -    Guaranteed Refinancing Agreement
IFIs      -    International Financial Institutions
IRR       -    Internal Rate of Return
LIBOR     -    London Inter-Bank Offered Rate
MYRA      -    Multi-Year Rescheduling Agreement
PDI       -    Past Due Interest
PDIA      -    PDI Arrangement
PERAL II  -    Second Public Enterprise Reform Adjustment Loan
PSRL      -    Public Sector Reform Loan
TDRE      -    Total Debt Reduction Equivalent



FOR OMCIAL USE ONLY
TABLE OF CONTENTS
Page No.
LOAN AND PROGRAM SUMMARY  .i.... . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .... -ii
I.  INTRODUCTION . . . . ... .. . . ... *. .... *.... .....         *.     1
II. AZGENTIE'S ECONOMIC PROGRA  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 2
A.  Structural Adjustment  .......          ...............   2
B.  Macroeconomic Consolidation    . . . . .     ....  ... . . . . .   3
C. Medium-Term Prospects and Financing Requirements   . . . . . . . . 5
D. Alternative Possible Developments  . .  . . .  . .  . . . . . . .  7
E. External Environment: Assumptions and Risks  . . . . . . . . . . . 9
III. TEE DEBT AGREEMRIS  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 10
A. Main Provisions  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .  11
B.   Responses    .  .  . .    .   .   .   .  .   .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .    .  .  13
C. Enhancements and Sources of Support  . . .  . . . . . . . . . . .  . 13
IV. EVALUATION OF TIE DEBTA0RhIN  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 15
A.  Financial Analysis   .1. ..*..      .. .  .  ..     ....  .16
B. Material Benefits              1 . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .18
C. Debt Management Issues   . . . . .             . . . . . . . . . 22
V*  PROPOSED BANK SUPPORT  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 25
A.  Eligibility for DDSR Support   . . . . . . . . .         S2
B. Set-Asides   . . . . . . . . . . .       . .      . .   .   .  .  26
C. Debt and Debt Service Reduction Loan   . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 27
D. Waiver of Negative Pledge Clauses  . . . . .  . . . . . . . .    28
E.  Burdensharing  . . . .    .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  . .  .  . .  .  .   . 28
P.  Benefits and Risks   . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 29
VI.  THE BANK'S COUNTRY ASSISTANCE STRATEGY. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .30
A.  Main Objectives and IBRD Lending Program   . . . . . . . . . . . . 30
B.  ISC and MIGA Activities  3 3 . . . * o         .                 33
VII. RECOIMfNDATIONS  . . . . .... . . . . . . . . . . . .          . . .34
This report was prepared by Egbert Gerken (Task Manager), Richard Nevfarmer and
Mark Hagerstrom, with research assistance from Matthew Vogel and technical
assistance from Dorothy Jenkins and Gerald Carter (all LA4CO). The Task Force
for this operation includes Messrs. Bhattacharya (FRS); Claessens and Fernandez-
Arias (IECDI); Flannery (CFS); Bertao and Duvall (LEG); Hanson (LA4DR); and
Selcwsky (LACCE). The supervising managers are Donna Dowsett-Coirolo (Division
Chief, LA4CO) and Ping-Cheung Loh (Department Director, LA4).
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance
of their oMcial duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorizatio i.



-2-
TABLES
2.1 Key Macroeconomic Indicators
3.1 Summary Terms of Debt Agreement
3.2 Uses and Sources of Enhancemqnt Funds
4.1 Debt Reduction Equivalent
4.2 Equivalent Buyback Prices and Post-Deal Prices
4.3 Cash Flow Savings and Interest Relief from Debt Agreement
4.4 Economic Impact of Debt Agreement
4.5 Debt Service Ratios
FIGURE
4.1 Impact-of Debt Agreement on Public External Debt Shares
AMEES
I.    Letter of Development Policy
II.   Key Macroeconomic Indicators under Alternative Scenarios
- Debt Agreement
- MYRA with PDI Arrangement
- Contractual Debt Service with PDI Arrangement
III. The Structure of Argentina's External Debt
IV.   Debt and Debt Service Reduction Loan:  Supplementary Data Sheet
V.    Status of Bank Group Operations
VI.   Statement of IFC Investments



- i -
ARGENTINA
DEBT AND DEBT SERVICE REDUCTION LOA
LOAN AND PROGRAM SUMMARY
Borrower:      Argentine Republic
Amounts        US$450 million equivalent
Ierms:         Repayable in 15 years, including 5 years grace, at the standard
variable interest race.
Descrg.tion:   The proposed  loan  and related measures would  support  the
implementation of a debt agreement (the Agreement) between the
Argentine Republic and its commercial bank creditors on the
restructuring of about US$29 billion in public external debt--
including about US$8 billion in past due interest (PDI).  The
Bank's suppcrt would be part of a concerted effort involving the
International Monetary Fund, the Inter-American Development Bank
and the Export-Import Bank of Japan. Under the Agreement
commercial banks will:  (a) exchange eligible debt--excluding
claims to PDI--for new, collateralized instruments to be issued
by Argentina, respectively discount bonds with a discount of 35
percent of face value and par bonds bearing interest at
predetermined below-market interest rates; and (b) exchange
eligible claims to PDI at par for uncollateralized Argentine
bonds ("PDI Bonds") bearing market interest rates following
receipt of a downpayment of US$700 million on PDI in the same
amount. In support of the Agreement, the Bank would provide:
(a) a Debt and Debt Service Reduction Loan of US$450 million
equivalent to finance interest and principal collateral for the
par bonds; (b) a waiver of the negative pledge restriction in the
Bank's loan and guarantee agreements with Argentina of up to
US$3.7 billion to allow the Government to pledge collateral for
the discount bonds and par bonds; and (c) US$100 million
equivalent in set-aside funds--from a proposed Second Public
Enterprise Reform Adjustment Loan being presented to the
Executive Directors concurrently--to finance interest and
principal collateral required for the discount bonds. In
addition, the Bank intends to present to the Executive Directors
a proposed Financial Sector Adjustment Loan, with up to US$200
million set-asides, in the first quarter of CY93.
Benefits and
Risks:         The proposed loan and the related measures would h. .p achieve a
commercial debt reduction equivalent (DRE) of about
US$11 billion--37 percent of the face value of the eligible
principal debt and PDI to the commercial banks. The Agreement



- ii -
could not be implemented without the proposed support from the
Bank, the IMF, the IDB and Japan's Eximbank.  The Agreement's
implementation would materially improve Argentina's development
prospects by reducing external payments, freeing resources for
public investment, placing the Government's relationship with the
international financial community on a firm basis, and
contributing to confidence in the sustainability of the
Government's economic program.
The Bank's exposure is projected to increase from US$2.8 billion
to about US$4.2 billion between end-CY91 and end-CY93, one third
of which would be  due  to  incremental DDSR  support.    The
restructuring of public debt to commercial banks and improved
economic performance enhance Argentina's overall debt service
indicators; the remaining debt service becomes less flexible,
however, increasing the risk to the Bank in case of debt
servicing difficulties. The major sources of risk for such
difficulties to arise would be:  (a) a failure to continue to
provide an adequate fiscal framework, and (b) a loss of
macroeconomic control. Regarding the first, the Government has
demonstrated its commitment through the enactment of successive
public sector reforms and by steadily increasing its primary
surplus. A temporary loss of macroeconomic control caused by a
shortfall in capital inflows, insufficient convergence of
domestic to international prices, or a speculative attack on the
geso, poses the more serious risk. The Government is prepared
to take more drastic adjustment measures which would then be
needed to restore balance. In case of a temporary shortfall in
revenues, the Government would still have room for reducing
selected expenditures to sustain service to multilateral
creditors.
Disbursements: The proposed loan and the set-aside funds would be disbursed for
the purpose of acquiring collateral required for the par bonds
and the discount bonds.   The Government would purchase the
collateral instruments ahead of the Closing Date of the
Agreement, expected during the March-May 1993 period, as soon as
the reconciliation process is completed. The whole amount of the
proposed loan (US$450 million) and set-asides of up to US$300
million from the proposed adjustment loans are therefore expected
to be disbursed in FY93. Set-asides not utilized for collateral
purchases would be disbursed against general imports according
to the respective loan agreements.
Rate of
Returns        The real rate of return on the financial resources allocated to
the Agreement, based on the savings in payments to commercial
banks, would be 22 percent.
APDraisal
Retorts        Not applicable.



REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION OF THE PRESIDENT
OF THE INTERIATIORAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
TO THE EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS ON A PROPOSED
DEBT AND DEBT SERVICE REDUCTION LOAN TO THE ARGENTINE REPUBLIC
AND ON RELATED MEASURES TO SUPPORT
TEE DEST REDUCTION PROGRAM OF THE ARGENTINE REPUBLIC
1.        I submit the following report and recommendation for proposed measures
to support implementation of the agreement (the Agreement) between the Argentine
Republic (the Republic) and its commercial creditors on the restructuring of
public and publicly guaranteed debt. The Agreement includes: (i) debt and debt
service reduction (DDSR) through an exchange of debt holdings for new,
collateralized instruments to be issued by the Republic; and (ii) a
regularization of interest arrears.  The proposed Bank measures include the
following elements:
(a) A Debt and Debt Service Reduction Loan (DDSR Loan) to the Republic for
the equivalent of US$450 million to help finance collateral in respect
of interest and principal payments on par bonds; the proposed loan
would be at the Bank's standard variable interest rate, with a
maturity of 15 years, including 5 years of grace;
(b) A waiver of the negative pledge restriction in loan and Suarantee
agreements between the Republic and the Bank to permit a pledge of up
to US$3.7 billion equivalent by the Republic as collateral for the new
instruments; and
(c)  Set-asides of US$100 million from a proposed Second Public Enterprise
Reform Adjustment Loan (PERAL II) for the equivalent of US$300 million
presented to the Executive Directors concurrently with this report;
these set-asides would help finance collateral in respect of interest
and principal payments on discount bonds.
As described below, the Bank also intends to present to the Executive Directors
a US$400 million Financial Sector Adjustment Loan (FSAL), wi..h set-asides of up
to US$200 million, in the first quarter of CY93.
I. INTRODUCTION
2.        Negotiations on a Brady-type debt agreement to restructure Argentina's
public external debt with commercial banks commenced on January 30, 1992. The
Government and the creditors' Working Committee announced an "Agreement in
Principle" on April 8, 1992. The Bank's Executive Directors were informed of
this accord through an oral statement on April 14, 1992; and received a
preliminary evaluation in a Briefing Note dated June 15, 1992. 1' On June 23,
1992, the final term sheet--called 1992 Financing Plan--was distributed to the
commercial banks. The Agreement'was signed on December 6, 1992. The closing of
all transactions is anticipated during the March-May 1993 period, as soon as the
reconciliation process is completed.
1/  OArgentina - Briefing Note on the Proposed Progm for Debt and Debt Service Reduction".
SccM92403, June 15, 19.



-2-
3.        To finance the collateral required for closing the Agreement# the
Government has requested the use of resources from the World Bank consistent with
the Bank's guidelines.  1  The request includes the use of rescurces for
collateralizing principal payments on par bonds consistent with the Board's
approval--on June 4, 1992--of the recommendation "that the additional funds
identified in the program may also be used to purchase principal collateral for
par bonds carrying below market interest rates, including front-loaded interest
reduction bonds." XI The Government has also requested a limited waiv r of the
negative pledge restrictions in its loan and guarantee agreements with the Bank
in accordance with the Bank's policy. it
4.        This report provides an assessment of Argentina's economic program
(Chapter II); a description of the Agreement and estimates of required funds for
collateral and sources of support (Chapter III); and an evaluation of the
Agreement in terms of Its financial implications, material benefits, and
implications for debt management and the Bank's exposure risk (Chapter IV). The
report also describes proposed Bank support (Chapter V); summarizes the Bank's
country assistance strategy ind Bank Group operations in Argentina (Chapter VI);
and presents recommendations about the use of Bank resources and the granting of
a limited waiver of negative pledge provisions (Chapter VII).
XI. ARGENTINA'S ECONOMIC PROGRAN
A. Structural Adiustment
5.        Upon taking office during the July 1989 hyperinflation, the Menem
Government recognized tLat reversing Argentina's economic decline required
structural reforms to address the source of endemic inflation, disinvestment and
productivity declines.   These included reforms to eliminate chronic fiscal
deficits, divest non-core functions of the public sector while improving the
supply of essential public goods, and terminate inefficient interventions in
markets.
6.        The Government launched major structural reforms in the federal
government and monetary authorlty, supported by the Bank's Public Sector Reform
Loan (July 1991).   These affected revenue mobilization,  expenditures, and
financing of the public sector: The VAT was extended to virtually all sectors
in 1989-90. Tax rolls were reconstructed and tax administration was Improved
substantially, producing higher revenues. Taxes on exports and (later) bank
checks were eliminated or reduced.   Tax subsidies to industrial firms were
brought under fiscal control and reduced. New expenditure controls were enacted,
and discretionary transfers to the provinces and to public enterprises were
a/   'Operational Guidelines and Procdures for Use of IBRD Resources to Support Debt and Debt Serviee Reducdons".
R89-104, May 22, 1989.
_/ Review of the Program to Support Debt and Debt Service Reduction". R92-34, March 9, 1992.
4/  *IBRD's Negative Pledge Policy with Respect to Debt and Debt Service Reduction Operations". R90-151, July 19,
1990.



- 3 -
reduced.   The Government cut the size and scope of the federal public
administration--including a net retrenchment of positions of about 15 percent and
a transfer of about 40 percent of positions to the provinces--while modernizing
the civil service. A Law of Public Financial Management, passed by Congress in
19929 recast the basi* for budgeting, internal control and auditing.   The
Government also eliminated the qiasi-fiscal deficit of the Central Bank by a
torced conversion of short-term. high-interest deposits into long-term dollar
bonds bearing LIBOR-based rates in January 1990; this reduced confidence in the
financial sector for a short period. The recently passed Central Bank charter
reinforces the Convertibility Law (see below), and paves the way for an
independent, disciplined monetary authority.
7.        The Government also launched a major privatization program, supported
by the Bank's Public Enterprise Reform Adjustment Loan (February 1991). The
first two laws enacted by the ienem government suspended costly subsidies and
provided authority to privatize virtually all public enterprises. The measures
in 1990--sale of 70 percent of telephone system, sale of hydrocarbon concessions,
and deregulation of the hydrocarbon sector--lent much-needed early credibility
to the development strategy. The privatization program continues, affecting the
railways, thf state oil company, the power and water companies, ports, the
merchant fleet, and enterprises under the Ministry of Defense. V
8.        The Menem Government also implemented a trade lIberalIzatIon program
that was started by the Alfonsin Government in 1987, with the support of two
Trade Policy Loans (1987 and 1988). Export taxes were eliminated and indirect
tax reimbursements for exports established; quantitative imnort restrictions were
removed except for automobiles; specific import duties were abolished, and the
anti-dumping regime brought in line with the respective GATT Code; the maximum
ad valorem tariff rate was reduced to 20 percent.   Beginning in 1991, the
Government also deregulated the supply and marketing of numerous goods and
services, including professional, transport and port services, thus reducing
significantly the costs of doing business in Argentina. Legislation increasing
labor flexibility and improving collective bargaining has been enacted, and
further legislation is pending.
B. Macroeconomic Consolidation
9.        By  1990,  although  inflation was  still high and variable,  the
Government had turned an overall public sector primary deficit--6 percent of GDP
in 1988--into a slight surplus.   International reserves rose significantly
throughout 1990. Thouga a rise in inflation and a sharp devaluation occurred at
year-end, the public sector was much better positioned for the next stabilization
program than at any time during the 1980s.
10.       The new stabilization program, begun in February 1991, included tax
measures to raise the fiscal surplus to a level obviating the need for
inflationary financing, and further trade liberalization to increase price
discipline.  In March 1991, the Government passed a Convertibility Law that
I/   For a more detailed discussiun se the President's Report on a proposed Second Public Enteiprise Reform Loan
(Report No. P 5811-AR), dated Deewmber 10, 1992.



- 4 -
legally fixed the exchange rate at one geso to the US dollar, formally doindexed
contracts, facilitated the use of US dollars in transactions, and, most
importantly, required the Central Bank's monetary liabilities (the money base)
to be matched by its international reserves. Money growth therefore becase
effectively constrained to inflows of foreign capital, ending Central Bank
financing of deficits.
11.       The policy package led to large capital inflows and a substantial fall
in interest rates. The expectations of exchange rate stability and the openness
of the economy produced a sharp deceleration in inflation, remonetization and,
together with the fall in interest rates, an expansion of consumer credit.
Confidence was further bolstered in July 1991 with an IMW Standby and the Bank's
Public Sector Reform Loan; and later in the year with major advances in
deregulation. Nominal deposit rates fell to 10 percent per annum, the lowest
level in 30 years. Stock market prices and secondary market prices for Argentine
external debt ,..acreased sharply, reflecting increased confidence and declining
international interest rates.   The higher private capital inflows in 1991
financed a US$4 billion rise in imports (and corresponding reduction of the trade
surplus)  and an increase of US$2.7 billion in liquid reserves.   Led by
consumption, the economy grew by 8.5 percent in 1991.
12.       To provide a medium-term macroeconomic framework,  the Government
reached an agreement with the International Monetary Fund (IMF) on a three-year
program under the Extended Fund Facility (EFF) in early 1992. The EFF program
was designed around a primary surplus before privatization (i.e., operational
primary surplus) of about 2 percent of GDP. Together with the debt and debt
service reduction (DDSR) and with privatization proceeds, this would be
sufficient to meet debt service obligations without recourse to the inflation
tax. Fiscal performance to date has exceeded EFF targets; tax revenues surpassed
25 percent of GDP in the third quarter of 1992, compared to 15 percent in 1988.
The quarterly targets for the operational primary surplus were met, and
privatizationa pushed the primary surplus over 3.5 percent of GDP. About US$2
billion was realized from the sale of the Government's remaining 30 percent
minority share in the telephone companies.
13.       To regularize its financing, the Government began negotiations with
its commercial bank creditors about a debt agreement (described below) in January
1992. The Government also began regularizing arrears with pensioners, supplier.,
and the health system, as well as compensating taxpayers for changes in the loss
carry-forward provisions of the income tax through a new domestic bond (BOCON).
These measures have raised its domestic debt from about US$2.3 billion at end-
1991 to about US$18 billion at end-1992. Funds from the privatization of the
state oil company are intended to be used for repurchasing a major part of these
bonds. Furthermore, an agreement with the provinces has provided the Government
with resources for increasing pension payments to legally mandated levels, ending
the accumulation of arrears with pensioners. The Government has also presented
to Congress a social security reform law, which would introduce mandatory private
pension funds.
14.       These policies were expected to generate about 6.5 percent real growth
in 1992. Inflation, measured by the combined consumer and wholesale price index
will be about 12 percent for the year, down from 2000 percent in 1990.



Additional capital inflows have financed an increase in reserves and a further
US$6 billion rise in imports. Exports, however, grew at a slow pace, and the
trade balance, US$4.0 billion in 1991, may be negative in 1992 by more than US$1
billion.
15.       The November 1992 Package.  The large capital inflows--a product of
low international interest rates and new confidence in Argentine policy--produced
a real appreciation of the DoSo of about 20 percent (based on the combined price
index since the beginning of the stabilization).   Concerns about the trade
balance prompted the Government in late October 1992 to increase indirect tax
reimbursements for exports from an average of 8 percent to 13 percent and raise
import tariffs--including ad valorem tariffs and a flat statistics tax--from an
average of 17 percent to 23 percent, while also reducing tariff dispersion.
Reductions 'n fuel taxes further improved the competitiveness of domestic
producers. These measures .produce an effective real devaluation of about
5 percent.
C. Medium-Tein Prosnects and Financing Reauirements
16.       Following the economic recovery in 1991-92, the Government projects
growth to decline gradually to a long-term rate of about 4 percent annually,
based on continued productivity growth and new investment attracted by low
inflation, an improved incentive structure, and reduced country risk due to the
implementation of the Debt Agreement.   This outlook, however, depends on
continued fiscal improvement, and a smooth transition to a sustainable balance
of payments as presented in the EFF program. /
17.       Fiscal and Monetary Policy.  The Government projects its operational
primary surplus to increase from US$2.4 billion in 1992 to about US$4.4 billion
in 1993, about 2.6 percent of GDP (Table 2.1). This level would be sufficient
to service interest payments, and to eliminate the need for inflationary
financ±ng, given foreseeable foreign and domestic borrowing. Identified finance
to the public sector would virtually close the financing gap in 1993-2000,
leaving only about 0.4 percent of GDP in unidentified new borrowings, mainly in
the outer years. Net domeieic financing is expected to be positive through 1996,
and then turn sharply negative. This is because the consolidation bonds (BOCONs)
have a grace period on both principal and interest payments which expires in
1997. Projected foreign financing, discussed below, is also expected to turn
negative in the middle of the decade. However, price stability and an improved
payment record would allow the Government to tap other private markets abroad and
at home to finance any remaining gap in the out-years. Argentina has already
returned to voluntary borrowing through bond issues in international capital
markets. Moreover, the Government also can expect to mobilize considerable
resources through the pension funds that would be generated by the social
security reform.
18.       The Government anticipates no change in its monetary and exchange rate
policy, which will continue to be disciplined by the Convertibility Law and the
F/   The pragram is predicated upon consummating the Debt Agreement and tiese projections ae into aowunt the
Agnement



new Central Bank charter. A tight fiscal stance, continuing import competition,
and new entrants in heretofore oligopolistic markets would drive domestic
inflation to international rates.
Itb  2.1s Avgentina - Key MaroecomI Indiato
(USS amo
Aveacge     Aveuga
1990    1991    1992   1993-199S    19962000
Pinmuy Swphza                            2.012   2.857   4.389      3,904        5,005
ltareat pay_mm                           5.459   4,586   2,731      3,860        4.468
Domestic                                 229     322     160         717        1.222
ForeIu 1t                               5,230   4.264   2,572      3.143        3,246
Ehn_AIeb for Financing Plan                 0       0       0       1,236           0
Balance (. - def                        (3,448)  (1,729)    90      (1,458)       537
DOMeic Fuwning                          4,4S3    (897)   (57)        480        (992)
Poeig Fincing 2J                       (1.036)  2.626    483        979          455
nce oftPa
Thde Bale                               8.151   4.007  (1,139)       39S        2.595
CunatAccount Blnce                      1.754  (2,748)  (6.771)   (5,531)      (5.703)
CapalAccoun                              161   4.330  10,208       7,327        5.739
PtbLic Stecor                        (1,036)  2,626    483         978         45S
DBD 31                                169     13S    248          67S          73
IDB 3/                                225     242     527         460         345
Bonds                                (226)    395    (233)       (543)       (235)
DIP 3/                                (85)   (661)    338         34         (764)
Comdmn-aIn                          (1.289)     0    (127)       (173)       (695)
Daml, Supplies and Ohm 3/4/           270   2,512    (270)        219        1.731
Privae Sect                           1,197   1.704   9.725      6,349        5,284
GDPAvwgeAanusl (sowth                    0.4    8.5      6.5         3.7         4.2
GDP (USS bilbo)                         105.S   135.4   153.2      182.6        24S.6
Total Investnt(% ODD)                   8.4    12.5    14.0        16.0         18.0
Nalins Savilng (% ODP)                   10.0   IOA      9.6        13.0        15.7
Forip Savming (% ODII                   (1.6)    2.1     4.4         3.0         2.3
11 bow" qussisa balnce of Caal Bent
21 Inca lF financing.
3/ Inclde sode and addiionl lading in 1993 for guurstepurwches
4/ Inchxue unidenife financig of 0.4% of GDP pet year frm 1993-2000.
19.           Balance of Payments.   The Government's program relies on private
capital inflows and increasing private domestic savings to finance investment.
Tight fiscal policy and passive but predictable monetary policy would continue
to make the investment in Argentine financial and real assets attractive.
Domestic interest rates would remain above inte:-national rates in real terms,
while domestic invettment, with a rich unrealized potential, would offer high
returns for years.   The authorities view the estimated US$50-60 billion in
private savings of Argentine residents held abroad as a reliable source of future
capital inflow, though perhaps slowing in 1993.
20.           The commercial policy measures in November 1992--which increased the
price of imports and exports in pesos--are intended to help switch resources from
nontradeables back to tradeables as demand for imports declines and demand for
competing domestic goods and export demand increase.   This switch would be
strengthened by continued productivity growth in the tradeable sector due to the
deregulation measures.  Nominal wages in the nontradeable sector would fall



-7-
relative to the tradeable sector. Capital inflows would slow gradually. As the
demand for consumer credit weakens, credit would be channelled into investment
in productive activities that satisfy the new demand in net exports and
internationally competitive domestic activities. This smooth process would not
require a realignment of the nominal exchange rate. Growth could be maintained,
though at a lower level than during the 1991-92 recovery, and tax buoyancy would
allow the Government to attain revenues objectives. The resulting trade balance
--and real exchange rate--would be a reflection of capital inflows to finance
imports and the demand for Argentine assets. Reduced capital inflows in 1993 and
beyond would imply lower import demand, and explain some portion of the
reductions in the growth rate. The Government anticipates that the trade balance
will improve progressively beginning in 1993.
21.       External Financing to the Balance of Payments.  The capital account
in the balance of payments reflects the projected changes in the net foreign
asset position of the public and private sectors.   The publlc sector's net
external borrowing requirement is to be financed from net increases in exposure
from the international financial institutions, while bondholders and Paris Club
members reduce their exposure through partial rollovers. Much as with Mexico
after its turning point in the late 1980., the World Bank would increase its
exposure in Argentina, but not substantially after the middle 1990s, nor would
the IDB. The IMF's exposure would decline after the expiration of the extended
arrangement.   Private bondholders, including holders of BONEX, will be net
recipients of funds, though the Government expects to refinance roughly three-
quarters of bonds coming due. Commercial banks will be net recipients of funds
on the debt that replaces existing arrears under the Debt Agreement.
22.       The private sector is projected to increase substantially its net
investment in Argentina. Foreign direct investment is expected to increase at
about 8 percent andually, to average about US$2.7 billion.  Private short-term
capital flows are projected to average about US$3.3 billion--about 1.5 percent
of GDP--to satisfy the demand for additional imports and domestic assets; this
would finance the projected current account deficit over 1993-2000. Since the
Goverrment has identified virtually all of its financing, the actual financing
requirement for the balance of payments will be a function of the desired
savings-investment balance in the private sector.
D. Alternative Possible Developments
23.       The above scenario is attainable if the Government continues to
improve its fiscal position, and if the private markets allow a smooth transition
to a sustainable balance of payments and growth path.  However, even with
adequate ex ante fiscal adjustment, it shcald be recognized that the Government
may be unable to realize its growth projections.   Slower growth or even a
recession could come about through two related mechanisms. On the one hand, an
"overshooting" of capital inflows may drive up import volumes and prices of non-
tradeables and domestic assets to unsustainably high levels; then, as the
correction ensued, private capital flows would taper off or even reverse, pushing
up domestic interest rates.   (Rising international interest rates, discussed
below, could also slow capital inflows sharply.) The higher domestic interest
rates *ould dampen or even extinguish growth. At the same time, domestic prices
may be slow to converge to competitive international levels, also contributing



- 8 -
to the recession. Price setters, long used to mark-up pricing in oligopolistic
environments, might take several months of slow sales before starting to cut
prices to the degree necessary to adjust the overall price level. Nonetheless,
slower growth eventually would produce the price convergence necessary to sustain
the exchange rate regime and rekindle export-led growth.
24.       RisLks.   A  recession would  create added  fiscal pressure, with
consequences that are difficult to predict with certainty. As revenues fell and
the domestic interest bill rose, the speed of the central government adjustment
in reducing expenditures would determine the size of any increase in the
Government's net borrowing  requirement.   Any  increase  in the borrowing
requirement would make it more difficult for the Government to achieve the
projected partial rollover of its domestic debt with bondholders.  A short
recession would probably pose no major threat to the Government's macroeconomic
program, though modifications may be required; it would be unlikely to derail the
program of structural reforms.
25.       It also has to be recognized that a worsening macroeconomic panorama--
or political events--could trigger a speculative attack on the peso. The ease
of capital mobility between currencies and across borders, superimposed on a
small monetary base, means that the economy is unusually vulnerable to sudden
changes in private expectations and portfolio shifts.   A sudden cycle of
demonetization, very high interest rates and deep recession could produce cracks
in the financial system. The Government might then be forced to choose betweens
(i) providing emergency liquidity to prevent the collapse of the financial
system, thereby putting pressure on the exchange rate and violating the
Convertibility Law, and (ii) letting financial institutions collapse with same
depositors suffering losses, while sharp increases in interest rates drive the
economy into recession. In these circumstances, the economic team would be under
great pressure to change the policy framework. ' V
26.       The probability of these adverse events occurring declines as the
Government progresses on reforms that improve the fundamentals of public finance,
and as the implementation of the debt agreement strengthens confidence. Also,
reserves are the highest in a decade and cover the monetary base (although not
the deposit base). The high level of reserves tends to deter a speculative
attack on the peso. Regardless of any near-term turbulence, the emerging policy
regime would of necessity focus on maintaining fiscal balance and policies
conducive to private investment. Perhaps most important, recent history augurs
well for the future economic managements the country has enacted serious and
2/   A naxi-devalutin would have negative impacts on the &cal accounts. The public sector would suffer the wealth
loss from the fact that the present value of its future stmam revenues is valued in peaos while more than 8 peront
of its debt is denominated in foreign currencies; this wil be manifest with a higher share of revenues being devoted
to interest payments. (If the Governmwnt held a large stock of intemational reserves-as it does at present-the
weath-loss effects would be substantially mitigated). Also, inflation, despite improvements in reducing payment
lags and tax administration, would tend to reduce real revenues through the Tanzi effect and tax losses associated
with the opaqueness of rapidly shifting prices. Moreover, provincial governments and the public financial sector
generally would be decimated and demand financing. The fiscal squeeze would be reduced to the extent that such
financing could be Umited and government expenditures cut in dollar terms. Also, seigniorage revenues would
provide some offset to the fiscal squeeze.



- 9 -
difficult structural reforms; these have immense public support; the political
groups supporting the 1940-83 policies have seen their power dwindle; and the
lack of alternatives to fiscal discipline and price stability is widely accepted.
These facts are powerful ballast that is likely to keep the ship of structural
adjustment headed in the same direction, even in a financial storm.
E. External Environment: Assumvtions and Risks
27.       Three  aspects  of  Argentina's  external  environment  affect  the
probability of realizing the Government's scenario: the growth of the world's
markets, commodity terms of trade, and the cost of international capital. During
the next.12 months, world growth is expected to recover at a moderate pace.
Following the stagnation of 1991, world output is projected to rise by 1 percent
in 1992, and by 3 percent in 1993. el Consequently, the volume of world trade
slowed in 1991, but the prospects for 1992-93 are better and with them the demand
for Argentina's exports, which the Government expects to grow at about 7 percent
annually for the rest of the decade.   Important impediments to a stronger
performance  remain.    Several  industrial  countries  require  balance  sheet
adjustments to unwind the effects of earlier speculative excesses in real estate
and other asset markets.   In addition, the persistence of large budgetary
imbalances in a number of countries adversely affects business and consumer
confidence. Divergences in economic policies among leading countries is also
contributing to discontinuities in selected financial and foreign exchange
markets. Major efforts to reduce fiscal imbalances are urgently needed in many
countries to strengthen global economic prospects, which would in turn provide
greater opportunities for Argentina's exports.
28.       Argentina's terms of trade, after a 3 percent deterioration in 1992-
93, are projected to improve gradually as a result of the global demand
conditions, according to Bank commodity price forecasts. Real agricultural and
raw material prices have been relatively stable over the last three years,
hovering around 80 percent of their 1987 peak. The weakness in nonfuel commodity
prices is attributed to the recent decline in inflation worldwide, but grain
demand is projected to rise because of the increased demand for wheat in the CIS
countries and low world grain stocks.   Because Argentina is energy self-
sufficient, expected changes in fuel prices will have relatively small
macroeconomic effect.
29.       Conditions in world credit markets will also affect Argentina's fiscal
and balance of payments position. A one percentage point change in international
interest rates would produce a US$600 million annual increase or decrease in its
public interest bill. Although the demand for credit has remained high because
of persistent fiscal imbalances in the US, Germany, and other OECD countries, the
recession sharply reduced private credit demand; this, together with an easing
of monetary policy, brought interest rates to new lows in 1992. The LIBOR in
1992 was 3.8 percent, half the 8.4 percent prevailing in 1990; the Bank projects
a long term rate averaging 6.8 percent in 1993-2000. Reductions in the public
demand for credit may ease the upward pressures on long-term rates if the added
fiscal efforts reduce existing budget deficits in the OECD countries. These
/   This sion is based upon te anaysis provided in fth IMP's World EconomicOudook, October 1992.



- 10 -
external risks are manageable, and are offset by the stronger domestic policy in
Argentina and the DDSR agreement which will fix the interest rate on nearly US$14
billion of Argentina's external debt.
III. THE DEBT AGREEMENT
30.        The  Agreement  is  comprehensive  in  restructuring  all  eligible
commercial medium and long-term debt including past due interest (PDI)--estimated
to be about US$29.3 billion at the Closing Date of the Agreement. This would
represent approximately half of Argentina's public and publicly guaranteed debt.
The Agreement limits Brady-type debt and debt service reduction (DDSR) invgolving
a menu of options to principal debt outstanding (about US$20.9 billion).
Regarding PDI (about US$8.4 billion), it provides for an arrangement on interest
on PDI, a partial downpayment retiring PDI by a like amount, and a par exchange
of the remainder for so-called PDI Bonds bearing interest at market rates. The
terms of the Agreement are described in Table 3.1.   The following sections
discuss the main provisions, report on the responses of commercial creditors, and
estimate the amount of required enhancements and the sources of funding.
Table 3.1: ARGENTINA - SUMMARY TERMS OF DEBT AGREEMENT
Naturity    Interest v/ 
instruments 1I      (years)--     (percent)  I      Collateral              Conuents
-MEenu of Ogtdons
1. Par Bonds (with   30 yr. bullet  Yr. 1: 4.00X    Principal secured by zero  Registered form. DN
below-market                     Yr. 2: 4.25X   coupon U.S. Treasury  option issued in bearer
interest rates)                 Yr. 3: 5.00X    securities. Twelve-month  torm with 5.87X
Yr. 4: 5.25X   rolling interest      interest; equivalent
Yr. 5: 5.50X    guarantee at assumed rate  cost of collateral.
Yr. 6: 5.75X    of 6X. secured by cash or  Eligible for debt-equity
Yr. 7: to     permitted investments.    conversion. Can be
maturity: 62                         repurchased at any price
if not in default.
2. Discount Bonds (35w   30 yr. bullet  LIM8R + 13/16X  Same as for Par Bonds,    Same as for Par Bonds,
discount on face                               but assumed rate of 82    but interest at LIBOR +
value)                                         for interest guarantee.   13/16X for DM option.
Past Due Interest (PDI)
1. Cash payment of                                                      For US$400 million face
US$400 million)                                                       value of PDt.
2. US$300 million in                              None; new instrunents to  For USS300 million face
cash or new                                    be repurchased on the  value of PDt.
instruwents v/                                 Closing Date.
3. Pot Bonds          12-yr.       LIM8R + 13/16X  None.                 Bearer form.
(par exchange)     maturity, 3-                                       Payments 1-7 a 1X;
yr. grace, 19                                      payment 8 =a 5;
semiannual                                         payments 9 - 19  8OX.
payments
ig    Denominated in US dollars; DN options described under "Cosmments."
Payable semiannually.
Subsequent to the issuance of the Term Sheet, Argentina agreed to replace collateralized Argentine zero-
coupon bonds having a market value of US$300 milifon with US$300 million in cash or new instrunents at
the option of the holders of eligible PDI. New instruments would be repurchased on the Closing Date.
Source: Republic of Argentine, 1992 Financing Plan.



- 11 -
A. Main Provisions
31.       Eligl_ble Debt Outstandiut.  The Agreement applies to debt outstanding
under the Term Credit Agreements of 1983, 1985, and 1987, the 1987 Guaranteed
Refinancing Agreement. (GRA), the various cofinancing, refinancing and public
sector onlending agreements, snd promissory notes. Excluding PDI, the total is
expected to be about US$20.9 billion on the Closing Date. This would be about
US$8 billion lower than in mid-1992 due to both debt-equity conversions already
in process and to a consolidation of eligible debt held by Argentine public banks
with debt owed by these banks to the Government.
32.        Menu of Options.  The Agreement's menu of options is simpler than
that of the Mexican and the Venezuelan debt accords; it offers only two types of
instruments, one currency option other than the US dollar, and involves no new
money, debt-equity conversions or recapture clauses. As described in Table 3.1,
holders of debt titles would exchange their holdings (excluding claims to PDI)
for one of two optionss
o    a 30-year discount bond at a discount rate of 35 percent and bearing
a floating interest rate of LIBOR plus 13/16 percent, with a single
amortization payment at the end of 30 years; or
o    a 30-year par bond bearing fixed interest rates according to a
predetermined schedule beginning at 4 percent and rising to 6 percent
in the seventh and subsequent years, again with a single amortization
payment after 30 years.
Both bond types would be fully collateralized by US Treasury zero-coupon bonds
with a matching maturity date, which would be held in an escrow account. In
addition, two semiannual interest payments would be secured on a rolling basis
by a pledge of cash or permitted investments to be held by the collateral agent
in a separate account. Earnings on this account would accrue to Argentina. In
the event of a default, the collateral agent may apply the account to pay accrued
interest, but Argentina would not be obligated to pledge additional collateral;
nor could principal collateral be accessed in such event.
33.       The Agreement includes neither new money options that would provide
funding for the enhancements, nor debt-equity conversion options that would
directly retire debt at a discount, nor a clause under which the banks could
recapture a part of DDSR in case of an upward shift in export revenues. The
Government and the Working Committee established early in the negotiations that
the Agreement should produce a credible exit from Argentina's debt problem. New
money options were believed to undermine the objective. This is also reflected
in a provision stipulating that the new instruments would be exempt from future
requests for new money and reschedulings, even though the dollar-denominated
discount bonds and par bonds would be issued in registered form. The debt-equity
conmersion option already existed outside the Agreement and was being actively
pursued in the context of privatization. Bringing the option into the Agreement
could have slowed the process. Instead, the Term Sheet established that debt
holdings committed under the Agreement could be reassigned to debt-equity
conversions until 75 days prior to the Closing Date.  The new instruments,
furthermore, would become eligible for debt-equity conversions. The Government
may also repurchase the discount bonds, par bonds and PDI bonds at any price and



- 12 -
time--provided it is not in payment default on any instrument. The parties also
agreed there would be no point in a recapture clause because the Argentine
authorities--unlike those in Mexico and Venezuela--have no direct claim on export
revenues.
34.       The Agreement meets the different tax and regulatory concerns of
commercial banks by establishing that all dollar-denominated bonds would be
issued in two series. The L Series would be tradeable immediately after the
Closing Date and would be listed on the Luxembourg Stock Exchange. Banks not
wishing to mark their Argentine portfolio to market could request U Series bonds
that would be freely assignable at any time, but never would be listed on any
stock exchange.
35.       The deutsche mark (DM) is the only currency option for discount bonds
and par bonds other than the US dollar. DM bonds would be issued in global
bearer form and would be immediately tradeable; they would not be available to
creditors other than those having DM as their home currency. The terms differ
only with respect to the predetermined par bond interest rate that would be a
uniform 5.87 percent. The attractiveness to the banks of DM instruments has been
limited by provisions that restrict the amount of collateral to that equivalent
to dollar-denominated bonds.
36.       Elisibl. Past Due Interest (PDI).   Eligible PDI includes unpaid
interest on the eligible principal amounts, interest not canceled along with the
corresponding principal in debt-equity conversions, and interest on these
amounts. These obligations began to accumulate when the Government stopped
interest payments to commercial banks in March 1988. The authorities resumed
partial payments (US$40 million of about US$250 million due per month) in June
1990, and increased their monthly payments to US$60 million in January 1991.
During debt negotiations, the Government raised monthly interest payments to
US$70 million, effective April 1992. The banks conceded that no penalties would
apply to the non-payment of interest, and that interest on unpaid interest would
accrue at lower rates than the LIBOR plus 13/16 percent applicable to principal
debt. For unpaid interest first coming due before January 1, 1992 the rates
would be, respectively, LIBOR until that date and 4 percent p.a. from then until
the Closing Date, with equivalent reductions for non-US dollar obligations. No
interest would accrue for unpaid interest first coming due on or after
January 1, 1992. Interest on principal debt, furthermore, would accrue at an
annual rate of 4 percent between January 1, 1992 and the Closing Date, which is
about 60 basis points lower than LIBOR plus 13/16 percent. With these interest
arrangements, the stock of PDI is estimated to be US$8.4 billion at end-March
1993, about US$400 million lower than without the arrangements.
37.       The Agreement obligates the Government to a cash payment of US$400
million and US$300 million in either cash or new instruments to be repurchased
on the Closing Date at the option of PDI-holders; this amounts to an up-front
downpayment of US$700 million reducing the face value of the PDI by the same
amount. Holders of the remaining claims of about US$7.7 billion must swap their
holdings for uncollateralized PDI bonds as described in Table 3.1. Like the
discount bonds and par bonds, the PDI bonds would be eligible for future debt-
equity conversions and could be repurchased by Argentina at the market price.



- 13 -
B. Resnonses
38.       The Government requested the full participation of banks in the debt
exchange, and communicated the need for a balanced selection between discount
bonds and par bonds. The responses of the banks revealed that the terms of the
deal vere sufficiently attractive--about 90 percent of eligible debt was
committed when the Agreement was signed on December 6, 1992.  The participation
is expected to increase furthee as a number of banks are likely to sign in the
coming weeks or reduce their holdings through debt-equity conversions ahead of
the Closing Date. However, the responses also confirmed the Government's concern
that the decline in dollar interest rates--about 100 basis points for 6-month
LIBOR since the Agreement in Principle in April--would result in a high
preference for par bonds on the side of the banks. The first selection resulted
in a split of 85/15 between par bonds and discount bonds.  This would have
substantially increased the required amount of enhancements due to the higher
collateral costs of the par bonds, and meant lower amounts of "dedicated"
official support as set-asides from IFI lending can only be used to support debt
stock reduction options. The Government and the Working Committee therefore
impressed on the banks the need for a substantial modification in their
selections to reach at least a 65/35 split.  A large majority of the banks
responded favorably, some with a discount bond share above 35 percent. The
remaining banks can sign the Agreement until December 30, 1992, indicating their
preference for a lower percentage of discount bonds. Any creditor signing after
that date will be requested to exchange at least 35 percent for discount bonds.
This procedure--set forth in a communication to the International Banking
Community dated November 10, 1992--secures an overall 65/35 split. Barely 2.4
percent of principal debt was committed to the DM options.
C. Enhancements and Sources of Sutnort
39.       Concluding the Agreement will require enhancements of about US$3.7
billion including the downpayment on PDI.   Table 3.2 shows the estimated
collateral requirements for interest and principal payments for each instrument
based on interest rates prevailing in early-December. The cost of principal
collateral is particularly sensitive to the yield of 30-year zero-coupon bonds.
An increase by 20 basis points prior to the day of purchasing the collateral
instruments would lower the cost by US$103 million; a reduction by 20 basis
points would increase the cost by US$110 million.



- 14 -
Table 3.2: ARGENTINA - USES AND SOURCES OF ENHANCEMENT FUNDS J/
_USS mIllion)
Past Due       Par          Discount      Closing Date   Sources after
Interest      Bonds          Bonds           Total       Cl0oing Date r    Total
Uses of Funds
Dowwpayment                   700                                           700                           700
Principal Collateral I/                 1,389            486               1,875                        1,875
Interest Collateral t/                   789             368              1,157                         1,157
Totat Uses                 700       2,178            854               3,732                        3,732
Sources of Funds
IMF                                       4S7 i          536 V             1003                          1003
IBRD                                      450 v          243 v              693                           693
IDB                                       400 l/          75 2              47S                           475
Japan's Eximbank                          450 1O/                           450         350 J1/           800
Argentina                     700         411 JZI                          1,111       -350               761
Total Sources              700       2,178            854               3,732          0             3,732
Memo
Set-asIdes                                               854                854                           848
Additional Lending                      1,767                              1,767        350             2.117
1/    Calculation based on thq exchange of US$20.94 billion in principal debt against par bonds and discount
bonds at a ratio of 65:35.
I/    Purchase of thirty-year US Treasury zero-coupon bonds with an average yield of 7.8 percent and a
coinission of 4.7 basis points.
aI    Assuming 100 percent in permissible investments with 3.5 percent annual yfeld.
jg    Augmentation of 30 percent of Quota a SOR 333.9 million.
Set-asides from purchases under Extended Arrangement in the amount of SDR 382.8 million; includes
accumutated set-asides and acceleration of two quarters.
s     Proposed Debt and Debt Service Reduction Loan.
a     Set-asides of US$100 million from proposed PERAL II and US$143 million from proposed FSAL. However,
within an envelope of USS200 million, FSAL set-asides would be disbursed to the extent necessary to
balance set-asides from all sources iith the actualized cost of discount bond collateral.
Proposed additionaL lending from IDB's DDSR Facility.
V/    Set-asides from IBDs proposed Investment Sector Loan.
JO/   First part of parallel financing with the INF's Extended Arrangement; and first tranches of cofinancing
of the proposed PERAL 11, the proposed FSAL, and the proposed Investment Sector Loan of the ID8.
DI    Subsequent tranches of parallel financing and cofinancing.
I2/   Residual; the exact amount wlLl depend on the cost of par bond collateral.
40.          The Government would be the sole source of funding for the downpayment
on  PDI.    Regarding  the  funding  of  collateral,  the  Government  has  requested
financial support from the IFIs and Japan's Eximbank.   Table 3.2 reflects the
amounts the Bank, the If and the IDB are proposing--or intend to propose--to
their  respective  boards.    In  the  case  of Japan's  Eximbank,  the Minister  of
Finance of Japan has issued a letter to the Argentine Government confirming
parallel financing with the IMF and cofinancing with the Bank and the IDB in an
aggregate amount of US$800 million, of which US$450 million will be frontloaded
to be disbursed prior to the Closing Date of the Agreement.
41.          Proposed ste-asides from multilateral lending would be sufficient to
fund all discount bond collateral as estimated. The Bank proposes to set aside
US$100 million from the proposed PERAL II, and up to US$200 million from a
proposed PSAL which the Bank intends to present to the Executive Directors in the
first quarter of CY93. Within the US$200 million envelope for set-asides from
the proposed FSAL, the amount disbursed would be determined as the balance
between the cost of discount bond collateral as estimated at the time of



- 15 -
disbursement and all other set-asides'. Under the current cost estimate, which
reflects the early-December yield on zero-coupon bonds, about US$143 million out
of US$200 million would be disbursed. Any balance would become available for
disbursement against eligible imports in accordance with the loan agreement on
the proposed FSAL. If set-asides from the proposed FSAL are not available prior
to the Closing Date of the Agreement, the Argentine Government would need to
finance the purchase of collateral instruments from own resources on an interim
basis. In the event that the PSAL did not materialize at all for any reason, the
Argentine Government would need to make other expenditure cuts to offset the
purchase of the collateral instruments.
42.       Proposed additional lending from the IFIs would be about US$1.3
billion and would help the Government fund interest and principal collateral for
the par bonds. Japan's Eximbank would help the Government through parallel
financing with the IMF's Extended Arrangement &ad cofinancing with proposed
adjustment loans from the Bank and the IDB.  The Government would fund the
balance between par bond collateral costs and total additional lending from the
IFIs and Japan; and would carry the burden of higher-than-estimated collateral
costs. The Government would also finance US$350 million on an interim basis, to
be offset  later by disbursements  from Eximbank's parallel financing and
cofinancing. On the basis of estimated costs, Argentina's total contribution on
the Closing Date would be about US$1.1 billion including the downpayment on
arrears.
IV. EVALUATION OF THE DEBT AGREEMENT
43.       Implementing the Agreement would restLucture about half of Argentina's
public and publicly guaranteed external debt. Assuming that expectations for
almost full participation of banks holding eligible debt on the Closing Date will
be met, the Agreement woulds
*    reduce the face value of commercial debt by about US$3.3 billion
through a downpayment on interest arrears and an exchange of 35
percent of principal debt at a discount of 35 percent;
*    regularize arrears through an exchange of the remaining US$7.7 billion
in PDI against 12 year bonds;
*    end amorPszatlons to commercial banks except for PDI bonds and the
bullet payment in 2022; through the end of the decade, this would
result in a reduction of scheduled amortizations of about US$1 billion
annually;
e    reduce scheduled interest payments to commercial banks by some US$270
million annually in 1993-2000--the result of a smaller debt stock and
reduced interest rates on 65 percent of principal debt exchanged for
par bonds;
*    reduce Interest rate risk through an exchange of 65 percent of
principal debt for par bonds bearing fixed interest rates; the open-
market conversion of a like amount of debt into fixed interest rate
instruments would imply additional annual interest obligations of an
estimated US$110 million;



- 16 -
    effectively prepay the bullet amortization and the intereut bill of
2022 or an earlier year by placing collateral beyond Argentina's
control;
o    require commitment by Argentina of about US$1.6 billion in resources
that could be used for alternative purposes, i.e., set-asides from
adjustment loans and Government contributions;
o    increase Indebtedness to official creditors in relative and absolute
terms by reducing commercial debt and funding collateral purchases
through additional borrowing of US$2.1 billion from the IFIs and
Japan's Eximbank; and
e    reduce flexibility in case of future debt service difficulties as bank
loans potentially subject to rescheduling or new money calls are
exchanged for bonds.
These changes are analyzed vith regard to their financial implications, their
material benefit to Argentina, and their impact on burdensharing among
Argentina's creditors and on the Bank's exposure risk.
A. Financigl Anal2sis
44.       This section analyses the extent of debt reduction and the financial
costs to Argentina implied by the Agreement. It applies the methodology developed
in a paper recently presented to the Executive Directors 91. The results are
evaluated against the Mexican and Venezuelan DDSR agreements.
45.       Extent of Debt Reduction.  The debt reduction estimates are presented
in Table 4.1.  (The measure of debt reduction applied--the so-called Debt
Reduction Equivalent (DRE)--is explained in the following paragraph.) As shown
in Table 4.1, the Agreement would reduce public debt to commercial banks by about
US$11 billion--37 percent of the eligible debt of about US$29 billion. Including
the pre-Closing Date reduction in PDI resulting from the Interest Arrangement
described in para. 36 above would raise the DRE to 38 percent. However, since
Argentina would need to borrow an additional US$2 billion from official sources,
total public external debt would be reduced by only about US$9 billion--15
percent of total public external debt. These results are similar to those
obtained in the Mexican DDSR agreements   a DRE of 39 percent of eligible
commercial debt and a total debt reduction equivalent of 15 percent of total
public external debt. They are significantly above the Venezuelan outcomes,
respectively 23 percent and 11 percent. Without the heavy weight of PDI in
Argentina's commercial bank debt, the DRE would be about 48 percent.  This
suggests that Argentina obtained a relatively large debt reduction considering
that Mexico and Venezuela were current on their interest payments.
2/  *Anlyti Aspeu of Debt and Debt Servke Rducdion Opmtions', SecM92-96, March 1992.



- 17 -
Tabe 4.1: ARGENTINA - DEBT REDUCTION EQUIVALENT It/
Eklb    nh&     mw    Po"    1M    Pw"qamg           mm    omcw            Toga
Debt    RM    My   V' of   CIm d t3av  RIduim EOtum   A&WoW1    DIt Rdudk
or aoRE(             L-dizg      Eq,MkW
R                 3/     I(7)-)+(4)(5)+(Q1  (        t7.]
us.    Rod            5.5       d
.__________   (1)    02)    0)    (4)  (5)     (6)      _ gIbl Deb                        mu
As_1-          NO,3W    3.,M     0    S.IM      0      2430   10.54    37      2.117   8.712   15
lai Dm4 4S)   7329   2.565      0       0       0       663   3.E8     44
hi DBad (48%)  13510     0      0    S,IS9      0      1,767   6.92   31
PDI 41         8,36     700     0       0       0        0    730      8
"Wo            47.170   7.0   1.X7    7.948    85      S.252   18,376    39    1732  14.6,     I5
Vawiuda        19,011    1.921   1,166   2,677    186  1,172   4,418    23     687  3.731      It
1/ Assunptionk as In Table 4.2.
2/ WPV of interest savings resulting from the exchange of 65X of commercial bank debt against par bonds
instead of open market conversion to fixed rate instrument; market interest rate approximated by: yield
on 30-yr. U.S. Treasury securities (7.61) plus swap rate (50 basis points) plus pre-deal spread (13/16X);
savings discounted at 8.11 (market interest rate excluding spread); all on semi-annual basis.
3/ Face value of principal collateral; prepayment equivalent of the interest collateral estimated at its
face value multiplied by the post-deal market discount (see Table 4.2).
4/ Eligible PDI includes effect of the interest arrangement described in para. 36. implying a reduction of
about US400 mtllion.
46.         The  measure  of  commercial  bank  debt  reduction  equivalent  (DRE)
includes the following: (i) the face value reduction through the discount bond
exchange and the dawnpayment on PDI; (ii) the present value of interest savings
through  the par bond exchange;  and  (iii)  the present value of the effective
prepayment of discount bond and par bond principal and of 12 months interest
obligations on these instruments through the purchase of collateral that is
placed beyond Argentina's  control.  L"   Not  included  is the pre-Closing Date
reduction in PDI implied by the interest arrangements described in para. 36. The
estimate of the present value of interest payment reduction is sensitive to
assumptions on interest and discount rates. Lowering the rates used in Table 4.1
by 25 basis points would lower the estimate by about US$280 million.
47.         Financial Costs.  Debt reduction tends to raise expectations that the
remaining debt will be serviced, reflected in an increase of the secondary market
price. This represents a capital gain for the creditors and a financial cost for
the  debtor  country.    In  a  debt  exchange  like  the  one  contemplated  in  the
Agreement, the creditors therefore receive not only riskless enhancements--the
downpayment and the present value of collateral--but also a capital gain on the
uncollateralized portion of the remaining claims--the eligible debt net of DRE.
Important for the evaluation of a Brady deal is whether it reduces the financial
cost to the country through a reduction of the enhancements. This would be
unlikely in an open-market debt exchange as creditors would be able to free-ride.
The ratio of riskless enhancements to the DRE would in such case come close to
the post-deal secondary market price of the uncollateralized portion. The free-
lQ/   The praent value of the effective prepayment of principal equals te cost of acquiring the zero-coupon bonds used
as collateral. Rcearding the effective prepayment of 12 months intarest, however, the present value is lower than
the cost of collaeal unless the Government is expected to default on these payments already in the first year. This
was implicitly assumed in the paper cited in the preceding footnote, resuking in an overestimate of the prepayment
equiant and therefore the DRE. In Table 4.1, the cos: of interest collatera is discounted at the post-deal market
discount for Argentine debt calculated in Table 4.2. This approach is discussed in: 'Recent Experience with
Commeia  Bank Debt Reducdon", Mimeo, JECDI, The World Bank, June 1992.



rider problem therefore tends to prevent open-market debt reduction operations
of a size comparable to Brady operations. The menu-based approach--by minimizing
free-riding--enables the Government and the creditors' Working Committee to
negotiate a smaller amount of enhancements. The ratio of riskless enhancements
to DRE would in such case be below the post-deal price.  This ratio is also
called the "equivalent buyback price" as it represents the theoretical price at
which using the enhancement funds for buybacks would gener..te the same debt
reduction'as using that amount of funds for collateralizing the new instruments.
Table 4.2: EQUIVALENT BUYBACK PRICES AND POST-DEAL PRICES
Market Value of   Market Value of New  Equivatent Buyback    Post-Deal
Enhancements (ME) 1/  Instruments (NNI) 9V   P;;ce (EB8P) J  PricetPDP) /
US$ billion     USS biltion    cents on the dottar  cts o.t. dollar
Argentina       3.1              12.8             29              52
Mexico           5,2             20.2             29              52
Venezuela       1.2              10.1             27             61
1/  Prepayment equivalent of collateral plus downpayment on PDI.
3/  In the month folloiing the conclusion of the debt deal; for Argent1r-- includes downpay5ent and market
vatue of new instruments "uhen and if issued" based on quotations in November 1992.
if  ESSP a hE/DRE. See Table 4.1.
i/  PDP a (MNI - NE)/(ED - ORE), where ED denotes the eligible debt. See Table 4.1.
48.       Table 4.2 depicts the equivalent buyback price and the post-deal price
for the uncollateralized portion of the remaining debt for Argentina, Mexico, and
Venezuela.  (The calculation of these prices is explained in the Table.)  For
Argentina, the table shows an equivalent buyback price cf 29 cents on the
US dollar--about 44 percent lower than the post-deal price. This reduction is
similar to the Mexican outcome. The Venezuelan agreement resulted in a larger
price reduction though on a much smaller DRE.  In sum, the Agreement for
Argentina closely resembles the Mexican DDSR agreement with regard to both the
extent of debt reduction and the reduction of the financial cost to the country
relative to the cost of an open-market debt reduction operation.
D. Material Benefits
49.       Counterfactuals. ;valuating the material benefits of Implementing the
Agreement--the direct cash flow implications and the indirect development
impact--requires explicit assumptions on the course of action the Government and
commercial creditors would take in the absence of the Agreement. The Argentiue
debt accord contains two distinct agreements, respectively on DDSR for principal
debt and on PDI. Of these, the PDI arrangement would be compatible also with
debt agreements not involving DDSR, such as reschedulings. A DDSR agreement,
however, could not be obtained without an accord on PDI, nor would the banks in
such case agree to a rescheduling or other regularization of principal debt.
This leaves as basic alternatives to the Agreement a return to interest arrears
accrual or an agreement on PDI combined with some form of rescheduling.



- 19 -
50.       Returning  to  arrears  accrual would  be  inconsistent  with  the
Government's strategy described in Chapter II. Since 1989, the authorities have
undertaken enormous ef forts to reduce the fiscal deficit and to eliminate policy-
induced distortions that hamper growth. They have also resumed partial interest
payments--twice increased--to prepare the ground for a negotiated regularization
of relations with commercial banks. The adjustment and the private sector's
aticipation of a settlement with the banks have both been instrumental in
attracting capital inflows and lowering domestic interest rates. Going back to
arrears accrual would reverse these developments: capital inflows would reverse,
the private sector would be unable to invest, and growth would grind to a halt.
Reduced tax revenues would then require a second round of fiscal adjustment
further depressing growth.  In the absence of the Agreement, therefore, the
Government could still be expected to seek an arrangement with the banks. Since
the banks have consistently refused to capitalize arrears and have demanded a
partial up-front payment, any regularization would have to include an accord on
interest arrears resembling the PDI Arrangement of the Agreement.
51.       The most favorable accord on principal debt Argentina might be able
to obtain from the banks in the absence of the Agreement would be a multi-year
rescheduling agreement (MYRA) with several years of grace.   This could be
followed by a second MYRA which would further postpone principal repayments.
Specifically, we assume a 1993 MYRA without new money and with 4 years' grace,
20-year maturity and a floating interest rate of LIBOR plus 13/16 percent;
followed by a new MYRA on the same terms in 1997. The Government would resume
amortizations in 2001 with 5 percent annually until 2006 and 7 percent annually
in the remaining 10 years. The MYRA would be similar to the 1987 Guaranteed
Refinancing Agreement (GRA).  While the GRA covered only half of the debt
outstanding, the counterfactual assumes the MYRA to be extended to all debt
eligible under the Agreement.   Since this is an optimistic assumption, the
scenario should be regarded as a lower-bound counterfactual. As an upper-bound,
extreme counterfactual we also consider the resumption of contractual service on
principal debt.   The PDI arrangement of the Agreement  is part of both
counterfactuals.
52.       Cash Flow and Interest Relief. The cash flow savings and the interest
relief provided by the Agreement are estimated in Table 4.3 for the two
counterfactuals. The immediate liquidity impact would be strongly negative--
about US$900 million--as the banks would not provide new money. Compared to the
MYRA counterfactual, however, the Agreement would generate interest relief on the
order of US$450 million annually through the end of the decade. The relief would
come from a reduced debt stock because of the discount exchange and from the
frontloaded interest rate reduction on the par bonds. Over the first three
years, the interest relief estimate would be relatively low because of the low
LIBOR rates projected by the Bank; but it would be sufficient to offset the
immediate liquidity impact and generate a modest amount of cash flow savings of
about US$70 million annually. In the medium-term (1996-2000), the cash flow
impact of lower interest obligations would be partly offset by amortizations on
the additional official debt; the cash flow relief would therefore remain modest
with about US$200 million. However, these savings would represent nearly 10
percent of public investment and would therefore be significant under tight
fiscal constraints. Higher cash flow savings would occur in the long-run when
the Government starts repaying MYRA debt.                             0



- 20 -
TebJq:4.3: ARGENTINA - CASH FLOW SAVINGS AND INTEREST REUEF FROM THE DEBT AGREEMIENT
WUS$ miion)
Avrage.
_193    1994   1°95  1993-95  1996-00  2001-22
Debt Agreement
(1) Downpayment on PDI                       700      0      0     233       0       0
(2) Collateral Purchases                   3,032      0      0   1,003       0       0
(3) Additional Borrowing                   2,117      0      0     706       0       0
(4) AmortizatIons                             0       0      0       0     431     252
(5) Interest Payments                      1,206   1,402  1,592   1,400   1,720   1.243
(6) Int4rest Earnings                         0      67    75       47      81     134
(7) AmortIzations on Addfitional Lending      0       0      0       0     288      31
(8) Interest Payments on Additional Lending  82      110   125    106       76       3
MYRA wkh PDI
(9) Downpayment on PDI                      700       0      0     233       0       0
(10) Amortizations                             0       0      0       0     431   1,204
(11) Interest Payments                      1,521   1,893  2,094   1,836   2,208    657
Contractual Service wih PDI
(12) Downpayment on PDI                      700       0      0     233      0        0
(13) Amortizations                           634   1,018  1,151    934   1,960      729
(14) Interest Payments                      1,504   1,818  1,913   1,751   1,719    158
(15) Up-front Lqukdity Impact I1)+ (2)-(3X-19)  915
Interen Re0of compared to:
(16) MYRA with PDI [(11)-(5)+(6)-(8)3        233     448   453    378    493    -456
(17) Contractual Service with PDI t(14)-(5)+(6)-(8)  216  373   290    293   4     -955
Cash Flow Savings compared to:
(18) MYRA with PDI E(16)-(15)+(10)-(4)-(7)3  682     448   453       7      205     465
(19) Contractual Service with PDI 1(17)-(15)+(13)-  -65   1,391  1,441    922   1,246    -509
(4)-(7")]
53.       The cash flow savings would obviously be much higher if contractual
debt service--rather than a MYRA--wvs the Government's only alternative to the
Agreement. Although this is an extreme assumption, the figures in Table 4.3
serve to illustrate the severity of the public sector's debt burden under
Argentina's fiscal constraints and the importance of making debt relief part of
the regularization of relations with commercial banks. The cash-flow analysis
ignores second-round effects of the fiscal impact and indirect costs connected
with the counterfactuals such as the lack of protection against interest rate
increases, and the inefficiency of repeated rescheduling negotiations or the
reduction in private sector confidence if contractual debt service is recognized
as fiscally unsustainable. These effects are discussed below in the context of
the development impact of the Agreement.
54.       Efficiency of Debt-Enhsacement Funds.  The internal rate of return
(IRR) on the enhancement money has been calculated based on the two
counterfactuals. The gross benefits in this analysis consist of: (i) the flow
of debt service under either counterfactual; (ii) the interest earnings on the
interest collateral account; and (iii) the amounts to be released from both
collateral accounts in 2022. The gross costs include: (i) the US$3 billion
allocated to the purchase of collateral prior to the Closing Date; and (ii) the
debt servige on the new instruments, i.e., discount bonds, par bonds, and PDI
bonds. The Bank's LIBOR projections are applied assuming that LIBOR will remain
constant at 7.0 percent beyond the horizon of the projections.
55.        The real IRR on the enhancement moneys would be 22 percent based on
the MYRA counterfactual and 68 percent based on a scenario with contractual



- 21 -
service on principal debt. This is far above the cost at which Argentina would
borrow the enhancement funds; and is also much higher than the cut-off real IRR
applicable for the Bank's project lending. The real IRK against the lower-bound
counterfactual is substantial even though the benefits of a fixed interest rate
on par bonds and the indirect efficiency effects of the Agreement have not been
taken into account.
56.       Development Impact.   Debt  relief affects the Argentine economy
primarily through the fiscal account, allowing the Government to raise public
investment or reduce net borrowing requirements. The Agreement is part of the
Government's medium-term program described in Chapter II. Under the program, the
Government is making a maximum effort to mobilize tax revenues, borrowing from
external rather than domestic sources, and refraining from any inflationary
financing. For a higher debt service, the Government would therefore need to
reduce public expenditures or increase net domestic borrowing. The Agreement
also improves medium-term prospects through reduced uncertainty about fiscal and
foreign exchange developments as relations with the international financial
community are placed on a firm basis, and by protecting a substantial part of
interest payments against interest rate increases.
57.       Reducing public investment from its present low levels would affect
basic infrastructure--roads, power, ports--and directly lower the growth rate of
exports and the economy as a whole. Moreover, historically in Argentina as in
other countries, there is a strong correlation between the decline in public
investment and economic deterioration because of the complementarity of the
public and private sectors. Reducing current expenditures instead of investment
would come at a cost to economic productivity as it would prevent the necessary
restoration of core public services, including education, health, and productive
services (e.g., to agriculture).   Increasing domestic borrowing--if it were
possible--would crowd out borrowers in the private sector, push up domestic
interest rates, and slow economic growth. A first-order effect would be a higher
cost of funds to the Government, which would widen the fiscal deficit and require
further fiscal adjustment. More important, using debt to finance debt service
would render the fiscal position untenable in the medium-term.
58.       The  benefits  of  the Agreement  can be  illustrated  by modeling
macroeconomic performance under the two counterfactuals. The results are shown
in Table 4.4.  The second column illustrates the possible evolution of the
economy in the contractual debt service scenario. Public investment associated
with a financially constrained macroeconomic program is compressed by one-
quarter, but even this is insufficient to obviate the continuation of substantial
borrowing in the domestic market; this raises domestic interest rates and the
Government's interest bill. With greater uncertainty and the higher interest
rates, private capital inflows would be substantially less beginning in 1993,
imports would fall, and private investment would drop dramatically. Since the
economy would slow to very low rates of growth, these events would widen the net
financing requirement of the public sector, and precipitate a second-round
adjustment. Economic growth would turn into a recession in the initial years and
any recovery in the out years would be anemic. Assuming this debt strategy could
be maintained for the remainder of the period, a borrowing-cum-investment
contraction strategy would reduce growth to an average of 1.2 percent compared
to a projected 4 percent under the Agreement. In per capita terms, the economy
would decline as it did for most of the 1980s.



- 22 -
Tabte 4.4: ARGENT   - ECONOMIC IMPACT OF DEBT AGREEMENT
---1993-2000 AVERAG.ES----
AVERAGE  CONTRACTUAL   MYRA         DEBT
1988-92    DS w. PDIA    w. POIA   AGREEMENT
GDP REAL QROWTH                      1.7           1.2      3.0          4.0
SAYVINGS-NVENTMENT BALANCE 1% DPM
Total Investment                    11.3         12.2      14.1         17.3
Private Insntment                  8.0          10.3     12.3         15.2
Public Investment                  3.0           t.9      1.8          2.1
National, Savinkgs                  9.5           9.5     10.4         14.7
Prioate Savings                   11.5           9.3      9.6         12.6
Public Savings                    (2.0)          0.2      0.8          2.0
Foreign Savings                      1.8          2.7      3.7          2.6
PUBEMW-SECTOR
Non-interest Current Account I/    3,655         6,825    7,819        9,706
Interest v/                        4,284         5,855    S,420        4,240
Public Investment                  2,845         3,745    3,745        46744
Overall Silence                   (3,475)       (2,776)   (1,346)       792
BALANCE Of PAYMENTS (US$ MILUON)
Current Account                   c2,128)       (5,081)   (7,507)     (5,648)
Capital Account                    3,039         5,881    8,307        6,824
Publie                           1,100         3,667    2,237          692
Private                           1,940        2,214    6,070        6,132
Direct Investment               1,761         1,124    2,004        2,688
Short Term Flows                  178         1,090    4,066        3,444
PUBIS DET
Foreign                            59,117        71,798    67,843     59,860
Dmnestic                            5,022        15,901    15,901      15,901
j   Inctudes eapital receipts.
Includes quasifiscal balance of Central Bank.
59.       The third column shows the effects of the MYRA scenario. Two effects
dominate: (i) the financing requirement is higher without DDSR because service
payments are slightly higher; (ii) the uncertainty associated with the prospect
of yet another rescheduling and the exposure to interest rate risks from the
floating interest rate on commercial debt increases the cost of the Government's
borrowing and domestic interest rates. While not as dramatic as the domestic
borrowing-cum-investment reduction strategy, the higher financing requirement and
uncertainty increase the net financing requirement, requiring a sharper fiscal
adjustment in the second round. The economy is unable to expand as rapidly as
in the program including the Agreement; the annual growth rate drops by a full
percentage point.
60.       Even with DDSR9 of course, other factors could intervene to slow the
pace of investment and growth, as discussed in Chapter II. However, this review
of the basic macroeconomic aggregates suggests that DDSR is a necessary--if not
sufficient--condition for sustained growth even under the favorable assumptions
of the MYRA counterfactual.
C.   Debt  Manaaement Issues
61.       The Agreement would lower the overall burden imposed on external
creditors by the possibility of a future shortfall in public debt service
payments. However, it also would increase the share of official creditors and
private bondholders in the reduced burden as a result of higher debt shares and



- 23 -
a relative increase in the seniority of debt owed to commercial banks. In case
of future debt servicing difficulties caused by adverse events, Argentina's
service of the remaining obligations could therefore be less flexible. The
following section describes these developments and discusses the implications for
the Bank's exposure risk.
62.       Overall Burden.  The implementation of the Agreement would reduce the
burden on external creditors by enhancing both the willingness and the capacity
of the public sector to service the remaining obligations. Having incurred a
heavy up-front cost for the purpose of regaining creditworthiness, the Government
would in future be less willing to consider default as an option; this
disposition would strengthen over time as regular debt service improved
creditworthiness further, thus raising the cost of future default. The Agreement
would directly improve the Government's capacity to pay by reducing obligations;
but also indirectly by improving the economy's performance and consequently
public revenues. This is reflected in the drastic medium-term improvement of debt
service ratios depicted in Table 4.5. The shares of public external debt service
in GDP, exports, and federal revenues would decline by about one-third. As shown
in the table, debt restructuring through a MYRA would also reduce these ratios
to a large extent, though the Agreement would significantly improve the outcome.
Tabla 4.S: ARGENTINA - DEBT SERVICE RATIOS
1993-2000 AVERAAE-
AVERAGE  CONTRACTUAL DS  MYRA W1TH      DEBT
1988-92    WITH PDIA       PDIA     AGREEMENT
SHARE OF GOE
Public DS                         6.9       7.0             5.6         4.9
Pubtlc Externat DS                5.7       5.8             4.5         3.9
Nultitlateral Creditor DS         2.6       1.4             S.3         t.3
IBRD DS                           0.4       0.4             0.3        0.3
SHARE OF EXPRTS
Public DS                        54.8      51.2            44.6        42.9
Public External OS                44.8     42.7            36.1        _4.0
Multilateral Creditor DS         20.8      10.4            10.4        11.7
IBRO DS                           2.9       2.7             2.7        2.9
SHARE OF FEDERAL REVUE
Public 0S                        41.7      37.1            30.0        26.5
Public Extemnal DS                34-      30.9            24.3        21.0
Multilateral Creditor DS         15.9       7.5             7.0         7.3
IBRD DS                           2.2       1.9             1.8        1.8
INFLEXMBLE FOREIN DS 1/ AS SHARE OF
Public DS                        40.4      35.0            40.1        57.8
Pubtic External DS                43.2     42.1            49.7        72.5
Total External DS                35.9      47.2            50.4        74.3
I/  DS to saltt laterals and external bondholders including holders of new instruments under the Agreement;
interest payments on short-term debt.
63.       Burdenshar na. The reduction of commercial bank debt would raise the
share of official creditors in the present value of the remaining debt
obligations; and would also increase the share of private non-bank creditors--
predominantly holders of external bonds. The relative burden of these creditors
would also be increased as a consequence of the exchange of commercial bank
claims for bonds. While loans would remain potentially subject to reschedulings



- 24 -
and new money calls, the Agreement explicitly exempts the new instruments from
future restructurings. Figure 4.1 reflects these changes. The commercial debt
reduction equivalent of the Agreement would lower the share of commercial banks
holding eligible debt by about 14 percentage points to 36 percent of the post-
deal public external debt; and the lower base would increase the shares of other
creditors. Additional official lending in combination with the base effect would
lift the share of official creditors by 10 percentage points--from 17 percent to
23 percent for the IFIs and from 14 percent to 18 percent in the case of
bilateral creditors. As a result of the debt exchange, the share of loans would
decline from more than one-half to about 5 percent.
Figure 4.1 - Impact of Debt Agreement on Public External Debt Shares
% of TOtal  _   by Creditor Class             by Instrument
60.00
Additin
50.00              L 1     <
40.00
i  Pre-Deal
30.00
OPost-Deal
20.00
10.00
0.00
Eligible  Other Private  Official   Commercial   Bonds   Official Credit
Commerciel                      Loans
Debt
64.       Debt  Service Flexibility.   The above changes could  reduce the
Government's ability to address future debt servicing difficulties should
downside scenarios be realized. As shown in Table 4.5, inflexible foreign debt
service--i.e., principal and interest payments to multilaterals and external
bondholders and interest payments on short-term debt--would increase by nearly
30 percenW age points to 72 percent as a share of public external debt service.
The incre&se in total public debt service would be smaller (about 17 percentage
points) due to the expansion of domestic debt service caused by the BOCON issue.
The massive inflow of private short-term capital discussed above, however, would
raise inflexible foreign debt service as a share of total external debt service
by approximately 40 percentage points to about three-quarters. Some increase in
inflexibility would also occur were the Government to regularize relations with
commercial banks without the Agreement as indicated in Table 4.5.
65.       Exi,osure Risk. Reduced flexibility increases the risk to the Bank in
case adverse events--discussed  below--lead  to  debt servicing  difficulties.
However, the Agreement would be implemented under greatly improved macroeconomic
conditions, and would in turn further strengthen the policy framework. Debt
service under the Agreement is projected to be fiscally sustainable, if the



- 25 -
reform program continues. The Government has greatly improved budget management
and--through the exchange rate regime--imposed external discipline on public
spending. The likelihood of debt servicing difficulties is also being reduced by
equity capital inflows, which would be further encouraged by the implementation
of the Agreement.   In the event of adverse developments, furthermore, the
Government would have room for reducing other payments and expenditures to
sustain service to the IFTs: the fiscal program includes increased public
expenditures that could be cut; principal payments on the BOCONs and BONEX could
be rolled-over; in case of a transitory difficulty, the interest collateral could
be used to pay up to 12 months in interest on the discount bonds and par bonds--
under the terms of the Agreement, the Government would in such case not be
obligated to replenish the interest collateral account; finally, the registration
of these bonds would make it easier for the Government to seek a renegotiation
in force majeure situations.
66.        Sources of risk could be adverse external events, a failure to
continue to provide an adequate fiscal framework; and a loss of macroeconomic
control. Debt service as a share of exports is not likely to worsen drastically
because export commodity prices are not expected to fall much below already
depressed levels, the country's approximate energy balance shields the current
account against oil price variations, and the debt deal limits the rise in
interest on debt to commercial banks. Regarding the risk of inadequate fiscal
policy, the Government has demonstrated its commitment to providing an adequate
fiscal framework through enactment of successive public sector reforms and by
steadily increasing its primary surplus since 1989. Since its first quarter, the
Menem Administration has registered a positive operational primary surplus in
every quarter except one. The more serious risk--discussed in Chapter I1--is
that the economy remains vulnerable to shocks: a reversal in capital flows,
insufficient convergence of domestic to international prices and wages and a
speculative attack on the peso could cause a temporary loss of macroeconomic
control. The Government would then need to take major additional adjustment
measures to restore balance. Argentina's recent experience with hyperinflation
provides the Government with a strong political position to implement fiscal
adjustment.
V. PROPOSED BANK SUPPORT
A. Zligibilitv for DDSR Sumoort
67.       Over the last three years, Argentina has established an exceptional
record of fiscal reforms, privatization, and deregulation of foreign trade and
domestic markets. The ongoing reform program is being supported through the
Bank's adjustment lending. As described in Chapter II, Argentina also has a
strong medium-term program, including financing assurances within the framework
of an Extended Arrangement with the IMP. Bank support for the Agreement also
meets the other eligibility criteria established in the guidelines for the use
of Bank resources to support DDSR. The debt burden, which includes more than
US$8 billion in interest arrears, is severe; as implied by the growth projections
for the contractual debt service counterfactual, an attempt to service fully such
debt would reverse current favorable developments and prevent growth in per
capita consumption over the medium-term. As discussed above, the Agreement meets
the materiality test for Bank support. The Government will continue its efforts
at voluntary debt reduction. The exchange of bank holdings for discount bonds and
par bonds would allow for a more efficient approach than previously possible by
enabling the authorities to repurchase these instruments without any



- 26 -
restrictions--such as sharing clauses--other than being current on its service
obligations. Argentina should therefore be considered to have satisfied the
general conditions of Bank support for the DDSR program.
68.       The conclusion of the Agreement is expected to take place during the
March-May 1993 period. The debt exchange, however, depends on the availability
of official support for enhancements. The Government of Argentina has requested
support from the World Bank, the IMF, the IDB and Japan's Eximbank, as detailed
in Chapter III.  The Government has also requested a limited waiver of the
negative pledge clauses in its loan and guarantee agreements with the Bank. The
following summarizes the technical features and the implementation arrangements
for the proposed support through set-asides and a free-standing DDSR Loan, the
request for the waiver of negative pledge clauses, and the support that would be
provided by the TMF, the IDB and Japan's Eximbank.
B. Set-asides
69.       Consistent with existing guidelines, it is proposed to set aside a
total of up to US$300 million from two proposed adjustment loans--equivalent to
up to 10 percent of the FY93-95 lending program for Argentina. Of this, US$100
million is proposed to come from the US$300 million PERAL II, which is being
presented to the Executive Directors concurrently with this operation. The Bank
also intends to present to the Executive Directors a proposed US$400 million
Financial Sector Adjustment Loan, with set-asides of up to US$200 million, in the
first quarter of CY93. If set-asides from the proposed PSAL are not available
prior to the Closing Date of the Agreement, the Argentine Government would need
to finance the purchase of collateral instruments from its own resources on an
interim basis. In the event that the PSAL did not materialize at all for any
reason, the Argentine Government would need to make other expenditure cuts to
offset the purchase of the collateral instruments.
70.       The Government would use the set-aside funds for the purchase of
principal or interest collateral for the discount bonds it would issue. As shown
in Table 4.2, the total of potential set-asides from the IMF's Extended
Arrangement and from proposed Bank and IDB adjustment lending is likely to exceed
the cost of discount bond collateral. This cost, however, will only be known
once the purchase of collateral instruments is agreed, reflecting the yield on
zero-coupon bonds at the time. Within the envelope of US$200 million in set-
asides from the proposed PSAL, the Bank would therefore disburse the amount
needed to fund the purchase of discount bond collateral instruments.   Any
unutilized balance of the set-aside portion of the proposed FSAL would, according
to provisions of the Loan Agreement, be available for disbursement against
eligible imports.
71.       Disbursement Arrangements.  The Bank and Argentina would enter into
an Implementation Agreement for the PERAL II; a similar implementation agreement
would be entered for the proposed PSAL.  According to the Implementation
Agreement, the proceeds of the set-aside portion would be disbursed for payments
with respect to the provision of collateral for the discount bonds.   Such
collateral would include:   (i) US Treasury zero-coupon bonds (or comparable
collateral in DM), having a principal amount and maturity matching that of the
discount bonds and pledged as security against repayment of the principal of
those bonds; and (ii) cash or permitted investments held in a collateral account
and pledged as security against payment of interest on the discount bonds. The
Implementation Agreement will become effective only if$  (i) the Government has
concluded agreements with participating lenders for the exchange of at least 90



- 27 -
percent of eligible principal debt for par bonds and discount bonds; and (ii) the
Government has confirmed the availability of the additional funds required for
the purchase of the collateral instruments. Furthermore, no withdrawals would
be made from the loan account unless the Bank shall have approved the procedures
for withdrawal, and is satisfied with the arrangements for the maintenance of
collateral.  For the purpose of establishing and maintaining the collateral
accounts, the Government will appoint a collateral agent. Interest earned on the
iuterest collateral account will be released by the collateral agent to the
Government. Under the Agreement, the Government is entitled to repurchase any
of the new instruments at any time and any price, provided it is not in default
on any of the new instruments. The Implementation Agreement includes provisions
entitling the Bank to request prepayment of the set-aside funds in certain
circumstances if the collateral is released to the Government following a
repurchase of discount bonds.
C.   Debt and Debt Service Reduction Loan
72.       To ensure full funding of the Agreement, the proposed free-standing
DDSR Loan of US$450 million would finance interest and principal collateral for
the par bonds to be issued by the Government. As discussed in Chapter I, the
support of par bond principal collateral is consistent with the Board's approval
of the recommendation that additional funds may also be used to purchase
principal collateral for par bonds carrying below market intereut rates. The
amount of par bond principal collateral required for concluding the Agreement
exceeds by some US$600 million the amount of the additional resources that would
become available from Japan through Eximbank's parallel financing and
cofinancing. Only part of the gap can be closed using the Government's own
resources because the Government will also need to fund the US$700 million
downpayment on PDI.  Both the par bond option and the PDI arrangement are
essential features of the Arrangement and have been instrumental in assuring a
high level of participation by the commercial banks. Without the full level of
Bank support recommended in this report--including support for par bond principal
collateral--the Agreement could not be implemented.
73.       The Bank's contribution for interest and principal coverage on par
bonds would be made available through the proposed DDSR Loan. The proposed loan
amount of US$450 million would represent 15 percent of the FY93-95 lending
program for Argentina, and would be in addition to this amount of lending.
74.       Conditionalit ,  The proposed loan would be an integral part of the
Bank's  support  for Argentina's  adjustment program.    Consistency  of  the
Government's macroeconomic framework with the program would be a condition of
effectiveness. Additional policy conditionality is not proposed, but would be
provided by existing and proposed adjustment loans, i.e., the Public Sector
Reform Loan (PSRL), the Public Enterprise Reform Adjustment Loan (PERAL), the
proposed PERAL II, and the proposed FSAL. Except as the Bank may otherwise
agree, the proceeds from the proposed loan would only be disbursed concurrently
with the proposed set-aside funds from other Bank adjustment operations.
75.       The Closing Date for the proposed DDSR Loan would be July 31, 1993 or
such later date as the Bank shall establish. The disbursement arrangements would
be similar to those described above for the set-asides. The Bank would also have
similar rights to demand prepayment. It is proposed that the full amount of the
DDSR Loan be made available when needed for the collateral purchase subject to
the above disbursement arrangements.



- 28 -
D. Wliver of Nefative Pledfe Clauses
76.       The Government has requested that, pursuant to the terms of the
negative pledge clauses in the loan and guarantee agreements between the Bank and
the Argentine Republic, the Bank consent to the pledge of collateral in the
amounts required for the par bonds and discount bonds to be issued by Argentina.
The amounts required are currently estimated to be approximately US$3 billion.
However, to allow for a possible increase in the cost of the collateral
instruments before the Closing Date of the Agreement, the Government has
requested that the waiver be granted for collateral not to exceed US$3.7 billion.
The pledge of collateral would be for the 30 year life of par bonds and discount
bonds. In the letter requesting these waivers, the Government has reaffirmed its
obligations to continue to make timely payments on its loans from the Bank and
affirms that such loans will not be subject to rescheduling. The Government has
also stated its understanding that the consent by the Bank to this request would
be limited to the transactions included in the Agreement as described in this
report and would be without prejudice to the Bank's position on the negative
pledge clause under its loan and guarantee agreements in general. The Government
has also requested the necessary waivers of negative pledge clauses in agreements
with other creditors, including the IDB.
77.       Given that the Agreement satisfies the criteria for DDSR programs
which can be supported by the Bank within its established guidelines, granting
the above waivers would be in accordance with the Bank's policy.
E. Burdensharing
78.       Assuming that the IFIs and Japan's Eximbank approve financing as
estimated in Table 4.2 above, the shares contributed by each institution and the
Government to the estimated cost of enhancements would be as follows:
US$ m.   Percent
World Bank                693         19
IMF                      1003         27
IDB                      475        13
Japan's Eximbank          800         22
Government                761         20
Total             3,732        100
As one of five sources for the funding of enhancements, the Bank would contribute
about one-fifth. The burden of an increase in the cost of par bond collateral
would be on the Government.   Increased discount bond collateral costs would
increase the share of the Bank to a maximum of US$750 million. In addition to
its above contribution, however, the Government would need to provide about
US$350 million on the Closing Date, to be offset later by disbursements from
Eximbank.



- 29 -
F. Be9efits gad Riskcs
79.       The benefits of the operation and the major risks have been discussed
in Chapter IV. Implementing the Agreement would strongly improve Argentina's
medium-term development prospects.   This would be crucial for maintaining
confidence in the sustainability of the adjustment program and of fiscal and
external balance.  Increasing public investment and placing the Government's
relations with commercial banks on a firm basis could sustain current high
growth. Without the Bank's support through set-asides, the proposed DDSR Support
Loan, and waivers of negative pledge provisions, the Agreement could not be
implemented.
80.       The Bank's exposure to Argentina is projected to increase from US$2.8
billion at end-CY91 to US$4.2 billion at end-CY93; approximately one-third of the
increase would be due to incremental DDSR support. The adverse implications of
the Agreement for the flexibility with which the Government could address future
debt servicing difficulties have been analyzed above. The principal sources of
risk for such difficulties to arise are: (i) a failure to continue to provide an
adequate fiscal framework, and (ii) unexpected shifts in macroeconomic
parameters. Regarding the first, the Government has demonstrated its commitment
through the enactment of successive public sector reforms and will be steadily
increasing its primary surplus since taking office in 1989.
81.       A loss of macroeconomic control caused by a reversal in capital
inflows, insufficient convergence of domestic to international prices, or a
speculative attack on the peso, poses the more serious risk. In the event of a
new inflationary outburst, the Government, as it has successfully in earlier
crises, would likely reaffirm and intensify the economic program. Furthermore,
a change in the exchange rate regime--which could also occur without a loss of
macroeconomic control to stave off a recession--would not derail the reform
program as long as the fundamentals continue to improve.
82.       In evaluating the increased exposure risk, it is also important to
note that the implementation of the Agreement would not only strengthen the
political consensus on reforms, but would be critical for maintaining confidence
in continued fiscal improvement and a smooth transition to a sustainable balance
of payments. In the event of adverse developments, furthermore, the Government
would have room to reduce other payments and expenditures to sustain service to
multilateral creditors. This suggests that the increased exposure risk would be
justified and manageable.



- 30 -
VI.  THE BK' S COUITRY ASSISTANCE STRATEGY
A. Main Obgectiv.g and IBRD Leudina Proaram
Past Ooerations
83.       Argentina joined the Bank in 1956, but was not a major borrower for
many years. Of the US$5.4 billion committed to date (net of cancellations), so"s
80 percent was committed between FY81 and FY90, particularly in the latter half
of the period.   Bank involvement intensified beginning in 1986s, when the
Government requested sectoral adjustment loans for reforms in agriculture, trade
and finance, and technical assistance loans (TALs) for rebuilding economic
management capacitys in addition to the ongoing investment loan program.
Successive failed stabilization programs helped to clarify the kinds of
structural reforms needed, and through economic and sector work (SSW) and other
support through 1988, the Bank helped the Government articulate such a
medium-term reform agenda.   During the hyperinflation crises, considerable
resources were devoted to SSW, supervisions and development of proposed
operations, using these activities as vehicles for intensive policy dialogue in
lieu of new lending.
84.        The Bank's main country assistance objective since 1989 has been to
improve public finances so as to eliminate the persistent structural deficit that
has caused economic instability, slow growth and increased poverty over the last
decade. The emphasis on public sector adjustment, supplemented by investment and
technical assistance loans, is based on extensive ESW in public finances and a
strong dialogue on macroeconomic policy. Major loans have supported reforms in
both the Federal Goveranment and public enterprises (see paras. 6 and 7).
850       Portfolio Performance. The implementation of investment and technical
assistance loans approved prior to 1989 has suffered from macroedonomic
instability, counterpart funding constraints, and changes in policy orientation
when  the  present  government  came  to  office.    Also,  the  Government's
implementation capacity was limited because of poor management. As the economy
has stabilized, these difficulties have lessened. The Government has improved
its savings mobilization, relieving the constraints on counterpart funding.
Second, it has steadily improved its investment programming through preparation
of an investment program tightly linked to the budget. Third, though the civil
service reform and associated salary increases, management in the public sector
has been gradually improved, though much remains to be done.   Improved
performance can be seen in agricultural sector operations, in technical
assistance for gas utilization, power engineering, public enterprise, tax
administration, the social sectors, as well as in the municipal and provincial
development projects.
Medium-Term Assistance Objectives (FY93-97)
86.       The Government should be able to consolidate fiscal stability within
the next two years and begin moving toward restoring public functions critical
for the sustained growth of the private sector and for social development.
Effective Bank support therefore requires some shift in medium-term assistance
objectives and strategy. The Bank would continue to support the strengthening
of macroeconomic management and the completion of the reform program, focusing
on fiscal stability, modernization of the state and further market deregulation.
At the same time, the emphasis would increasingly be on three additional



- 31 -
objectivess the improvement 'of savings mobilization and intermediation; the
restoration and development of public productive services and physical
infrastructure; and the improvement of basic social services for the poor and
natural resource management. The latter two objectives would be carried out
primarily through operations at the provincial level. The entire lending program
would remain contingent on satisfactory macroeconomic performance during FY93-97,
since any renewed fiscal disorder would make it difficult to realize objectives
of any loans.
87.       Assuming strong macroeconomic and policy performance, Bank lending to
Argentina over the next five years would be on the order of about US$5.0 billion.
Half of the FY93-94 program would be devoted to adjustment lending, whereas
investment and social sector operations would account for all of the FY95-97
programe
88.       CoMletion of the Reform Program. Adjustment Loans would focus on new
and complex areas such as the divestiture of defense-related public enterprises,
financial sector adjustment, and provincial finance reform, as well as debt
reduction. The Public Enterprise Reform Adjustment Loan II, would extend the
production program to all public enterprises within the defense complex--a total
of 45 enterprises in steel, petrochemicals, shipyards, and various industrial and
defence-related activities. The proposed Financial Sector Adjustment Loan would
support, inter alia, reduction of public sector involvement in banking (through
privatization, closures, and bank restructuring), and the promotion of
competitive and efficient financial intermediation (improved credit eligibility,
supervision, etc.). Finally, a proposed provincial adjustment loan would support
fiscal and structural reforms at the provincial level in tax collection,
reductions in staffing, privatization of provincial enterprises, and reduction
of current expenditures.
89.       Resource Mobilization and Intermediation.  Decades of high inflation
have left Argentina with a shrunken capital market and a banking sector geared
to financing the public sector. Bank lending for financial intermediation,
discontinued because of high inflation, would resume with a focus on banking
sector reform, capital market development and improving access of small farmers
and newly privatized infrastructure suppliers. Proposed financial sector loans
would support capital market development and the restoration of lending with
longer maturities. The program would include cooperation with the IPC in the
development of capital market institutions.   Since the needs for private
investment financing are likely to be much greater, particularly until
Argentina's access to international capital markets is fully restored, the
program may also include additional support for credit lines and to improve
farmers access to commercial banks. Newly-privatized infrastructure firms may
also need assistance, vith guarantees of non-commercial risks, consistent with
the ECO policy paper, to enhance their access to international capital.
90.       Public Productive Services and Infrastructure.  The deterioration of
public services has led to a loss of competitiveness by local producers. Two
operations (for agricultural and industrial services respectively) are planned
to help restore the supply of research, quality control, vocational trainings and
other services with information externalities. A group of six loans would help
the provinces cope with their extended responsibilities for infrastructure in the
aftermath of public sector reform. In the roads sector, where the establishment
of competent planning agencies is important, as is increased expenditure on road
maintenance, a proposed road maintenance project is scheduled for PY94.



- 32 -
91.       Social Services ad Environment.  Eduestlon and health services and
social assistance to vulnerable groups have suffered from the austerity measures
of the 1980s and from the general decline in the quality and efficiency of public
sector management. The neglect of basic health services and the lack of social
assistance targeting have resulted in higher maternal and infant mortality and
in malnutrition, particularly in the poverty belts surrounding the cities of
Buenos Aires and Rosario and in the less developed northern provinces.  The
ongoing Social Sector TA loan has helped the Government develop coherent
strategies for education, health and social assistance, and would provide the
analytic base for the Bank's first forays into the social sector in Argentina.
Beginning in PY94, lending would help the provinces provide better health and
nutrition assistance to mothers and children, followed by support for secondary
education.
92.       As the economic crisis recedes, the Government is becoming more aware
of the adverse long-term envlronmentel impact of existing patterns of natural
resource use and industrial and urban waste disposal.   Soil erosion, water
pollution and the degradation of forests and other ecosystems are already
constraining development and creating health hazards. Projects in the pipeline
include activities in soil conservation, forest and water management and urban
waste. Future ESW would focus on areas to support the Government in developing
a legal framework that would allow for effective regulation and market-based
solutions.
Poverty Alleviation
93.       The post-adjustment phase  in Argentina,  with more emphasis  on
investment lending and the decentralization of most public services to the
provinces, will place greater demands on the implementation capacity of the
government and on Bank resources. Experience working with the provinces under
ongoing projects suggests that many provinces do not have the required capacity
and need substantial institutional strengthening.   This puts a premium on
designing projects with focussed objectives and activities, as opposed to complex
nationwide programs involving all the provinces. Even then, however, limited
implementation capacity outside the main urban areas will require greater
supervision intensity on the part of the Bank.
94.       Various of the activities described above would help to address
important dimensions of poverty in Argentina. Incressed price stability would
reduce the fluctuations of real wage and pension income, against which poor
households are unable to hedge.   Private sector development would expand
employment opportunities in the formal sector and, in the medium term, increase
real wages.   Several operations would specifically contribute to poverty
alleviation; a poverty study is expected to increase the effectiveness of our
assistance in this regard; the maternal and child health project would target
vulnerable groups in the urban poverty belts and the underdeveloped northern
provinces; the restoration of basic health services and improved access to
secondary education would improve living conditions for the poor, as would better
environmental management, water supply, and municipal services in the urban
poverty belts.
Cooggration with Other Multilateral Institutions
95.       The Bank has worked closely with both the IMh  and IDB in the design
and execution of adjustment operations, in formulating the lending strategy, and
in economic and sector work. For example, since 1989, Bank and Fund staff have



- 33 -
exchanged information and views in the preparation of major public sector reform
operations being undertaken by the Bank.   There has also been extensive
consultation with the IDB, which has co-financed a number of projects, including
adjustment operations.
B. XFC and MIgA Activitles
96.       IFC's investment strategy in Argentina is to support export-oriented
investments and privatization within the limits of its current exposure. IFC
would seek mechanisms to mitigate the country and payment risk (e.g. outside
guarantees,  external  escrow  accounts).    Furthermore,  under  the  present
conditions, IFC would only finance those projects with strong export orientation.
In addition, IFC would support privatization or restructuring projects through
fee-based advisory services and foreign resource mobilization. To serve this
objective, IFC is participating in the management of a privatization fund and is
considering the establishment of an underwriting fund to facilitate the placement
of equity and debt, as well as helping to setup brokerage houses, venture capital
funds and bond rating agencies.   IFC has made 42 investments in Argentina,
totaling US$746.4 million, of which US$324.1 million has been repaid, canceled
or sold. In FY92, there were investments in chemicals, capital markets, energy,
slaughtering, railroads, food and agribusiness, and malt production. HIGA has
also been very active in Argentina. Including projects in the pipeline, most of
the country's allotment of US$150 million has already been committed to
operations in banking and in pulp and paper.



- 34 -
VII. RECOMMENDATIONS
97.       I am satisfied that the proposed 10an would comply with the Articles
of Agreement of the Bank and would be consistent with the approved guidelines for
Bank support of DDSR programs.   I therefore recommend that the Executive
Directors approve the Debt and Debt Service Reduction Loan on the terms and
conditions proposed (paras. 72-75).
98.       I further recommend that the Executive Directors approve the release
of set-asides in an amount of US$100 million equivalent from the proposed Second
Public Enterprise Reform Adjustment Loan--being presented concurrently with this
report--on the terms and conditions proposed (paras. 69-71).               I
99.       Finally, to make possible the provision of collateral required by the
Agreement, I recommend that the Executive Directors consent to the request of the
Argentine Government for a waiver of the negative pledge restrictions in the
Bank's loan and guarantee agreements with the Republic, to the extent and based
on the conditions proposed (para. 76), such consent to become effective upon
receipt by the Government of all similar consents required from other creditors.
Lewis T. Preston
President
Attachments
December 10, 1992
Washingtons D.C.



ANNEX I
Q./f&rnde$io    &, anoma               - 35k                               Page 1 of 6
tad  y e9e.vicjo4 6g4A
ARGENTINA
DEBT AND DEBT SERVICE REDUCTION LOAN
AND OTHER 11EASURES TO SUPPORT THE 1992 FINANCING PLAN
LETTER OF DEVELOPMENT POLICY
Mr. Lewis T. Preston
President
World Bank
Washington, D.C.
Dear ir. Preston:
1.    This Letter  of Development  Policy describes the  overall macroeconomic
framework and the economic reforat program of the Argentine Governmant. The
letter also details the specific steps being taken to resolve Argentina's
external debt problem, for which the Government requests financial assistance
from the World Bank.
Macroeconomic Framework
2.    Price  stability remains  the centerpiece  of the  Government's economic
program to achieve sustained growth and productivity. Important progress has
been made toward this end. Monthly price increases dropped from over 30X at
the beginning of 1991 to approximately international rates by mid-1992.
Although consumer price inflation rose in the first quarter of 1992, as a
result of demand pressures associated with the strong recovery in 1991, the
increase *in the value-added tax (VAT) by 2 percentage points, and seasonal
factors, the Government has designed its monetary and fiscal policies with the
objective of reducing inflation to international levels for the remainder of
1992 and into 1993. The Government. intends to achieve an operational primary
surplus (before asset sales) of US$3.0 billion in 1992, US, 4.4 billion in
1993, and US$ 3.6 billion in 1994. These amounts have been calculated to be
sufficient to service projected interest obligations, once the debt agreement
with commercial banks described below has been concluded, and are consistent
with projected available financing. If these levels of primary surplus prove
insufficient to  obviate inflationary financing the  Government will undertake
further  fiscal  adjustmentsb   Monetary  policy, disciplined  by  the  Law of
Convertibility passed in April 1991, will be designed to expand the money base
consistent with increased money demand resulting from real growth and
international inflation, and the associated increase in net international
reserves.
3.    Sustained  price stability and  economic recovery will  be achieved only
if--in addition to concluding the debt agreement with commercial bank;s
described below--the Government's ongoing reform program is completed. This



-36 -                                  ANNEX I
Page 2 of 6
program includes: Mi) structural reforms in the public sector--improvements in
fiscal management, revenues and expenditures, further deepening of the
privatization program, improved efficiency in provincial governments, and the
reform of the social security system; and (ii) policy refores that would
foster private sector activity --continued commitment to maintenance of
flexible and open markets free of domestic regulations and major external
trade barriers, and with a strong financial sector to improve intermediation.
Reform Prooram
Structural Improvesents in the Public Sector
4.    Federal Public  Finances. The Government has  given increasing attention
to structural improvements in public sector revenues and expenditures.
(a)   Revenues.   In December  1989  the Government  implemented a  major  tax
reform that improved efficiency and provided additional revenues from
the VAT; the legislation would be maintained without allowing additional
exemptions.   The  Government has provided  fiscal bonds  for firms that
received special promotional tax incentives and reduced benefits for
firms that have not complied with original contractual obligations under
the promotion regimes.
Capital revenues from the privatization of. public enterprises and
concessions, which yielded US$2.3 billion in cash and an additional
US$7.2 billion in debt reductions in 1990-91, are expected to generate
about US$1.9 billion in 1992, and will continue to be used to reduce
debt (external and internal) or for labor indemnizations rather than
spent on recurrent costs.
(b)   Expenditures.    The  Government   has  given  increasing  attention  to
restructuring the Federal Government. The program includes, among other
thingss (i) improvements in the incentive system facing federal workers;
(ii) reductions in federal employment in the central administration and
decentralized agencies (other than teachers and not of increase in DGI
staff) of about 120,000 by end 1992, compared with the 1990 program
base; and (iii) establishment of a modern civil service payments system.
To improve its expenditure controls and budgetary processes, Congress
has passed a modern law of Financial Management and Performance Control
that   will  provide   comprehensive  budget   limits  for   the  entire
nonfinancial public sector, and an adequate internal control system and
ex  post external  auditing as  of January  1, 1993.    Furthermore, the
Government  has  submitted  a  Law   of  Public  Procurement  and  Asset
Management, which will  eliminate many of  the distortions contained  in
the Buy Argentine legislation. At the same time, the Government hAs
introduced changes in eash management and accounting systems, placing
government accounts on a more transparent basis.
For 1992/93, the Government will ensure that expenditures are consistent
with its program, or less, should projected revenues not materialize, as
provided for by Decree 1823/91. For 1993, the Government has proposed a
budget to Congress that maintains current expenditures consistent with



Ak                          -37-                                      ANNEX I
Page 3 of 6
y   W8 ~y e9ige  Q9S1e
those in its three year program, and that continues its efforts to
improve the quality of expenditures.
5.    Public Enterorise Reform. Public enterprises have long been a  source of
deficits and economic inefficiency in Argentina. A comprehensive program for
the privatization of large public enterprises was initiated in 1991; it will
be completed by 1993 for the Railway and Hydrocarbon sectors. The program is
now extended to all public enterprises within the Defense Complex--a total of
45 enterprises in steel, petrochemicals, shipyards, and various industrial and
defense-related activities. Among, the 23 enterprises in the steel sector, 7
have been sold, 2 closed, and the remainder are at advanced stages of
privatization. The privatizations have helped reduce current transfers to the
enterprises and lower the size of debt as some of the sales have involved debt
conversions.
6.    Provincial Finance.  Many provincial  governments are undertaking  their
own fiscal and structural reform programs in tax collection, reductions in
staffing levels, privatization of provincial enterprises, and reduction of
current expenditures. To support these measures, the Government has provided
additional resources as envisaged in existing and new taxes, maintained
restrictions on credit to provincial banks, required private lenders to
provincial governments to provision their new loans at 100 percent, and
restricted exceptional transfers to provincial governments.
7.    Social Security.  The Government  has submitted legislation  to Congress
that would transform the public pay-as-you-go system into a combined system of
mandatory private pension funds and a public minimum pension scheme. The new
system is expected to be fully in place in 1994. In the short-term, the
Government will continue to improve the collection of contributions and the
management of the existing system, with the objective to substantially reduce
evasion.
Policy Reforms for Promoting Private Sector Activity
8.    flaintenance of an Ooen and Flexible Economy. For the past several years,
especially since 19899 Argentina has been engaged in a major overhaul of its
economy  in  order   to  eliminate  the  institutional   obstacles  that  have
constrained the flexibility and responsiveness of the private sector. Trade
liberalizations public enterprise and open market reforms constitute the new
direction of the economic program.
(a)      Trade  Liberalization.  The Government  has made  rapid strides
towards opening the economy, both in terms of flows of trades
capital, and technology.   Taking into account recent measures,
the import tariff structure has been simplified and the average
tariff rate lowered; import tariffs are between 0 and 20
percent.  Export   taxes  have  been  eliminated,   almost  all
quantitative restrictions and discretionary procedures that
slowed the entry ofg trade, capital and technology have been
removed.    The  Government  will  keep  the  economy  open  to



-38 -                                   ANNEX I
Page 4 of 6
Y C  y Q9aie Q%a6
international   competition;   and   will   bring   Argentina's
antidumping provisions in line with the respective GATT Code.
Moreover, the MERCOSUR treaty  is now  being implemented.   Two
regional tariff cuts have already taken placep and it is the
Government's intention, as specified in the Treaty of Asunci6no
to reduce all intra-MERCOSUR tariffs to zero by January 1995,
while eliminating all other intra-market trade barriers.
(b)      Open  market economy. The Government has eliminated substantial
controls on prices, wages, and interest rates as well as a
complex network  of subsidies  and implicit taxes.   Much still
remains to be done on state reforms and opening of the markets.
The Government's reform program is not only to reduce the size
of the public sector, but also to avoid the transfer of public
to private monopolies when attracting new capital, management
and   technology.       To  complement   other   pro-competitive
initiatives    already      undertaken--trade    liberalization,
privatizations, deregulation--the Government intends to improve
the  existing   Competition  Law  to   avoid  undue   ownership
concentration and be more proactive to ensure a dynamic and
competitive private sector.
9.    Financial  Sector Reforms.  To  accelerate  private  sector  investment,
ioaprove  financial  sector  performance,   and  encourage  efficiency  in  the
allocation process, the Government intends to undertake major reforms in the
financial sector. These include the reduction of public sector involvement in
banking (through privatizations, closures, and bank restructuring), and the
promotion of competitive and efficient financial intermediation (improved
credit eligibility, supervision, etc.). The downsizing of' the public banking
sector will itself contribute to macroeconomic stability.
Tb. Debt Work-Out
10.   Argentina has taken  the following steps  to address its  debt problems:
(i)  Regarding  internal debt, the  Argentine Congress implemented,  in August
1991, a plan for the consolidation of payment obligations that did not
originate in current debts, as well as the debts of the Social Security System
to pensioners. This plan provides for 16 and 10-year bonds, respectively, with
6 years of grace for both principal and interest payments. These bonds are
being issued in pesos or U.S.dollarsp at the option of the creditor. (ii)
Regarding foreign debt to bilateral creditors, Argentina has obtained, in July
1992, a major reorganization of debt owed to Paris Club members; this
consolidates debt of about US$2.7 billion falling due until March 1995, and
stretches repayments over 14 years according to a backloaded amortization
schedule. (iii) Argentina has successfully concluded negotiations with the
Bank Advisory Committee on a debt agreement (the Agreement) which will enable
Argentina to regularize its relations with commercial banks on the basis of
substantial debt relief.
11.   The  implementation of  the Agreement  will consist  of the  exchange of
instruments representing  approximately  US$29.2 billion  in  debt,  including



-39 -                                   ANNEX I
Page 5 of 6
about US$8.3 billion in interest arrears, for new instruments. Regarding
US$20.9 billion of principal debt--i.e., debt excluding interest arrears:
*about 35 percent will be exchanged for a 30-year, collateralized
Discount Bond, with a 35 percent discount on principal, bearing interest at a
floating rate of LIBOR plus 13/16 percent per annump with   interest  payments
collateralized in an amount equal to 12 months; and
*about 65 percent will be exchanged for a 30-year, collateralized Par
Bond, exchangeable for 100 percent of existing claims, bearing  an         initial
rate of 4 percent per annum and increasing annually until it reaches a fixed
rate of 6 percent in the seventh year. Again, interest payments equal to 12
months are collateralized.
About 98 percent of the new instruments will be denominated in US dollars, and
the remainder--with comparable terms and conditions--in Deutsche Mark.
12.            As far as interest arrears are concerned, Argentina will make a
cash payment of US$400 million at the closing of the Agreement. An additional
US$300 million in interest arrears will be exchanged for fully collateralized
instruments (including cash) with a market value of US$300 million. The
balance  of   the  interest  arrears  will  be   exchanged  for  12-year  non-
collateralized Floating Rate Bonds with -3 years of grace, repayable in 19
semi-annual installments according to a backloaded schedule, with a variable
rate of interest based on LIBOR plus 13/16 percent per annum.
13.            As of  September, 1992,  it was estimated  that concluding  the
Agreement will require Argentina to provide approximately US$4 billion--about
US$3.3 billion  as collateral  for the  discount bonds and  the par  bonds and
USS700 million with respect to interest arrears. Although interest rates have
since increased, they are still lower than those prevailing on April 7, 1992,
the date when Argentina reached agreement in principle with the commercial
bank advisory committee. The final amount required will nevertheless depend on
the prevailing interest rates at the time the collateral is purchased.
Regarding the funding of collateral for the discount bonds and par bonds, the
Government  is  requesting   financial  support  from  the  World   Bank,  the
International Monetary Fund (rMF) and the Inter-American Development Bank
(IDB). The Government is also requesting support from Japan's Eximbank through
parallel financing with the IMF and the cofinancing of adjustment loans from
the World Bank and the IDB.
WRcld Bank Senggrt
14.            The   above   presentation  demonstrates   the  depth   of  the
Government's overall  public  sector reform  program, and the  importance  of
resolving the internal and external debt problems of the public sector.
Concluding the Agreement with commercial banks is critical for fiscal and
external balance, and thus for continued private sector confidence in the
Government*s programp the return of flight capital, and improved access to
international financial markets. The Agreement could not be concluded without
the financial assistance of the World Bank through set-asides from adjustment
lending and additional lending through a free-standing Debt and Debt Service



- 40 -
ANNEX I
Page 6 of 6
y lwy awkw Y
Reduction Loan. In particular, the Government intends to use the proceeds of.
respectively, the set-asides and the free-standing loan as one of the sources
for funding the collateral forq respectively, discount bonds and par bonds
required to conclude the Agreement. The Government has requested similar
financial support for the purpose of funding collateral from the International
Monetary Fund (IMF) and from tho Inter-American Development Bank (IDB).
Additional support has also been requested from Japan's Eximbank in the form
of parallel financing with the IMF and cofinancing of adjustment loans from
the World Bank and the IDB.
i ister         n  y
December 8, 1992



- 41 -
ANNEX II
Page 1 of 3
06-Dec-92 02,58 DI        Table A2.1* es5eet1 - HAereeenoetc Aecounst Debt Agreeen  Scosrto
(to percent UAles othbervia Specified)
... ....... . .....,._ ......             .... . ......... __ ............ . ... __ ....... . . . . ..._._ ............_..,_...............
1990      199l      1992      1995      1994      l99s     1996      1997       1998      1999      2000
................... ...... ... .................. ..... _... . .................. _._ . . ......._ _......._.._...............
Detioenl Aceounts
cDr growth                                       0.4       8.5       6.5       5.0       4.0       4.1       4.1       4.2       4.2       4.3       4.4
Growth of per capita priv et conemption         (1.3)      5.5       9.8      (1.8)      0.8       1.7       1.7       1.7       1.6       1.7       1.8
GDP (18  billon)                               105.5    135.4    153.2    148.6    182.2    196.9    211.9    128.8    247.0             164.9    288.6
2 Share of GW?t
Total Inveatmet                                8.4      12.5      14.0      15.5      16.0      16.5      17.0      17.5      18.0      18.5      19.0
Private                                      5.9      10.9      12.4      13.5      14.3      14.7      13.1      15.       15.8      16.2      16.5
Public                                       1.9       1.6       1.6       2.0       1.7       1.8       1.9       2.0       2.2       2.3       2.5
lational Savigs                               10.0      10.4       9.6      12.2      13.1      13.7      14.2      14.9      15.7      16.4      17.2
Private                                     12.0      11.3       8.2       9.8      11.8      12.4      12.7      13.1      13.4      13.7      14.1
Public                                      (2.0)     (0.9)      1.4       2.5       1.5       1.2       1.5       1.8       2.2       2.8       3.1
toroi   Saving                                (1.6)      2.1       4.4       5.3       2.9       2.8       2.8       2.6       2.3       2.1       l.8
1001 (lagged)                                   21.3       1.6       1.9       4.7       3.9       3.9       4.0       4.0       4.2       4.2       4.2
Public Sector (oath beats s, 1 of current GD?P)
Total Current Revwa.                            13.0      14.1      17.0      18.1      18.6      18.6    1U.5        18.5      18.4      18.4      18.3
Total Current Ependitures *1                    13.9      15.2      16.1      15.3      15.3      15.8      15.7      15.6      15.3      15.1      14.9
Intereat Upeniture                             $.2       3.4       1.8       2.0       2.4       2.4       2.4       2.4       2.2       2.0       1.8
Social Security Saving                          (0.3)     (0.1)      0.3      (0.8)     (1.8)     (1.5)     (1.3)     (1.1)     (0.8)     (0.5)     (0.4)
P  be-Intoreat Savings                           1.2       O.5       0.2       0.5      (0.0)    (0.0)      (0.0)     (0.0)     (0.0)     (0.0)     (0.0)
Public Savings                                  (2.0)     (0.9)      1.4       2.5       1.3       1.2       1.5       1.8       2.2       2.8       3.1
Capital  Sevezam.                                0.6       1.2       1.3       0.3       0.0       0.0       0.0       0.0       0.0       0.0       0.0
Capttal Sapnditure                               1.9       1.6       1.6       2.0       1.7       1.8       1.9       2.0       2.2       2.3       2.5
-Nfiscaial, PublUc SeCtor                       (3.3)     (1.3)      1.1       0.8      (0.4)     (0.6)     (0.4)     (0.3)      0.1       0.4       0.6
Qu"i.a   Surplug                                 0.0       0.0      (0.0)      0.1       0.2       0.2       0.3       0.3       0.3       0.4       0.4
Oeranl Baleane                                  (3.3)     (1.)       1.1       0.9      (0.2)     (0.3)     (0.1)      0.0       0.4       0.8       1.0
Kozo$
Priry Surplue                                  1.9       2.1       2.9       2.8       2.0       1.9       2.0       2.1       2.2       2.4       2.4
primry Surplu  M   million)                  2.012    2.857      4.389     4.753    3.666    3,667    4.296        4,856     5,552     6,509     6,954
Operational Primay Surus (s$ milion)    1.379          1.221     2.413     4,403     3.666     3,667    4,296      4.856     5$,52     6.509     6.954
naterest x2peniitute (I5$ million)           5.496    4*650      2.685     3.425     4,365    4,780    5.122    5,482        5.378     5,315    5.201
Priary Surpo Coverage SAtio bI                36.6      61.4     165.5     138.8      84.0      76.7      83.9      88.6    103.2      122.5    135.7
Salan*e of Ptyment
Sporta O17  (reel growth rate)                  18.1       2.2       1.7       8.3       9.2       6.6       6.7       6.7       6.8       6.8       6.8
apoert  of  S/Curront OP                        14.1      11.0      10.2      10.3      10.7      10.9      11.2      11.4      11.7      12.0      12.3
Imports OM1  (real grewt rate)                  (2.6)    65.7       43.2       1.3       3.3       4.6       4.7       4.8       4.8       4.8       4.9
Imports ef at11O/Current DP                      6.7       8.7      11.5      11.0      10.7      10.7      10.8      10.8      10.9      10.9      11.0
Trade Balae (1SS mllion)                       S.151     4007    (1 139)      (564)      578       981     1.422     1.923     2.511     3,17      3.938
Current Account Balance (18$ millioe)          1754    (2,748)   (6.771)   (5,43)   (5.400)  (5.648)   (5.957)   (6.045)   (5.782)   (.576)   (5.234)
Caital Actount  lao.e (1$ mlle)                  704    5,452      9,870     9,351     6,200    6,448      6,77      6,845     6,582     6.376     6034
Public                                        (493)   3.748        145     5,142      (450)     (114)    (334)   2.029         988       339       (67)
Private                                      1.197     1,704     9.725     6.209     6,649    6,561      7,091    4.816      5.594     6.037    6.101
Current Account  B/lemCurent GDP                 1.7      (2.0)     (4.4)     (3.3)    (3.0)      (2.9)     (2.8)     (2.6)     (2.5)     (1.1      (1.8)
Debt Indeator s
Totel Debt (18 Sillion)                       6$3,6    67,599    91,429    91,214   96.284   101.402   106,420   108.603   1103.99   111,651   111.795
Total Public Sctor Debt                      60.745    63.145    79,167    75,944    76,282   76,961    77,218    77159    76.348    74,440    71.7l
poreun Debt                                 57.839   60,845    60,550    60,103    59,957   59.783   59,088    60,305    60.775    60.133   58.731
Domestic Debt                                2,906    2.300    18,637    15,841    16.325   17,178   18 130    16,834    13.573    14.307    13.020
Total Public DobtlCutrent GDP                   57.6      46.6      51.7      45.0      41.9      39.1      36.4      33.7      30.9      27.9      24.9
Total Debt Servie/Current GDP                   11.4       8.4       5.0       4.8       5.1       5.3       5.9       6.9       6.2       6.2       6.1
Preferred Creditor DSIBOP e/                     2.7       3.2       3.0       2.6       2.8       2.9       3.0       3.7       3.3       5.2       3.0
Preferred Creditor DSOo"vuuneut Severn. 41      19.5      20.7      16.5      14.0      14.9      15.6      16.2      20.5      17.7      17.5      16.2
PS Coverag  SRte for Prdefd. Creditor          136.4    179.3      358.9    297.0    167.2    251.1    164.5    167.5          205.2    249.4    278.2
S   ad Priea s
Deoetic IuflAtio  Ivos ( 1Siel o@)              1902       139      11.3       7.0       3.9       3.8       3.8       3.8       3.8       3.8       3.8
Real Ihange SRate tmdc  (1987-100)              81.1      69.0      63.9      65.8      65.9      65.9      65.9      65.9      65.9      65.9      65.9
1t.150 */                                        8.9       7.3       5.8       4.5       5.8       6.2       6.8       7.0       7.0       7.0       7.0
StS/Curret GOP                                   3.0       S.8       7.0       7.1       7.1       7.1       7.1       7.1       7.1       7.1       7.1
*I Tranfer of quaifi l expenditures to tbh TrScu   in 1996s inludes PS  terest payments.
bi StScrei     SurplualDOmeaicat ef1@rign Suteret,Papme  of the Publi  Ser.
cl referred Craetor are World Bank. IIW  ID8, u3 , and 900CO.
41  evermont ev     enly Includes national administration reve_zes.
eI Peri  average LI0.



- 42 -                                       ANNEX II
Page 2 of 3
234ov-92 02.2? 63          Table U2.2. Agattlna - lt.oereee   Aecount, MM  See
(to pwrcet ;s  o.otbatwMI.  specf4ied)
1990      1991      1992      1993       1994      1995      199S      1997      1998       1999      2000
Natioa  Acceue
O    growth                                       0.4       8.        6.5        3.0       3.0       3.0       3.0       3.0        3.0       3.0       3.0
Ortoth of por capita p.v:. conwinetto            (1.3)      3.5      11.1       0.2       (0.5)      0.4       1.1       1.1        1.6       1.6       1.6
00? (US$ billion)                               105.S     1n.4      1S3.2    I6.2       1S7.4     190.S     203.2     216.8      231.3     246.S     263.4
2 Share of GDP,
Total IUVetOeat                                 8.4      12.5      14.0       13.5      14.5      15.0      15.5      16.5       12.5      12.5      12.5
Pr*vet*                                      5.9       10.9      12.4      12.1       12.7      13.1      13.6      14.7       10.7      10.7      10.8
PizblA                                        1.9       1.6       1.6        1.4       I.S       1.9       1.9       1.8        I.S       1.8       1.7
Notioe.l Savinp                                10.0      10.4       9.1       9.0       10.3      11.0      11.1      11.5       10.1      10.1      10.1
Private                                      12.0      11.3       7.4       7.7       10.2      10.8      10.7      10.9       9.2        8.J       4.5
ebeIt                                        (2.0)     (0.9)      1.6        1.3       0.1       0.2       0.4       0.6       O.$        1.3       1.6
Porewig  Saving                                (1.6)      2.1       4.9       4.5        4.2       4.0.      4.4       5.0        2.4       2.4       2.4
1C00  (l8ed)                                     21.3       1.6       1.9       4.7        4.5       4.8       $.0       5.2       5.5        4.2       4.2
Pube Sector (ach bacie *s 2 of eurrene OP)t
Total Correct Bea.e                              13.0      14.1      17.3       IS.7      18.7      18.8      18.7       IS.8      18.5      18.6      18.6
Total Correcot Ie ftUirs     a/                  15.9      15.2       16.1      16.6      16.5      IS.S      16.)       16.7      ISJ.      16.4      16.3
ntoraet bpendituwes                            5.2        3.4       I.S       2.2       2.7        2.S       3.0       3.1       2.9        2.9       2.8
Socl Security S-UP                               (0.3)     (0.1)      0.3       (0.6)     (1.8)     (1.6)     (1.4)      (1.2)     (1.0)     (0.7)      (0.6)
PR No-Interest Savine                             1.2       0.3       0.2       (0.2)     (0.3)     (0.4)     (0.3)      (0.3)     (0.2)     (0.1)     (0.1)
Publia Sains                                     (2.0)     (0.9)      1.6        1.3       0.1       0.2       0.4       0.6        0.S       1.3       1.6
Capital Reveao                                    0.6       1.2        1.3       0.2       0.0       0.0       0.0        0.0       0.0       0.0       0.0
Caital aqntuweu                                   1.9       1.6       1.4        1.4       1.8       1.9       1.9        1.8       1.8       1.8        1.7
afinAne. A. Public Seetor                        (3.3)     (1.3)       1.4       0.1      (1.6)     (1.7)     (1.5)      (1.2)     (1.0)     (0.5)      (0.1)
l    &pt                                  0.0        0.0      (0.0)       ,.1      0.21       0.        0.3       0.3       0.3        0.4       0.4
Overall Balahe                                  (3.3)     (1.3)      1.3        0.2      (1.4)     (1.5)     (1.2)      (0.9)     (0.6)     (0.1)      0.2
mao#
N V   "Surplu                                   1.9       2.1       3.1       2.3        1.1       1.1       1.5       1.9        2.0       2.4       2.6
PrInar  Surplut (118$ nWl.)                   2,012     2.857     4,756      MU814    1958      2.162     3,097     4,088    4*543       5,969     6,958
Opertioa Prima   SUnpl. (* mli                1,379     1.221     2.780      3.464     1.956     2,162     3.097     4.08S      4,543     5.969     6.958
Znterat Zsapniture  (IUS millio             5.496      4,650     2,685     3,714      4.861     5,419     6.059     6,766     6.812      7.098     7.343
Primr  Splu  Ceverage Ratio bi                 36.4      61.4     177.1      102.7      40.2      ".9       51.1      60.4       46.7      84.1      94.8
Salaoso of Paymecuta
epote 5RFS (real growt  rate)                    1U.1       2.2       5.9        8.3       9.2   $ .7          6.7        6.7       6.8       6.S       6.8
Wone of         Gswownt COP                      14.1      11.0      10.6       10.9      11.3      11.7      12.1       12.6      13.1      13.3       4.0
Ipo*t. =WS (real  wwth rate)                     (2.6)     65.7      56.7        0.3       3.4       3.7       7.2        9.9     (13.0)      7.7       7.7
Iporctef .   Ifticawt GOP                         6.7       4.7      12.6       12.0      11.9      11.9      11.4       13.1      11.1      11.6       12.2
Trade belane (US mlln)                          8.131     4.007    (1,314)      (345)      541     1,085       675          1    5,762      6,074     6.379
cuwen  Account Balem   (1US mille)              I.74    (2.748)   (7,313)   (,#487)   (.429)   (7,662)   (8,934)  (10,842)   (5,310)   (5,881)   (6.203)
Captal Accot Salan" (0s$ .11m)                    704     5,452    10.613      8,28s     0,229     S,462     9,794    11,642      4.310     6,681       .e0s
Publi4                                         (493)    3,74S       (222)      338     1.785     2.0S2     1,513     3.013      3.505     2.736     2,145
Private                                       1,197     1.704    10,46       7,50      6,444     6,401     8,221     7,830      2,805     3,945     4,858
Currant Acot    Cnt  O                            1.7      (14.0)     (4.9)     (4.5)     (4.2)     (4.0)     (4.4)      (5.0)     (2.4)     (2.4)      (2.4)
Debt lnditorer
Total Debt (U$ milliou)                        63,556    67,399    92,540    94,710   102.334   110,044   119,007   127,020   129.S14   131,717   133,760
otal publc Seetor Debt                         60.745    63,145    79,167    76.0"    78,672    81.526    83,9$4    86,002    87,728    88,218    87,741
Foretg  Debt                                 $7.839    60,445    60,530    6,258    62,347    64,348   6S.84    69,168    72.15    79,911    74,721
DOsetio Debt                                  2,906     2.300    14.637    1,S41    16,325    17,178    18,130    16.834    15,57       14,307    13,020
Ttal Dbabl   PebtlCsrret OD?                     57.6      4$.6      51.7       45.6      44.1      41.7      41.        39.7      37.9      33.7       33.3
Tetal Debt Servic./urwn  GD                      11.4       8.4       5.3        5.3       5.6       6.0       6.5        7.9       7.4       7.4        7.4
Preferd Creditor DSI0  a/                        2.7       3.2       3.0        2.4       2.8       3.0       2.9        3.8       3.4       3.4        3.2
Proferred Creeitor OIeowve      t Rave1_  di     19.5      20.7      16.1       13.8      15.0      15.9      13.8       28.1      U8.6      14.3       17.1
PS Coere "A  for pref'd. Credtora               136.4     179.3     388.9      241.0      91.3      91.0     120.8      142.4     171.6     233.3     283.4
a/ Tasafer of quasuflcal e_Ipane  to the Tresuw  In 1990. include. PS Itwetr palms".
bI Primavy S.urplslermetia an Porti  %xtost Peyns  of the Public Seator.
e/ Pwferrd Crodtow    e a   orl Seo BekW. tn. 80Q  ..d 30083.
di Gevaust _ c weeu  only include. natonal  tadmntwation rovea..
*/ Peri"d  veraep LWL
9 



-43 -                                       ANNEX II
Page 3 of 3
23-oa-91 Olin2 In       tabl A2.38 Irgentina - Kacroa oc  A"-eceusto Contractual Debt SorrUs Seanario
(In percent ueel.  otb si"e opeifid)
is"      1991     1992     1993     1994      1995    1I96      1997     1998      1999     2000
Nationl .&tcunta
GDP growth                                   0.4      S.S      6.3       3.0      0.2      1.0      1.0       1.0      1.0      1.0       1.0
Grent of per eapita private conpetia        (1.3)     S5       11.1      1.6     (2.7)    (1.4)    (1.5)    (1.4)    (I.$)    (1.7)    (1.8)
GDP (66 bilUen)                            10S.5    135.4    153.1    166.7    173.6    182.0    190.0    196.6    206.1    217.7    227.S
hare of MD
Total Snvestmen                            8.4      12.3     14.0    1U.0      12.0     12.0      11.0     12.0    12.5      12.       12.3
Private                                  5.9     10.9      12.4     10.6     10.2      10.0     10.0     10.0     10.5     10.5      10.5
Publi                                    1.9       1.6      1.6      1.4      1.6      2.0       2.0      2.0      2.0      2.0       2.0
Nationl 8aWt5fl                           10.0     10.4       9.1      7.3      6.1      6.5       6.9      9.4     10.4     11.1      11.7
Private                                 12.0      11.3      7.4      6.1      6.2       6.7      9.0      9.6     10.4      10.7     11.3
Pubc                                    (2.0)    (0.9)      1.6      1.4     (0.1)    (0.2)    (0.2)    (0.3)      0.1      0.3       0.3
Yeroln Sa1age                             (1.)      2.1      4.9       4.3      3.9      3.4       3.1      2.6      2.1      1.4       0.8
ICOS (Ione)                                 21.3      1.6      1.9       4.7     40.0     12.0      12.0     12.0     12.0     12.5      12.6
Publi Secter (eab bods. as X of currant GDOP)
Total Current Ravenee                       13.0     14.1      17.3     16.9     16.9     16.6      16.6     16.7     18.7     16.7      16.4
Tetal Current   penituee at                 13.9     15.2      16.1     16.6     16.7     16.8      16.9     17.2     17.0     17.1      17.1
Interoat  penitureo                        5.2      3.4       1.6      2.3      3.0      3.1       3.4      3.6      3.4      3.6       3.6
Stil security taWi                          (0.3)     0.1)     0.3      (0.6)    (1.9)    (1.6)    (1.7)    (1.1)    (1.3)    (1.1)    (1.0)
PR Non-interet Srig.                         1.2      0.3      0.2      (0.2)    (0.3)    (0.4)    (0.3)    (0.3)    (0.3)    (0.2)    (0.2)
Public Swing.                               (2.0)    (0.9)     1.6       1.4     (0.1),   (0.2)    (0.2)    (0.3)      0.1      0.3      0.3
Capital laevenue                             0.6      1.2      1.3       0.2      0.0      0.0      0.0       0.0      0.0      0.0      0.0
Capital Suzpeture                            1.9      1.6      1.4       1.4      I.S      2.0      2.0       2.0      2.0      2.0      2.0
Nonfiancil Public Sector                    (3.3)    (1.3)      1.4      0.2     (1.9)    (2.2)    (2.2)    (2.3)    (1.9)    (1.7)    (1.7)
qu -t.ita Surplu                             0.0      0.0      (0.0)     0.1      0.2      0.2      0.3       0.3      0.4      0.4      0.4
Ovrall Bolan"                               (3.3)    (1.3)     1.3       0.3     (1.7)    (1.9)    (1.9)    (1.9)    (1.5)    (1.3)    (1.2)
Praq Burpl                                 1.9      2.1      3.1       2.3      1.1      1.0       1.2      1.3      1.6      1.9       2.0
Pr1nar Surpliw (0s5 millon)              2,012    2,637    4.756    4,142    1.843   1.03    2,280   .2.684    3.300    4,132    4,452
Operatinal Primr Surplus (6s5  illon)   1,379    11221    2.780    3,792    1.843    1.03    2.260    2,64    3,300    4.131    4,452
teraet  lbepditure  (6s5  }ml            5.496    4.650    1,665    3.652    3.114    5.721    6.3"6    7,192    7.269    7.749    8.264
Primary Surplue Cerage Rltto bI           36.6     41.4    177.1    107.5      36.0     31.3    35.7       37.3     45.4     53.3    $3.9
Balance of Payment .
Experte  PS (real greoth rt                 18.1      2.2      3.9       5.3      9.1      6.7      6.7       4.7      6.8      4.6       4.6
lgpoto of  TW6Olurrent GDP                  14.1     11.0      10.6     10.9     11.6     12.2      13.0     13.7     14.3     15.4      16.2
Imort. 0BPS (real groWh rate)               (2.4)    65.7     36.7      (0.4)     0.1      0.9       1.7      1.8      4.3      2.6      2.6
Import. ot GPiCurren GDP                     6.7      8.7      12.6     12.0     11.7     11.6      11.7     11.S     12.2     12.4      12.6
Trade Balane  (65$ mllio                   8.131    4.007   (1,314)    (206)   1,21    2.291    3,336    4,539    5,166    6,643    8.19S
Current Account Balasc (US$ millian)       1,734   (2,74)  (7.315)  (7.477)  (6,762)  (6,264)  (3,942)  (5.198)  (4,234)  (3,094)  (1.697)
Capta Ace.mt Balance (S$ utlieo)             704    3,452   10.613    8,277    7,35U     7,064    6.742    5,996    3.056    3,694    2,697
Public                                    (493)   3,74S      (222)     146    2,164    2,723    2.657    5.643    5,205    3.224    3.572
trivate                                   1,197    1.704   10.936    S,129    '.419    4,361    4.085       ii2     (149)  (1,330)  (2,673)
Current Ac t        eurrtOP                  1.7      (2.0)    (4.9)    (4.5)    (3.9)    (3.3)    (3.1)    (2.6)-   (2.0)    (1.4)    (0.6)
Debt Indictores
total Debt (666 dillion)                  63,533   67,399   92.340   93,100  101,778  109.880  116.469  119,999  112,263  122,60   121,764
Total Publc Se"tor Debt                   60.74U   63,145   79.167   75,909   78,640   82,376   85,958   89,627   93,253   96,230   99,160
orein  Debt                             57,6      60,645   40,530   40,046    62,533   45,196   67,826   72.993   77,660   81,923   86.160
Doaestic Debt                            2.906    2,300   18,637   15.641   16,315   17,17S   16,130   16,634   13,573   14,307   13.020
Total Publc Debt/Curret GOP                 57.6     44.6      51.7     43.5     45.4     45.3      43.2     43.2     44.S     44.2      43.3
tOt  Debt searvilCurren OP                  11.4      6.4      5.3       5.7      6.6      7.1       7.7      9.5      9.3     10.1      10.9
Preferezd Creditor DO/ODP c/                 2.7      3.2      3.0       2.6      2.9      3.1      3.1       4.1      3.6      3.9       3.7
Preferred Credtor DoS/oenent Revenue di    19.3      20.7      16.1     13.6     13.2     16.       16.8     21.9     20.4     20.7      19.8
PS Coverae Ratio for Prefd. Croditea       136.4    179.3    368.9    261.7      65.9     75.9      66.9     93.5    124.6    161.5    161.3
a/ trensfer of ouAifieeal eapendturse to te TreSaury to 1990t ixcludeo PVS itoret paymens.
b/ Primlr Surplumetic an Poren t ntuert Pamnt* of the Public S etor.
e/ Preferrd Credtoe ar  orA Bok, D.   1D8,  BOus. . ad bOlt.
d Covarno_n reve_o eely Sanlud# national a4anWitraticn rovenues.
*J Perio  oerage, L20.



- 44 -
AEN III
The Stwucture of Argentina' e External Debt
End-1992   End-1993    End-2000
Total External Debt                  72,792      75,373       98,775
Public  nd Publicly Guarant"ed       60,530      60,103       58,731
Official                           20,097      23,729       28,381
World Bank                        3,037       4,404        5,425
IDB and other Multilater4le       3,697       4,475        6,803
IMF                               2,882       3,678          103
Bilaterals and Other p/          10,481      11,172       16,050
Fianscial Markets                  23,354      28,342       24,485
Ineligible for D,bt Deal          2,415       2,272          570
Eligible for Debt Deal           20,934           0            0
New Instruments                       0      26,070       23,915
Bonds (excl. New Instruments)       8,683       8,032        5,865
Interest Arrears                    8,396           0            0
Private _on-Gua_ anteed              12,262      15,270       40,044
Medium- and long-term               3,692       3,892        4,792
Short-term                          8,570      11,378       35,252
a/   Includes unidentified sources.



- 45 -
ANNEX IV
Debt and Debt Service Reduction Loan
Supplementary Data Sheet
Section I: Timetable of Rev tGvents
(a)   Time taken by the Country to prepare program: 10 months
(b)   Prepared by: Ministry of Economy and Public Works and Services
(c)   First Presentation to Banks April 1992
(d)   Departure of Appraisal Mission: N.A.
(e)   Completion of Negotiations: November 1992
(f)   Planned Date of Effectiveness: March 1993
Section II: Special Bank Implementation Action
None
Section III: Sgecial Conditions
The following have been established as conditions of effectiveness:
(a)   The Borrower has confirmed the availability of adequate resources to
implement the Agreement;
(b)   The Implementation Agreements have become effective;
(c)   The Borrower has entered agreements for the exchange of debt
aggregating at least 90 percent of eligible debt under the 1992
Financing Plan, of which approximately 35 percent shall be exchanged
for discount bonds; and
(d)   The Borrower's macroeconomic policy framework is consistent with the
objectives of the Economic Program.
It has been established that no withdrawals from the loan account shall be made
unless:
(a)   the Bank shall have approved the procedures for such withdrawals;
(b)   the Bank shall be satisfied with the arrangements made for the
maintenance of the collateral; and
(c)   except as the Bank shall otherwise agree, the set-aside funds are
being disbursed concurrently with the proceeds of the loan.



- 46 -
THE STATUS OF BANK GROUP OPERATIONS IN ARGENTlNA
STATEMENT OF BANK LOANS (as of September 30,1992)
---______--___                --------------------                    --- -----------------
Amount (less
Loan or                                                     cancellations)    Undisbursed
Credit    Fiscal
Number  Year       E3orrower     Purpose                       (USS million)
Fully disbursed loans (31)                                            3174.9           0.0
2592     1985      YPF            Gas Utilization&
Tech. Assistance                   180.0           35.6
2641     1986      Argentina     Water Supply                                         36.0
2751     1987      Argentina      Power Engineering                     14.0           0.2
2793     1987      Argentina      Small & Med Scale Cr                  68.1           4.3
2854     1987      Argentina     Power Distributlon                    276.0         169.2
2920     1988      Argentina      Municipal Development                120.0          94.7
2970     1988      BANADE        Agriculture Credit                    106.5           1.0
2984     1989      Argentina      Social Sector                         28.0          13.0
2997     1989      Argentina     Housing Sector                         30.0           0.6
3015     1989      Argentina     Tax Admin. TA.                          6.5           1.0
3280     1991      Argentina     Provincial Development                200.0         195.5
3281     1991      Argentina     Water Supply                          100.0          99.0
3291     1991      Argentina     PERAL                                 300.0         148.4
3292     1991      Argentina      PEREL                                 23.0          17.7
3297     1991      Argentina     Agricultural Services                  33.5          29.9
3362     1991      Argentina      Pub Sectr Reform TA.                  23.0          20.0
3394     1991      Argentina     Pub Sectr Reform (PSRL)               325.0         462.5
3416     1992      YPF Sociedad  Hydrocarbon Engr.                      28.0          24.0
Anonima
3460 1/   1992     Argentina     Tax Administration II                  20.0          20.0
3520 2/   1993     Argentina     Yacreta II                            300.0         300.0
3521 2/   1993     Argentina      Flood Rehab                          170.0         170.0
TOTAL                                                                 5586.5
of which has been repaid                                             1722.1
TOTAL NOW OUTSTANDING                                                3,864.4
AMOUNTSOLD                                                              12.8
ot which has been repaid                                               12.8
TOTAL NOW HELD BY BANK AND IDA                                       3,851.6
5==2===
TOTAL UNDIS8URSED                                                                   1542.6
1/ Not yet effectve.
2/ Not yet signed.
14-Oct-92



- 47 -                                       ANNEX  VI
ARIGENTINA
S'IA'1'1iMrXNT OF tFC TNVI'ST'M UNTS
As of SePembe 30. 1092
SS    lna)
Orisiral Gross Commitmeents    Held  Hold by Undiisbused
Fiscal Yew,                                                          IFC   IFC   Parti-              by   Partial- (Including
Committed          Obliger                    Type of dBusine         Loan Equity  panta   Total   IFC    Pwns    Ptcipants)
1960            a/ Acindar SA.                Ste Produds              2.90      -     0.76    3.66     -       -           -
1960            a/ Pepelera Rio Paana SA.     Pulp and Paper           3.00      -       -     3.00     -       -           -
1961            r/ FedesaSA.                  Motor Veh.&AAcceorias    1.23      -     0.28    1.51     -       -            -
1902            a/ Pasa SAIC                  Potrochemical            3.05      -       -     3.05     -       -            -
1965/72         a/ Celulosargentira           Pulp and Paper           8.25      -     4.25   12.50     -       -            -
1969            a/ Edtorial Codex S.A.        Printing and Publishing  4.60    2.00    0.40    7.00     -       -            -
1969,75         a/ Dalmin Siderca SAIC       Iron and Stol            14.75     -     2.25   17.00     -       -            -
1971/73         a) CaleraAvellanada SA.       Cement                   5.50      -       -     5.50
1977184186/88      Alpartas SAIC              Textiles and Shoe.      37.93    5.00    7.50   50.43   19.35     -           1.63
1977/85         a/ SoyexS.A                   FoodandFoodProcem       21.00      -       -    21.00     -       -            -
1978/t1/182/87/93  Juan Minetti SA.           Cement                   35.50    4.50   67.50  107.50   16.60    14.53       4.50
1978185187/88/91   Massuh SA                  Pulp and Paper          24.50    4.25    3.00   31.75   18.40     -           0.08
1979!82187/92      IpakoSA.                   PetrochenIcals          21.00    1.10    9.00   31.10    1.00     6.25        0.00
1979/83/84         Alpesca S.A.               Food & Food Procs        5.21    1.60      -     6.81    1.61     -           -
1984180            PotroquimicaCuyo SA.       Chemicabs& Ptoachem.    21.00    4.00   21.00   48.09   14.55    11.84        0.40
1988               Ropas/                     Capital Markets            -    0.05       -     0.05    0.05     -            -
1988            a/ AtnorS.A.                  Chemicals                7.00    1.00      -     8.00     -       -            -
1986/87            Sadicar                    Capitall Markets           -    2.05       -     2.05    2.00     -           1.00
1986/89/91          Banco Robet $SA           Cpial Market             26.00    2.00     -    28.00   16.57     -           7.40
1987               Garovagi y Zorraquin       Genra Manulaturing       13.00     -       -    13.00    7.5      -            -
1987/90            Hidra Oil                  Crude Petrol. & Nat Gas    80.00   -    27.60  107.60   13.91     3.84
1987J90191         Tertina a6SA               Port FacIliis           1250    0.00    0.00   12.50    8.54      0.00         -
1988               AstaCAPSALindero            Energy                  12.38     -       -    12.38    3.75     -            -
1988                BungeySorn                Foodand FoodProem       40.00      -       -    40.00   24.00     -            -
1988               Acor SAiC                  General ManiuachrIng    12.00      -       -    12.00    6.00     -            -
1988/93            BridasLinderoSAPIC         Energy                   55.60   15.00   60.00  130.60   50.00    -            -
19t8/89            SON                       D0V. Finane               20.00     -       -    20.00   16.88     -           3.40
198892            BancoRioCL (RLP)           Ov.F inanco             50.00      -       -    50.00   47.00     -          18.05
1988/92            Chirot                     Chembieh& Perochem.        -    6.62       -     6.62    6.61     -           1.86
1989               Corn Geral do nvernes   Finanl Servies                -    0.10       -     0.10    0.10     -           0.00
1989               Chuhkdls                   Energy                     -    4.05       -     4.95    4.95     -           0.12
1989               AIC                         SO&SINt*fkaclst.          -    2.00       -     2.00    2.00     -           2.00
1989               Banco Francas                ev. Finne             15.00      -       -    15.00   15.00     -           -
1989/92            AtmraCAPSA                 Energy                   50.00     -    43.00   03.00   38.5    43.00
9900                CIP                       Financlae Svi              -    0.07       -     0.07    0.07     -           -
1990191            Pelroken                   Chemkahas& Ptochem.    20.00       -    11.00   31.00   20.00    11.00         -
19o1               BancodeCreditoArgertino    financddServ               -   10.00       -    10.00   10.00     -           5.50
1992               Polisu                     Chemaicas                  -    7.00       -     7.00    7.00     -            -
1992                Petrolera Argenrvna San Jorge  Energy                -   17.00       -    17.00   17.00     -           0.88
1992               M8A Bola                   CalaMi'eta                 -    0.18       -     0.18    0.1t     -           0.02
1992               frigoricoRiopatensr         Saughtring. Preparing   12.00    1.00    8.00   19.00   13.00    6.00        6.00
1992               OlesginosOeste             SunflowerSeed Agriu.    20.00      -    15.00   35.00   20.00    15.00
TOtl Grn Comm itment  i                          654.90    1.47  27.83 1025.00
Les: Cancell0aors Torminrons. Repayment & Saws    304.50   19.60  165.10  489.20
Total Cowaitment New Hed eJ                      350.40  71.87  113.40 55.73  422.    113.40           62.90
Pendina Commitents:
Petrolera Argentina San Jorge  Energy              15.00   1C.00   35.00   60.00
(Huantrab*o S3@oI
Copeko                    Chemls & Petrochemica   8.00       -    11.00   19.00
Banco Rio CL (BRLMM              p      tna          -       -    20.00   20.00
MalriaPampa               Ag _buainss              12.00     -     6.00   18.00
Ferrotxpreso Pampeano     Inkastructue             11.00    2.00   16.00   29.00
Arg. Emerging Maroet     FfinncW Services            -    4.00       -     4.00
sub-tolal                                         48.00   16.00   88.00  150.00
Total C      _mmlbnents Held and Pending CommItments    396.40  87.87  201.4685i.73
Total Undisbwsed Commitbnts                       40.85  10.05    2.00   52.80
a/ Investments which have been IulV cancelled, terminated written-off. sold, redeemed or repaid.
b/ Gross Commitments consist of approved and signed projects.
ct Held Commments consist of disbused and undisbursed investntrs.



