FiLi  COPY                                 Document of
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Report No. P-2247-MAS
REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION
OF THE
PRESIDENT OF THE
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
TO THE
EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS
ON A
PROPOSED LOAN
TO
MAURITIUS
FOR A
SECOND EDUCATION PROJECT
March 13, 1978
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
Calendar 1977               January 1978
Unit            =   Mauritian Rupee (Rs)         Mauritian Rupee (Rs)
US$1                Rs 6.60                      Rs 6.35
Rs 1,000        =   US$151.51                    US$157.48
Rs 1,000,000   =   US$151,515.15                 US$157,480.31
(The Staff Appraisal Report is based on US$1 = Rs 6.58)
FISCAL YEAR
July 1 to June30



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
MAURITIUS - SECOND EDUCATION PROJECT
LOAN AND PROJECT SUMMARY
Borrower:       Mauritius
Beneficiary:    Ministry of Education and Cultural Affairs
Amount:         US$15.2 million equivalent
Terms:          For a period of 17 years, including 4 years of grace, at an
interest rate of 7.45 percent per annum.
Project          (a)  Objective:  To assist the Government in strengthening
Description:         its capacity to administer educational activities and
in restructuring secondary education to reflect the
needs of the Mauritian socio-economic environment and
to improve the quality of education and make access to
educational opportunities more equitable.
(b)  Major components:  (i) Technical assistance and facili-
ties for a reorganization of the Ministry of Education
and Cultural Affairs, and improvements at the Primary
Teacher Training College, the Ministry's Audio-Visual
Center and the Mauritius Institute of Education; (ii)
the creationi of 9,120 additional student places in
junior secondary schools; and (iii) technical assis-
tance to assist the establishment of a Central Training
Off ici.
(c) Benefits: Strengthening of planning, coordinating and
implemnentation capacity of the Ministry of Education
and Cultural Affairs; improving efficiency of junior
secondary education by reducing operating costs per
student/year.
(d) Risks: Insufficient control by Government of growth
of senior secondary school enrollment.
Estimated Cost: The estimated total project cost is US$23.8 million equiva-
lent, net of taxes, including a foreign exchange component
of US$15.2 million. Detailed costs are:
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance
of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



- ii -
Description                       Local Cost      Foreign Cost       Total Cost
----------------US$ Million---------------
Reorganization of the Ministry
of Education and Cultural
Affairs                            1.5               2.1             3.6
Primary Teacher Training College   0.3                 0.5             0.8
Improvement of teaching aids         0.3               0.5             0.8
Junior secondary education           4.8               6.8            11.6
Technical assistance                 0.1               1.3             1.4
Architectural/engineering
services, project admini-
stration and project
evaluation                         1.0               1.0             2.0
Contingencies: physical
and price increases                2.0              3.0              5.0
Total Project Cost              10.0             15.2             25.2
(Total Project Cost
excluding taxes and
duties)                            8.6             15.2             23.8
Financing Plan:
The financing of the project would be shared as follows:
Local  Foreign   Total       Percent of
Cost     Cost    Cost           Total
Bank Loan                         -       15.2    15.2           64
Government                       8.6        -      8.6           36
8.6     15.2    23.8           100
Estimated
Disbursements:
--------------US$ Million----------------
Bank FY       1979     1980      1981       1982     1983
Annual                         1.2       2.5      5.1        5.4       1.0
Cumulative                     1.2       3.7      8.8       14.2      15.2
Staff Appraisal
Report:         No. 1825a-MAS dated February 28, 1978



INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION OF THE PRESIDENT
TO THE EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS ON A
PROPOSED LOAN TO MAURITIUS FOR A
SECOND EDUCATION PROJECT
1.        I submit the following report and recommendation on a proposed loan
to Mauritius for the equivalent of US$15.2 million to help finance a second
education project. The loan would be for a period of seventeen years,in-
cluding 4 years of grace, at an interest rate of 7.45 percent per annum.
PART I - THE ECONOMY
2.        A memorandum entitled "Recent Economic Developments and Prospects in
Mauritius" (Report No. 268a-MAS) was circulated to the Executive Directors on
March 13, 1974. A Basic Economic Report is being printed and will be circu-
lated to the Executive Directors shortly. A summary of the conclusions of
the report is set out below. Country data sheets are provided in Annex I.
3.        Mauritius is a small, densely populated island with, until recently,
only one significant source of income: sugar. During the 1950s and 1960s,
two disturbing features pervaded the Mauritian economy: a rapidly growing
population, at a rate of about 2.8 percent per year, and economic stagna-
tion. During the 1960s, real GNP per capita, in fact, declined. A successful
family planning program was started in the early 1960s, as a result of which
the population growth was stemmed to a rate of only 1.1 percent a year by
the mid-1970s. However, the children born in earlier years reached working
age by the late 1960s, and, with employment opportunities limited, unemploy-
ment reached alarming lproportions. In 1972, sixteen percent of the labor
force was unemployed. The economic stagnation reflected the almost sole
reliance of the economy on sugar. The sugar market was generally depressed
and, in any case, there were physical limitations to a significant further
expansion of the industry.
4.        In its two successive Plans for Social and Economic Development (the
first covering 1971-1975; the second 1975-1980) the Government, therefore,
made the creation of new jobs its main objective. Helped by generous incen-
tives designed to stimulate local enterprises and to attract foreign investors,
the Government embarked on a program of industrialization and the promotion of
tourism. This program was supplemented by some agricultural diversification
(tea), and a public works program. Government policies have been very suc-
cessful. Despite a devastating cyclone in 1975, which destroyed almost
one-third of the sugar crop, real GDP grew at an average rate of 8.1 percent
a year between 1970 and 1976. In the latter year, GNP per capita reached
US$680. The main stimulus has been the growth of labor-intensive export
industries. Up to 1975, the favorable developments were greatly aided by the
rise in sugar prices, as a result of which the terms of trade improved by some



- 2 -
30 percent between 1970 and 1975. Gross domestic income, therefore, grew
even faster than real GDP. The rise in incomes stimulated a rapid growth in
manufacturing for the domestic market, construction and services industries.
5.        The rapid growth in production was accompanied by a satisfactory
increase in employment. The target of the First Plan was the creation of
13,000 new jobs annually. Recorded employment in larger establishments
(with more than 20 employees) rose by an annual average of 8,900 between
1970 and 1976. There is evidence that unrecorded employment in smaller
establishments also grew rapidly, and that the Plan's target was virtually
achieved. The unemployment rate had fallen to about 11 percent by 1975.
In certain sectors and for certain types of jobs, in particular those
requiring vocational skills, labor shortages are appearing.
6.        However, Mauritius has still a core of unemployment which is proving
hard to eliminate. Almost all new jobs created during the last six years are
located in the urban strip running from Port Louis to Curepipe, which, despite
the small size of the country, is not easily accessible from several of the
high unemployment areas. Government is considering better locational planning
of new enterprises and improving the internal transport system to help solve
the problem. Also, a substantial part of the unemployed consists of young
people with some secondary education, but without any specific skills.
7.        Deficiencies in education and training are a major constraint to
development. Schools do not provide adequate training for the jobs avail-
able. Shortages of trained workers have already slowed down the expansion
of the construction industry, and employers in industry and tourism have
difficulty in finding qualified workers. At present, job training is car-
ried out independently by various employers in the economy and individual
factories without much coordination. In order to raise industrial produc-
tivity and to attract more new industries to Mauritius, in particular those
requiring higher skills, it will be necessary to adopt a more systematic
approach to practical training. The establishment of a Central Training
Office under the proposed Second Education Project is designed to fill this
gap.
8.        The rapid increase in real income, combined with the fact that
incomes of enterprises (mostly sugar) rose even faster than those of wage
earners, led to substantially increased savings and investment in recent
years. Savings rose from 14 percent of GDP in 1970 to 24 percent in 1975.
Over the same period, the investment rate rose from 12 percent to 23 percent.
Most of the increased savings accrued in the private sector, and financed
re-equipment and renovation in the sugar industry, hotel and factory construc-
tion, and private residences. The Government's own savings remained low, but
a substantial part of public investment was financed from domestic long-term
borrowing.
9.        Almost 75 percent of total investment consists of private invest-
ment. Between 1970 and 1976, private investment in real terms grew much
faster than public investment, which was constrained by a limited implementa-
tion capacity. As a result, certain mismatches have occurred between private



- 3 -
investment and supporting public investment, and Mauritius now faces physical
constraints to a continued rapid development. Water and electricity supply
will need to be expanded substantially to meet industrial, agricultural and
domestic needs. Closer planning of land use is necessary to take advantage of
existing infrastructure. EPublic transport and traffic management are in need
of improvement in the urban areas. The expansion of certain export industries
is hampered by the inadequaLcy of existing port facilities. The Second Plan
(1975-80), published in May 19i6, broadly recognizes the constraints noted
above. It proposes a public investment program amounting to US$358 million
with priority being given to the diversification of agricultural production
and to infrastructure development.
10.       In 1975, the poorest 40 percent of the population shared 14 percent
of total income, while the richest 20 percent had 55 percent. These figures
show that income distribution in Mauritius is somewhat more uneven than in
most developing countries. This, however, is mainly due to the predominance
of the sugar industry, which is to a large extent in the hands of relatively
few people. On the other hand, 1975 is not entirely representative, because
unusually high sugar prices caused windfall profits in the industry that
year. The Government is committed to improving the income distribution in
the country. The principal vehicle for this is the creation of new jobs
for the unemployed. Also, in recent years, when rising profits in the sugar
industry and imported inflation threatened to erode the Government's redis-
tributive aims, the Government acted by allowing wages to increase sharply
and by directing a large part of its current expenditures towards transfers
and food subsidies, which mainly benefited the poorer sections of the popu-
lation.
11.       Thus, the Government's policies with respect to the current budget
have been rather more effective at achieving the social goal of reducing in-
come disparities than at mobilizing domestic savings for public investment.
Up to 1975, the Government could afford to increase current expenditures
rapidly, as tax revenue also increased fast as a result of higher sugar
profits. After 1975, however, sugar prices have declined sharply. While
Mauritius had realized US$374 per ton for its 1975 crop, the price is esti-
mated to be only US$285 per ton in 1977. Tax revenue started stagnating,
and it became clear that current expenditure had been allowed to increase
to a level that could not easily be sustained in a period of lower sugar
prices. The current budget, which showed a surplus of US$25 million in
1975/76, had a deficit of US$6 million in 1976/77. For 1977/78, an even
larger deficit of almost US$25 million is expected. As sugar prices are
expected to recover only slowly, restrictive budgetary policies will be
necessary. The Government has already taken some steps to increase revenue
and to dampen demand, but stronger measures are called for if, as it is the
Government's intention, plablic savings are to contribute substantially to
the financing of public investment.
12.       Because of the fall in sugar prices and the continued strong demand
for imports, the balance of payments for 1976 closed with a current account
deficit of almost US$50 million, as compared to a surplus of US$21 million in



- 4 -
1975. A somewhat larger current account deficit is estimated to have occurred
in 1977. Consequently, there was a substantial fall in foreign exchange
reserves, which declined from US$166 million (5.4 months of imports) at the
end of 1975 to US$71 million (2.1 months of imports) in November 1977, in
spite of a compensatory drawing from IMF of US$12.8 million. As a policy
measure to restrain aggregate spending and the demand for imports, the bank
rate was raised by 2 percentage points to 9 percent and stricter credit curbs
were introduced in January 1978. A Trust Fund loan and a standby credit of
US$9.3 million (first credit tranche) were recently approved by the IMF. The
amount of the Trust Fund loan has not yet been determined but is likely to be
about US$11.5 million.
13.       If the Government succeeds in restoring the internal and external
financial equilibrium, the prospects for further long-term growth are good.
With continued industrialization, an annual GDP growth rate of 5 to 6 percent
could be attained. Barring another boom in sugar prices, however, a larger
proportion of investment than before will have to be financed from foreign
capital inflows. Public external capital inflows averaged about US$6 million
a year over the five years ending in 1976, and we estimate that they will
have to average about US$60 million a year over the next five years. Pros-
pects for mobilizing long-term public loans are favorable. Mauritius' Asso-
ciated Membership in the European Economic Community has given it access
to financing from the European Development Fund and the European Investment
Bank. Mauritius is also eligible for loans from the African Development Bank,
the African Development Fund and BADEA.
14.       Mauritius' external public debt is very low.  At the end of 1976,
the amount outstanding and disbursed was US$46.3 million, US$9.7 million' of
which was held by IBRD and US$11.0 million by IDA. Total service payments in
1976 were US$3.7 million, of which US$1.3 million to IBRD (35 percent) and
US$0.4 million to IDA (11 percent). The ratio of debt service to exports was
one percent in 1976. On the basis of the present level of commitments and
disbursements, the country's total public debt outstanding and disbursed is
projected to rise to US$105 million by 1985, of which the Bank's share is
expected to be about US$26 million (25 percent) and IDA's US$20 million (19
percent). Total service payments in 1985 are projected to amount to US$8.6
million, of which the Bank's share will be US$2.9 million (33 percent) and
IDA's US$0.3 million (3 percent). If future capital requirements were to be
attracted on non-concessional terms (an average maturity of 12 years with 2
years grace and 10 percent interest), debt service would reach the equivalent
of about 8 percent of export earnings by 1985. In reality, however, foreign
capital is likely to be available on less hard terms, and the debt service
ratio is not likely to be much higher than 5 percent by 1985.
PART II - BANK GROUP OPERATIONS IN MAURITIUS
15.       Mauritius has received five IDA credits and seven Bank loans (in-
cluding one loan on Third Window terms) totaling US$64.3 million to help
finance projects in industry (US$27.5 million), infrastructure (US$20.6



-5-
million), agriculture (US$9.2 million) and education (US$7 million). IFC
made a loan in 1971 for hotel construction and has recently approved a second
project in the same sector. Annex II contains a summary statement of Bank
loans and IDA Credits, and of IFC investments in Mauritius as of January 31,
1978, and notes on the execution of ongoing projects. Implementation of the
industrial and infrastructural projects is generally satisfactory. The edu-
cation and the tea projects initially faced management problems but these
have now been brought under control. The management of the rural develop-
ment project still requires strengthening and the matter is being followed
up.
16.       The program for Bank Group lending to Mauritius will continue to
support the Government's strategy of promoting economic diversification and
creating employment through the development of industry. We expect the
Development Bank of Mauritius to remain the main channel for Bank Group
assistance to the country's industrialization efforts and will continue to
assist in sustaining its role as Mauritius' leading development financing
institution. Growing industrialization has resulted in a heightened need
for infrastructural improvements. In future, we expect to participate in
projects aimed at improving and expanding infrastructure and related insti-
tutions. A power transmission project was negotiated in February and is
expected to be submitted to the Board for consideration in the near future.
The Government has been assured of our willingness to assist development in
water supply as soon as measures are taken to strengthen the financial posi-
tion of the Central Water Authority. A highway project has been identified
and is expected to be studied by consultants later this year.
PART III - THE EDUCATION AND TRAINING SECTOR
17.       Mauritius' popualation density, with about 450 persons per square
kilometer, is one of the highest in the world among predominantly agricul-
tural countries. The 1975-80 Development Plan sets out full employment as
the principal development objective. Within this context, the education and
training sector is called upon to prepare manpower with the practical back-
ground and skills on which to build on-the-job training and experience in
manufacturing and commerce. As an integral part of the Development Plan, the
education policy aims to reorientate the educational system from its overly
literary content to a "modern" and "Mauritianized" system reflecting the
needs of the local environment. In addition, the education policy aims at
improving management and administrative capacity within the sector and at
making access to education more equitable.
Management and Administration
18.       The Ministry of Education and Cultural Affairs is responsible for
developing sectoral policy and programs. In addition, the Ministry admin-
isters - directly or inclirectly - primary, secondary and vocational schools.
However, as the Ministry is without a planning unit and also without a clearly



- 6 -
defined    c  ipor.ng system, it has been unable to perform these functions
fully. Partly to make up for the inadequacies of the Ministry, several
parastatal organizations have been established since Independence in 1968.
These i-clude, among others, the Mauritius Institute of Education respon-
sible     curriculum development, examination schemes and secondary school
teacher training; the Private Secondary Schools Authority to control and
chan,2-l government assistance to private schools; and the Mahatma Gandhi
Institute to improve oriental language teacher training. It is questionable,
however, whether the proliferation of parastatal organizations has benefited
the sector.  The matter needs review, especially since the management and
administration of the sector has become more complex and the responsibilities
of the Ministry have increased greatly, due to the elimination of tuition
fees in January 1977 and the resultant rapid increase in junior secondary
school enrollment. This will be carried out as part of a reorganization of
the Ministry to be undertaken under the project (see paragraph 30 below).
19.       The problem of inadequate managerial and administrative efficiency
in the Ministry is aggravated by the fact that its offices are spread out
at eight different places in the capital, Port Louis. Communication within
the Ministry often takes several days. Rented office facilities are also
inadequate and often three to five persons work in a space sufficient for
one. Thzse difficulties would be alleviated by the construction, to be
financed under the proposed project, of a new building to house the Ministry
(see paragraph 30).
20.       Management and administration of educational and training programs
outside the formal educational system also need improvement. These programs
are administered by various Ministries and agencies, including those of the
private sector. Besides the University of Mauritius, which trains profes-
sional and middle-level technical personnel in agriculture, public admin-
istration and industrial technology, there are vocational schools at the
post-secondary level in such fields as electricity, metalwork, carpentry,
seamanship, hotels and catering, and nursing. Although there has not been a
systematic and comprehensive survey to discern the existing stock of and the
need for workers by skill, the composition of the labor force is likely to
change as the Mauritian economy moves from outright dependence on sugar to
greater industrialization. It is important to coordinate the overall supply
of skilled workers and the relevant training programs. For proper management
and administration of these training programs, it is necessary to define
occupations, set the occupational standards and test the skill levels based
on these standards. These activities will be undertaken by the Central
Train-: n  -ire to be assisted under the proposed project (see paragraph 31).
Et.- t-, -. Quality
Since January 1977, education has been free at all levels.  Al-
though it is not compulsory, parents give utmost priority to education for
their children. The present structure of formal education consists of pri-
mary ed'cation (Standards 1 to 6), secondary education (Forms I to V), upper



- 7 -
secondary education (lower and upper Forms VI), and higher education. In
January 1977, the Government also announced that secondary education would
be restructured into three cycles starting in 1980: Forms I to III will
constitute junior secondary education, Forms IV and V senior secondary educa-
tion and Form VI pre-university education. Mauritius has virtually attained
universal primary education with 94 percent of the 6-11 age group attending
school, and now aims at the provision of nine-year basic education.
22.       The Government's decision to abolish fees and to restructure
secondary education so as to develop a nine-year basic education cycle was
taken to make access to education more equitable and to make basic education
more relevant to local c:onditions. Until January 1977, at the end of primary
education students were selected for entry into: (a) five-year secondary
schools; (b) four-year lower secondary schools; and (c) short occupational
training courses. Only those having access to five-year secondary schools
could proceed to professional training and/or higher education. However, the
five-year secondary schools were primarily "grammar schools" with emphasis
on languages and literary subjects, and those failing to complete the full
course were ill-adapted for work in industry and commerce. Furthermore, only
5 percent of the secondary school students found places in government schools
and the large majority had to settle for low-quality private schools mostly
run on a profit-making basis. Out of about 120 private secondary schools only
21 are sufficiently equipped, staffed and accommodated in suitable premises.
In general, children from high-income families entered good-quality five-year
secondary schools, whilea those from lower-income groups found places only in
poor-quality secondary schools, lower secondary schools or occupational train-
ing. The new structure, developed with the assistance of UNESCO and Bank
staff, will be fully effective in 1980; by that time, there will be only
one type of junior secondary education. At the same time, public education,
which now covers about 90 percent of the primary education enrollment, will
be gradually extended to the full nine-year basic education course.
23.       The introduction of free education in January 1977 ended the
differential treatment of 400 students who every year entered tuition-free
government secondary schools and the remaining 10,000 students who entered
private secondary schools which charged tuition fees. It has at the same
time encouraged a great number of primary school leavers and others who had
left school earlier for financial reasons to enroll in secondary schools.
The Form I intake grew at an average annual rate of 7 percent between 1971
and 1976, but between 1976 and 1977 jumped by 31 percent, from 16,000 in 1976
to 21,000 in 1977. In 1977 the percentage of enrollment in the first three
years of secondary education is estimated at 68 percent of the 12-14 age
group. By 1980 Mauritius will have practically attained universal nine-year
basic education.
24.       While recent educational developments have contributed to the broad-
ening of basic educational opportunities, they have created a heavy burden
on public finance. Financial assistance of the Ministry of Education to pri-
vate secondary schools has grown from 20 percent of the Ministry's budget in
1976/77 to 29 percent :in 1977/78. The Government allocation to the Ministry



-8-
in turn increased from 15 percent of the total recurrent expenditure in
1976/77 to 18 percent in 1977/78. The long-term projection of the Ministry's
share in total government recurrent expenditures varies. depending urnon the
sets of various economic, financial and educational assumptions. Bank staff
projections for 1987/88 indicate that the Ministry's share may range from 20
percent to 28 percent of the total recurrent budget. It is likely that in the
mid-1980s the Ministry's share of the total recurrent budget will stabilize
at around 23 percent. One of the assumptions associated with the highest
percentage is that post-junior secondary education will expand on the basis
of social demand, whereas the assumption associated with the lowest percentage
is that post-junior secondary education will be controlled to expand only on
the basis of manpower needs. The Government has decided to control the growth
of post-junior secondary education and is also considering possible cost-
saving measures, such as double-shift operation of Bank-assisted schools and
changes in the students:teacher ratios for both secondary and primary education
(see paragraph 51).
25.       As indicated in paragraph 22 above, another critical issue is the
wide difference in teacher quality and teaching facilities between government
and private schools. The 400 students who enter government schools each year
are the best qualified primary school leavers; obviously, their performance
on the School Certificate examination at the end of Form V is much higher,
with 84 percent pass rate in 1976, than that of private school students,
whose pass rate was only 38 percent in the same year. In 1976 there were
2,135 secondary teachers, of whom 9 percent were in government schools which
accounted for only 5 percent of total secondary enrollment. In terms of
educational qualification, 85 percent of government secondary school teachers
were university graduates, while 23 percent and 45 percent of private secondary
school teachers were university and secondary school graduates, respectively.
About 80 percent of the 120 private schools are housed in rented facilities
which were not designed for educational purposes. Some are located in the
basements of apartment houses. These schools lack proper classrooms and such
facilities as science laboratories. As the facilities to be constructed under
the proposed project (see paragraph 34 below) become operational, it is ex-
pected that these substandard private schools will close down.
External Assistance
26.       External assistance to the educational sector is also offered
bilaterally by the UK, France and India, and multilaterally by UNESCO, UNDP,
UNICEF, the Commonwealth Fund and the European Economic Community. While the
Bank's efforts are mainly directed to improve quality and equity in the basic
nine-year education system and training of manpower, the other agencies give
priority to specialized projects or programs with specific language and
cultural ties, and to higher education.



- 9 -
PART IV - THE PROJECT
Introduction
27.       A reHort entitled "Staff Appraisal Report -- A Second Education
Project in Mauritius" (No. 1825a-MAS dated February 28, 1978) is being cir-
culated separately. A supplementary project data sheet is given in Annex III.
The project, identified in January 1976 and prepared with the assistance of
UNESCO, was appraised by a Bank mission in August 1977. Negotiations were
held in Washington, D. C. from February 6 to February 8, 1978. The Mauritius
delegation was headed by the Hon. Jagatsingh, Minister of Education and
Cultural Affairs.
Background
28.       In 1974 the Bank made a US$3.5 million loan and US$3.5 million
credit for a First Education Project with a total cost of US$11.6 million
equivalent, including a foreign exchange component of US$7.4 million. The
project consisted of: (i) six new public lower secondary schools; (ii) six
laboratory and workshop centers for communal use by private schools; (iii) an
Industrial Trade Training Center; and (iv) five Rural Education Centers. It
also provided specialist services and fellowships for the Industrial Trade
Training Center and the Program Implementation Unit. After some initial
difficulties, physical implementation is proceeding satisfactorily. However,
to reflect the Government's decision to introduce a nine-year basic education
cycle (see paragraph 22 above) as well as the need to provide adequate facili-
ties in replacement of substandard ones, some changes have become necessary
with respect to the lower secondary schools and the laboratory and workshop
centers. These changes are described in paragraph 34.
Objectives
29.       The proposed project follows the thrust of the First Education
project in support of the Government's objective, as expressed in its 1975-80
Development Plan, to place greater emphasis on subjects pertinent to the needs
of the country and on tuition-free public education for low-income groups.
This goal is to be accomplished through improving the institutional capacity
to plan and administer educational activities as well as through providing
facilities suitable to train people for the Mauritian socio-economic environ-
ment. Specifically it includes:
(a) Technical assistance and facilities for a reorganization
of the Ministry of Education and Cultural Affairs;
(b) Technical assistance to the Central Training Office
which is to be created;
(c) Creation of 9,120 additional student places in junior
secondary schools through the expansion and conversion
of facilities provided under the First Education Project
and of three existing junior technical schools;



- 10 -
(d) Expansion and improvement of facilities of the Primary
Teacher Training College; and
(e) Facilities, equipment, furniture and technical assistance
for a new Audio-Visual Center and for the Mauritius Insti-
tute of Education.
Institution Building
30.       The proposed reorganization of the Ministry of Education and Cul-
tural Affairs would help resolve its present managerial and administrative
deficiencies. The proposed project provides technical assistance comprising
60 man-months of specialists' services and 48 man-months of fellowships for
a two-phased program. During the first phase, reorganization proposals would
be prepared and agreed by the Government and the Bank. The second phase
would consist of the implementation of the agreed proposals. The project
would also include financing for constructing, furnishing and equipping
a building to house the reorganized Ministry. As described in paragraph 19
above, the provision of these facilities is critical to the success of the
Ministry's reorganization but, although under consideration for several
years, it has, so far, been deferred due to lack of financing. Completion
of the first phase of the reorganization and satisfactory evidence that the
Borrower has taken all action necessary to implement the agreed proposals
would be conditions of disbursement for construction works (draft Loan
Agreement, Schedule 1, paragraph 4(b)). In addition, the Government will,
by December 31, 1978, establish an educational planning unit within the
Ministry of Education and Cultural Affairs to be headed by an educational
planner whose qualifications and experience shall be satisfactory to the
Bank (Section 4.05, draft Loan Agreement).
31.       The Government decided to establish a Central Training Office to
monitor closely the occupational training needs of the economy, which may
change from year to year. The Office would help ensure an adequate supply of
skilled manpower by coordinating the training programs sponsored by a variety
of agencies and, if necessary, by creating new training programs. It would
also set skill standards and tests.
32.       The proposed project would assist the establishment of this Office
by providing technical assistance in two phases for a total of 72 man-months
of specialist services and 60 man-months of fellowships. Specialist services
and fellowships would be provided in the areas of industrial training, job
classification, trade testing and certification, supervisory training and
handicrafts. The first phase of the study (12 man-months of specialist
services in the organization of occupational training) would examine alter-
native arrangements for the organizational structure for the Central Training
Office, and define the functions, the composition of the governing Board and
the staffing needs of the Secretariat. Proposals would be formulated for pro-
viding a continuous review of employment opportunities and the specialist(s)
would assist the Government in drafting the legislation required to establish
the Office. The second phase would assist in developing the Office and would
include 24 man-months of specialist services in job classification and the
design of minimum training needs, 12 man-months of specialist services in



- 11 -
trade testing and certification, 12 man-months of specialist services in
apprenticeship and in-plant training, 6 man-months of specialist services in
supervisory training, and 6 man-months of specialist services in handicrafts
training.
Improving Equity and Quality
33.       Mauritius is heaclirn  toward a universal nine-year basic education
with a revised and well-balanced curriculum. To support this objective, the
proposed project would help create 9,120 additional student places in junior
secondary schools, which would increase the Government's share of junior
secondary enrollments from 13 percent in 1976 to 29 percent in 1982. With
double-shifting at government schools and with the 21 better-quality private
schools, it is estimated that in 1982 about 70 percent of all junior secondary
students would be able to attend schools equipped with facilities suitable to
offer the revised curriculum.
34.       The 9,120 student places would be created by converting the six
four-year lower secondary schools, and six laboratory and workshop centers
which are being constructed under the First Education Project, and three
four-year existing junior technical schools, into a total of fifteen three-year
junior secondary schools. The schools and centers would also be expanded:
ten of them would accommodate eight classes in each of the three years and
become eight-stream schools; five would become six-stream schools. This
expansion would enable the Government to increase its share in enrollment with
a higher efficiency. The large capacity of the proposed schools would lower
the operating cost per student as well as the overall capital cost per student.
The Government has confirmed that:  (a) the new junior secondary school cur-
riculum will be introduced in all schools and a national examination at the
end of the junior secondary cycle will be held starting in 1980 to select
students on the basis of performance for entry into senior secondary schools
(Section 4.07 (a), draft Loan Agreement); and (b) the junior secondary schools
assisted by the project will be utilized on a double-shift basis in order to
maximize their impact (Section 4.07(b), draft Loan Agreement).
35.       The proposed project would include other items designed to improve
the quality of general education. It would assist the Primary Teacher Train-
ing College at Beau Bassin by expanding and improving its facilities. The
expansion would enable the College to increase its enrollment from 450 to 600
to augment its in-service training capacity. In-service training is given in
a one-year full-time course. The proposed project would assist the College
in improving the quality of instruction by providing various special facili-
ties including micro-teaching units, laboratories, workshops and a media and
resource center, and by providing technical assistance of 36 man-months of
fellowships in micro-teaching, and audio-visual aids maintenance and repair.
Primary teacher trainees would be instructed in new methods including the
use of audio-visual aids. The Government has agreed that, starting in 1980,
the ratio of trainees in the general purpose course to those in the oriental
languages courses will be five to one in order to avoid an oversupply of
teachers in oriental languaages (Section 4.06, draft Loan Agreement).



- 12 -
36.       All junior secondary schools supported by the proposed project
have been made co-educational. Out of 9,120 new student places, 5,400 or
about 60 percent will be reserved for girls to make up for previous inequity.
Entrance regulations for the Primary Teacher Training College stipulate
an enrollment ratio of two to one between male and female candidates. The
Government has agreed to change the regulations to the effect that candidates
be selected solely on the basis of merits and qualifications (Section 4.06,
draft Loan Agreement).
37.       Assistance would also be provided to the Audio-Visual Center
attached to the Ministry of Education and Cultural Affairs. The revised
curricula for primary and secondary education would use radio and television
broadcasting as an effective means of communication, which would require the
Center to play a greater role than in the past. There is, however, no pos-
sibility to expand or improve the activities of the present Center, which
is housed in three different locations on inadequate premises. The proposed
project would assist the radio and television education programs of the Cen-
ter by providing: (a) new facilities including audio and television studios,
production rooms and workshops for audio-visual support materials, as well
as a printing section with storage rooms; (b) equipment and furniture for
the different sections; and (c) technical assistance comprising 24 man-
months of specialist services in media service management and 135 man-months
of fellowships in the production of radio and television programs and in the
maintenance and repair of equipment. The new Audio-Visual Center would be
located in the vicinity of the Mauritius Institute of Education and would
work closely with it. Equipment and special rooms (e.g., studios) already
exist at the Institute for teacher training, and the carefully monitored
establishment of the new technical facilities, using the same system with
full inter-changeability, would facilitate maintenance and repair, and
increase the usefulness to both institutions.
38.       The Mauritius Institute of Education has been assisted by the
United Kingdom and UNDP, with UNESCO as the executing agency. With the
financial restrictions imposed on UNDP, this assistance has been cut nearly
in half in 1976. The proposed project would help the Institute overcome its
deficiencies by providing: (a) a building and equipment for the printing
section and for secondary teacher training; (b) library equipment and book
requirements for a four-year period; and (c) 150 man-months of fellowships.
The facilities for printing would be used by the Institute and the Audio-
Visual Center.
39.       The Government would prepare a project completion report assessing
the project, its implementation and its benefits. The report would be sub-
mitted to the Bank for review not later than June 30, 1982 (Section 3.06(c),
draft Loan Agreement).
Project Cost and Financing
40.       The estimated total project cost is US$23.8 million equivalent,
net of taxes, including a foreign exchange component of US$15.2 million.
The proposed Bank loan of US$15.2 million would finance the foreign exchange



- 13 -
cost or 64 percent of tot:al project cost, net of taxes. The Government would
finance the remaining project cost. A summary of estimated costs and the
proposed financing plan are as follows:
Summary of Estimated Costs
(in US$ millions)
Local   Foreign   Total   Percent of
Description                                 Cost      Cost      Cost       Total
1) Reorganization of the Ministry
of Education and Cultural
Affairs                                 1.5       2.1       3.6         14
2) Assistance to the Primary
Teacher Training Co:Llege               0.3       0.5       0.8          3
3) Improvement of teaching aids              0.3       0.5       0.8          3
4) Junior secondary education                4.8       6.8      11.6         46
5) Technical assistance                      0.1       1.3       1.4          6
6) Architectural/enginee:ring
services, project admin-
istration and evaluation                1.0       1.0      2.0           8
7) Contingencies: physical
and price increases                     2.0       3.0      5.0         20
Total Project Cost                     10.0      15.2     25.2        100
(Total Project Cost,
Net of Taxes and Duties)             8.6     15.2      23.8        100
Financing Plan
Bank Loan                                     -       15.2      15.2         64
Government                                   8.6        -        8.6         36
Total                                   8.6      15.2     23.8        100
Project Implementation
41.       The project would be implemented over a period of about 4-1/2 years
from loan effectiveness. The proposed Closing Date is December 31, 1982.
A Program Implementation. Unit established within the Ministry of Education
and Cultural Affairs for the first Bank Group-assisted project has performed
well and would carry out. all administrative functions for the proposed
project. The Unit is staffed by a manager, architect, procurement officer,



- 14 -
accountig  rid other support staff.  Not later than December 31, 1978, a
deputy manager, whose qualifications and experience shall be satisfactory
to the Bank, would be added to the unit to assist with the expanded workload
(draft Lo-E Agreement, Section 3.02(b)).  An architect presently on secondment
from the  cvelopment Works Corporation would be replaced by an architect from
the Ministry of Works on a full-time basis.  Two Mauritian architectural firms
appoin:ed for the First Education Project have been retained by the Government
for work on twelve junior secondary school expansions. Architectural con-
sultants would be appointed on terms and conditions acceptable to the Bank
for the design and supervision of construction of the Ministry of Education's
administrative building.
42.       The Ministry of Works would be responsible for design and supervision
of three junior secondary schools and the Primary Teacher Training College.
All sites are presently the property of the Ministry of Education and Cultural
Affairs and sufficient land is available for the proposed physical expansion
program, however, five of the proposed junior secondary school sites have
insufficient land for adequate student recreation/sports facilities. The
Government is aware of this difficulty and is making alternative arrangements
for the teaching of physical education.
Procurement
43.       Contracts for the construction of the administrative building for
the Ministry of Education and Cultural Affairs, the Primary Teacher Training
College, thie Audio-Visual Center and three junior secondary schools, and
furniture and equipment for the project would be awarded after international
competitive bidding in accordance with the Bank Group Guidelines for procure-
ment. These contracts, amounting to US$11.0 million, would represent about 52
percent of the total value of the physical facilities to be provided under the
project.  Exceptions to these procedures would be for construction contracts
costing less than US$250,000 equivalent each, and for furniture and equipment
contracts each costing less than US$50,000 equivalent. These contracts are
unlikely to attract foreign bidders and would be awarded after competitive
bidding advertised locally in accordance with local procedures acceptable to
the Bank. The aggregate amount of such contracts is not expected to exceed
US$500,000 equivalent. Construction contracts for the modification and ex-
pansion of the six schools and six centers being constructed under the First
Project (representing US$10.2 million or 48 percent of the cost of physical
facilities to be provided under the project) would be concluded without
further international competitive bidding through extensions of contracts
with contractors already on site for the following reasons:
(a)  Work is presently proceeding on all twelve sites and the
difficulties of site demarcation and contract delineation
would be virtually unmanageable due to the restricted size
of the sites and the nature of the work involved. The
proposed work includes extension of the buildings under
construction involving vertical and horizontal expansion
arI in some cases changes of function that necessitate
structural and internal partition rearrangements.



- 15 -
(b) Savings in cost would also result, as the contracts would
be based upon unit rates for construction as contained
in the original lbills of quantities for which bids were
tendered by international competitive bidding in 1977.
A standard fluctuation clause is included. If formal
retendering were required, considerable cost increases
could be expected and a delay of at least one year would
result in providing the facilities necessary to support
the nine-year basic education cycle.
(c) Time is of essence to enable the Ministry of Education and
Cultural Affairs to commence limited student intakes as
planned at six redesigned laboratory and workshop centers
during the 1978 academic year, and for the occupation of a
further six junior secondary schools at the start of the
1979 academic year.
44.       Sketch designs, draft tender documents and master lists of furni-
ture and equipment would b,e reviewed by the Bank. Items would be grouped
to the extent practicable to encourage competitive bidding and to permit
bulk procurement. Review of tender evaluation documents by the Bank prior
to award would not be required for construction contracts, each costing
less than US$250,000, and for furniture and equipment contracts, each costing
less than US$50,000 equivalent. Where international competitive bidding pro-
cedures are used, domestic: manufacturers of furniture and equipment would
be allowed a preference of 15 percent or the existing rate of import duties,
whichever is lower, over the c.i.f. price of competing suppliers.
Disbursement
45.       Disbursement would be on the basis of:  (a) 55 percent of total
expenditures for construction, architectural and engineering services and
project administration; (b) 100 percent of foreign expenditures for directly
imported furniture and equipment, or 100 percent of the ex-factory cost, if
locally manufactured, or 75 percent of local expenditures if imported but
procured locally; and (c) 100 percent of foreign expenditures for technical
assistance, fellowships and project evaluation. Disbursement for project
administration would be made against certificates of expenditure, documen-
tation for which would not be submitted for review but would be retained
by the borrower and would be available for inspection by the Bank during the
course of project supervision. Expenditures for project administration would
be audited for each fiscal year in accordance with sound auditing principles
with copies provided to the Bank within four months after the end of the
fiscal year (Section 4.03(b), draft Loan Agreement).
46.       Retroactive reimbursement of a sum not exceeding US$200,000 equiv-
alent for approved expenditures incurred after December 1, 1977 and prior to
loan signing is recommended for: (a) the services of consultant architects
for the design and supervision of project institutions; (b) technical assis-
tance for the reorganization of the Ministry of Education and Cultural Affairs;



- 16 -
and (c) construction works at six junior secondary schools (Schedule 1, para-
graph 4(a), draft Loan Agreement). This will permit a rapid start to the
project and enable the Go-ornment to meet the pl--1 1978 a-v' 107" --ing
dates for twelve junior secondary schools.
Benefits and Risks
47.       The proposed project would improve the efficiency of junior secondary
education by generating savings to the Government in terms of unit recurrent
costs per student/year. The present value of these savings to be realized
over a 25 year period is estimated at US$11 million equivalent, as against a
present value of US$9 million equivalent for the investment required to expand
the schools as proposed.
48.       The proposed project would increase the Government's share in junior
secondary education by creating 9,120 student places, raising the enrollment
rate in government junior secondary schools two and a half times. With
double-shifting in government schools and the 21 better private schools,
about 70 percent of junior secondary school students would be enrolled in
schools with standardized facilities suitable to offer the revised curriculum,
which aims at producing youth with the aptitudes and basic educational back-
ground needed for work in industry and commerce.
49.       Institution building would continue to be an essential feature of
Bank assistance to the education sector in Mauritius. The First Education
Project helped establish an effective implementation machinery and strengthen
vocational training. The sector work conducted through the Bank/UNESCO coop-
erative program has assisted the Government in making far-reaching changes in
the structure and content of education, and these changes provided the basis
for the proposed second project. Finally, the project would strengthen the
planning and implementation capacity of the Ministry of Education and Cultural
Affairs, and help coordinate the provision of occupational training.
Project Risks
50.       The risks associated with the proposed project, which are no greater
than can normally be expected with operations of this type, essentially relate
to the junior secondary schools. The increased share of government school
enrollment would replace about 50 percent of the student places presently
available in substandard private secondary schools. Despite the proposed
shift in investment emphasis to encourage nine-year basic education, there
are risks that these places would be used to increase the number of senior
secondary students, given the strong social pressure in Mauritius to obtain
a School Certificate. Mauritius does not need such expansion on manpower
grounds which, in addition, would represent too heavy a burden on Government
finances.
51.       To minimize the risks, the Government has agreed that:  (a) a
statement of primary and secondary education policy will be formulated by
December 31, 1978 including, inter alia, financial implications of such
policy and targets concerning students:teacher ratios (Section 3.07(a),



- 17 -
draft Loan Agreement); (b) starting December 31, 1979, a report on the
developments in the implementation of primary and secondary education policy
will be prepared annually for the Bank's review (Section 3.07(b), draft Loan
Agreement); and (c) regulations on budgeting and financial control of private
schools, drafts of which have been reviewed by the Bank, will be introduced
by January 1, 1979 (Section 4.08, draft Loan Agreement). The Government has
confirmed its intention to control the enrollment growth in senior secondary
education and to use the new Form III examination, coupled with aptitude
tests, for the selection of candidates for: (a) entry to Form IV in line
with expected high- and middle-level manpower absorptive capacity, (b) occu-
pational training, and (c) the labor market.
PART V - LEGAL INSTRUMENTS AND AUTHORITY
52.       The draft Loan Agreement between Mauritius and the Bank, and the
Report of the Committee provided for in Article III, Section 4(iii) of the
Articles of Agreement of the Bank are being distributed to the Executive
Directors separately. Special conditions of the project are listed in
Section III of Annex III of this Report.
53.       I am satisfied that the proposed loan would comply with the
Articles of Agreement of the Bank.
PART VI - RECOMMENDATION
54.       I recommend that the Executive Directors approve the proposed
loan.
Robert S. McNamara
President
Attachments
March 13, 1978






ANNEX 1
TABLE 3A                                     Page  1  of  5
AURItlUS             - SOCIAL INOICATORS OATA SHET?
LAND AREA  .HOU IW2)                   ------------------ -----
------------MAURITtuS                                                                REFERENCE COUNTRIES (ll?.)
tOTAL         2.0                                        MOST RECENT
AGRtC.        1.1                        1960       1970   ESTIMATE           NOWURAS**** FIJl****           SIMGAPOR*****
GNP PER CAPITA (US$)                      250.0*    350.0*  680.0*/C                250.0*      620.0*    1240.9*
POPULATION ANO VITAL STATISTICS
POPULATION (MIO-YR. MILtION)             0.7        0.6        0.9 /                2.17        0.          2.1
POPULA ION OENSITY
PER SOUARE Km.                       324.0      409.0      450.0/a              22.0        26.0      3s7I.0
P-R SO. KM, AGRICULTURAL LAND        681.0,    746.0       818.0r               09.0       179.0    10373.0
VITAL STATISTICS
CRUDE BIRTH RATE I/THOU. AVW          43.6       35.9       25.1                11.5        31.7         29.1
CRUDE DEATH RATE I/THOU,AV)           tS.5        0.9        7.1,               40.          4.0          6.4
INFANT MORTALITY RATE (/THOU)         69.s/l    17.0        46.o                    -       21.6        21.0
LIfE EXPECTANCY AT SIRtH (YRS)        60.3       63.2       63.5                49.4        6E.t        60.0
GROSS REPROOUCTION RATE                2.9         1.9        1.6                3.4         2.4          2.2
POPULATION GROWTH RAEt I%)
TOlt:                                  3.3        2.4**       .1*                2.7/a       3.0         2.3
URBAN                                  3.4        S-.         2.9                7.f-         9.7/a      4.7
UR8AN POPULATION IS Of TOTAL)           34.6       4S.3       46.3                27.3/b       33.4/b      86.3
AGE STRUCTURE IPERCENT)
0 TO 14 tEARS                        44.3       41.9       40.4/b              46.7        46.7/b      39.0
iS TO 64 VEARS                        52.6       54.1       ss. 97              50.9        So. 75-    5h0
65 YEARS AND OV'CR                     3.1        3.6        3.775               2.4         2.479       3.0
AGE DEPENOENCY RATIO                     0.9         e.6       0.s/b                1.0         1.a/b       o.i
ECONOMIC DEPENOENCY RATIO                 1.7/b      1.6/a      1.475              1.5/C        1.S97       1.2
FAMILY PLANNING
ACCEPTORS (CUMULATIVE. THOU)            ..       49.6       97.3                20.7          ..       17S.S
USERS (S OF MARRIED WOMEN)              ..         ..       16.2                  ..          ..        41.,
EMPLOYMENT
TOYIA  LABOR FORCE ITHOUSANO)          19go  /b   230.0      274..0/a             700.0/e   126.0/b    730.#
LA0OR FCRC' IN AGRICULTURE (%)          3E1.0;    31.5        30.37i              61.3 7T    16e s71 C    3.-
UNEMPtOYED IS OF LABOR FORCE)             .6GTb    t7.3       lo.O7i               8.0         4. I7-       I.o/&
INCOME DISTRIBUTION
S OF PRIVY,E INCOME RECID BY-
HIGHEST  5S OF HOUSEHOLDS             28.0         ..       31.0                29.o/d    1,.3/d
HIGmEST 20$ OF HOUSEHOLDS             51.0          *-      55.0                 0 t;7      46.275
LOWEST  20$ OF HOUSEHOLDS              4. S        *         4.5                 2.S/        4-9
LOWEST  40$ OF HOUSEHOLDS             14,0         ..       14.0                 6.47       14.1.
OlSIRIBuTION OF LANO OWNERSHIP
% OWNfo BY TOP *DX OF OwNERS             75.0       79.O  60  0 *0.0
% OWNEO By SMALLEST 10% OWNERS            2.0**    2.0***    2.0***
HEALTH AND NUTRITION
POPULtTION PER PHYSICIAN              S470 0ob  4220.0    2010.0                3710.0/f   2120.0       ts20.o/b
POPULATION PER NURSING PERSON         1720.07    210.0       520.0              9120.0       640.0/e    460.0
POPULATION PER HOS. ITAL BED           230.0Tb   20.0       270.0               570.0       340.r-      270.0
PER CAPITA SUPPLY OF -
CALORIES IS OF REQUIREMENTS)         103.0      106.0      108.0                96.0          ..       103. 
PROTEIN (GRAMS PER OAY)               47.0       50.0       55.                 58.0          . .       *3. /C
-OF WHICH ANIMAL ANO PULSE          19.0       19.0                           SL8  25.0    . .       34.0k
DEATH RATE (/THOUI AGES 1-4               6.0         ..        4.5/b              10.0          ..         0.5
EOUCATION
ADJUSTED ENROLLMENT RATIO
PRIMARY SCHOOL                        06.0       63.0       80.0                  ..        99.0       10.5.0
SECONDARY SCHOOL                      25.0       35.0       43.0                12.0        34.0        47.0
YEARS Of SCHOOLING PROVIDEO
(FIRST ASD SECONO LEVEL)              14.0       14.0       14.0                t2.0        14.0        12.0
VOCATIONAL ENROLLMENT
(% OF SECONDARYI                       2.0         ..        2.0               s1o.          6.0         9.0
ADULT LITERACY RATE (5)                    ..         .-      8o.o/d                 ..       t3.0         75.0
HOUSING
PERSONS PER ROOM (URBAN)                    ./b       ..         ..                  ..          ..         3.g/de
OCCUPIEO L..ELLINGS WITHOUT
PIPED WATER (%)                       8...a/b.                3,/d,e                                    20.atd,f
ACCESS TO ELECTRICITY
1% OF ALL DWELLINGS)                  47 0/b       *-       70.0/d                *                     87.0/d
RUPAL ODELLINGS CONNECTED
TO ELECTRICITY I%)                    29.0/b       .-         ..                  ..
CONSUMPT I  Nt
RADIO  RECEIVERS IPER THOU POP)          61.0      102.0      1'5.0               S7.0         9.O        134.0
PASSENGER CARS (PER THOU POP)            t4,0      1S.0                             S:' .0    23.0        71.0
ELECTRICI I I(WN/YR PER CAP)           227.0      263.0       371.                127.0       304.0     1O65.0
NEWSPRINT (KG/YR PER CAP)                 0.S        0.7         T. 1               t.t         1.5       t11.4
SEE NOTES AND DEFINITICNS ON REVERSE



Page 2 of5
uitl..e oth I -oo    -lted. d.c. tee 1900    o tote     car- year, "tooee L959 sd 101. for 1970 baOwoea 194  NWd 1970. coJ foe boot bo- o.'" 7v
CAP per 11cc dcc. etc b' eaaed " lb. bsU samik Atils waibodew (190444 beat.).
0D.e. to afisrattll     9940 1.010  pOtk rts. L IVe cot ke. Ika voeo  Of acteal taVofeeee
***  ,.cdcfas k.e bo."  BeLocted bereco.* it bed a ro.9lly alallOf per CAPIts lucame to be.rllLo   ia 1970, saw  PjI ala. 1hert... ite 1970 P. "aPita
Lincoe a   .a.ei.c  abet161of         Oe a     aarollte.  stosopaoo  baa beami eslacc.g  se so ebjeelfa  ecory "mer it. L*d.certe.  s.ol.t ad Polices.
AtO .  . ami* of 06.t bleost*ct La cryu .4 "oahi." for itself is 14tbez..
K3flhITI       1940     is  fatelodLog depeod"toalt          Ai  1942;    Li  Wuide cad?.
1970     is  ULot  tef PePoclAtLL   med.r 12 ed 43 sod  ~erC to talS LabeforZet..
WCIT UCETil lS7fbAM          LA  1174.    La  19?1a        Li  Katie of PoPoletf.a  ea.. 11 awW 43 oad   e   t  O W tota1 i test o.4    Lii
LI lc.Ld. -I...
mrQ!l1         19 70     aj~L.rsc.7 do. to onistteic  of  T11lodts                   t r.det. la 110.dToos the ,ePcdAtia  groso  Caet  -.  I-ee  tad  Lb. rote ot
sece-e    Wec...             1   i  tvo-teac  orb.. csates.       aKteo  Poys14iaoio  cedo  11 end 43 co  no,I  to 1eb~ff (ant o40
10 years end   .r;    -           197-4.prcpt    a..              j LL et.tr.e.1    e.  o  oo                       jbLr..o.o
prC-ticias is lb. taeaerpy.
Flit           1970    /P  ltlh44;         Lk  1944       ICc  KscledUia  e..aP4e7ed;      Li  grbea ONIY         LI  1001.s&1ad OLA-Ah4.e
StXCApo9E      1970     L.  leg1.tr .. 4pplieseoto  foc eotk;    Lk  Keiteled. etell.1   p.ecltcia  Is lC. ceomecyl    Li  1944-46f                         ls"
fatatl * orb.. asd eors.L;    L          I 10e10.gall.
DMINMa I  f SOIL!0C?
Und Am   (ch-  ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~R 2)                                                 Wt et0   MqtO,- t Ppolc.ol  die-ted by -.WM, oa  W.aCctOi
ct4;loa T.E.1      cs  re. recloteio.t  land .ore  ad  Lot."d   Care.tl    rdec    uo.   -tr.tkd' rooci                                                         ae.  red
-___ -      c  .c-      - .etct  of .ertoolt.- I  ro  -.o.   -.pertt-per.ltbc     po--L 04 Ot                                     tte  -  osorteI-o
-cILy to1  -tpa, p.00c..-   -1ktd  4 ksti.. &.,A-  . o  to lIt. fIl..t.                                           tu    -      t Lt   dtitdad by   P&., of  eoeptto1 5.d0
~~:ILL-     $--L oad*perieiee   b-opt- cale
-lit  pe, I.91. oatlet.6  e  o.p.e.c e -         rinL e,     r            ebOticcte  oCeo              `wle o  "r"e L"   o  e-Wad  oloelielt   orw
190;0 1970 end 197  deco,                                                                    Ptto    000   otI.LortaP  C  of r.qtattastp) - C~.oOed frno  oW
eq.Le l*t 0  atfood  aPP It.. _.o.;.bio  on -ocer  P.r otaP.. iy;
..otaloeeL-  et".e 4taCti   poa-oo.tt...                      --ttobe   xoo.  dW
roe~~;t~iio.riTo,,i    Au of Id,7 ftroo,  Lf s.c e.elale.. aroraog                       ohages La  tetok; -c  OaaoeLt.  -.L."4  -A. eaSe     d, codc  peCtLOoa ooo
of  -47-  .tgeto; 1'60,1970 ad  1972 d.ol.                                            L. feedr-.. ,teooae  a           La..a dutlSO -thotaeooea,        --t -ete.td
by 0 P&Dcod -ppbtoolnd.for  -Oea  ectIolto  -4 Pociti  oo.ot
Po~,~occydaooav -   IS 4oqor  In * lft4-y..r popetectee par eq-mc  hiloom"                 . rteg aealtlooat.t tme,-eec.IO body           0. eo ad  -e  4i.Inbletaoo  of
(100 coto roe)or cocc  coo..                                                             pael"tt, ad ettoote  lot fo.  -Ct. at b..ade.Ul  Ineut
rUlA4pr. d-n. t,    a   ." t k  O  4ent., 1..A  C- caoed -  e-bee  tee                         Ie eh   eoi~              ---1.(re    ot         -   -oat  e-atot tips P capta
earieolo,ael I.o4adoly.                                                                        -C Ocoppby of Iee  Pa. co:  c          I      C."o 1.0 dntiw. Os sco; raqlvel-
aea.C. f..  LI eacteeacb                   05odOpBA F.-L.at  c.nscltorir
xii'   .tloo                                                             ~~~~~~~~~~~~Poorito.   e ."arer    Ie  of 00 gre o- f totl cootoi  Mte UP, ad
Cta.  11  0A, 3Ve   cteo,d  co.11- tmeol Uie  bIrth, per thaooead of                        20  Care of euLacl S" PLase PO'etot, of'05"k 10 co             "'Ibtl  I.  at
oad.o'ct pooalet to;c.-vne r -tticadte  orroaadlee  La 1960 ad 1970,                      poeteia; tMd   ee.9 .rade ore Lar te.  th-e  at '741-r..f taor  ".oCot.o
on     v.Ccro .ro   redtOO  La 1972 fo a.cot c.eod, ctaacr.                              ead ii or-so   sco  poetoia c   -           -groo fa  t b.. reo, cttoyece  b'y ?.cO
WWac. d0.a), C:;. ocr cbov..d. ocorob - Aa.ao  death. perkbecesd of aid-year                      to the Thiod W.ofid Pad 5ir,a.e~
ptp,.lttvc: tao-.,e .rtcacc torj. .-.on dlns Ln 1940 end 1970 ad  ft..-                      Pe   cot   rocaeo  oIr.aeo   O                     i''O     Plwt,oo   s oAt food
infa-t or-eLit, rote  (Jthoci  Ao.e.j  death. of  Wefeac  cadar -    e.- of ow                  Dethtoe  tht  S%o  I-              - scL 60*1c  pot o).o-c coct  I-L
ottoae4I- to. brh-a                                                                     7.,.t   IAd.   atl   9   tep.M   -wp-Ct0                              of 
117. oxoet cn I hit Itrt  (yr.) - coerc.0 oe   of pe..r  of life reacia.. at                 al.t"Cite..
bilrth;  -ctall            .-$4yae   core adeti  ol La94, 190Y  ad  1973 fog &ro%lqo
1.8                 taa.  tae  o  heUchtroea.   0  1  e.                                      tiot C
Nt.oilltp  rat.I; oc.cefy tWo-yost   -ga.r a endiag L.e 1940  1910 ad 1971                      Wea edjeeco  fow di*t.rooc  1-etit  of   lo.-. .o)c-ontoe  Lto  .-trto. 041
eor do-. I014cotts L"troee-eotoa, ennllas  soy oOcco  1001 'toc  i00  PcPits r   bolos
Z21Lla   107  o    3    t.Sqt - Cepoixid orskit g.rotb raesa of a4d-year                      or cad  the offitil O.obol do.
poreLoto, fr I000I.1960.70 ad 1970.72.                                                   Adlootod  -oolla.t -ttlo   coodr    .oj-Con)0   tr    -oad.oV
Z~Y.lLm  s!li~Wrsaflrt-nkn  -  pCc.d jibe *fooac  tete of tocal                       ed4cattc  roqoiLO   .c 1-e. fou  Teor  of Ior-#u pIlniarSt45
pcuetodftr.d, totloa             of  t  Carer.  "y cffoot fcorohI1micy of              proided f-"tL, -@e-iao   ttatI             COaO~t loctO cOo's )   VoPtit
tat. note  totaocrt.e.                                                  of~~~~~a 12 to 17 T.-nr  of eg.; o.c-pa0.ao-  coo..Oe    col-oidd
Ufbcopotolt Icy11,1to ccli   latie  of aloe  to total papo.tetokl dif(f.amt              Y..0 r   obolte ftchet Lnt o            d 001-1I..(   000.  0'ooo
d.ffoltboae  of  0 Cc.eo"  -vy cffe.o  rrhlt        f Icea acnes Ce.alies.                cobol la; cc *.Eoar   lec.   vccaIL  tSa0.t0  nptiiT
empletaLy aaalaedd.
MLs&     ooii   Cqt  . Chfldre.  (0-10 Pear.).  ftrh,Le-.g. (15-64 ben)                        Yocto    etlo C%f of eoodot    votettonc  Laet-ttotcc   jctod.
cod ruir.A  05 Io...  cod -.fl .e perloateboc of old-roar poycotleio.                          t-ortoel, ted.stril or -oer pootra  Ash 0.0:   oodel   f0
Ate d-o'.oc   T0110   tac-t. of Pocc.ietto  amdor Is end II end ovr to the..                      depar-C   of oodr   ctooo
lco.   I  looh1. hr.j4j                                                                                  IsL.e.43.ttoc     d.te. (abLe oC rod ad4 -it.) .a Par.
tO.,ci  00,0,,  rd   - -coto of Pa,oaleltoo  ador II end 65 end not Co                            o    go   of 'Catc  cicit PeP.tclcta  coed   I.-rcr   da  or.
toI~. L.0I,00 L 10 c-e rofp 15-64 y-to.
-accoocory  o.aaLcdlvo. 19h.) - C-1cl-. so-o  of -..ccto                            HocetI
of t;rc1baoo.trt  d-eolas  WAcot *a,,pifo of .testma atILIT pts-et    pge        w ros,.     frcotfl!~f)ifq1   - &,orcee eahr of p..~n  par ro   is occPlc
..o. icatt. . ... toe-ci_                                                                                         IIdsLee   L. -orb. eteac; 4_ lItes  ealoda- 0    -p  ot
L2~ffi coo.1'14   ace Cyf  of nerrie  oce) Praegeo   aoo  coe  of                           ctooat.arc  WdoenidPre.
1d-hccic  rg 21 .0c) A.e -ehtt-CoontrL deta   o .11 .a"1.                                 o,atddolit   lltc   ao -MtterLb1)   .I tooto  r.-Iet-Itn                a- dct.Zlo.
ye, Ic  a. e*c steep.                                          In cr500 end note) eme. olt..o...t laid. St  -1c I. pipd .   ct.. P..ctltete
K40172171                                                             0*0000~~~~~~~~~~~~~C to   '.trlolt, II of all ds,IlWAa) - Ceevattoos  *dc1.vtl     .105
Tot)IcI br forte )tt-9aeod  - teooanacelly co'-IT   Perua, iwledtl esad4                          eLoar.1rot CT  iLoisi Ooarcc  cc P.-rac ad  -eIc AOll. . 1. orb, ad
fot.  tdaaIby".dbot...ol1.d1a oeck eoin. stdoo-oc, ate.. deflelOtaeroe  cn.
Co_r'tt  t emlcturo C )C- Aerceelocrel leber fore. ila Oconts..cteo.atrtp-ddoliieee alp
hottioc .ed flebtogi .. Pertokego of C.tel labor forco.
0of .to J (1 ofd ..9.  fotno                                                                               FPalyd.ceacLydfodaproo   t.Co.wt
br.be.d  i[tot  ten  p-61       0c -   cfrcio. o  e.  Wflccdoal   re.taetoooct       0041 . tracteu   (cot L.g P o).il  y            foo--r  ?            .   ro
of e 7.1  aoceo.hee cool  are  Spotified *ltas  poriodctl cedo  .-P*               to  ccte Coslc  ot _t  -ccd of 'po-oloio.    Oo                           ,c
etroy,eapieo   acePloyft 1to.......                                                        L L- oaI.t
P...  ..t.a -oe(orOf'w    -   eoaecet.Ova   0Or e.OV~
1j1jy' oJjtf_v  b-jl' iP  .rto... o.f Prcocce L00a  (botht. c -oh cod StaId)                      Ie.. ah- otoic  p.oro.:oooa   oacoc.iooocd.:t
-.ceivd toy rliach.  5I. tLclact 101.  ooreat 20t, ad  p--o. 40t of h-..00                      _o)tic.e
of  cod oI.,at. I            Poroeccocee of lad  -scd by veelchl.at lot                    bcodf    prod-ot)o    ato., cIlfotccl-   .      o  10.000 I. ;tldo  b.t als--
cod  La.4f~   fie  nco                                                                          o  for toport  cod og.oet  of .cl... rcoAcy.
pego  kt/",y   "Ct I.0   - Pot -opite - ceaj ol ee,tlc    10 kiliot
)ioylnit.od eocrlti'te                                                cootectad tOe.~~~~~~~~I   deeoeol  pr otaPI-  -at toperce of sesprit.
1-1,1cIet..C_ I90; le              ',ple.I  1d;o4de   It e*0e o,tfprte
pth,eLCieoqci.    r      ate    oS                .aleetv  S..oi



ECOINOMIC DEVEL.OPMENOT DATA
A C * U  .                           co                 P 9 0 J 0 C *I0 t o t                                                    It A T                     3 9 ?*
.. .._...........                     ....               ... , ...... .........                ''';''''''; .  ............................  -          Hltg
1965         197S         39,1          0905           Of
0965         t'70         1979         1075           96          t9'7         t378         I2S9          1990        l975          9 77        t955          1990        OCP
....               .... .   ....              .... .   ....    _         _.... .   ._._._.    _     _...   _ .. ....                      . ... .   . *-....
1UlLLj'.0 O' u33 AT 1901.ot PRICcst
:39 $'          9? t I33r bD)Jt,           1 5          397.6        255,9        250.1         29.7         335,0        379,5        60a.2                       S,l         leo 3.1  13.0  5.6                     1
',v   TOX. ?to-$ OF t'o72                    a5           6.2         37*9         37.2           2.2          5.Z1    -      o s002                                                                                   IR.0
G':!1 'thSIC  3CO'Ct                       195.9       131.5         293.0        29o.0         301.0 3v1A.               331r         51a* .62                                  3 .    2   5.3                           S
1.0D'Q'                     I                9            9,*,        117.0        IS5.0         129q.      0 j3 79 It', S               95*z ?6                                .2,2           5,1                      55,5
.o  XT9  * V2LUCr                           *60.2        .92.1 .IIS.,0              tOt.t        S.8         .lot1.0      *IOS,        .155.0                       2.        . .0,0           5.5                   .  oat
i,:TS . *t. *D 2JJ?t2                       ." ,7        .90,v         t          .109.          .99.0       .C30I        *3 2,.0      -105.2                       s.o        .01.0           7.2   -                      .-
rE$7.1 c GAP . Tt, 4vJJSttO                  '.1         .2,S        .6.0          -2.5          30.0         ?1,1        t37.0           7.                                                                           .6.
T,4!  :-(..?                                10.. 3M      3 t  tSh I   20.6,        ZO? 7          67.3       2711.0       25.5         3q3.1                       3.5          9.            7.9                      27.1
l60.9r_sf  zS  22.0       09,*         5S.7          e.29         70.Z         77.1         Z..'                                                 7,                        *7,1
''.& . 3; '.0.I&Vt                      29.2         30.2           3.0         0 *s4        30.4         51 4          00.0        12r* 3                     0.0         312.0         I3.1                      35s.
2i<.5'lC  '0At%3S                            313,         25.0         es.3         01.2          33.7         .S       ,5  59.3          21.1                      0.6        .32,0           a.7                        3
It  CJ44t4T u5s                             t91 39*6     10 07.6      5063                506.0  S06.7        S75.3         691.7      1545.2                      3*3           8,6         13.2
35:739 3J7U1
(S0i*9  3)  ;')  at 1967-09 PRICES)
................................
&!ICJ.oJ4C                              o0.265        0.234         0.050        0.335        0,202        0.393         0.1.5        0.132
'JIt7v                                      0.260 0,2tO     Al       2I 2          0.27I           0W307      0.312        0.337        0,S6S
l  5 3                                              :Ia                      0.38          ::0.65  0,52t  0 0  0 9  0,490  0.095  0.698  0,502
QIC91     39b07.o';. 1003
...... ........ , - ..
tE-:'7  *137  3 o                          302.99       3tOZ'.95     33.7T5       372.32        325 .0       357.ZO       39.36e       727.07                      13.7         .2            9.3
3.9337  '91~~0    .                     973Z0a323.531                          1.2         38.1          300          3o9.70       ,08.8o                     3003*                         .0
t"Jt twt-E  M>tY             or sr         O St       2'.   5      Z72 t2        315 Z        }4 3 0.1      O            S-oOOe,                                *1,1
TE9t3 l t7A43  1%3EX                     101,07        10A.50       132.QS       3S3,02       302,32        305.0        306.00        tl.5                       2.l    2     .2*4          71 26
; 2DLECLT'  (uSI1                         101021        300.67       220.39       239.07       2136,2        232.60       251.20       603.35                       ,                         7.
AV9JA.  41EGASE EIC"49C. Atlt                4 76         5.50         5.70         *.03
S37E37to 1401CATORS                        3965.75    135.9   7      397105       3905.90
..... _,,..._............ ...........     .......  .........         .......      ...............
ICR                                          5 s.         2. 27        0 3
tJ'3RT tLsT9TCITT                           1322         .0.24        091
46'706A( .        3. 1 5019408 RATE 0023                  0.00          0 .2 2
6A3;196L  96109M. SAvIwCS RATE              OS.0        .0.20         0.43
3"'9 191!39                                  0.49         *'as         0.0
INV STrrEVt/ro9                              I,t9         0.22         0.2S
6E53URCE CC 0eC0P                            0.00         0.06         0.04
t(0   Co-PosCm73  4Vy MDT 4D0 UP 8Ct4U5C 0of POUNoING
O TtLT, ILAEOX FOPCE AND
,?7D CT17ITY tN 2976
VALVI AXED                     LAO FORCE        *            v.A. PER WorUC
US$ XLN                          % 7000.                       u $ _
All'4zm PI'CUL-2A145.9                 28.8              83             30.3          1.757.8          95.2
1L7.7,       27.1               71             25.9          1 929.6        104.5
223.0        44.1              106             30.7   *      2.103.8         113.9
VNA.LL0CA7=)               .                              4              3.1           ___
TOTAL/AVEOACE          w           ff 0_0             274            100.0          1,846.4         1OO.O
COvt1E7B-rT FINANCE*
CENTMA  COVERNIOI7TE
-   (70  171j        2 OF CDP                                                                                                                                                                                 '
197e6          1975/76  19707T1
0
ctl"   .. PECCI?T0        1,075.4           29.0     23.5
C7YFE3.T EXP-J-TUPE         991.0           27.4     22.7                                                                                                                                                                              tji
CAk.EO SU?i?:US              84.7            2.4      0.8
CA?ITAL MmrEmPEEtIr!IN      423.4           11.7      7.6
EXT7E7 LA ASSISTAI.CE (ETt)   38.1           1.1      1.9



BALANCE 0?P PAYIIIE AnW EXTEMNL ASSISTM0CX
..........................~..                                                                                    **          *.@           S..         ***            ba           a...a. 
2                       .    t4s I         tSol ~~~~ACT ALES1,.
1.  IE;0RT%C(T`4LUD1N47 '.7)                  14.4 15,2                   9,9         111.1        399           49.           *.          440,0        1S.,3           o,         70,9          976-
Di-IS*jC9 9AL&'dCE                         9.             7*0         a45          3,             9          -19            .4,5         95,?        :9,         ~ *             79..9       .6.
a.  NE(T ;1Tn  514v299  2,90N2.                   At9          *           1,7          Its           a's          3.0          2.%            *1          9.55                     .5.9         *95.1-
.VEY9 2'!9QE5T P*Y'97?I                      1.4            .           3.1          99,                        29 ,        -.             93           49         *25          .50           .9.
IcvesY.E4v PJ    '99  91t             .25           9.          .2.20         -.1.         *9.           .94          .,9          *95.                       85          .2.            324-
~~2    ~     1~~v9ST~('.7 2'.CC~~~C   -   ..4  9.1   .~~1.9         99*                        3.           36           ..           .4.9          s*2         .4.0         .14.9      
.3  .2''9~~~~3  P9~~I?tA.C(1  CoLT)   .5   .4       2.4          9,3~~~14.    1.6           1.             4,          5,39.1                    7            i19          I4s
* 8 AL#%CE 04 C74A9E4T ACCOUNT               .1.4         Is..            .4  -.    59*9       -  29.         -92.9         *94.9        054.9        *54.6        .4-*.0        .9469        -3.34.
It'!    t~C    9.4S.4                9          91           29           *2.                         . LO,                    14.4         92.1         43.2         14.2          29.            - , 
1:  AN 3 1 G A4t LI I r   a       .4           .4.0                       .4           .9            .4           .4           .4            .9           4.4.
4TC.X NtL? LOANS
U.    .41 QS1""                                 24           2.            .            74          139            97          3.1          4            59.7         99,944,                   991?            - - 
92. ~~~~~ J?7'?f*t3 ~~~~~~~.6                              4, 4           .4           of4.                        4.                                    .             *. 
1.&--tI, 11941             .  4                 0         I 1.9           .3          .91 ,                                     9*                                      4            4*                          
24.    '69    ~ISF7 ESl993%                    .0           .591                      *.2             9.                                      9.                        ..
.16    7.7            09.           .0    4      .9          70                                                  8 5.  99 2.9      
97, IAIA    0A.a1O6499.t                                    .9,4        -1.95           9?.                      .65               .0          .0           .4s:                       so .         Os
to1.  4         p, RE93Ev(Y
*    c;. * 1vCREA19)                            .99          232'           1,9        .44,3      --   *           79.1         la.3          *4.?         24w?1      .;S.3         .44,j        .9999 
4ktsE7.'9  cC's07 ofplat)                  19.7         19,9         44,6        139.9            .0         69,.4         41.31        list         92,7        1479         92.           391.
997   972           173          2979         to71          991s9        1997          i'Vii        1979          90          96             46           9039
991'.7 5W3 130'69 CO"w979(N11~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~1i    O$ 191   lt
2.OFFICIAL, GAWS3                              .0           .              4.                         0.                        *.                         *.                         0.
9,TDIAL 'O9L1C ASOLOANS49               -      1.         42.9          93           2.               4         9.            63          5.             99         4.            6.            3,                  
,9 10~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~2?3,                                                                      3"                                       19          9. 3.
*2 19*                                          S0.                         0         9.               4          3     ~      11            56          1.                         141,
ID4                         ~~ ~ ~~~~~~.      3.5          9.4          3.                                        so.  .        0                         0
.3  T.* 'ULT9I.ATERALI                 -      .             .            .4.                  __ .              235*19                             ~      9           .            019
.~~ ~7~E"7~T9                    .*         39.9          92.1           .7            .0         11.9         99.6.         29.3         3             4.           2.           4,
.5 D ..I,. Ct%TqALLy PL14436D
.93      -  ''6D  .2                          .0             4. -.*                   .      __     .          -..                     ,     *.0.
Avi9l .7LE)                                 .g           31o                        .        ~ .                 4.                        4             *.                        4.
U9...A..J'....... .                                                              ..                                                                                         .                                       .
:::60af  .006  IS iss  .13.266                                                                              0~~~~~~~~~~~~~*s 
F. ,r.;! !'.193T (4(99(47)                 ,94           ,4            91           42           .4            99            93          ,?            92           42.7                       9
3 'A    A   'AiIZ  (YEARS)                                               Os4o 2.0  474  770   - .0           9404         1.34          9.2           717         999           1.57          7,39*f
.E f- YR                                                                              t
KO00(4, N.39T' 01974401,
DAM3 OF L4Ttlf 799AT7 41/93176



ANNEX I
Page 5 of 5
DEBT AND CREDITWORTHINESS
1971         197Z         1973         19?.         1975         t979
.,.,nC                    s..    ,.....            in... . ....
A CT tU A Li **                             $ To
...........eee.e. .,.*
NEDOu1 A10 LONG TER4 DESTt (O3S5URSED. ONLY)
.aefeinae.. m... a..-.....   
*TOTA aENT OUTSTA11O0tC 1000
o43 or PERIOO)                             2s,          30.        - 39.6        401.         045.8         47.0
IN4LJ0IN  U4DI33U3SE*                         47.2         9t1S         We7b9       130.0        118,2        133.3
PU1LIC C3T  SERVICE                          .0.8           3.O         *3,1         -39,         .3,9         %3,.
14tERlEST                                  1,5          *I,3          ,1,2        .t,*         *1.9          %1.6
:ttaE  w%Lr otEt 3ERVtCE3                       .0         '1,2          .3           -.7           ,0           t0
TGTaL, DET SERVICE                            .046         -4sl         .3,4  .       4 S     -- ,             ' 3
DEST SURDCE4                   .
.......... eq........ 
AE9t SFRdICE  lATIO                            1,9          2.14                      I t2          ,0          t.t
DE3T SRvICE RAnTI  (1)                         5,4         3S,           2,7          1.9           .0          2.1
OE3t S3FVICE/GO0                               2.3          15           to0           eS           o0 ,r
PUgJ. OER  SE.vtCE/GOV* REVENUE                 .0            .0          .0           ,0     - -2,
i:S, ONt TOTAL DOD/TOTAL  OO         -          .1          0,9          4',1         0.           4.1          3,s
TOTAL OE8T SERVICE/TOTAL 000                  19.0         18           tO,?         10.5 ,      .               r  t
OEPENDENCY RATIOS FOR MILT OC8T
* a *me.          .  .e.
GROSS ts  ./IMPU*Ts CIJCL.NFS)                 2.9          2,3          *.5          Z,3           ,0          2,0
NET TR&vNSE7t1"PORTS(jNCL.NFS)                1.8         .-7           2.8          1,0           .0          1t5
4ET TRhiSFER/qGOSS D138,                     0716.        .29.1        -6l,0         44,5         71.2 e3,0
EXPOSUR,*
IBt) Diss.I0ntS rTOTALI 0138.                   go           ,0           .0           .0         24.5         23.9
5A4< G4OJP DTS./GROSS IOTAL.
DISSURSEYENTS                             tt,0         25.9          13,9        29,4         35.9         5404
IBSD 0DO/?OTAL 000                            18.5         16.2         12.7         lo,s         IS,.         20,6
BA'd  G*Jt  DOnD/TOTAL OOD                    20.2         20,7         20.3         22.4         30.2         44,2
IBRO 0FrT SERVICE/TOTAL.OEST..
SERvtCE                                    13.0          14,9         13,9         tS,3        20.7         36.l
5A4t GCaoj DET S3ERVICE/toT&L
DEST SERVtCE                               13.0         .ss0          14.0        16,0         21,7         319
OUTSTANDTNC DECEMBER 31. 1976
EXTERAL DEBT (DISBURSED ONLY)                    AmmUWT       PERCENT
18RD                                                9.7          21.0
SUA  CR0I?                                         20.7          44.7
OTHER MULTILATEUL                                   2.9           6.3
COVERNtENTS                                        22.7          49.0
OF 1111CH CENtALLY PLANNED ECOMMES (2)            0.6           1.7
SUPLIERS                                             .0           .0
FINANCIAL IWS?ITUTIONS                               .0           .0
SOIDS                                               .0           .0
PUBLIC DEBT NET                                     .0            .0
TOTAL PUBLIC MEDIUM APD LONC^TEKM DEBT             46.3         100.0
OTHER PUBLIC HEDIUM AND LONG-TERM DEBT               .0           .0
OTHER MDIUM AND LONG-TERN DEOT                      0.4          18.1
TOTAL PUBLIC DEBT (INCLUDING UNDISBURSED)         133.0         287.3
TOTAL 1EDIUH AND LONG-TERM DEST
(INCLUDING UNDISBWRSED)                        133.0         287.3
DEST PROFILE
tOTAL DEBT S11VICE 1977-81/TOTAL DOD END OF 1976   -1.34
a--.. ...........--- ......--.. ....._ ..............
1/INCL:,D1N; 4ET DIRECT IJVESTNENT INCrINE
2/12CLIJOES CWEA COU.TdIES. PEOPLES REPUBLIC Or CHINA,
4ORT4 (OWEA. NORT" VIETNAM,
* ACTUAL nIGURES WHICH DIFFER MAXGINALLY FROM THE CORRESPONDING PROJECTION
MUDEL ESTIMTES.



ANNEX II
Page 1 of 4
STATUS OF BANK GROUP OPERATIONS
IN MAURITIUS
A. Statement of Bank Loans and IDA Credits (as at January 31, 1978)
Amount
Loan or                                                       (Less Cancellations)
Credit                                                           US$ Million
Number     Year    Borrower        Purpose      -         Bank   IDA    Undisbursed
Two Loans and one Credit have been fully disbursed         12.0    3.5
239-MAS    1971    Mauritius      Smallholder Tea                 5.2        1.3
Development
411-MAS    1973         to         Industrial Estate              4.0        0.2
419-MAS    1974         "         Rural Development               4.0        1.1
976-MAS    1974         "         Port I                  10.0               6.6
501-MAS    1974    Mauritius      Education                       3.5        2.4
1033-MAS    1974                   Education                3.5               3.5
1168-MAS    1975    DBM            Development Bank III   7.5                 3.4
1339-T-MAS  1976    Mauritius      Revised Port I           3.6     -         3.3
1481-MAS    1977    DBM            Development Bank IV    7.5                 7.3
TOTAL                                         44.1   20.2        29.1
of which has been repaid                     4.3      -         -
TOTAL now outstanding                         39.8   20.2
Amount sold                  5.0
of which has been repaid   3.4                1.6
TOTAL now held by Bank and IDA 1/             38.2   20.2
TOTAL undisbursed                             24.1    5.0       29.1
B. Statement of IFC Investments (as at January 31, 1978)
Year     Borrower              Type of Business              Loan    Equity  Total
1971     Dinarobin Inns
& Motors Ltd.             Tourism                    0.6      -       0.6
Total gross commitment                            0.6       -      0.6
Less cancellations, terminations,
repayments and sales                              0.4              0.4
Net held by IFC                                   0.2       -      0.2
Total undisbursed                                 0.0      0.0     0.0
1977     Maritim Mauritius 2/                                 1.9     0.7      2.6
1/   Prior to exchange adjustments.
2/   Approved by the Executive Directors in November 1977 but not yet
signed.



ANNEX II
Page 2 of 4
PROJECTS IN EXECUTION 1/
Credit No. 239-MAS Tea Development Project; US$5.2 million credit of
April 9. 1971; Date of Effectiveness: June 11. 1971;
Closing Date: December 31, 1978
Project field development experienced problems due to poor soil
and drainage conditions, poor quality of planting materials and the effect
of a cyclone which hit Mauritius in February 1975. These difficulties were
aggravated by general problems facing the Mauritian tea industry, especially
rapidly increasing wage rates in the sugar industry with which the tea sector
is unable to compete. These problems were examined in 1975 by a study group
which included Bank staff members.  The recommendations of the study group,
which included suggestions on what the role of the Tea Development Authority
should be, were accepted by the Government and are being implemented.
Project accounts are now in better shape, following the appointment of a
qualified financial controller and a chief accountant. Field work is now
proceeding on schedule and the first project plantations should be ready for
handover to smallholders in 1977-78. The Government has agreed to provide
additional labor in 1977/78 (through the Development Works Corporation) to
ensure that green leaf is plucked and factories work to new capacity. The
new tea factory has been completed and has commenced operations.
Credit No. 411-MAS Industrial Estate Project; US$4.0 million credit of
June 29, 1973; Date of Effectiveness: October 1, 1973;
Closing Date: June 30, 1980
Construction of the Coromandel Estates is virtually completed with
the exception of some external works such as street lighting, telephone
installations etc. Original construction schedule called for completion by
the end of 1978. Occupancy, however, is proceeding slowly. As of December
1977 only about 45 percent of the available space was occupied, which reflects
the general investment slowdown in the country. The Estate expects that full
occupancy can be reached around mid-1980 . As of January 31, 1978, approxi-
mately $3.8 million of the $4.0 million credit had been disbursed.
1/   These notes are designed to inform the Executive Directors regarding
the progress of projects in execution, and in particular to report
any problems which are being encountered and the action taken to
remedy them. They should be read in this sense, and with the under-
standing that they do not purport to present a balanced evaluation
of strengths and weaknesses in project execution.



ANNEX II
Page 3 of 4
Credit No. 419-MAS Rural Development Project; US$4.0 million credit of
July 9. 1973; Date of Effectiveness: October 11, 1973;
Closing Date: February 28, 1979
The implementation of the rural development project has been mixed.
Several factors caused a slow progress, including procurement difficulties
and the rise in sugar prices which caused land prices to rise sharply, thus
making it difficult for the Government to obtain land for the project. The
February 1975 cyclone also contributed to the delay. Managerial problems
within the Development Works Corporation (DWC) which are now being followed
up, initially prevented prompt execution of the project.
The mid-term evaluation mission that visited Mauritius in August_
1977 confirmed that some of the components of the project, such as bench
terracing and fodder planting, have not been successful and have been dis-
continued. The village improvement component, which formed the major part
of the project, was generally satisfactory although the village markets seem
to have been over-designed and are presently underutilized. According to the
mission, the training component is by far the most successful component of
the project. The mission also confirmed that DWC is less than adequately
managed, although this seems to have had a greater impact on operations other
than those included in the IDA-financed project. The project is now expected
to be completed by the end of 1978. To allow for full disbursement of the
credit, the Closing Date has been extended to February 1979.
Loan No. 976-MAS    Port Project; US$10.0 million loan of April 12, 1974;
Date of Effectiveness: June 13, 1974; Closing Date:
December 31, 1980
Loan No. 1339-T-MAS Revised Port Project; US$3.6 million Third Window loan of
December 9, 1976; Date of Effectiveness: July 27, 1977;
Closing Date: December 31, 1980
Physical execution of the project is proceeding well. The Mauritius
Marine Authority has been formally established and is now operational. The
Authority has made interim contractual arrangements with one of the dock
companies for lighterage and cargo handling operations and is making good
progress in exercising its responsibilities.
Loan No. 1033-MAS    First Education Project:  US$3.5 million Loan and US$3.5
and            million credit of July 29, 1974; Date of Effectiveness:
Credit No. 501-MAS   October 29, 1974; Closing Date:  March 31, 1980
After a slow start, project implementation is now proceeding satis-
factorily and all major contracts for construction, furniture and equipment
have been awarded. The program unit is fully staffed and operating well. As
explained in paragraphs 28 and 34 of this report, changes have become neces-
sary to reflect the Government's decision to restructure secondary education.



AiNEX II
Page 4 of 4
Loan No. 1168-MAS   Third Development Bank Project:  US$7.5 million Loan of
October 23, 1975; Date of Effectiveness: December 9, 1975;
Closinyg Date: December 31, 1981
The project will assist in financing the foreign exchange component
of Mauritius Development Bank loans and investments in industry, agro-industry
and tourism. The project is proceeding well. All funds under the project
are fully committed and about US$4.0 million has been disbursed.
Loan No. 1481-MAS   Fourth Development Bank Project:  US$7.5 million Loan of
August 29, 1977; Date of Effectiveness: October 6, 1977;
Closing Date: December 31, 1982
The loan will help finance the term foreign exchange needs of medium
and large scale industrial, tourism and possibly agro-industrial projects. Of
the US$7.5 million loan amount, about US$3.0 million has been committed and
US$0.2 million disbursed.



ANNEX III
Page 1 of 2
SUPPLEMENTARY PROJECT DATA SHEET
Section I: Timetable of Key Events
(a)  Time taken to prepare project:           Two years
(b)  Preparation:                             UNESCO and Government
(c)  Initial Discussion with Bank Mission:  May 1976
(d)  Preparation Mission:                     November 1976
(e)  Pre-appraisal Mission:                   May 1977
(f)  Appraisal Mission:                       August 1977
(g)  Post-appraisal Mission:                  November 1977
(h)  Negotiations:                            February 1978
(i)  Planned Date of Effectiveness:           July 1978
Section II: Special Implementation Actions
Ci) A Bank mission is scheduled for June 1978 to discuss with the Gov-
ernment the preparation of the terms of reference for specialists to assist
the Government with the establishment of a Central Training Office. These
specialists would be responsible for assisting the Government in drafting
the legislation required to establish the Office.
(ii) During project implementation, close dialogue with the Government
would be maintained on education policies, and budgetary and financial impli-
cations of such policies.
Section III: Special Conditions of the Project
(i)  The completion of the first phase of the reorganization of the
Ministry of Education and Cultural Affairs and satisfactory evidence that
the Borrower has taken all action necessary to implement the agreed proposals
will be conditions of disbursement for civil works, equipment and furniture
of a new Ministry building (para. 30);
(ii) A new junior secondary school curriculum will be introduced and
a national examination at the end of the junior secondary cycle will be held,
beginning in 1980, to select students on the basis of performance for entry
into senior secondary schools (para. 34);



ANNEX III
Page 2 of 2
(iii) The Borrower will submit a statement of its primary and secondary
educational policy by December 31, 1978 covering inter alia financial implica-
tions and targets concerning students:teacher ratios (para. 51);
(iv) Starting December 31, 1979 the Borrower will annually submit to
the Bank for review a report on the developments in the implementation of
primary and secondary educational policy (para. 51);
(v) Regulations on budgeting and financial control of private schools
will be introduced by January 1, 1979 (para. 51).






MAUI?ITIUS
SECOND EDUCATION PROJECT
-     wW        CS  .Bolt op  -ean 
Motorway
- Mai,0roads                                                                                                                              a                 INDIAN    OCEA N
Secondarymrads
-Other roads
Mountainous areas                                                                                             A
Ministry oi Fducarifin. nd Cultural Allissin                                                 /              Gokrs                                    :
A   Junior Secondary Schools
*  Praary Teaher Training College
~(Audio-Viwuat Ceatsie"'
*  Miurifus nsristute  f Education                                                                                        L p.
fJ 2 4  6           z           S 0 ? & 1f  Terre } VAC                                     t ki
WV~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~g
I',L{OtETES KS_ \,fiu 
2 yr~~~~~~~~~~~~FR
0  0  3 2 BEAU ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~5nrt5                                                                                tndn0r.-4      )~<
t ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~   ~    ~    ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~~~~O ,ohs on ranir in 0-y nou ca   inn uiuncn.nrin                                                                 / R .e-or/1    > i              
<~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~n                                        - o   O n'  tic   ni  0   uc u   i  is   po    cr_   W \cidrciinnr o   X/Xqo C     w 
M I L E S                                                               c i  i    o  _r e      s t O i c                     A  F  R u  A n   c       , 0'N >                                 i
n,.c                      ,_ r!p.-r                                                     ;Mcicoiiuc                      CrocuSioel
:s/ ei / 1. .t _)  C v4/ t  LOUIMrrfV    
0                           tjt*3'      ;                         =                                  ;                ,?          0          |                      j} r



