CONFORMED COPY
LOAN NUMBER 1543 MAS
Loan Agreement
(Second Education Project)
between
MAURITIUS
and
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION
AND DEVELOPMENT
Dated April 26, 1978


﻿LOAN NUMBER 1543 MAS
LOAN AGREEMENT
AGREEMENT, dated April 26, 1978, between MAURITIUS (herein-
after called the Borrower) and INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUC-
TION AND DEVELOPMENT (hereinafter called the Bank).
ARTICLE I
General Conditions; Definitions
Section 1.01. The parties to this Agreement accept all
the provisions of the General Conditions Applicable to Loan
and Guarantee Agreements of the Bank, dated March 15, 1974,
with the same force and effect as if they were fully set forth
herein (said General Conditions Applicable to Loan and Guarantee
Agreements of the Bank being hereinafter called the General
Conditions).
Section 1.02. Wherever used in this Agreement, unless the
context otherwise requires, the several terms defined in the
General Conditions have the respective meanings therein set forth
and the following additional terms have the following meanings:
(a) "PSSA" means the Private Secondary School Authority
established under the Private Secondary School's Act No. 20
of 1970 of the Borrower, or any successor thereto.
(b) "PTTC" means the existing Teacher's Training College
located at Beau Bassin, or any successor thereto.
(c) "Institute of Education" means the Mauritius Institute
of Education established under the Borrower's Institute of Educa-
tion Act No. 42 of 1973.
(d) "Audio-Visual Center" means the Audio-Visual Center of
the Borrower's Ministry of Education and Cultural Affairs.
(e) "New Curriculum" means the curriculum for junior
secondary schools developed since 1972 by the Institute of
Education of the Borrower.
(f) "Program Unit" means the Program Implementation Unit
described in Section 3.02 of the Development Credit Agreement
between the Borrower and the International Development Associa-
tion, dated July 29, 1974, and in Schedule 5 to this Agreement.


﻿-2-
ARTICLE II
The Loan
Section 2.01. The Bank agrees to lend to the Borrower,
on the terms and conditions in the Loan Agreement set forth
or referred to, an amount in various currencies equivalent to
fifteen million two hundred thousand dollars ($15,200,000).
Section 2.02. The amount of the Loan may be withdrawn
from the Loan Account in accordance with the provisions of
Schedule 1 to this Agreement, as such Schedule may be amended
from time to time by agreement between the Borrower and the
Bank, for expenditures made (or, if the Bank shall so agree,
to be made) in respect of the reasonable cost of goods and
services required for the Project described in Schedule 2 to
this Agreement and to be financed out of the proceeds of the
Loan.
Section 2.03. Except as the Bank shall otherwise agree,
procurement of the goods and civil works required for the Project
shall be governed by the provisions of Schedule 4 to this Agree-
ment.
Section 2.04. The Closing Date shall be December 31, 1982
or such later date as the Bank shall otherwise establish. The
Bank shall promptly notify the Borrower of such later date.
Section 2.05. The Borrower shall pay to the Bank a commitment
charge at the rate of three-fourths of one per cent (3/4 of
1%) per annum on the principal amount of the Loan not withdrawn
from time to time.
Section 2.06. The Borrower shall pay interest at the rate
of seven and forty-five hundredths per cent (7.45%) per annum
on the principal amount of the Loan withdrawn and outstanding from
time to time.
Section 2.07. Interest and other charges shall be payable
semiannually on April 15 and October 15 in each year.
Section 2.08. The Borrower shall repay the principal amount
of the Loan in accordance with the amortization schedule set
forth in Schedule 3 to this Agreement.


﻿-3-
ARTICLE III
Execution of the Project
Section 3.01. The Borrower shall carry out the Project
through its Ministry of Education and Cultural Affairs with
due diligence and efficiency and in conformity with appropriate
technical, educational, financial and administrative practices,
and shall provide, promptly as needed, the funds, facilities,
services and other resources required for the purpose.
Section 3.02. (a) The Borrower shall maintain the Program
Unit with the powers, responsibilities, functions and staff
substantially as set forth in Schedule 5 to this Agreement.
(b) The Borrower shall, not later than December 31, 1978 or
on such later date as shall be agreed with the Bank, appoint to
the staff of the Program Unit, on a full-time basis, a deputy
manager whose qualifications and experience shall be satisfactory
to the Bank.
Section 3.03. In order to assist the Borrower in the carrying
out of Parts A (1), B (2), C (2), D (3) and F of the Project, the
Borrower shall: (i) award the fellowships provided thereunder to
appropriately qualified candidates; and (ii) employ education and
management consultants whose qualifications, terms of reference,
experience and conditions of employment shall be satisfactory to
the Bank.
Section 3.04. In order to assist the Borrower in the carrying
out of Parts A (2) and E (1) (b), (c) and (d) of the Project, the
Borrower shall employ architectural and engineering consultants
whose qualifications, experience and terms and conditions of
employment shall be satisfactory to the Bank.
Section 3.05. The Borrower undertakes to insure, or make
adequate provision for the insurance of, the imported goods to
be financed out of the proceeds of the Loan against hazards
incident to the acquisition, transportation and delivery thereof
to the place of use or installation, and for such insurance any
indemnity shall be payable in a currency freely usable by the
Borrower to replace or repair such goods.
(b) Except as the Bank shall otherwise agree, the Borrower
shall cause all goods and services financed out of the proceeds
of the Loan to be used exclusively for the Project.


﻿-4
Section 3.06. (a) The Borrower shall furnish to the Bank,
promptly upon their preparation, the plans, specifications,
reports, contract documents and construction and procurement
schedules for the Project, and any material modifications thereof
or additions thereto, in such detail as the Bank shall reasonably
request.
(b) The Borrower: (i) shall maintain records and procedures
adequate to record and monitor the progress of the Project (in-
cluding its cost and the benefits to be derived from it), to
identify the goods and services financed out of the proceeds of
the Loan, and to disclose their use in the Project; (ii) shall
enable the Bank's accredited representatives to visit the facili-
ties and construction sites included in the Project and to examine
the goods financed out of the proceeds of the Loan and any rele-
vant records and documents; and (iii) shall furnish to the Bank at
regular intervals all such information as the Bank sha.l reason-
ably request concerning the Project, its cost and, where appro-
priate, the benefits to be derived from it, the expenditure
of the proceeds of the Loan and the goods and services financed
out of such proceeds.
(c) Promptly after completion of the Project, but in any
event not later than June 30, 1982 or such later date as may be
agreed for this purpose between the Borrower and the Bank, the
Borrower shall prepare, through the Program Unit, and furnish to
the Bank a report, of such scope and in such detail as the Bank
shall reasonably request, on the execution and initial operation
of the Project, its cost and the benefits derived and to be
derived from it, the performance by the Borrower and the Bank of
their respective obligations under the Loan Agreement and the
accomplishment of the purposes of the Loan.
Section 3.07. Without in any way limiting the generality
of Section 3.06 (a) and (b) of this Agreement, the Borrower shall:
(a) not later than December 31, 1978, furnish the Bank with
a statement of its primary and secondary education policy in such
details as the Bank shall reasonably request including, inter
alia, financial implications of such policy, and targets concern-
ing its student/teacher ratios; and
(b) by December 31, 1979 and not less frequent than yearly
thereafter, prepare and furnish to the Bank a report, of such
scope and in such detail as the Bank shall reasonably request, on


﻿- 5 -
the developments in the implementation of the policy referred to
in (a) above.
Section 3.08. The Borrower shall take or cause to be taken
all such action as shall be necessary to acquire as and when
needed all such land and rights in respect of land as shall be
required for the construction and operation of the facilities
included in Part E of the Project and shall furnish to the
Bank, promptly after such acquisitioLn, evidence satisfactory to
the Bank that such land and rights in respect of land are avail-
able for purposes related to the Project.
ARTICLE IV
Other Covenants
Section 4.01. (a) It is the policy of the Bank, in making
loans to, or with the guarantee of, its members not to seek, in
normal circumstances, special security from the member concerned
but to ensure that no other external debt shall have priority over
its loans iv the allocation, realization or distribution of
foreign exchange held under the control or for the benefit of
such member. To that end, if any lien shall be created on any
public assets (as hereinafter defined), as security for any
external debt, which will or might result in a priority for the
benefit of the creditor of such external debt in the allocation,
realization or distribution of foreign exchange, such lien shall,
unless the Bank shall otherwise agree, ipso facto and at no cost
to the Bank, equally and ratably secure the principal of, and
interest and other charges on, the Loan, and the Borrower, in
creating or permitting the creation of such lien, shall make
express provision to that effect; provided, however, that, if for
any constitutional or other legal reason such provision cannot
be made with respect to any lien created on assets of any of
its political or administrative subdivisions, the Borrower shall
promptly and at no cost to the Bank secure the principal of,
and interest and other charges on, the Loan by an equivalent
lien on other public assets satisfactory to the Bank.
(b) The foregoing undertaking shall not apply to: (i)
any lien created on property, at the time of purchase thereof,
solely as security for payment of the purchase price of such
property; and (ii) any lien arising in the ordinary course of
banking transactions and securing a debt maturing not more than
one year after its date.


﻿- 6 -
(c) As used in this Section, the term "public assets"
means assets of the Borrower, of any poliical or administrative
subdivision thereof and of any entity owned or controlled by,
or operating for the account or benefit of, the Borrower or any
such subdivision, including gold and other foreign exchange
assets held by any institution performing the functions of a
central bank or exchange stabilization fund, or similar functions,
for the Borrower.
Section 4.02. The Borrower shall maintain or cause to be
maintained records adequate to reflect in accordance with consis-
tently maintained sound accounting practices the operations,
resources and expenditures, in respect of the Project, of the
departments or agencies of the Borrower responsible for carrying
out the Project or any part thereof.
Section 4.03. (a) The Borrower shall cause the Program
Unit to maintain records adequate to reflect in accordance with
consistently maintained sound accounting practices the operations
and financial condition of the Program Unit.
(b) The Borrower shall cause the Program Unit to: (i)
have its accounts and financial statements for each fiscal year
audited, in accordance with sound auditing principles consistently
applied, by auditors acceptable to the Bank; (ii) furnish to the
Bank as soon as available, but in any case not later than four
months after the end of each such year, (A) certified copies of
its financial statements for such year as so audited and (B) the
report of such audit by said auditors, of such scope and in such
detail as the Bank shall have reasonably requested; and (iii)
furnish to the Bank such other information concerning the accounts
and financial statements of the Program Unit : the audit thereof
as the Bank shall from time to time reasonably request.
Section 4.04. The Borrower shall:
(a) take all such action as shall be necessary to ensure
that each educational institution included in the Project carries
out its operations and manages its affairs in accordance with
sound technical, educational, financial and administrative
practices and shall provide, promptly as needed, the funds,
facilities and other resources required for the purpose;
(b) without in any way limiting the generality of paragraph
(a) herein, cause: (i) the buildings, furniture and equipment
of the educational institutions included in the Project to be
adequately maintained and shall cause all necessary renewals and
repairs thereof to be made; and (ii) appropriate administrative


﻿- 7 -
and financial procedures to be established for the purpose of such
maintenance.
Section 4.05. The Borrower shall establish within its Minis-
try of Education and Cultural Affairs not later than December 31,
1978, and maintain and operate thereafter, an educational planning
unit under the direction of an educational planner whose qualifi-
cation and experience shall be satisfactory to the Bank.
Section 4.06. The Borrower shall take all action as shall
be necessary to ensure that, as from January 1, 1980: (i) appli-
cants to the PTTC are selected solely on the basis of their mer-
its and qualifications, and (ii) the ratio between the number of
trainees in the general purpose course and the number of train-
ees in the oriental language courses, shall be about 5 to 1.
Section 4.07. Except as the Bank shall otherwise agree,
the Borrower shall take all action as shall be necessary to:
(a) put into effect in all junior secondary schools in the
Borrower's territories (including the schools under Part E of the
Project), not later than January 1, 1980: (i) the New Curriculum;
and (ii) a system of national examination for students of such
schools, such examination to be held at the end of the junior
secondary cycle to select students on the basis of performance for
entry into senior secondary schools; and
(b) utilize the junior secondary schools included in Part E
of the Project on a double-shift basis.
Section 4.08. The Borrower shall cause the regulations on
budgeting and financial control of private schools prepared by
PSSA in compliance with the PSSA Act of 1976 to be introduced
not later than January 1, 1979.
ARTICLE V
Termination
Section 5.01. The date July 25, 1978, is hereby specified
for the purposes of Section 12.04 of the General Conditions.
ARTICLE VI
Representative of the Borrower; Addresses
Section 6.01. The Minister of Finance of the Borrower is
designated as representative of the Borrower for the purposes
of Section 11.03 of the General Conditions.


﻿-8-
Section 6.02. The following addresses are specified for
the purposes of Section 11.01 of the General Conditions:
For the Borrower:
Minister of Finance
Government House
Port Louis
Mauritius
Cable address:                     Telex:
MINFIN                             EXTERN 249
Port Louis
For the Bank:
International Bank for
Reconstruction and Development
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America
Cable address:                     Telex:
INTBAFRAD                          440098 (ITT)
Washington, D.C.                   248423 (RCA) or
64145 (WUI)
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their
representatives thereunto duly authorized, have caused this
Agreement to be signed in their respective names in the District
of Columbia, United States of America, as of the day and year
first above written.
MAURITIUS
By /s/ G.G. Balancy
Authorized Representative
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR
RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
By /s/ W. Wapenhans
Regional Vice President
Eastern Africa


﻿-9-
SCHEDULE 1
Withdrawal of the Proceeds of the Loan
1.   The table below sets forth the Categories of items to be
financed out of the proceeds of the Loan, the allocation of the
amounts of the Loan to each Category and the percentage of
expenditures for items so to be financed in each Category:
Amount of the
Loan Allocated           % of
(Expressed in       Expenditures
Category               Dollar Equivalent)   to be Financed
(1) Civil works                8,600,000         55%
(2) Furniture and              1,350,000
equipment
(a) imported                                100% of foreign
(other than                            expenditures
(b) below)
(b) locally                                 75% of local
procured                               expenditures
(c) locally                                 100% of ex-
manufactured                           factory cost
(3) Technical assis-           1,400,000         100% of foreign
tance and fellow-                           expenditures
ships
(4) Architectural                600,000         55%
and engineering
services
(5) Project Adminis-             300,000         55%
tration
(6) Unallocated                2,950,000
TOTAL      15,200,000


﻿- 10 -
2.   For the purposes of this Schedule:
(a) the term "foreign expenditures" means expenditures
in the currency of any country other than the Borrower and for
goods or services supplied from the territory of any country other
than the Borrower; and
(b) the term "local expenditures" means expenditures in
the currency of the Borrower and for goods or services supplied
from the territory of the Borrower.
3.   The disbursement percentages have been calculated in com-
pliance with the policy of the Bank that no proceed's of the
Loan.shall be disbursed on account of payments for taxes levied
by, or in the territory of, the Borrower on goods or services,
or on the importation, manufacture, procurement or supply thereof;
to that end, if the amount of any such taxes levied on or in
respect of any item to be financed out of the proceeds of the Loan
decreases or increases, the Bank may, by notice to the Borrower,
increase or decrease the disbursement percentage then applicable
to such item as required to be consistent with the aforementioned
policy of the Bank.
4.   Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1 above, no
withdrawals shall be made:
(a) in respect of payments made for expenditures prior to
the date of this Agreement, except that withdrawals, in an
aggregate amount not exceeding the equivalent of $200,000 may be
made in respect of Categories (1), (3) and (4) on account of
payments made for such expenditures before that date but after
December 1, 1977 if such expenditures are for purposes of Parts A
(1), E (1) (b) and (c) of the Project, respectively; and
(b) in respect of payments made for expenditures for pur-
poses of Part A (2) of the Project, (except for the expenditures
under Category (4)) approved by the Bank unless: (i) the study
included in Part 1 (a) of the Project shall have been completed in
a manner satisfactory to the Bank; and (ii) the Borrower shall
have furnished evidence satisfactory to the Bank that the Borrower
has taken all such action as shall be necessary to carry out the
recommendations of the said study.
5.   Notwithstanding the allocation of an amount of the Loan or
the disbursement percentages set forth in the table in paragraph
1 above, if the Bank has reasonably estimated that the amount


﻿- 11 -
of the Loan then allocated to any Category will be insufficient
to finance the agreed percentage of all expenditures in that
Category, the Bank may, by notice to the Borrower: (i) reallocate
to such Category, to the extent required to meet the estimated
shortfall, proceeds of the Loan which are then allocated to
another Category and which in the opinion of the Bank are not
needed to meet other expenditures, and (ii) if such reallocation
cannot fully meet the estimated shortfall, reduce the disbursement
percentage then applicable to such expenditures in order that
further withdrawals under such Category may continue until all
expenditures thereunder shall have been made.
6.   If the Bank shall have reasonably determined that the
procurement of any item in any Category is inconsistent with
the procedures set forth or referred to in this Agreement, no
expendi:ures for such item shall be financed out of the proceeds
of the Loan and the Bank may, without in any way restricting
or limiting any other right, power or remedy of the Bank under
the Loan Agreement, by notice to the Borrower, cancel such amount
of the Loan as, in the Bank's reasonable opinion, represents
the amount of such expenditures which would otherwise have been
eligible for financing out of the proceeds of the Loan.


﻿- 12 -
SCHEDULE 2
Description of the Project
The Project is a consequence of the Borrower's Five Year Plan
for 1975-1980 which aims, inter alia, to the development of human
resources in the Borrower's territories by means of increasing the
number of semi-skilled and skill-oriented jobs and restructuring
the educational system. The Project consists of the following
Parts:
Part A:   Strengthening of the Borrower's Ministry of Education
and Cultural Affairs (hereinafter called MECA)
(1) A study on the reorganization of MECA with a view to
enabling MECA to respond to the needs of the expanding
education system consisting of:
(a) Phase One or preparation of a preliminary design
for the reorganization of MECA. This phase will
involve about 10 man-months of consultants' ser-
vices, including a management specialist, a system
analyst, a personnel analyst and a coordinator.
(b) Phase Two or implementation of MECA's reorgani-
zation. This phase will involve about 50 man-months
of consultants' services in the fields of manage-
ment, personnel, systems analysis and education,
and about 48 man-months of fellowships for manage-
ment personnel of MECA.
(2) Construction of a new building for MECA, with an approx-
imate aggregate construction area of about 6,000
square meters, and furnishing and equipping thereof.
Part B:   Strengthening of PTTC
(1) Construction, furnishing and equipping of additional
facilities for expanding PTTC's capacity to about 600
places. Such facilities will include physical and social
science rooms and laboratories, micro-teaching units,
arts and crafts workshops, a home-economics room, a
media and resource center with audio-visual aids labor-
atory and workshop, and administrative areas.


﻿- 13 -
(2) Strengthening of PTTC's services by means of provision
9f about 36 man-months of consultants' services, and of
about 72 man-months of fellowships for PTTC's staff
in the fields of micro-teaching, and audio-visual aids
maintenance and repair.
Part C:   Strengthening of Audio-Visual Center
(1) Construction of new facilities therefor with an aggre-
gate construction area of about 1,200 square meters,
including audio and television studios, production rooms
and workshops for audio-visual support materials, and
a printing section for MECA and the Institute of Educa-
tion with storage rooms, and furnishing and equipping
thereof.
(2) Strengthening of Audio-Visual Center's services by means
of provision of about 24 man-months of consultants' ser-
vices in the field of media service management, and of
about 135 man-months of fellowships for Audio-Visual
Center's staff in the fields of production of radio and
television programs, and equipment maintenance and
repair.
Part D:   Strengthening of Institute of Education
(1) Acquisition and use of equipment for the Institute's
printing section and its audio-visual unit and resources
center.
(2) Acquisition and use of library equipment and required
four-year supply of books for its library.
(3) Strengthening of the Institute's services by means of
provision of about 150 man-months of fellowships for its
staff in fields satisfactory to the Bank, with emphasis
given to practical subjects included in the curriculum.
Part E:   Development of Junior Secondary Schools
(1) Construction, furnishing and equipping of additional
facilities for:
(a) three existing four-year junior technical schools
located at Port Louis, Belle Rose, and Central
Flacq;


﻿- 14 -
(b) six existing four-year lower secondary schools
located at Quartier Militaire, Triolet, Souillac
Terre Rouge, Bambous and Riviere du Rampart;
(c) six existing laboratory and workshop centers
located at Port Louis, Rose Hill, Curepipe,
Goodlands, Mahebourg, and Central Flacq.
The total additional number of student places to be provided
shall be approximately 9,120.
(2) Conversion of all the schools and centers included in
Part E (1) above into three-year junior secondary
schools.
Part F:  Establishment of a Central Training Office
A study on the establishment of an organization which, with
a view to monitoring the needs for occupational training and
providing a continuous review of employment opportunities, will
coordinate existing training programs sponsored by various Min-
istries and agencies of the Borrower and will determine the
initiation of new training programs, if so required. The study
will consist of:
(1) Phase One, or examination of alternative arrangements
for the organizational structure for the Central Train-
ing Office, definition of the functions and respon-
sibilities thereof, composition of its Governing Board
and the staffing needs of its Secretariat, and drafting
of the necessary legislation for the implementation of
all the aforesaid. This phase will involve about 12
man-months of consultants' services in the field of
organization of occupational training.
(2) Phase Two, or development of the Central Training
Office to be established in accordance with the legis-
lation enacted as a result of Phase One. This Phase
will involve about 24 man-months of consultants' ser-
vices in the field of job classification and design of
minimum training needs, about 12 man-months of con-
sultants' services in the field of trade testing and
certification, about 12 man-months of consultants'
services in apprenticeship and in-plant training, about
6 man-months in the field of training of supervisors,


﻿- 15 -
about 6 man-months of consultants' services in the field
of handicrafts training and about 60 man-months of
fellowships.
The Project is expected to be completed by March 31, 1982.


﻿- 16 -
SCHEDULE 3
Amortization Schedule
Payment of Principal
Date Payment Due                          (expressed in dollars)*
On each April 15 and October 15
beginning October 15, 1982
through   October 15, 1994                   585,000
On April 15, 1995                                 575,000
*    To the extent that any portion of the Loan is repayable in
a currency other than dollars (see General Conditions,
Section 4.02), the figures in this column represent dollar
equivalents determined as for purposes of withdrawal.


﻿- 17 -
Premiums on Prepayment
The following percentages are specified as the premiums
payable on repayment in advance of maturity of any portion of
the principal amount of the Loan pursuant to Section 3.05 (b)
of the General Conditions:
Time of Prepayment                               Premium
Not more than three years
before maturity                              1.30%
More than three years but
not raore than six years
before maturity                              2.65%
More than six years but not
more than eleven years
before maturity                              4.80%
More than eleven years but not
more than fifteen years
before maturity                              6.55%
More than fifteen years
before maturity                              7.45%


﻿- 18 -
SCHEDULE 4
Procurement
A.   International Competitive Bidding
1.   Except as provided in Part B hereof, contracts for the
purchase of goods or for civil works shall be procured in accor-
dance with procedures consistent with those set forth in the
"Guidelines for Procurement under World Bank Loans and IDA
Credits" published by the Bank in March 1977 (hereinafter called
the Guidelines), on the basis of international competitive bidding
as described in Part A of the Guidelines.
2.   For goods and works to be procured on the basis of inter-
national competitive bidding under the Project, in addition to the
requirements of paragraph 1.2 of the Guidelines, the Borrower
shall prepare and forward to the Bank as soon as possible, and in
any event not later than 60 days prior to the date of availability
to the public of the first tender or prequalification documents
relating thereto, as the case may be, a general procurement
notice, in such form and detail and containing such information as
the Bank shall reasonably request; the Bank will arrange for the
publication of such notice in order to provide timely notification
to prospective bidders of the opportunity to bid for the goods and
works in question. The Borrower shall provide the necessary
information to update such notice annually so long as any goods or
works remain to be procured on the basis of international compe-
titive bidding.
3.   For bidding purposes, contracts for the purchase of goods or
for civil works shall be grouped to the extent practicable so as
to permit such bulk procurement as shall be consistent with
appropriate technical and procurement practices.
B.   Other Procurement Procedures
1.   Contracts for civil works (other than those referred to
in paragraph 2 below) which cannot be grouped in bid packages
estimated to cost the equivalent of $250,000 or more may be
procured in accordance with the Borrower's bidding procedures,
provided that such procedures are satisfactory to the Bank.
2.   Contracts for civil works for Part E (1) (b) and (c) of
the Project may, whenever possible, be negotiated with the con-
tractors awarded with contracts financed under the First Education


﻿- 19 -
Agreement, through extensions to such contracts. In such cases,
the Bank's prior approval shall be sought in respect of: (i) the
sketch designs for such civil works; and (ii) the terms and condi-
tions of the extensions to existing contracts.
3.   Contracts for the purchase of goods, which cannot be grouped
in bid packages estimated to cost the equivalent of $50,000 or
more, may be procured in accordance with the Borrower's bidding
procedures, provided that such procedures are satisfactory to the
Bank.
C.   Evaluation and Comparison of Bids for Goods; Preference
for Domestic Manufacturers
1.   For the purpose of evaluation and comparison of bids for
the supply of goods except those to be procured in accordance
with local procedures: (i) bidders shall be required to state
in their bid the c.i.f. (port of entry) price for imported goods,
or the ex-factory price for domestically manufactured goods;
(ii) customs duties and other import taxes on imported goods,
and sales and similar taxes on domestically supplied goods, shall
be excluded; and (iii) the cost to the Borrower of inland freight
and other expenditures incidental to the delivery of goods to
the place of their use or installation shall be included.
2.   Goods manufactured in Mauritius may be granted a margin of
preference in accordance with, and subject to, the following
provisions:
(a) All bidding documents for the procurement of goods
shall clearly indicate any preference which will be granted,
the information required to establish the eligibility of a bid
for such preference and the following methods and stages that will
be followed in the evaluation and comparison of bids.
(b) After evaluation, responsive bids will be classified
in one of the following three groups:
(1) Group A: bids offering goods manufactured in
Mauritius if the bidder shall have established to
the satisfaction of the Borrower and the Bank that
the manufacturing cost of such goods includes a
value added in Mauritius equal to at least 20%
of the ex-factory bid price of such goods.


﻿- 20 -
(2) Group B: all other bids offering goods manufactured
in Mauritius.
(3) Group C: bids offering any other goods.
(c) All evaluated bids in each group shall be first compared
among themselves, excluding any customs duties and other import
taxes on goods to be imported and any sales or similar taxes
on goods to be supplied domestically, to determine the lowest
evaluated bid of each group. Such lowest evaluated bids shall
then be compared with each other, and if, as a result of this
comparison, a bid from group A or group B is the lowest, it shall
be selected for the award.
(d) If, as a result of the comparison under paragraph
(c) above, the lowest bid is a bid from group C, all group C
bids shall be further compared with the lowest evaluated bid
from group A after adding to the c.i.f. bid price of the imported
goods offered in each group C bid, for the purpose of this further
comparison only, an amount equal to: (i) the amount of customs
duties and other import taxes which a non-exempt importer would
have to pay for the importation of the goods offered in such
group C bid; or (ii) 15% of the c.i.f. bid price of such goods
if said customs duties and taxes exceed 15% of such price. If
the group A bid in such further comparison is the lowest, it
shall be selected for the award; if not, the bid from group
C which as a result of the comparison under paragraph (c) is
the lowest evaluated bid shall be selected.
D.   Review of Tender Documents and Procurement Decisions
by the Bank
1.   With respect to all contracts:
Before inviting bids, the Borrower shall furnish to the Bank
for its approval, the sketch designs for civil works and the list
of furniture and equipment under Categories (1) and (2) of Part
1 of Schedule 1 to this Agreement, showing the specifications and
estimated unit and total price. Items shall be grouped to form bid
packages as required in Part A.3 of this Schedule. Items shall be
indexed, coded and numbered for identification in respect of the
applicable educational institution. Amendments to such designs and
lists shall require the Bank's prior approval.
2.   Review of invitations to bid and of proposed awards and
final contracts:


﻿- 21 -
With respect to all contracts for civil works estimated to
cost the equivalent of $250,000 or more and to all contracts for
goods estimated to cost the equivalent of $50,000 or more:
(a) Before bids are invited, the Borrower shall furnish to
the Bank, for its comments, the text of the invitations to bid and
the specifications and other bidding documents, together with a
description of the advertising procedures to be followed for the
bidding, and shall make such modifications in the said documents
or procedures as the Bank shall reasonably request. Any further
modification to the bidding documents shall require the Bank's
concurrence before it is issued to the prospective bidders.
(b) After bids have been received and evaluated, the Bor-
rower shall, before a final decision on the award is made, inform
the Bank of the name of the bidder to which it intends to award
the contract and shall furnish to the Bank, in sufficient time for
its review, a detailed report, by the Program Unit on the evalua-
tion and comparison of the bids received, together with the
recommendations for award of the said consultants and such other
information as the Bank shall reasonably request. The Bank shall,
if it determines that the intended award would be inconsistent
with the Guidelines or this Schedule, promptly inform the Borrower
and state the reasons for such determination.
(c) The terms and conditions of the contract shall not,
without the Bank's concurrence, materially differ from those
on which bids were asked or prequalification invited.
(d) Two conformed copies of the contract shall be furnished
to the Bank promptly after its execution and prior to the submis-
sion to the Bank of the first application for withdrawal of
funds from the Loan Account in respect of such contract.
3.   With respect to each contract to be financed out of the pro-
ceeds of the Loan and not governed by the preceding paragraph, the
Borrower shall furnish to the Bank, promptly after its execution
and prior to the submission to the Bank of the first application
for withdrawal of fu-ds from the Loan Account in respect of such
contract, two conformed copies of such contract, together with the
analysis of the respective bids, recommendations for award and
such other information as the Bank shall reasonably request. The
Bank shall, if it determines that the award of the contract was
not consistent with the Guidelines or this Schedule, promptly
inform the Borrower and state the reasons for such determination.


﻿- 22 -
SCHEDULE 5
The Program Unit
1.   Except as the Borrower and the Bank shall otherwise agree,
the Program Unit referred to in Section 3.02 of this Agreement
shall have such responsibilities and powers as shall be necessary
or incidental to the proper execution and supervision of the
Project and, in particular, the following responsibilities and
powers:
(a) the coordination of the Project with the Borrower's
ministries and other agencies involved in the Project;
(b) the selection, briefing, coordination and supervision of
architectural consultants provided for in Section 3.04
of this Agreement;
(c) the approval of the civil works designs of the educa-
tional institutions included in the Project;
(d) the preparation of detailed lists of furniture and
equipment required for the Project and the preparation
of bidding documents therefor as well as the preparation
of the report referred to in Section 3.06 (c) of this
Agreement, gathering, for that purpose, the data and
information to be furnished by the Borrower's Ministry
of Education and by the Institite of Education;
(e) the procurement of contracts for construction, fur-
niture and equipment for purposes of the Project,
including the evaluation of bids and recommendations of
awards of contracts;
(f) the maintenance of records, including records of the
execution of the Project, and the preparation of regular
reports to the Bank;
(g) the coordination of the selection, briefing and super-
vision of the consultants and the coordination of the
selections of the fellowships provided for in Section
3.03 of this Agreement; and
(h) the preparation of applications for withdrawals from the
Loan Account.


﻿- 23 -
2.   The Program Unit shall have the following staff:
(a) Program Manager who shall have overall responsibility
for the direction and supervision of the Program Unit's
work;
(b) a Deputy Manager appointed on a full time basis, who
shall have responsibility for assisting the Program
Manager in the direction and supervision of the Program
Unit's work;
(c) an Architect;
(d) a Procurement Specialist;
(e) an Accountant; and
(f) such technical, accounting, secretarial and other staff
as may be required for the efficient and proper dis-
charge of the Program Unit's responsibilities in respect
of the Project.


