LOAN NUMBER 1888 PE
Loan Agreement
(Bay6var Phosphate Engineering
and Technical Assistance Project)
between
REPUBLIC OF PERU
and
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION
AND DEVELOPMENT
Dated    Cx                         , 1980


﻿LOAN NUMBER 1888 PE
LOAN AGREEMENT
AGREEMENT, dated   a                         , 1980, between
REPUBLIC OF PERU (hereinaft    called the Borrower) and INTERNA-
TIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT (hereinafter
called the Bank).
WHEREAS (A) the Borrower has requested the Bank to assist
in the financing of the foreign exchange cost of the Project
described in Schedule 2 to this Agreement by making the Loan as
hereinafter provided;
(B) the Project will be carried out by Empresa Promotora
Bay6var S.A. (hereinafter called Empresa), or a legal successor
thereof satisfactory to the Bank, with the Borrower's assistance
and, as part of such assistance, the Borrower will make available
to Empresa the proceeds of the Loan as hereinafter provided;
and
WHEREAS the Bank has agreed, on the basis inter alia of the
foregoing, to make the Loan available to the Borrower upon the
terms and conditions set forth hereinafter and in a project agree-
ment to be entered into between the Bank and Empresa, on terms and
conditions which have been fully negotiated and agreed by the
Borrower, the Bank and Empresa;-
NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:
ARTICLE I
General Conditions; Definitions
Section 1.01. The parties to this Agreement accept all the
provisions of the General Conditions Applicable to Loan and
Guarantee Agreements of the Bank, dated March 15, 1974, with the
same force and effect as if they were fully set forth herein (said
General Conditions Applicable to Loan and Guarantee Agreements of
the Bank being hereinafter called the General Conditions).
Section 1.02. Wherever used in this Agreement, unless the
context otherwise requires, the several terms defined in the
General Conditions and in the Preamble to this Agreement have
the respective meanings therein set forth and the following
additional terms have the following meanings:
(a) "Project Agreement" means an agreement on terms and
conditions which have been fully negotiated and agreed by the
Borrower, the Bank and Empresa and which will be entered into


﻿-2-
between the Bank and Empresa for purposes of Section 6.01 (a) of
this Agreement, as such agreement may be amended from time to
time;
(b) "Contrato Social"   means a contract signed on June 6,
1980 by each of the Shareholders (as the term is defined in
Section (e) below) which, if and when filed with the Registro
Mercantil de los Registros PG'blicos de Lima, will provide the
bases for the creation of Empresa and enable Empresa to enter into
the Project Agreement, as such contract may be amended from time
to time;
(c) "Estatutos" means the By-laws of Empresa set forth in
the Contrato Social;
(d) "Senior Staff" means the following positions in the
staff of Empresa: (i) general manager; (ii) senior economic
expert; (iii) senior mining expert; and (iv) senior chemical
expert;
(e) "Shareholder" means: (A) any of the following legal
entities established and operating under the laws of, and wholly
owned by, the Borrower: Corporaci6n Financiera de Desarrollo
(hereinafter called COFIDE) or Empresa Nacional de Comercializa-
ci6n de Insumos (hereinafter called ENCI) or Empresa Minera del
Peru (hereinafter called MINERO PERU); or (B) any other person
or entity which, after the date of this Agreement, may become
shareholder of Empresa; and
(f) "Bay6var Investment Project" means a project prepared
on the basis of the carrying out of Parts A and B of the Project
and which will primarily consist of developing the Sechura phos-
phate deposits with a view to the manufacturing of phosphoric acid
and phosphate fertilizers.
ARTICLE II
The Loan
Section 2.01. The Bank agrees to lend to the Borrower,
on the terms and conditions in the Loan Agreement set forth
or referred to, an amount in various currencies equivalent to
seven million five hundred thousand dollars ($7,500,000).
Section 2.02. The amount of the Loan may be withdrawn
from the Loan Account in accordance with the provisions of Sched-
ule 1 to this Agreement, as such Schedule may be amended from time
to time by agreement between the Borrower and the Bank, for
expenditures made (or, if the Bank shall so agree, to be made) in


﻿-3-
respect of the reasonable cost of goods and services required for
the Project and to be financed out of the proceeds of the Loan.
Section 2.03. The Closing Date shall be June 30, 1983
or such later date as the Bank shall establish. The Bank shall
promptly notify the Borrower of such later date.
Section 2.04.  The Borrower shall pay to the Bank a commit-
ment charge at the rate of three-fourths of one per cent (3/4 of
1%) per annum on the principal amount of the Loan not withdrawn
from time to time.
Section 2.05. The Borrower shall pay interest at the rate
of eight and twenty-five hundredths per cent (8.25%) per annum
on the principal amount of the Loan withdrawn and outstanding
from time to time.
Section 2.06. Interest and other charges shall be payable
semiannually on March 1 and September 1 in each year.
Section 2.07. The Borrower shall repay the principal amount
of the Loan in accordance with the amortization schedule set
forth in Schedule 3 to this Agreement.
Section 2.08. Empresa is designated as representative of the
Borrower for the purposes of taking any action required or per-
mitted to be taken under the provisions of Section 2.02 of this
Agreement and Article V of the General Conditions.
ARTICLE III
Execution of the Project
Section 3.01. Without any limitation or restriction upon
any of its other obligations under the Loan Agreement, the
Borrower shall:
(a) cause Empresa to perform in accordance with the pro-
visions of the Project Agreement all the obligations therein
set forth, shall take or cause to be taken all action, including
the provision of funds, facilities, services and other resources,
necessary or appropriate to enable Empresa to perform such obliga-
tions, and shall not take or permit to be taken any action which
would prevent or interfere with such performance;
(b) take all such action including, but not limited to, the
provision of funds, facilities, services and other resources, as
shall be necessary to cause each of the Shareholders: (i) to take


﻿-4-
all such action as shall be necessary on the part of such Share-
holder to enable Empresa to carry out the Project with due dili-
gence and efficiency and in conformity with appropriate adminis-
trative, financial and engineering practices; and (ii) not to take
any action which would prevent or interfere with the performance
by Empresa of its covenants, agreements and obligations contained
in the Project Agreement;
(c) make available the proceeds of the Loan to Empresa as
contributions of the Shareholders to Empresa's equity; and
(d) without any limitation or restriction upon any of the
obligations of the Borrower under the preceding paragraphs of this
Section, cause each of the Shareholders to make all of its respec-
tive contributions to Empresa's equity in accordance with the
Contrato Social.
Section 3.02. (a) The Borrower shall, at the request of the
Bank, cause each Shareholder to exchange views with the Bank with
regard to the performance of its obligations under the Contrato
Social, the progress of the Project, the operation of Empresa and
other matters relating to the purposes of the Loan including, but
not limited to, the matters referred to in Section 2.02 (e) (ii)
and (iii) of the Project Agreement.
(b) The Borrower shall cause each Shareholder to inform
the Bank promptly of any condition which interferes or threatens
to interfere with the performance of its obligations under the
Contrato Social, the progress of the Project, the operation of
Empresa or the accomplishment of the purposes of the Loan.
Section 3.03. (a) Upon completion of Part A of the Project,
the Borrower shall consult with the Bank and Empresa on the
recommendations and conclusions relating thereto and shall cause
the Shareholders to participate fully in the consultation process.
(b) Upon completion of Part B (a) and Part B (b) of the Pro-
ject, the Borrower shall discuss with the Bank and Empresa the
results of the carrying out of such Parts of the Project, shall
cause the Shareholders to participate in such discussion and shall
afford the Bank a reasonable opportunity to express its views on
any decision connected with the carrying out of any project based
on the aforementioned results, before any such decision is taken.


﻿-5-
ARTICLE IV
Other Covenants
Section 4.01. (a) It is the policy of the Bank, in making
loans to, or with the guarantee of, its members not to seek,
in normal circumstances, special security from the member con-
cerned but to ensure that no other external debt shall have
priority over its loans in the allocation, realization or distri-
bution of foreign exchange held under the control or for the
benefit of such member. To that end, if any lien shall be created
on any public assets (as hereinafter defined), as security for
any external debt, which will or might result in a priority
for the benefit of the .creditor of such external debt in the
allocation, realization or distribution of foreign exchange,
such lien shall, unless the Bank shall otherwise agree, ipso
facto and at no cost to the Bank, equally and ratably secure
the principal of, and interest and other charges on, the Loan,
and the Borrower, in creating or permitting the creation of
such lien, shall make express provision to that effect; provided,
however, that, if for any constitutional or other legal reason
such provision cannot be made with respect to any lien created on
assets of any of its political or administrative subdivisions, the
Borrower shall promptly and at no cost to the Bank secure the
principal of, and interest and other charges on, the Loan by an
equivalent lien on other public assets satisfactory to the
Bank.
(b) The foregoing undertaking shall not apply to: (i) any
lien created on property, at the time of purchase thereof,
solely as security for payment of the purchase price of such
property; and (ii) any lien arising in the ordinary course of
banking transactions and securing a debt maturing not more than
one year after its date.
(c) As used in this Section, the term "public assets"
means assets of the Borrower, of any political or administrative
subdivision thereof and of any entity owned or controlled by,
or operating for the account or benefit of, the Borrower or
any such subdivision, including gold and other foreign exchange
assets held by any institution performing the functions of a
central bank or exchange stabilization fund, or similar
functions, for the Borrower.


﻿-6-
ARTICLE V
Remedies of the Bank
Section 5.01. For the purposes of Section 6.02 of the
General Conditions, the following additional events are specified
pursuant to paragraph (k) thereof:
(a) Empresa shall have failed to perform any of its obliga-
tions under the Project Agreement;
(b) any Shareholder shall have failed to perform any of
its obligations under the Contrato Social;
(c) any   Shareholder shall have sold, leased, trans-
ferred or otherwise disposed of 15% or more of the shares of
Empresa's capital stock originally subscribed by such Shareholder,
or any person or entity other than COFIDE, ENCI or MINERO PERU
shall have become Shareholder without the prior approval of the
Bank;
(d) an extraordinary situation shall have arisen which shall
make it improbable that Empresa will be able to perform its
obligations under the Project Agreement or that any Shareholder
will be able to perform its obligations under the Contrato Social
or under any contract supplemental thereto;
(e) the Contrato Social or any contract supplemental thereto
shall have been amended, suspended, abrogated, repealed or waived;
-and
(f) the Borrower or any other authority having jurisdiction
shall have taken any action for the dissolution or disestablish-
ment of Empresa or for the suspension of its operations, or
Empresa shall have passed any resolution for its dissolution or
liquidation.
Section 5.02. For the purposes of Section 7.01 of the General
Conditions, the following additional events are specified pursuant
to paragraph (h) thereof:
(a) any event specified in paragraph (a) or paragraph (b) or
paragraph (c) of Section 5.01 of this Agreement shall occur and
shall continue for a period of sixty days after notice thereof
shall have been given by the Bank to the Borrower and Empresa;
and


﻿-7-
(b) any event specified in paragraph (e) or paragraph (f)
of Section 5.01 of this Agreement shall occur; provided, however,
that such reference to paragraph (f) shall not apply if the
dissolution, disestablishment or liquidation of Empresa has been
the consequence of a decision not to carry out Part B of the
Project or to establish a new entity for the carrying out of
the Bay6var Investment Project.
ARTICLE VI
Effective Date; Termination
Section 6.01. The following events are specified as addi-
tional conditions to the effectiveness of the Loan Agreement
within the meaning of Section 12.01 (c) of the General Conditions:
(a)  that the Project Agreement has been executed on behalf
of the Bank and Empresa;
(b) that Senior Staff, acceptable to the Bank, have been
appointed in a manner satisfactory to the Bank;
(c) that the consultants who will assist Empresa in respect
of the tasks referred to or mentioned in Sub-paragraphs (i)
through (iv) of paragraph (b) of Section 2.02 of the Project
Agreement have been hired in accordance with such Section; and
(d) that the registration of the Contrato Social with the
Borrower's Registro Mercantil de los Registros Pfblicos de Lima
has been ordered by the authorities thereof and that all action
taken on behalf of Empresa before such registration has been
ratified, within 90 days of such registration, by an extraordinary
meeting of the Shareholders.
Section 6.02. The following are specified as additional
matters, within the meaning of Section 12.02 (c) of the General
Conditions, to be included in the opinion or opinions to be
furnished to the Bank:
(a) that Empresa has been legally established as a corpora-
tion in accordance with the laws of the Borrower, that the meeting
of Shareholders referred to in Section 6.01 (d) of this Agreement
has legally ratified the actions referred to in such Section and
that the Project Agreement has been duly authorized or ratified by
Empresa, and is legally binding upon Empresa in accordance with
its terms; and


﻿-8-
(b) that the Contrato Social has been duly authorized or
ratified by each Shareholder and is legally binding upon each
Shareholder in accordance with its terms.
Section 6.03. The date    o            19f   , is hereby speci-
fied for the purposes of Section 12.04 of the General Conditions.
ARTICLE VII
Representatives of the Borrower; Addresses
Section 7.01. The Ministro de Economla y Finanzas and the
Director General de Cr6dito PG'blico of the Borrower's Ministry
of Economy and Finance are severally designated as representatives,
of the Borrower for the purposes of Section 11.03 of the General
Conditions.
Section 7.02. The following addresses are specified for the
purposes of Section 11.01 of the General Conditions:
For the Borrower:
Ministerio de Economia y Finanzas
Avenida Abancay, 5ta Cuadra
Lima, Peru
Cable address:                      Telex:
MINDEF                              20187 PU MINDEF
Lima, Peru'
For the Bank:
International Bank for
Reconstruction and Development
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America
Cable address:                      Telex:
INTBAFRAD                           440098 (ITT)
Washington, D.C.                    248423 (RCA) or
64145 (WUI)


﻿IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their
representatives thereunto duly authorized, have caused this
Agreement to be signed in their respective names in the District
of Columbia, United States of America, as of the day and year
first above written.
REPUBLIC OF PERU
By                           c.
Authorized Representative
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR
RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
By 151
. ~  Regional Vice President
Latin America and the Caribbean


﻿- 10 -
SCHEDULE 1
Withdrawal of the Proceeds of the Loan
1.   The table below sets forth the Categories of items to be
financed out of the proceeds of the Loan, the allocation of the
amounts of the Loan to each Category and the percentage of
expenditures for items so to be financed in each Category:
Amount of the
Loan Allocated           % of
(Expressed in        Expenditures
Category                 Dollar Equivalent)    to be Financed
(1) Consultants'                 2,000,000          75% (repre-
services for                                   senting the
Part A of the                                  estimated
Project and for                                foreign
purposes of Section                            expenditure
2.02 (b) (i) and                               component)
(ii) of the Project
Agreement
(2) Consultants'                 4,400,000          95% (repre-
services for                                   senting the
Part B of the                                  estimated
Project                                        foreign
expenditure
component)
(3) Unallocated                  1,100,000
TOTAL             7,500,000
2.   For the purposes of this Schedule, the term "foreign expendi-
tures" means expenditures in the, currency of any country other
than the Borrower and for goods or services supplied from the
territory of any country other than the Borrower.
3.   The disbursement percentages      have been calculated in,
compliance with the policy of the Bank that no proceeds of the
Loan shall be disbursed on account of payments for taxes levied


﻿- 11 -
by, or in the territory of, the Borrower on goods or services,
or on the importation, manufacture, procurement or supply
thereof; to that end, if the amount of any such taxes levied
on or in respect of any item to be financed out of the proceeds
of the Loan decreases or increases, the Bank may, by notice to
the Borrower, increase or decrease the disbursement percentage
then applicable to such item as required to be consistent with
the aforementioned policy of the Bank.
4.   Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1 above, no
withdrawals shall be made: (a) in respect of payments made for
expenditures prior to the date of this Agreement, except that
withdrawals may be made on account of payments made for expendi-
tures for purposes of Part A (a) of the Project and Section 2.02
(b) (i) and (ii) of the Project Agreement before that date but
after June 1, 1980 up to a maximum aggregate amount of $50,000
equivalent; or (b) on account of payments made for expenditures
for purposes of Part B of the Project unless the Borrower, the
Bank and Empresa are satisfied that, on the basis of the carrying
out of Part A of the Project, the Bay6var Investment Project, as
selected and described in the report included in Part (A) (i)
of the Project, is technically, economically and financially
feasible.
5.   Notwithstanding the allocation of an amount of the Loan or.
the disbursement percentages set forth in the table in paragraph
1 above, if the Bank has reasonably estimated that the amount of
the Loan then allocated to any Category will be insufficient to
finance the agreed percentage of all expenditures in that
Category, the Bank may, by notice to the Borrower: (i) reallocate
to such Category, to the extent required to meet the estimated
shortfall, proceeds of the Loan which are then allocated to
another Category and which in the opinion of the Bank are not
needed to meet other expenditures, and (ii) if such reallocation
cannot fully meet the estimated shortfall, reduce the disbursement
percentage then applicable to such expenditures in order that
further withdrawals under such Category may continue until all.
expenditures thereunder shall have been made.
6.   If the Bank shall have reasonably determined that the
procurement of any item in any Category is inconsistent with the
procedures set forth or referred to in this Agreement, no
expenditures for such item shall be financed out of the proceeds
of the Loan and the Bank may, without in any way restricting
or limiting any other right, power or remedy of the Bank under


﻿- 12 -
the Loan Agreement, by notice to the Borrower, cancel such amount
of the Loan as, in the Bank's reasonable opinion, represents
the amount of such expenditures which would otherwise have been
eligible for financing out of the proceeds of the Loan.


﻿- 13 -
- SCHEDULE 2
Description of the Project
The main objective of the Project is to determine the techni-
cal, economic and financial feasibility of the Bay6var Invest-
ment Project.
The Project consists of:
Part A:   First Phase
(a) A program of studies and, if required, other works, with
respect to the Sechura Desert phosphate rock deposits, for the
purpose of, inter alia: (i) evaluating the accuracy of the data
gathered from the drilling program already undertaken; (ii)
determining the level of phosphate reserves by means of processing
the existing data and the information gathered under (i) above,
and, if required, gathering and processing of additional data;
(iii) determining the optimum location for the mining of the
phosphate deposits; and (iv) determining the optimum methods for
such mining.
(b) (i) Review of the information and data gathered by
means of the exploration works already done in the pyrite deposits
at Tambo Grande with a view to determining the technical feasibi-
lity of using such pyrites in the manufacture of sulfuric acid;
and (ii) analysis of possible utilization of other sources for the
manufacture or supply of sulfuric acid; all of the aforesaid to
be done in order to (1) determine the most economic source and/or
method for the manufacture or supply of sulfuric acid and (2)
establish the technical parameters for a sulfuric acid processing
plant if such plant is required.
(c) Execution of physical and chemical tests in order to:
(i) determine the most economic process for concentrating crude
ore for the manufacture of phosphoric acid; (ii) provide a basis
for the design of, the*ore concentration plant; and (iii) obtain
data for the phosphoric acid reactivity tests included in- (d)
below.
(d) Execution of a comprehensive program of phosphoric
acid reactivity tests in order to establish the design parameters
for, and the economics of, the manufacture of phosphoric acid and
phosphate fertilizers.


﻿- 14 -
(e) Carrying out of studies on: (i) the determination
of the best source or sources for the required supply of water,
analyzing different alternatives including the availability of
underground water and of water from the Chira-Piura irrigation
system; (ii) the determination of the optimum location of the
plants for ore concentration and of each manufacturing facility
required for the carrying out of the Bay6var Investment Project;
and (iii) all infrastructure requirements for the carrying out of
the Bay6var Investment Project, particularly road and port
facilities, including loading and unloading facilities, location
and characteristics of required servicing and maintenance facili-
ties, all aspects of the establishment of a new township at
Bay6var, and the timing for the construction of all the
aforesaid.
(f) Carrying out of a comprehensive domestic and foreign
market study, which will include the definition of marketing
strategies for the sale of phosphate rock, phosphoric acid, and
phosphate fertilizers.
(g) Execution of a prefeasibility study on the recovery,
from the phosphoric acid, of the uranium content of the Bay6var
phosphate rock, and on the technical parameters of a uranium
recovery processing plant.
(h) Execution 'of a study to determine: (i) the level of
existing potash reserves -in the Ram6n brines deposits area; (ii)
the available technologies for the manufacture of potash; and
(iii) the economic merits of making an investment for the manufac-
ture of potash and, if justified, the additional research and
studies required for the preparation of a comprehensive feasi-
bility study.
(i) Review of all the information and data gathered by
the carrying out of all of the aforesaid, utilization thereof to
identify alternative projects, determination of the technical,
economical and financial feasibility of such alternatives, and, to
the extent there are one or more technically, economically and
financially feasible alternatives, selection of the one most
attractive from an economic viewpoint, and preparation of a report
on all of the aforesaid to help taking investment decisions in
respect of the carrying out of the Bay6var Investment Project.


﻿- 15 -
Part B
(a) Preparation of basic engineering design for the Bay6var
Investment Project selected on the basis of the results of the
execution of Part A of the Project, including, on the basis
thereof, an estimate of the investments necessary therefor.
(b) Carrying out of a study on all aspects related to the
execution of the Bay6var Investment Project which shall
include specific recommendations on optimal project organization.
(c) Subject to Bank's approval, carrying out of other
preliminary activities for the execution of the Bay6var Invest-
ment Project including preparation of tender documents, pre-
qualification of bidders, evaluation of bids and recommendations
for awarding of contracts.
The Project is expected to be completed by December 30, 1982.


﻿- 16 -
SCHEDULE 3
Amortization Schedule
Payment of Principal
Date Payment Due                           (expressed in dollars)*
On each March 1 and September 1
beginning March 1, 1983
through   March 1, 1990                     470,000
On September 1, 1990                             450,000
*    To the extent that any portion of the Loan is repayable in a
currency other than dollars (see General Conditions, Section
4.02), the figures in this column represent dollar equiva-
lents determined as for purposes of withdrawal.


﻿- 17 -
Premiums on Prepayment
The following percentages are specified as the premiums
payable on repayment in advance of maturity of any portion of
the principal amount of the Loan pursuant to Section 3.05 (b)
of the General Conditions:
Time of Prepayment                               Premium
Not more than two years                                 1.65%
before maturity
More than two years but not                             3.30%
more than four years
before maturity
More than four years but not                            4.95%
more than six years
before maturity
More than six years but not                             6.60%
more than eight years
before maturity
More than eight years                                   8.25%
before maturity


﻿INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
CERTIFICATE
I hereby certify that the foregoing is a true
copy of the original in the archives of the Interna-
tional Bank for Reconstruction and Develop-
ment.
In witness whereof I have signed this Certifi-
cate and affixed the Seal of the Bank thereunto
this 4/ALday of.A . , 198 0.
FOR SECRETARY


