                                     Document of
                                  The World Bank




                                                           Report No: ICR 0000177




            IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION AND RESULTS REPORT
                          (IBRD-70120 JPN-25373 JPN-53828)




                                         ON A

                                        LOAN


               IN THE AMOUNT OF US$20.0 MILLION EQUIVALENT

                                       TO THE

                             REPUBLIC OF COLOMBIA

                                        FOR A

                            RURAL EDUCATION PROJECT




                                     June 15, 2007




Colombia and Mexico Country Management Unit
Human Development Sector Management Unit
Latin America and The Caribbean Regional Office

                               CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS

                          (Exchange Rate Effective: May 30, 2007)

                               Currency Unit = Colombian Peso

                                     2,000 COP = US$1.00
                                     US$0,0005 = COP 1

                                        FISCAL YEAR



                         ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS

APL   Adaptable Program Loan
AED   Alianzas Estratégicas Departamentales
CAS   Country Assistance Strategy
CAFAM Family Compensation Fund
CEDE  Economic Development Research Center, Universidad de los Andes
CRECE Centro de Estudios Regionales Cafeteros y Empresariales
DIDTH General Direction for Investigation and Development of Human Talent (Dirección General
      para Investigación y Desarrollo del Talento Humano
DNP   Department of National Planning (Departamento Nacional de Planeación)
FMS   Financial Management Specialist
GDP   Gross Domestic Product
GNP   Gross National Product
GOC   Government of Colombia
IBRD  International Bank for Reconstruction and Development (Banco Internacional de
      Reconstrucción y Fomento, BIRF)
ICBF  Colombian Institute for Family Welfare (Instituto Colombiano de Bienestar Familiar)
ICFES Instituto Colombiano de Fomento para la Educación Superior
ICRR  Implementation Completion and Results Report
IICA  Interamerican Institute for Agricultural Cooperation
IDA   International Development Agency
LA    Loan Agreement
MEN   National Ministry of Education (Ministerio de Educación Nacional)
MEMA Model of Academic Secondary Education (Modelo de Educación Media Académica)
NPRE  National Policy for Rural Education
NDPE  National Development Plan for Education
NGO   Non-Governmental Organization
OIM   International Organization for Migrations (Organización Internacional de Migraciones)
PAD   Project Appraisal Document
PDO   Project's Development Objective
PAO   Operational Action Plan (Plan Annual Operativo)
PER I First Rural Education Project
PIU   Project Implementation Unit
PMI   Institutional Improvement Plan (Plan de Mejoramiento Institucional)




                                                                                           i

PPF  Project Preparation Facility
PIU  Project Implementation Unit
PEI  Institutional Education Project (Proyecto Educativo Institucional)
PEM  Municipal Education Project (Proyecto Educativo Municipal)
PHRD Japan's Policy and Human Resources Development Fund
PMR  Project Management Report
PPP  Productive Pedagogical Project (Proyecto Pedagógico Productivo)
RSC  Rural Social Contract (Contrato Social Rural)
SAT  Tutorial Learning System (Sistema de Aprendizaje Tutorial)
SEM  Municipal Secretariat for Education (Secretaría de Educación Municipal)
SENA Nacional Service for Job Training (Servicio Nacional de Aprendizaje)
SER  Rural Education Service (Servicio Educativo Rural)
TCR  Technical Coordination Group (Grupo de Coordinación Técnica)
TTL  Task Team Leader
UCE  External Credit Unit (Unidad de Crédito Externo)
UNDP United Nations Development Programme




                               Vice President: Pamela Cox
                            Country Director: Makhtar Diop
                             Sector Manager: Eduardo Velez Bustillo
                        Project Team Leader: Raja Bentaouet Kattan
                                 ICR Authors: Luis Pisani/Raja Bentaouet Kattan




                                                                                   ii

                                                COLOMBIA
                                      Rural Education Project
                                                CONTENTS
Data Sheet
   A. Basic Information
   B. Key Dates
   C. Ratings Summary
   D. Sector and Theme Codes
   E. Bank Staff
   F. Results Framework Analysis
   G. Ratings of Project Performance in ISRs
   H. Restructuring
   I. Disbursement Graph

 1. Project Context, Development Objectives and Design.............................................. 1
 2. Key Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcomes ............................................. 8
 3. Assessment of Outcomes......................................................................................... 15
 3.1 Relevance of Objectives, Design and Implementation........................................... 15
 4. Assessment of Risk to Development Outcome........................................................ 23
 5. Assessment of Bank and Borrower Performance .................................................... 23
 6. Lessons Learned ...................................................................................................... 27
 7. Comments on Issues Raised by Borrower/Implementing Agencies/Partners ......... 29
 Annex 1. Project Costs and Financing......................................................................... 31
 Annex 2. Outputs by Component ................................................................................ 32
 Annex 3. Economic and Financial Analysis................................................................. 35
 Annex 4. Bank Lending and Implementation Support/Supervision Processes ........... 37
 (a) Task Team members ............................................................................................... 37
 Annex 5. Beneficiary Survey Results........................................................................... 38
 Annex 6. Stakeholder Workshop Report and Results.................................................. 39
 Annex 7. Summary of Borrower's ICR and/or Comments on Draft ICR.................... 42
 Annex 8. Comments of Cofinanciers and Other Partners/Stakeholders...................... 52
 Annex 9. List of Supporting Documents ..................................................................... 53
 Annex 10. Revisions to Loan Agreement (LA)............................................................ 54
 Annex 11. Achievement of PDOs/Key Indicators....................................................... 56
 Annex 12. Learning achievement SABER results........................................................ 60
 MAP




                                                                                                                            iii

A. Basic Information

                                                                    RURAL EDUCATION
Country:                Colombia              Project Name:
                                                                    PROJECT
                                                                    IBRD-70120,JPN-
Project ID:             P050578               L/C/TF Number(s):
                                                                    25373,JPN-53828
ICR Date:               06/22/2007            ICR Type:             Core ICR
                                                                    REPUBLIC OF
Lending Instrument:     APL                   Borrower:
                                                                    COLOMBIA
Original Total
                        USD 20.0M             Disbursed Amount:     USD 16.9M
Commitment:
Environmental Category: C
Implementing Agencies:
Ministerio de Educacion
Cofinanciers and Other External Partners:


B. Key Dates

     Process             Date             Process         Original Date   Revised / Actual
                                                                               Date(s)
Concept Review:        09/08/1998    Effectiveness:       12/20/2000         12/20/2000
Appraisal:             12/17/1999    Restructuring(s):
Approval:              04/11/2000    Mid-term Review:                        11/04/2002
                                     Closing:             06/30/2004         12/31/2006


C. Ratings Summary
C.1 Performance Rating by ICR
Outcomes:                                     Satisfactory
Risk to Development Outcome:                  Low or Negligible
Bank Performance:                             Satisfactory
Borrower Performance:                         Satisfactory


C.2 Detailed Ratings of Bank and Borrower Performance (by ICR)
         Bank                   Ratings              Borrower               Ratings
Quality at Entry:       Satisfactory          Government:           Satisfactory

Quality of Supervision: Satisfactory          Implementing
                                              Agency/Agencies:      Satisfactory

Overall Bank                                  Overall Borrower
Performance:            Satisfactory          Performance:          Satisfactory




                                              i

C.3 Quality at Entry and Implementation Performance Indicators
    Implementation                                QAG Assessments
      Performance               Indicators            (if any)                Rating

Potential Problem Project Yes                   Quality at Entry
                                                                     None
at any time (Yes/No):                           (QEA):
Problem Project at any                          Quality of
                          Yes                                        None
time (Yes/No):                                  Supervision (QSA):
DO rating before
                          Satisfactory
Closing/Inactive status:


D. Sector and Theme Codes
                                                               Original          Actual
Sector Code (as % of total Bank financing)
General public administration sector                             17                17
Other social services                                             9                 9
Primary education                                                42                42
Tertiary education                                               21                21
Vocational training                                              11                11


Theme Code (Primary/Secondary)
Administrative and civil service reform                        Secondary       Secondary
Conflict prevention and post-conflict reconstruction            Primary         Primary
Education for all                                               Primary         Primary
Municipal governance and institution building                  Secondary       Secondary
Rural services and infrastructure                               Primary         Primary


E. Bank Staff
         Positions                      At ICR                         At Approval
Vice President:           Pamela Cox                         David de Ferranti
Country Director:         Makhtar Diop                       Andres R. Solimano
Sector Manager:           Eduardo Velez Bustillo             Jamil Salmi
Project Team Leader:      Raja Bentaouet Kattan              David Harding
ICR Team Leader:          Raja Bentaouet Kattan
ICR Primary Author:       Raja Bentaouet Kattan
                          Luis Pisani




                                               ii

F. Results Framework Analysis

Project Development Objectives (from Project Appraisal Document)
Phase I of this APL will promote coverage and quality in grades 0-9 in rural areas by: (a)
improving access to quality basic education services for a total number of 176,000
students in 40-70 municipalities located in 10 departments; (b) strengthening the
Borrower's capacity to manage the implementation of education projects in rural areas; c)
supporting through school-community activities and classroom methodology, the
development of social capital, thereby helping to achieve the prevention and resolution of
conflict; and (d) strengthening the Borrower's capacity to implement a reform of
technical education in rural areas.

Revised Project Development Objectives (as approved by original approving authority)




(a) PDO Indicator(s)

                                            Original Target      Formally         Actual Value

   Indicator         Baseline Value          Values (from         Revised          Achieved at
                                               approval            Target        Completion or
                                              documents)           Values         Target Years

Indicator 1 :   Increased access to quality education services for a total of 176,000 students in
                40-70 municipalities in 10 targeted departments.

                New enrollments in basic                                       Close to 460,000
Value                                                                          students benefiting
quantitative or educations to be          176,000 students                     from the program in
Qualitative)    monitored by project
                implementation Unit                                            587 municipalities
                                                                               in 27 departments.
Date achieved 12/20/2000                  12/20/2000                           12/31/2006
Comments        The project targets were surpassed by 260% (460,000) in the number of
(incl. %        participants enrolled, 830% (587) in the umber of municipalities and 270% (27)
achievement)    in the number of departments.

Indicator 2 :   Strengthening borrower's capacity to manage the implementation of education
                projects in rural areas
                                          12 Alianzas plus
                                          15 acuerdos
                                          between MOE and
                No "Alianzas" between     departments in full
Value           MOE and departments.      operation and                        12 (Alianzas) and
quantitative or Limited communication additional                               15 (Acuerdos)are
Qualitative)    between central and       "convenios" with                     signed
                departmental leves.       other departments.
                                          Project
                                          implemented in
                                          the whole country.
Date achieved 12/20/2000                  12/20/2000                           12/31/2006
Comments        Target achieved and surpassed ( 220%)



                                               iii

(incl. %
achievement)

(b) Intermediate Outcome Indicator(s)

                                            Original Target       Formally        Actual Value

   Indicator         Baseline Value           Values (from                         Achieved at
                                                approval           Revised       Completion or
                                              documents)       Target Values      Target Years
Indicator 1 :   Learning achievement: test scores as a proxy for LA improve on average by 6%
                                                                               3% average
                                                                               increase in test
Value           Achievement scores         6% on learning                      scores for grade 5
(quantitative   established using          achievement                         and 5% average
or Qualitative) "SABER" instruments        scores                              increase for grade 9
                                                                               (change from 2002
                                                                               to 2005.)
Date achieved 12/20/2000                   12/20/2000                          12/31/2006
Comments        Given that the base line wasn't established until 2002, this percentage increase is
(incl. %        remarkable considering this change occurred in a period of only 3 years. Thus
achievement)    value of 6% eastablished at appraissal needs to be revised.

Indicator 2 :   Selected education models being implemented, evaluated and their education
                materials upgraded.
                Start Implementation of
                education models
Value           (Escuela Nueva,            All selected                        All selected models

(quantitative   postprimaria, SAT, SER,    models have been                    have been

or Qualitative) CAFAM, telesecundaria,     implemented and                     implemented and

                aceleracion del            evaluated.                          evaluated.

                aprendizaje.)
Date achieved 12/20/2000                   10/20/2000                          12/31/2006
Comments
(incl. %        Comparisons between models (PER and No PER) have been conducted and

achievement)    recommendations to improve implementation have been discussed.

Indicator 3 :   The "telesecundaria" and "Aceleracion del Aprendizaje" pilots are executed and
                evaluated.

Value           No telesecundaria          40 telesecundarias                  711 schools

(quantitative   implemented in the         implemented.                        offering

or Qualitative) country                                                        telesecundaria.

Date achieved 12/20/2000                   12/20/2000                          12/31/2006
Comments
(incl. %        Goal was surpassed during second year of implementation. Now close to 178%

achievement)    (711) schools offering the telesecundaria model) .

Indicator 4 :   28 Escuelas Normales ( teacher training) institutes implementing curriculum
                reforms
Value           No Escuelas Normales       28 Escuelas                         31 Escuelas
(quantitative   working with MOE           Normales have                       Normales schools
or Qualitative) implementing curriculum been trained and                       have been trained


                                                iv

               reforms to enhance their are implementing                    and are
               teacher training programs curriculum                         implementing
                                         reforms                            curriculum reforms.
Date achieved 12/20/2000                 12/20/2000                         12/31/2006
Comments
(incl. %        31 escuelas Noramles have participated in "enhancing program" and their

achievement)    proposals have been financed and have been successfully executed.

Indicator 5 :   Communication strategy designed, manuals, software and monitoring system in
                place
                                         Staff from 10
                                         Alianzas in
                                         selected                           Staff from 22

                                         departments have                   Alianzas in selected
                                                                            departments have
Value           Limited communication    been trained;                      been trained;
(quantitative   between central level andmanuals have been                  manuals have been
or Qualitative) departments.             distributed and are
                                         being used;                        distributed and are

                                         monitoring system                  being used;

                                         has been designed                  monitoring system

                                         and is                             is implemented.

                                         implemented.
Date achieved 12/31/2003                 12/31/2003                         12/31/2006
Comments
(incl. %        220% Alianzas created with their subprojects fund allocation disbursed.
achievement)


G. Ratings of Project Performance in ISRs

                                                                                  Actual
 No.     Date ISR
         Archived                DO                        IP                Disbursements
                                                                             (USD millions)
  1     08/15/2000           Satisfactory              Satisfactory                      0.00
  2     02/14/2001           Satisfactory              Satisfactory                      0.22
  3     05/17/2001           Satisfactory              Satisfactory                      1.22
  4     06/27/2001           Satisfactory              Satisfactory                      1.22
  5     12/06/2001           Satisfactory              Satisfactory                      1.22
  6     05/31/2002           Satisfactory              Satisfactory                      1.81
  7     12/10/2002           Satisfactory              Satisfactory                      2.63
  8     06/06/2003           Satisfactory            Unsatisfactory                      3.40
  9     12/22/2003           Satisfactory            Unsatisfactory                      6.70
  10    04/12/2004           Satisfactory              Satisfactory                      7.19
  11    06/03/2004           Satisfactory              Satisfactory                      7.60
  12    12/15/2004           Satisfactory              Satisfactory                      9.59
  13    04/29/2005           Satisfactory              Satisfactory                     11.67
  14    12/20/2005           Satisfactory              Satisfactory                     14.13
  15    03/10/2006           Satisfactory              Satisfactory                     14.63
  16    11/29/2006           Satisfactory              Satisfactory                     17.81



                                               v

  17  05/18/2007        Satisfactory      Satisfactory    20.00



H. Restructuring (if any)
Not Applicable




I. Disbursement Profile




                                      vi

1. Project Context, Development Objectives and Design
(this section is descriptive, taken from other documents, e.g., PAD/ISR, not evaluative)

1.1 Context at Appraisal
(brief summary of country and sector background, rationale for Bank assistance)

At the time of preparation of the Colombia Rural Education Project (PER I), education
access by the poor, especially rural children, represented a serious challenge. The
performance of the education system in Colombia's rural areas was far below what would
be required to meet its human resources development needs. Indeed in rural Colombia,
inadequate and inequitable access to education services, geographic isolation and reliance
on child labor for household income, as well as low levels of parental schooling, had a
negative impact on children's access to schooling, as well as on the quality of the education
provided to them. Dropout and repetition rates were higher in rural than urban areas, as
was the incidence of children who never attended school.             At the time of project
preparation, the net enrollment rate for rural areas was 30 percent compared to 65 percent
in urban areas and dropout rates were 10.9 and 2.5 percent, respectively.            National
assessments further confirmed the low quality of education of rural students who
consistently performed worse in achievement tests than their urban counterparts.
Moreover, the Colombian rural sector was afflicted by poverty, rising unemployment, and
criminal and political violence, further exacerbating conditions. About 70 percent of the
rural population lived below subsistence level, compared to an average of 54 percent in
Latin America and the Caribbean. Inadequate access to basic healthcare and education
services were among the leading causes of rural poverty, together with low access to
productive resources (i.e. land, finance, and appropriate technology).          The lack of
educational and employment opportunities were identified as the main contributing factors
for the burgeoning criminal market and for violence among youth. This, in turn, was
attributed to the limitations in availability and quality of primary and secondary education,
particularly in rural areas.

The National Development Plan for Education (NDPE) for 1998-2002, named Cambios
para Lograr la Paz (Change to Build Peace), was designed and approved by President
Andres Pastrana's administration to address the main issues facing the education system.
The NDPE was built on the principles set by the wider Ten-Year Development Plan, which
defined a series of principles to promote interest in and around education, with the ultimate
aim of identifying new pedagogical, administrative and financial solutions for education
management. According to the Plan, the Government's involvement in education focused
on five fundamental aspects: (a) human development; (b) coverage; (c) efficiency; (d)
equity; and (e) quality. In carrying through the National Development Plan for Education
for 1998-2002, the Government followed five guiding principles: (i) decentralization of the
education sector; (ii) consistency of local investments with national policy framework and
objectives; (iii) inter-sectoriality; (iv) participation of rural communities in the decision-
making process; and (v) support of civic and democratic values in schools. It was also
expected that the National Ministry of Education (MEN) would develop and consolidate its
roles of knowledge generator, policy-maker at the macro level, and guarantor of equitable



                                                 1

allocation of funds to rural education, while management of the education sector would be
progressively delegated to the departments and municipalities.

With regards to rural education, the NDPE presented an overall framework for the National
Policy for Rural Education (NPRE), with the objectives to: (i) increase access to quality
basic education up to grade 9; (ii) strengthen the delivery of pre-school education for 0-5
year-olds; (iii) reorganize technical and vocational education in rural areas to respond to the
needs of the rural productive sectors; and (iv) support the development of social capital
through an emphasis on civic and demonstrative values in schools. This effort in rural
areas was complemented by the broader government strategy to address the issue of
coverage at the national level, for which several programs were under implementation. In
order to contribute to Colombia's efforts to improve and reform its education system, the
Program and its Phase I Project (PER I) was attuned to the ongoing National Development
Plan for Education. The program was designed to contribute directly to the first three
strategic areas identified in the CAS (Country Assistance Strategy) and would also
contribute to improving public sector responsiveness and efficiency and sustainable
development by: (a) redressing the urban bias in the delivery of social services; (b)
strengthening institutions in the rural sector and promoting the creation of strategic
partnerships among the public, private and non-profit sectors; and, (c) increasing social
capital, participation and democratic processes through programs and interventions
designed to build local capacity to address the underlying causes of violence and conflict.
A $20.0 million IBRD loan for the first phase of the Rural Education Program was
approved on April 11, 2000 and signed on October 20, 2000.

In order to support the Government of Colombia (GOC) in achieving its rural education
objectives, IBRD financed the PER I through an Adaptable Program Loan. The lending
instrument was considered appropriate given that the complex nature of the development
process in Colombia could only be supported through sustained, multi-phase efforts. It
would allow more flexibility in program design as the lessons learned during the project's
first phase could be incorporated into subsequent project phases. Moreover, this would
contribute to the overall strengthening of the institutions in charge of the decentralization
process in Colombia.

1.2 Original Project Development Objectives (PDO) and Key Indicators (as approved)

The broad development objective of the PER was to support the Government of Colombia
in implementing its rural education strategy. Specifically, the objectives of the PER I were
to support promoting coverage and quality in grades 0-9 in rural areas by: (i) improving
access to quality basic education services for a total number of 176,000 students in 40-70
rural municipalities located in 10 departments; (ii) strengthening the Borrower's capacity to
manage the implementation of education projects in rural areas; (iii) supporting, through
school-community activities and classroom methodology, the development of social capital,
thereby helping to achieve conflict prevention and resolution; and (iv) strengthening the
Borrower's capacity to implement a reform of technical education in rural areas.

Consistent with the Project Development Objectives, PER I was expected to support two
key policy and institutional reforms: (i) MEN's role in a more decentralized setting; and (2)


                                              2

the development of departmental strategic partnerships (AED, Alianzas Estratégicas
Departamentales). Specifically, the Project would support the central National Ministry of
Education (MEN) to assume its new role as: (i) a locus of knowledge generation,
evaluation, and promotion of new activities and policies; (ii) a supervisor of the quality and
equity of education services; (iii) an agent of information dissemination concerning the
impact of the four project components; (iv) a guarantor of the equity of fund allocation to
rural education; and (v) an entity with the ability to enhance the management capacity of
education in the participating departments and municipalities, which have had legal
responsibility for managing education since 1992.           The Program would also provide
technical assistance to support the strengthening of the municipalities' capacity to promote
the development of education. This would be achieved through the implementation of
municipal education plans (PEMs) or municipal subprojects, with the technical and
financial assistance of other entities, both public and private, through the formation of
Departmental Strategic Partnerships (AED).

The triggers for subsequent loans (presented in Table 1) included incremental increases in
coverage and learning achievement, accompanied by reductions in repetition rates in the
targeted municipalities. Other trigger indicators included the effectiveness of municipalities
in utilizing resources for educational subprojects and the participation of civic society in
education management.


    Table 1. Key Trigger Indicators for targeted rural municipalities
    Indicators               Baseline        Phase I             Phase II
                             (if available)l to Phase II         to Phase III

    Year                     2000            2004                2007
    Number of target
    municipalities           0               >40 municipalities  +50 municipalities

    Enrollment rate          30%             >40%                >60%
    Repetition rate          11.5%           7.5%                4.5%
    Learning Achievement     Baseline to be  Achievement         >3%
                             established     measurement
                                             conducted on
                                             schedule
    AEDs disbursing at least
    80% of budgeted
    resources to municipal   N/A             10                  20

    subprojects
    Participation of civil   0               Qualitative         Qualitative evaluation
    society in education                     evaluation          verifies civil society in
    management within                                            education management
    school networks
    Existence of specific
    school-community
    programs in municipal    N/A             >70%                >70%

    subprojects

In this context, the key performance indicators which were agreed with the borrower at the
loan approval stage included: (a) increased educational enrollment and learning



                                                3

achievement and reduction in student dropout and repetition rates among basic education
students in participating municipalities; (b) strengthened community participation in school
governance; (c) formation and effective functioning of public-private sector partnerships at
the departmental level; (d) financial and human resources contributed as needed at
municipal levels; and (e) definition of effective school-community programs in the PEMs.

1.3 Revised PDO (as approved by original approving authority) and Key Indicators,
and reasons/justification

The original Project objectives remained unchanged throughout the entire implementation
cycle until the Loan was closed on December 31, 2006.

1.4 Main Beneficiaries,
(original and revised, briefly describe the "primary target group" identified in the PAD and
as captured in the PDO, as well as any other individuals and organizations expected to
benefit from the project)

Consistent with the Project Development Objectives, PER I was expected to contribute to
poverty reduction in Colombia by targeting the poorest rural areas in the country. In
terms of the primary target group, the Project was estimated to benefit directly
approximately 3 million children aged 5 to15 living in rural areas by increasing access to
quality education. At the time of project design, an estimated 45 percent of these children
received some kind of education. PER I was expected to directly benefit approximately
176,000 student-children. It was also estimated that in Phases II and III, the number of
direct beneficiaries would rise more rapidly, as strengthened institutional capacity and
increased efficiency would produce a broader impact. The number of student-children
indirectly benefiting from the Project was expected to grow even faster as the AEDs
would reach other municipalities not directly targeted by the Project. Teachers would
also benefit from improved training, as would educational administrators from the
increased capacity to diagnose, implement and manage educational programs in rural
areas. Additionally, indigenous and Afro-Colombian populations in the areas of program
implementation would benefit from educational programs targeted to their special needs.
Indirect beneficiaries of the Program would include the parents of the children and the
rural communities at large.

In addition, the Program was expected to produce social and institutional benefits. Social
benefits were expected to, besides increasing the access to basic education for rural
population, include: (i) improving      learning and achievement of 5-15 year olds in
participating communities; (ii) strengthening equitable access to education opportunities
in rural areas; (iii) increasing motivation of teachers, students and parents to integrate
school teaching and learning within the community, particularly through organizing joint-
activities and outreach events; and (iv) improving civic attitudes at the community level.
Institutional benefits were expected to include: (i) strengthening management of the
sector at all levels; (ii) improving the effectiveness of education services delivery at
departmental, municipal and school levels by transferring decision-making power of
certain investment strategies closer to the end-user clients (parents, principals, teachers
and students); (iii) increasing municipal and community commitment to and ownership of


                                               4

the process for improving the quality of education provided by the schools; and (iv)
promoting partnerships at the departmental level between public, productive and not-for-
profit sector. These partnerships would promote synergy and cooperation among the
various actors of the AEDs, to develop a departmental policy for rural education, that
would insure quality and relevance of             municipal projects to the rural context,
sustainability of the investment made; participation of civil society and efficient and
transparent management of project funds

1.5 Original Components (as approved)

The following four components which supported both activities at the national and local
levels were included in the Project's original design:

Component A. Enhancing Access and Quality of Basic Education ($24.2 million total
project cost, $12.8 million Bank loan financing). Activities financed at the national level
included: (i) research and evaluation of innovative educational models, strategies, and
curriculum for grades 0-9 and Pre-K to meet the needs of rural areas, and dissemination of
the results of this work; (ii) pilot testing and evaluation of the programs Telesecundaria and
Aceleración del Aprendizaje; and (iii) redesign of pre-service teacher training programs in
the Escuelas Normales, as well as supply of equipment and training materials to improve
the capacity to produce competent rural teachers. At the local level, the Project aimed to
finance municipal subprojects (PEMs) to support activities that would address key
problems affecting rural basic education in each municipality.           Subprojects aimed to
support: the reform of in-service teacher education programs; the demand for education
through targeted information campaigns, incentive programs, etc; the creation of incentive
schemes for increasing school coverage; and the implementation of Productive Pedagogical
Projects (PPP) linking school learning to productivity.

Component B. Strengthening Institutional Capacity ($8.4 million total project cost,
$3.3 million Bank loan financing). Activities at the national level included providing
technical assistance to strengthen the MEN's capacity for Project implementation,
monitoring, evaluation, and knowledge management. At the departmental level, technical
assistance aimed at supporting AEDs design and implement subprojects. At the local level,
activities included technical assistance to build municipal capacity to: (a) create municipal
education plans; (b) design and implement subprojects based on the MEN knowledge base;
and (c) improve school governance by facilitating the creation of school networks (Redes
Educativas) and strengthen capacity at school level for school planning and management.

Component C. Developing Education for Peaceful Coexistence ($3.5 million total
project cost, $1.8 million Bank loan financing). Activities at the national level included
technical assistance to enhance the MEN's capacity to evaluate and disseminate effective
educational and community practice that promoted education for peaceful coexistence. At
the local level, activities included technical assistance for strengthening participatory and
democratic forms of school governance and for developing social capital and civic values
through school-community linkages.




                                                 5

Component D. Supporting the Reform of Technical Education ($3.9 million total
project cost, $2.1 million Bank loan financing). At the national level, activities included
technical assistance to strengthen the information systems for technical education in rural
areas (including features of supply, demand, cost-effectiveness, program impact, and legal
framework) and to design, implement, and evaluate 30 pilot projects in technical education.

Table 2. Original expected cost and source of financing at Appraisal
    Component           Sector     Indicative        %         Bank-       % of
                                     Costs        of Total   financing     Bank-
                                    (US$M)                               financing
 1. Enhancing      Primary           24.20         60.50       12.80       64.0
 Access and        Education
 Quality of
 Primary Basic
 Education


 2. Strengthening  Institutional     8.40          21.00       3.30        16.50
 Institutional     Development
 Capacity

 3. Education for  Primary
 Peaceful          Education         3.50           8.80       1.80         9.0
 Coexistence
 Education

 4. Supporting the Vocational
 Reform of         Education &       3.90           9.80       2.10        10.50
 Technical         Training
 Education



 Total Project
 Costs                               40.0          100.00      20.0        100.0



 Front ­ end fee                      0.0           0.0         0.0         0.0

 Total Financing
 Required                            40.0          100.0       20.0        100.0



1.6 Revised Components

During implementation, at the request of the GOC, there were several adjustments in the
components and implementation arrangements, which resulted in five amendments to the
Loan Agreement. These changes did not affect the Project's original objectives.

The main changes to the Loan Agreement included: (i) expansion of project coverage and
scope by diversifying the portfolio of rural education model and selection criteria in
response to increased demand; (ii) an increase of the Bank's disbursement percentage, from


                                             6

the original 55 percent to 70 percent for all disbursement categories, to respond to the
initial lack of counterpart funds; (iii) adjustments to the procurement process by updating
and adding procedures, increasing various procurement thresholds, training personnel and
introducing a purchase and disbursement follow-up system in the project monitoring and
evaluation system; (iv) extension of subproject financing to partnership arrangements other
than those proposed by AEDs; and (v) reallocation of loan disbursement categories to
improve the utilization of loan proceeds based on the Project's implementation progress
and on the Project's actual needs among categories of expenditure.

The most relevant revisions to the loan agreement are detailed in Annex 10 to this ICR. All
of these amendments were approved by the Country Director after obtaining clearance
from the Legal, Procurement and Disbursements departments.

1.7 Other significant changes
(in design, scope and scale, implementation arrangements and schedule, and funding allocations)

The Bank, through intense supervision and the application of lessons learned in other
projects, demonstrated great flexibility during implementation.          This flexibility was
reflected in the loan amendments detailed in Annex 10 to this ICR and other minor
adjustments that were aimed at: (i) responding better to the requirements of the new
administration's education program named, Revolución Educativa, where quality education
coverage in rural areas became a top priority; (ii) improving the strategy for departmental
alliances by modifying its structure and functions and concentrating in planning,
programming, technical assistance and monitoring instead of procurement and
administration; (iii) extending the post primary model from 9th grade to include 10th and
11th grades; (iv) increasing the number of bidders for all models, improving competence
and transparency in the process by training potential providers; (v) increasing substantially
the counterpart resources provided by the department to implement subprojects; (vi)
adapting the Escuela Nueva model to tend to the Afro Colombian population; (vii)
facilitating the rapid institutionalization of the Escuelas Normales and the Education for
Peaceful Coexistence subcomponent into the MEN structure; (viii) adjusting the Project's
implementation structure to the framework of MEN's reorganization carried out in 2002 ­
2003; (ix) expanding the evaluation of two models (Telesecundaria y Aceleración del
Aprendizaje) to the entire PER I portfolio of models (13); (x) adjusting the management,
evaluation and monitoring system by simplifying the conceptual and operational
framework as a managerial decision tool (official Ministerial Resolution No 166 of 2003);
(xi) introducing changes in the programming and operational procedures at the
departmental and municipal levels; (xii) modifying the strategy and operational plan for
Education for Peaceful Coexistence, teaching service and pre-service training in rural areas
and technical education interventions; (xiii) improving financial management by
reformulating the role and function of the financial agent; (xvi) implementing a software
for monitoring and evaluating the disbursement process; and (xv) transferring the role of
procurement from the Project to the Ministry.




                                                7

2. Key Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcomes

2.1 Project preparation, Design and Quality at Entry
Quality at Entry of the Project has been assessed along the following topics: (i) initial
policy dialogue and support; (ii) consistency with the conceptual education policy and
strategy prevailing at the time of identification, preparation and negotiations of the Project;
(iii) timing of the lending process; (iv) choice of the lending instrument; (v) risk mitigation
measures; and (vi) lessons learned considered for project design.

Initial policy dialogue and support.           During the project design stage a strong
participatory dialogue was carried out to ensure that the operation responded to the
Borrower's best interest and needs. The Project's design was based on a variety of inputs,
including: (i) systematization and analysis of relevant private and public experiences in
rural education, including: Hogares Juveniles Campesinos, Concentraciones de Desarrollo
Rural; Institutos de Promoción Social, Núcleos Escolares Rurales, Institutos Técnicos
Agrícolas y Modelos de Educación Rural (Rural Education Models); (ii) recommendations
of the following technical studies: Políticas y Programas de Educación, Situación y
Perspectivas de los Profesores Rurales; Educación Primaria y Preescolar en el área
Rural; Uso de Tecnologías de la Información en la Educación Rural; Análisis Costo
Beneficio de la Educación Rural; Posibilidades de Articulación con el Servicio Nacional
de Aprendizaje (SENA); Sistema de Información para la Educación Rural; and (iii) a
National Consultation carried out during 1997­98 under the presidency of Ernesto Samper
which included five regional forums, a national consultation with the agriculture sector, a
national and international seminar on rural education, and several round tables on relevant
rural education topics.       The Consultation involved the Government's rural sector
institutions, the agricultural confederations, NGOs, indigenous organizations, and multi and
bi-lateral international organizations.       The conclusions of the Consultation were
summarized in MEN's publication entitled Educación para la Población Rural: Balance
Prospectivo (July 1998). These efforts were supported by resources from Loan 3010, the
MEN, the UNDP, a PPF Grant (No. P345-0 CO) and a Japanese PHRD Grant (No.
025373).

Consistency with the education policy and strategy prevailing at the time of
identification, preparation and negotiations. As mentioned in the section on Project
Context, during project preparation, a new National Development Plan for Education for
1998-2002, named Cambios para lograr la Paz, was approved by President Andrés
Pastrana's administration, which took office in August 1998. PER I was consistent with the
objectives of the NDPE in that it contributed to improving rural students access to quality
basic education. The focus on rural areas was expected to be complemented by the broader
governmental strategy to address the issue of coverage at the national level.

Timing of the lending process. As indicated above, the Bank's strategy was fully
consistent with the Colombian Government's educational strategy at that time.
Consequently, the Project was considered the key instrument to implement the education
goals of the National Development Plan (Hacia un Estado Comunitario). In fact, the
development objectives of Phase I were consistent with the goals of the National



                                               8

Development Plan to strengthen human development by improving the coverage, efficiency,
equity, and quality of the educational system. With the arrival of President Alvaro Uribe's
administration, which took office in August 2002, and his National Education Plan
(Revolución Educativa), PER I targets were substantially scaled up to expand national
coverage. As a result, PER I assumed the role of the central government's main instrument
for decentralizing education; ensuring consistency of rural education investments with the
national policy framework and objectives, ensuring the inter-sectoriality of interventions in
rural areas, enhancing participation of rural communities in the decision-making process,
and supporting the strengthening civic and democratic values in rural schools.

Choice of the lending strategy. The choice of an Adaptable Program Loan (APL) was
justified for the following reasons: (i) a long-term program was seen to allow for a constant
focus on the development objectives, while permitting flexibility in the design of each
phase to adapt to changing needs, priorities, leadership and personnel; (ii) the complex
nature of the development process in rural areas of Colombia, aggravated by armed conflict,
was considered to be best supported through a sustained, multi-phase effort; (iii) the
implementation of the innovative content of the Project, which supported the strengthening
of the institutions responsible for basic education involved in the ongoing process of
decentralization, could be tested in the Phase I so that the design of subsequent phases
could be refined to incorporate lessons learned; (iv) the need to support the development of
the MEN's role in the decentralized context, as an agent of knowledge generation, and in
charge of evaluation and promotion of new activities and policies, supervision of the
quality and equity of the education services, and information dissemination on the project
impact; and (v) the need to support the strengthening of the municipalities' capacity to
promote the development of education through the implementation of municipal education
plans (PEMs) or municipal subprojects, with the technical and financial assistance of other
bodies, both public and private, through the formation of AEDS.

Risk and mitigation measures. Expected risks identified during project preparation were
tackled effectively with the implementation of appropriate mitigation measures. These
risks and mitigation measures included: (i) the possibility of inefficient mechanisms being
used for the transfer of funds from the center to the local level was resolved by using an
external agent; (ii) the possibility of existing resources not sufficiently reallocated to
contain costs of extended coverage was addressed by the creation of strategic public-
private partnerships (AEDS); (iii) the possible lack of political commitment to the Project's
objectives was minimized through a participation and communication strategy to achieve
high level of consensus and support; (iv) the possible resistance of the indigenous and
Afro-Colombian communities was minimized by providing special attention to this group
during the consultation process thus providing them with the opportunity to present their
own proposals for subprojects; (v) the possibility of insufficient interest and will on part of
teachers to reform education was resolved by consulting with teacher unions and teachers
during the planning process at the national, partnership, and subproject levels and through
their participation in curriculum reform through the school networks; (vi) the possible low
demand in rural areas was mitigated by expanding the number of municipalities (to expand
possible demand), and using the appropriate communication strategies and incentives (such
as school transportation and school nutrition programs financed by the municipalities)



                                               9

identified through participatory approaches, with continuous monitoring; (vii) the unstable
political and social situation that was identified as possibly preventing project teams in
implementing and supervising activities was mitigated by a continuous monitoring of the
security situation, especially by credible local NGOs, by the use of communication
strategies, and by the high degree of participation of school communities; and (viii) the
possibility of the AEDs not functioning as envisaged in forming partnerships between
public and private sectors was minimized by the use of appropriate communication
strategies and provision of technical assistance to emphasize strategies for partnerships.

Lessons learned taken into consideration in the project design. The Project's design
was built on the lessons learned from several educational reforms experiences of relevant
Bank and non-Bank financed operations in Colombia, and in other countries worldwide. In
defining the main objectives to be achieved, as well as the implementation mechanisms to
be used, the following lessons were taken into consideration: (i) the adoption of concrete
and measurable objectives that could be attained within the Project's life; (ii) the
application of a flexible demand-driven approach in implementation, adapting project
design to changes in the environment that facilitated timely adjustment to ensure
achievement of project objectives; (iii) the adoption of a participatory approach which
included local authorities, NGOs, and rural associations and communities directly involved
in program design and implementation through a bottom-up, participatory process which
relied on the diagnosis of their educational needs according to the socio-economic
characteristics of the community; (iv) strong monitoring to ensure adherence to the
Project's objectives and principles; (v) the establishment of AEDs, as cohesive partners
among the major central government stakeholders, local authorities, and private entities;
(vi) the creation of an integrated management information system, as well as a coordinating
network among executing entities, in order to guarantee effective and rapid communication
among the different levels of administration; and (vii) the application of alternative
mechanisms for fund transfers, such as the use of an external agency to provide goods and
services and the local administration for activities' logistics such as teacher training,
transportation and subsistence to facilitate the implementation of decentralized projects.

2.2 Implementation
(including any project changes/restructuring, mid-term review, Project at Risk status, and
actions taken, as applicable)

The $20 million APL was approved on April 11, 2000 to finance the first phase of the
Rural Education Project, which supported the program. The Loan Agreement (LA) was
signed on October 20, 2000 and the Loan was declared effective on December 20, 2000.
The original Closing Date was June 30, 2004.           In August 2002, a newly elected
Government took office. The implementation assessment that follows is organized along
four time periods: (i) the period of learning and building participation; (ii) the period of
good performance with low disbursements; (iii) the period of fiscal constraints; and (iv) the
period of expansion and consolidation.

The period of learning and building participation (2000-2001). On June 2000, about
six months before loan effectiveness, the Project team launched a seminar where a detailed



                                               10

action plan was established to assign priority to complying with the following effectiveness
conditions: the Operational Manuals, the implementation unit's staffing, the monitoring
and evaluation system and the external agency contract. In terms of implementation,
efforts were concentrated in: (i) identifying and selecting models to support the access and
quality component and promoting partnerships at the departmental level in the framework
of the Action Plans (PAOs) to be executed at the school level; (ii) developing and testing
pedagogical and technical materials for the component on Peaceful Coexistence; (iii)
identifying international experiences and carrying out consultation meetings to design the
Technical Education Policy and Strategy Reform in rural areas; (iv) organizing the project
evaluation system; and (v) organizing the decentralized procurement process and plans in
five departments. During this period, it became evident that generating local participation
at the school, municipal and department level required much more time than initially
expected, thus putting at risk commitment and spending of counterpart funds that had been
allocated. Additionally, miscommunication with the procurement agent lead to negative
effects on project implementation.

The period of good performance but low disbursements (2002­2003). During this
period, the recently approved Decentralization Law of 2001 (Law 715) that sought to
promote decentralization was being implemented. The Law promoted accountability and
efficiency in the use of educational resources by linking the allocation of central funds to
the number of students. Despite serious difficulties due to the escalation of internal armed
conflict, particularly in rural areas, the Project continued its execution at a slow pace.
Tangible progress was achieved in most of the components in terms of the number of
alliances formed, and schools and municipalities involved, commitment and team building
at local levels, model application and coverage, provision of technical material and
technical assistance, and concrete actions to improve the relevance of the Normal School
curriculum to the rural environment. Consequently, project implementation was rated
Satisfactory during this period. Although the new administration was very supportive and
committed to the Project, disbursements were low as a result of the financial management
and procurement bottleneck. Indeed at the end of 2002, only 20 percent of the loan had
been disbursed.

The period of fiscal constraints (2003­2004). During this period, the country's serious
fiscal constraints limited the allocation of federal counterpart resources. were partially
compensated with the departments', municipal and alliances' financial contributions.
Nonetheless, this seriously compromised the availability of financial resources which
slowed the pace of implementation, and led to downgrade Project's implementation to
Unsatisfactory. Staff of the Project Implementation Unit (PIU) and the Bank came to the
conclusion that, the delays in implementation and disbursement were caused in part by the
decentralized procurement approach, which was exacerbated by the complex procedures of
the procurement agent and the local personnel's lack of experience with Bank's
procurement guidelines and procedures. Consequently, the Loan was amended (April 2,
2003 and April 06, 2004) to expand the number of models (Tutorial Learning System,
SAT), Rural Education Service (SER) and Family Compensation Fund (CAFAM), to
reallocate funds among the loan categories, to increase the Bank's cost sharing from 55
percent to 70 percent in all categories, to add new procedures for contracting goods,



                                              11

services and consultants, to extend the Closing Date to June 30, 2005, and to incorporate
new partnership arrangements for subproject financing, not contemplated in AEDs.
Additionally, in order to accelerate the procurement process, several activities, including
the provisions of goods and services, became centralized in the PIU.

Expansion and consolidation (2005­ 2006). The amendments mentioned above facilitated
the achievement of the Project's objectives. Disbursements and consequently execution
scaled up and the original target of 10 departments was expanded to 27 out of the 32
departments of country. The learning outcomes of the students targeted were evaluated
positively by the Centro de Estudios Regionales Cafeteros y Empresariales (CRESE) and
Centro de Estudios de Educación de la Universidad de los Andes (CEDE). For the purpose
of consolidation of the operation, three new amendments were required (April 20, 2005,
April 17, 2006 and November 20, 2006). The changes included increasing the threshold
for single - source selection of consultants, extending the closing date to December 31,
2006, and reallocating the loan categories to include non-consultant services in the
shopping procedures. As a result, implementation was upgraded to Satisfactory and the
MEN and the Bank initiated preparation of the second phase. In summary, with the
expansion of the Project to most of the departments in the country, the MEN played a big
role in the provision of close technical and administrative support at the departmental and
municipal levels. The PER has become central in the Ministry of Education's strategy for
expansion of quality coverage in rural areas and the success of PER I has played a
significant role in the government's willingness to prepare the next phase of the APL.

2.3 Monitoring and Evaluation (M&E) Design, Implementation and Utilization

Key outcome and output performance indicators, as well as the procedures to establish the
baseline data, were agreed with the Borrower prior to and during negotiations and listed in
Annex 1 to the PAD. For monitoring the Project, the PIU developed a software for
collecting and processing educational information for all the departments. This software
provided timely and reliable information that made it possible to monitor project progress.
It also became a useful tool for informing management decisions to improve project
performance. It is noteworthy that from the onset of the Project, the PIU paid special
attention to establishing the mechanisms to measure the Project's results and process
indicators. As soon as the Project started implementing the education models, the PIU
hired an external agency to monitor the achievement of students in Mathematics and
Language for third, fifth, seventh and ninth grades in 71 municipalities. At the same time,
the Instituto Colombiano para el Fomento de la Educación Superior (ICFES) was hired to
provide assistance in the design of assessments, and analysis of results. Additionally,
external consultants were hired to evaluate the associated factors affecting the educational
process. The National Program for Human Development was contracted to develop a
methodology to evaluate the education models in terms of: (i) efficiency and effectiveness;
(ii) impact in learning achievements; (iii) cost benefit analysis; (iv) adequacy of learning
materials; (v) relevance of the productive projects and curricula; (v) the effectiveness of
teacher training interventions; and (vi) the impact of the Education for Peaceful
Coexistence component. The project also supported several national and departmental
evaluations including, the analysis by the consortium Colegio Mayor Nuestra Señora del



                                             12

Rosario and CRECE of the results of the Learning Achievement Test SABER for seven
models. The results were analyzed and used to improve the different models. Finally, one
year before loan closing, Universidad de los Andes was hired to carry out the impact
evaluation for all components of the first phase project.

2.4 Safeguard and Fiduciary Compliance
(Focusing on issues and their resolution, as applicable)

The institutional, procurement, financial management and social impact assessments were
carried out during the preparation stage and included in the PAD. In relation to the
environmental safeguards, the Project was rated category C since it did not finance school
construction or remodelling and thus, no negative environmental impact was expected
during implementation.

Institutional Aspects. Given that the MEN had not demonstrated a strong implementation
capacity in previous Bank-financed operations the probability of success of this operation
was strengthened by the incorporation of partnerships with other levels of government and
private sectors (AEDs). However, the first ISR reported consistent delays in the creation of
partnerships due to the lack of experience of both the public and private actors in working
under partnership arrangements.       This situation was mitigated by providing intensive
technical assistance, training of potential partners and extending the concept of AEDs to
subprojects, named Acuerdos (Agreements) prepared at the local level and involving the
MEN, the departments, the municipalities and the schools. At the organizational level, the
responsibility for project coordination and implementation was changed from reporting to
the Vice Ministry Office to reporting to the Directorates of Education Quality first and then
to the Special Programs Unit.           During implementation, the semi self-sufficient
implementation unit was also modified as its financial, administrative and procurement
functions were moved to the formal structure of the MEN.

Procurement: A procurement assessment was completed as part of project preparation and
appraisal and an action plan was agreed during negotiations. Specific procurement auditing
recommended by the Bank was carried out during implementation. Initially, the PIU in
MEN operated its procurement system independently of the central MEN office. However,
in 2004, after careful analysis of its implications, it was decided that in order to strengthen
internal control and accountability, the PIU's procurement activities and personnel would
be transferred to MEN's Internal Administrative Management Unit.

Financial Management: A financial management assessment, in addition to a technical
and legal assessment, was performed during preparation recommending the use of an
external agency for the administrative management of Project contracts and payments, both
at the national and local level. However, early on during Project implementation, several
issues arose, including: lack of coordination, payment delays, lack of administrative
capacity of the agency to carry out decentralized contract payments, and the impossibility
of establishing a revolving fund to be managed by the AEDs. This situation was overcome
after several negotiations with the external agent, which included adapting the financial and




                                              13

administrative procedures approved by the Bank. Project's audits were executed in a
timely fashion and were unqualified.

Social Assessment.        In addition to the original social assessment, each eligible
municipality that was participating in the Project, assisted by the MEN and the AED,
carried out a social impact assessment of each municipal subproject.           These specific
assessments were deemed necessary due to the country's geographical, cultural and socio-
economic diversity that was present in the regions and municipalities that would take part
in the Project.

2.5 Post-completion Operation/Next Phase
(including transition arrangement to post-completion operation of investments financed
by present operation, Operation & Maintenance arrangements, sustaining reforms and
institutional capacity, and next phase/follow-up operation, if applicable)

The Project has achieved all the triggers established for Phase I and has widely surpassed
the original indicators (see Annex 11 for details).       The initial target of 10 selected
departments was extended to include an additional 17 departments (total departments 27).
The original target of 40 municipalities was surpassed and in the end 587 municipalities
(close to 50 percent of the municipalities in the country) were targeted by the Project. As a
result, close to 460,000 students are benefiting from the Project (the original target was
176,000).

The success of the PER I has played a significant role in increasing educational coverage in
the rural areas and has become central in the MEN's rural education strategy. It has also
laid the groundwork for the second phase project in support of the Program which will
continue supporting the Government's strategy for rural education by: (i) improving
educational access and completion at the preschool, primary and secondary education
levels; (ii) improving the quality of education; and (iii) strengthening the school-based
management model in the rural areas. Impact and outcome indicators for Phase II will
include: (i) increased access, retention, and completion rates in primary and secondary
education in the rural areas; (ii) improved learning achievement test results; and (iii)
decreased rural-urban disparities. Specifically, the Phase II of the APL will focus on:

A. Strengthening of National Education Policies for Rural Areas by applying a
combination of interventions to: (i) develop MEN's technical assistance capacity in support
of the departments and certified municipalities' programs for rural education; (ii) identify
and disseminate good education management practices; (iii) promote and establish
partnerships with the productive sectors to improve the management and delivery of rural
education; (iv) design and implement accountability strategies; and (v) improve the quality
of training provided by Teacher Training Colleges and Faculties of Education. This
component will support the national priority for redefining responsibilities of the different
organizational levels in the system.




                                              14

B. Strengthening and Implementing Education Policies for Rural Areas at the
Certified Territorial Entities1 by applying a combination of interventions to: (i) improve
the quality and relevance of education in rural areas; (ii) increase equity in the rural areas
by increasing access and retention, especially at the preschool and secondary levels; and
(iii) strengthen the school-based management system through interventions aimed at raising
the school pedagogical and administrative management capacity to reach a higher level of
autonomy.

C. Strengthening Monitoring, Evaluation, and Management of the Rural Education
System by strengthening management capacity to implement a permanent monitoring
system that will measure the impact of project interventions at the department, municipal,
and school levels as well as support the decision-making and management tools for the
education authorities of the departments, and coordinate the various project activities.

3. Assessment of Outcomes

3.1 Relevance of Objectives, Design and Implementation
(to current country and global priorities, and Bank assistance strategy)

The Project design was consistent with the Country Assistance Strategy (CAS) (Document
number: 17107-CO, dated November 6, 1997 and discussed by the Board on November 18,
1999.     The CAS aimed to support poverty reduction and social development with
sustainable growth. The six strategic areas to achieve the goals included: (a) promoting
peace and development through a focus on the socio-economic determinants of violence;
(b) promoting rural development; (c) developing human capital; (d) attaining public sector
responsiveness and efficiency; (e) improving infrastructure services; and (f) ensuring
sustainable development. The CAS explicitly recognized that the country's development
was affected adversely by the following conditions: low levels of educational quality and
coverage, which affect particularly poor communities and rural areas, an ever-widening
rural-urban gap, and the widespread existence of high levels of political, drug and
interpersonal violence, which has impacted negatively in rural areas. Accordingly, PER I
contributed directly to the first three strategic areas identified in the CAS and is aligned
with the proposed updated Country Assistance Strategy (CAS) for Colombia which seeks
to promote improvements in expanding equitable and quality primary and secondary
education coverage.

3.2 Achievement of Project Development Objectives
(including brief discussion of causal linkages between outputs and outcomes, with details on
outputs in Annex 2)
Rating: Satisfactory




1 Departments and municipalities that have the autonomy to administer and deliver education services and
budgeting received from the national level.




                                                    15

The outcomes of the PER I were fully achieved and in many cases surpassed, as described
below.

Component A. Enhance Access and Quality of Basic Education. The Project improved
access to quality basic education services for a total of about 460,000 (against an original
target of 176,000) students in 587 (against an original target of 40­70) municipalities
located in 27 (against an original target of 10) departments and territorial entities. The
outcome targets were exceeded by 260 percent for students, by 830 percent for
municipalities and by 270 percent for department and territories covered.

Quality improvement was evidenced in repetition rates, which dropped from 11.5 percent
to 6.82 percent, lower than the appraisal estimate of 7.5 percent, and in learning
achievements. A comparison of the SABER test results between 2002 and 2005 shows that,
for 5th grade the average increase was 3 percent. For 9th grade, the average increase was
5 percent, exceeding the 3 percent target established at Appraisal for transition from Phase
II to Phase III (see Annex 12 for details on Saber results). These results are remarkable
considering that improvement occurred in a period of only three years.

The analysis also showed that in relation to              specific models, Escuela Nueva,
Telesecundaria, SER. Post Primaria and SAT models produced better test results than the
national average, particularly for Math and Language. Considering differences among
grades, the point increase range for these models in comparison to the traditional school
model was between 0.63 and 1.47 for Math and between 0.83 and 1.11 for Language.

The Project's expected reduction of student dropout rates in primary and lower secondary
education, was not estimated at Appraisal. However, the Project Impact Evaluation Report
did acknowledge that dropout rates were more severe in the municipalities where the
Project did not intervene. Furthermore, empiric evidence from other countries indicates
that when projects target poor rural and peri-urban areas in unstable and violent
environments, simply precluding a further deterioration of retention rates is itself an
accomplishment.

The achievement in quality can be attributed to PER I's contribution to improving the
enabling learning conditions in rural areas (texts, learning resources and teachers' training),
strengthening the participation of the educational actors in the process of rural education
changes and providing flexible educational models pertinent to rural education conditions.

Component B. Strengthen the Borrower's capacity to manage the implementation of
education projects in rural areas. The Project produced significant positive outcomes in
terms of improving the institutional capacity of the Central, Departmental and Municipal
Secretariats of Education (SEMs) to implement education projects in rural areas. It did this
by: (i) developing a technical assistance model that involved creating departmental teams
to assist municipalities and schools; (ii) establishing strategic partnerships to carry out
subprojects between the municipalities, the departments, the regional productive sector and
NGOs; (iii) providing support to the SEMs to design and implement local subprojects; (iv)
supporting the decentralization process by helping the mayors, in most of the municipalities



                                              16

to comply with their responsibilities with regards to rural education; (v) providing
educational services with the participation of the various education actors and civil society;
(vi) strengthening the relationship between municipalities and schools; (vii) facilitating the
implementation of Laws 115 and 715 in rural areas; and (viii) articulating the application of
the models with the Municipal Development Plans (PEMs) at the Municipal level and
Institutional Development Plan (PEI) at the schools level. As a result, 12 AEDs were
created and 15 Acuerdos established (target was 10 AEDs) with its subprojects' fund
allocation disbursed and 587municipal projects were designed and implemented (target was
40). Also, the Project contributed to the application of 13 pedagogical models (target was
7) that were demanded locally (1 percent of the municipalities applied in average from 10
to 11 models, 4 percent of the municipalities applied from 8 to 9 models, 23 percent of the
municipalities implemented from 6 to 7 models, 40 percent of the municipalities
implemented from 4 to 5 models and 32 percent of the municipal from implemented only 1
or 2 models.

Component C. Support through school-community activities and classroom
methodology, the development of social capital, thereby helping to achieve the
prevention and resolution of conflict. The Project supported the training of 17,316
schools teachers and administrators and the development of 1,190 subprojects on school-
work linkages.

More specifically, the Project: (i) supported management and pedagogical practices that
promoted conflict resolution in 1,190 schools thus contributing to reduction of violent
behavior, and institutionalized the intervention in the MEN's structure; (ii) trained
principals, teachers and SEM´s officials in peace and coexistence topics, and human rights
awareness, so that they can act as dissemination and multiplication agents; and (iii)
developed related guidelines and materials for teachers, students, participatory bodies and
community members.

Component D. Strengthen the Borrower's capacity to implement a reform of technical
education in rural areas. The Project contributed to the development of a policy and
strategy study which inspired the national policy for secondary education in rural areas, as
well as 12 experiences in equal number of Technical Agriculture Institutes (in which
students are taught how to manage small agricultural enterprises) with the assistance of the
Manuel Mejía Foundation.

The main contributions of this study, implemented by the MEN, were: (i) learning by
competences; (ii) articulation with the labor market; (iii) alliances with the private sector;
(iv) development of pedagogical productive project's partnerships at school level; (v)
technical schools management; (vi) coordination with SENA; and (vii) principal and
teacher technical training.

The planned outputs by components were also fully achieved as shown in Annex 11 to this
ICR.

The sources for these project monitoring indicators were: (i) the monitoring system of the
PIU, supplemented by information from departments, schools, and municipalities; (ii) the


                                             17

MEN's enrolment databases; (iii) two external evaluation studies on the models and project
impact; and (iv) the application of the SABER achievement tests by the Colombian
Institute for the Development of Higher Education (ICFES). All information was analyzed
during the ICR mission.

3.3 Efficiency
(Net Present Value/Economic Rate of Return, cost effectiveness, e.g., unit rate norms, least cost,
and comparisons; and Financial Rate of Return)

Detailed information on the cost benefits analysis is in Annex 3 to this ICR.

The result of the internal rate of return study for PER I (contracted with CEDE of the
Universidad de los Andes) concluded that the Project's profitability was high, about 21.6
percent, although less than the 25.2 percent projected at the appraisal. The rate of return is
lower than that at appraisal due to the extension of two years to the Project's life.

The calculations were made based on: (i) the increase of about 0.33 percent in the number
of years of schooling; (ii) the 4.5 percent reduction of the repetition rate of primary and
secondary education during the Project's life; (iv) the improvement in the SABER test
results; and (v) the expected impact in the salary increase of the graduates compared with
the investment of about $42.00 million.

The assumptions made during project preparation stage that justified the operation socially
and economically (Annex 5 to the PAD), were widely surpassed. The only difference from
those assumptions was the extension of the Project's implementation period from four to
six years. In fact, the Project targeted 587 municipalities (instead of a minimum number of
40), with an average population of about 20,000 inhabitants, and an average of 5,530
children (5-15 years old); and enrolment in rural basic schools increased by 260 percent,
exceeding by far the 30 percent estimated at Appraisal.

Although the Project's cost was slightly higher than what was expected (about $2.0
million), the cost per student (US$91.00) was far less than projected (US$227) given the
significant increase in the number of students enrolled (from a target of 176,000 at
Appraisal to 460,000 achieved).

3.4 Justification of Overall Outcome Rating
(combining relevance, achievement of PDOs, and efficiency)
Rating: Satisfactory

This ICR ranks the outcome of this Project as Satisfactory. The Project was consistent with
the Country Assistance Strategies of 1993 (Document No. P6070­CO) and 1997
(Document No. P41960­CO), both of which highlighted the need to address the low level
of educational attainment and coverage primarily in poor and rural communities. Both
CASs also placed a strong emphasis on decentralization and community participation
policies as a means to improve education quality through better delivery of social services,
provided at the municipal level, with increased school autonomy and greater community
and private sector participation. The GOC has acknowledged that the Project was


                                              18

instrumental for achieving the poverty alleviation and equity goals pursued by the
government. In terms of educational policy, the Project became an important mechanism
to implement the Revolución Educativa in rural areas as well as the decentralization
policies and sector reorganization stated in Laws 115 and 715.

The Project achieved its main objectives and extended its area of influence way beyond the
40 municipalities established at Appraisal, reaching 587 municipalities. Specifically, the
objectives for access to quality education were widely surpassed, as the outcome targets
were exceeded by 260 percent for students, by 830 percent for municipalities and by 270
percent for department and territories covered.

Quality improvement was evidenced in repetition rates, which dropped from 11.5 percent
to 6.82 percent, lower than the appraisal estimate of 7.5 percent, and in learning
achievements as shown by the Saber test results detailed in Annex 12 to this ICR.

The Project's activities to strengthen institutional capacity resulted in the creation of 12
AEDs and 15 acuerdos (agreements) with its subprojects' fund allocation disbursed, to the
design and implementation of 587 municipal projects and to the application of 13
pedagogical models, also exceeding the targets established at Appraisal.

In promoting Education for Peaceful Coexistence, the Project supported management and
pedagogical practices that promoted conflict resolution in 1,190 schools thus contributing
to reduce violent behavior, trained principals, teachers and SEM´s officials in peace and
coexistence topics, and human rights awareness, and developed related guidelines and
materials for teachers, students, participatory bodies and community members.

The Project also contributed to the Borrower's capacity to implement a reform of technical
education through the development of a policy and strategy study which inspired the
national policy for secondary education in rural areas, as well as 12 experiences in equal
number of Technical Agriculture Institutes with the assistance of the Manuel Mejía
Foundation.

Although the project cost was slightly higher than what was expected (about $2.0 million),
the cost per student ($91.00) was far less than projected ($227) given the significant
increase in the number of students enrolled.

3.5 Overarching Themes, Other Outcomes and Impacts
(if any, where not previously covered or to amplify discussion above)

(a) Poverty Impacts, Gender Aspects, and Social Development

The Project benefited about half a million children aged 5 to 15 in rural areas, most of
whom are living in municipalities afflicted by poverty, unemployment and political
violence. Principals and teachers located in those deprived municipalities also benefited
from the improved training. Local education administrations were strengthened in their
capacity to diagnose, implement and manage educational programs in rural areas.
Additionally, indigenous and Afro-Colombian populations in the areas of project


                                                19

implementation also benefited from educational programs targeted to their special needs.
Indirect beneficiaries of the Project included the parents' of the children and the rural
communities at large through geographic targeting of resources towards some of the
poorest rural areas of the country.

(b) Institutional Change/Strengthening (particularly with reference to impacts on
longer-term capacity and institutional development)

As described below, the Project produced remarkable long-term institutional development
impacts in rural education by strengthening; (i) the MEN's capacity for policy formulation,
strategy implementation and technical assistance; (ii) the Departmental Educational
Secretariats' capacity to manage coverage and quality improvement plans; (iii) the
municipal education management capacity; and (iv) local education partners' and
community participation.

The Project played a significant role in the capacity building of the MEN to support the
implementation of Revolución Educativa in rural areas, as well as the decentralization
policy and strategy consolidating the role of a pole of knowledge generation, evaluation
and promotion of innovative activities and policies. The technical assistance model to
support the organization of the AEDs created a new culture of working together with other
educational actors.

The Project collaborated with the educational secretariats to fulfil the responsibilities
assigned to them through the enactment of Law 715 by including rural education in the
Department's Education Plan and emphasizing investment strategies, in partnerships with
NGOs and the private sector.       It also contributed to the departmental modernization
processes, developing information, monitoring and evaluation systems.

Through project activities, the Municipalities developed the capacity to plan and implement
rural education in the framework of the PEMs, which enabled the SEMs to assume a
leading role in this process, under a decentralized framework. The schools, as the focus of
project interventions are now better prepared to implement government regulations derived
from Law 715 regarding the impact of rural education on the reorganization of schools, the
participatory planning processes, school autonomy, the financial management and
education statistics, among others.

The AEDs' decentralized participation played a significant role in identifying the main
rural education sector issues and solutions. The AEDs are now assuming ownership and
full commitment to the implementation of the rural education projects, contributing to the
sustainability of the investments made and providing social control of project resources.

The ICR mission confirmed these institutional developments, while visiting schools in the
department of Boyaca, and interacting with about 120 PER I participants in the
departments of Boyaca and Cundinamarca.




                                             20

(c) Other Unintended Outcomes and Impacts (positive or negative, if any)
In addition to the Project's impressive achievement, well above targets, the intervention
provided significant additional tangible outcomes as indicated below:


Table 3. Unintended outcomes of Project
   Component                                    Unintended Outcomes
Coverage and         · The Escuela Nueva model adapted to the specific condition of Pacific Coast
Quality                  populations (particularly to Afro descendants)
                     ·    New model designed for academic secondary education (MEMA) with
                         emphasis in general and specific competences
                     · New strategy for the articulation of the PEI´s and PMI´s
                     · New guideline designed for teachers of the Escuela Nueva model within the
                         quality standards framework
                     · The Aceleración del Aprendizaje model adapted and applied to displaced
                         populations in conjunction with NGO´s and foundations
                     · Telesecundaria model implemented under new arrangements among MEN,
                         Educational Secretariats of municipalities and departments, universities and
                         foundations
                     · Technical Assistance of the Escuelas Normales provided to satellite schools
                         in the implementation of models
                     · Design of learning guidelines and radio programs for the Preescolar no
                         escolarizado model
                     · New model for preschool age populations in rural areas designed and
                         implemented
                     · Responsibility for student transportation and nutrition programs transferred
                         from the MEN to departments and municipalities
                     · Inventory and dissemination of good practices for PPP (Pedagogical
                         Productive Projects) design and implementation developed
                     · New rural teachers trained in curriculum for rural areas and in the application
                         of flexible models

Institutional        · Quality indicators included in the project monitoring system
Strengthening        · MEN staff trained in monitoring and evaluation methodologies and
                         techniques
                     · PER I added to the MEN's webpage "Colombia Aprende"
                     · Local networks organized for the implementation of models
                     · Improvement of MEN's procurement capacity improved
                     · Creation of Equipos Mutliplicadores at the departmental level for
                         dissemination
                     · Cooperatives' investment in education increased
                     · Partners financial contributions substantially increased
                     · Project unitary cost reduced, which allowed substantial expansion
                     · Schools entitled to invest and use the profit of the Pedagogical Productive
                         Projects (PPP)
Peace and            · Peace and coexistence project experience included in the National Plan for
Coexistence              the Exercise of Human Rights
                     · MEN program articulated to integrate general and specific competences in the
                         curricula.
Technical            · Learning material for teachers and students in Gerencia de Fincas designed in
Education                conjunction with the Manuel Mejias Foundation




                                                21

3.6 Summary of Findings of Beneficiary Survey and/or Stakeholder Workshops
(optional for Core ICR, required for ILI, details in annexes)

Details of the workshops and interviews carried out before and during the ICR mission are
presented in Annex 6. A brief summary prepared by the ICR team follows:

Stakeholders agreed that the Project's most relevant achievement was to bring rural
education to the forefront of departments, municipalities and schools' concerns. Consensus
was expressed that the Project achieved and exceeded its intended objectives. Participants
also added that in some departments, project implementation continued and was even
expanded after completion date, using resources provided by the departments and
municipalities themselves.

Some negative aspects that affected project implementation were: the armed conflict; the
excessive mobility of the teachers (due to transfers or change in status from intern to
permanent teacher), the lack of administrative and physical capacity of the departments;
the weak coordination between schools and the Escuelas Normales and education faculties
of the universities; the low investments in educational environment and technologies, the
insufficient information of principals and parents on the model; and cumbersome
administrative process that delayed the timely provision of educational materials.

Stakeholders' suggestions, among others, were to: (i) improve the establishment and
functions of the AEDs; (ii) update the educational models; (iii) improve the technical
advisory team's capacity in order to multiply interventions at the municipal and schools
levels; (iii) reformulate the training process of principals and teachers, making it more
flexible; (iv) expand the intervention to vulnerable and displaced population; (v) enhance
the constitution of educational networks; and (vi) develop new educational methodologies
for rural sectors.

Technical assistance provided by departments to municipalities in the framework of
departmental partnership arrangements experienced some difficulties due mainly to the
Project's expansion and adjustments brought about by the implementation of the
Revolución Educativa.

On the Peace and Coexistence component, the general opinion was that it effectively
reduced internal conflicts due to the reorientation of citizenship competences and to the
internal dissemination of human and citizens' participation rights.

The external consultants and model operators recognized Project's contributions in terms of
putting rural education on the Government's agenda; engaging strategies to improve rural
education quality and coverage; strengthening the study and research groups; incorporating
the community in the education process; reaching isolated places that were excluded from
continuing education; and improving the availability of good learning materials in the
schools.




                                                  22

The main aspects that were identified as needing improvement, in general, were the
preparation and knowledge of teachers in educational policies, curricular content, quality
standards, basic competences and in instructional resources and pedagogy for the rural
sector.

The bidders considered that during the 2001-2003 period, PER I was characterized by
delays in the bidding process that affected the timely delivery of the learning materials to
schools, heterogeneity of the Terms of Reference, and lack of personnel to control the
quality of goods purchased. This situation, however, was overcome during the subsequent
years as the MEN itself hired external auditing firms to insure quality control and
compliance with agreed delivery schedules.

The fiduciary agency indicated that the Project was an excellent opportunity to improve its
cooperation with the rural sector suggesting that for the next phase, the Project should
strengthen the financial, accounting and administrative training of national and regional
teams; decentralize the procurement process; provide more autonomy to territorial entities;
and enhance partnership arrangements (AEDs) at the departmental level.

4. Assessment of Risk to Development Outcome
Rating: Low

Except for the effect of the unstable security condition in some municipalities, the Project
does not present significant development outcome risks. First, the outcomes associated
with improved access to quality education are guaranteed due to: (i) the political will and
long term policy adopted by the Governments that have already continued despite three
different administrations since project identification; (ii) the consolidation of the
mechanism and formula to transfer resources to territorial entities according to equity
criteria; and (iii) the adoption of the partnership concept as an operational mechanism for
delivering education in rural areas. Second, the outcome related to internal efficiency is
secured through the monitoring and evaluation system installed at the central and
departmental levels to serve as a tool to regularly measure key indicators of students'
performance and school efficiency; and finally, (iii) the Peace and Coexistence intervention
has become an integral part of the MEN's structure and has been incorporated in the
official curricula.

5. Assessment of Bank and Borrower Performance
(relating to design, implementation and outcome issues)

5.1 Bank Performance
(a) Bank Performance in Ensuring Quality at Entry
(i.e., performance through lending phase)
Rating: Satisfactory

The quality at entry is considered satisfactory.       There was no formal quality-at-entry
evaluation during preparation. However, the Bank's regular quality assurance procedures
were followed during preparation. The Bank ensured during identification, preparation and
appraisal: (i) an extensive policy dialogue, working with the local team in the


                                               23

systematization of relevant experiences, carrying out a national consultation and
developing several technical studies to support the Project' s design; (ii) the Borrower's
ownership during the entire project preparation process; (iii) an extensive and broad
participation of various stakeholders; (iv) the application of lessons learned from previous
sector operations in Colombia, and from other sector investments worldwide; (v) a
thorough cost-benefit, cost-effectiveness, social impact analysis and institutional
assessment;    (vi)  sound    procurement,    disbursement    and   financial    management
arrangements; and (vii) a clear identification of the Project's risks and proposed specific
actions to mitigate undesirable effects.

The only area where the PAD could have been more precise is in the definition of the
indicator on quality and in the precise wording of the targets, as there are some
inconsistencies and vagueness. The values of the key trigger indicator on learning
achievement from Phase I to Phase II is to establish the baseline, and to move from Phase
II to Phase III is a 3 percent increase on learning achievement. However, for the end of
Program Performance Indicators on learning achievement, the value is an average increase
in test scores by 18 percent (6 percent per phase). This number exceeds by far what we
know from international experience in that school outcomes usually change slowly in
response to any kind of educational intervention (Research emphasizes a 5-10 year time lag
between implementation of educational reforms and the effect on student achievement).
This is especially the case, when project is expanding access in rural areas, as is the case of
PER I where the concentration of poverty is highest. Despite this, the Project appraised was
a solid and meaningful investment proposal directly linked to the CAS and GOC's human
development objectives, timely identified, with the appropriate lending instrument and
results-oriented; with generally realistic, concrete and measurable outcome and output
indicators; and with an appropriate monitoring and evaluation measuring system in place.

(b) Quality of Supervision
(including of fiduciary and safeguards policies)
Rating: satisfactory

The quality of the supervision is considered satisfactory.     The Project, launched during
June 2000, (it started six months before its Loan effectiveness date), was subject to a total
of nine formal field supervision missions including a mid-term review in November 2002.
On average, one and one-half formal field supervision missions were carried out annually
during the Project's six year life-span. Each supervision mission ended with a well-
documented Aide Memoire (AM) which summarized progress achieved, issues to be
addressed, recommendations and agreed follow up actions. The wrap­up meetings were
always attended by the PIU team, the MEN´s Minister or Vice Minister as well as by other
National Government representatives through the Ministry of Finance and the DNP. Each
AM, once thoroughly discussed and signed, was subsequently used as a monitoring and
follow-up mechanism. Supervision benefited occasionally from the presence of a Senior
Education Specialist and other sector-related Bank staff from the Resident Mission of
Bogotá. A total of 16 Implementation Supervision Reports were updated, on average, once
every four and a half months.




                                              24

There were only three task managers during the Project's implementation, thus the required
supervision continuity was largely achieved by the Bank teams. The supervision teams
were made up of a fairly stable mix of appropriate Bank staff and qualified external
consultants. Bank supervision missions were instrumental in identifying feasible solutions
to address relevant project implementation issues including: (i) the initial delays in
implementation; (ii) the lack of cash liquidity required for the Project during the period of
financial constraint; (iii) the absence of reliable information for project monitoring and
evaluation; (iv) the lack of experience and procedures to ensure departmental, municipal
and school accountability; (v) a large undisbursed balance until the second year of project
implementation; (vi) the limitation for applying some original procurement arrangements
and thresholds in concordance with the flexibility required by the Project; and (vii) the
organizational changes that occurred in the MEN structure during the implementation
period.

As shown in the datasheet, most supervision missions rated the Implementation Progress
and achievement of Developmental Objectives as satisfactory. On two occasions in 2003
the Implementation Rating was rated unsatisfactory, mainly because of lags in
disbursements. The quality and pertinence of the information in the sixteen ISRs, including
the ratings assigned, reflect the reality of the Project's physical and financial
implementation progress as well as compliance with the LA.             The findings of each
supervision mission were conveyed to Bank management clearly and in a straightforward
fashion, including the implementation shortcomings and potential risks assessed by the
Bank team.

In summary the Bank's performance during supervision was: (i) consistent, timely and
flexible; (ii) responsive to the adjustments and changes required by the project
implementation; (iii) proactive in solving technical, administrative and operational issues;
and (iv) focused on assuring ownership of the agreed changes.

(c) Justification of Rating for Overall Bank Performance
Rating: Satisfactory

The Bank´s performance was rigorous throughout the project cycle. The PDOs were
achieved and the PER has become a central instrument in the MEN's education policy for
expansion of quality coverage in rural areas. The preparation team displayed sound
knowledge of the educational issues in the rural sector, the CAS and GOC educational
goals of three administrations, and ensured continuity through an open policy dialogue.
The supervision missions, which included visits to project implementation sites, were made
up of a fairly stable mix of appropriate staff and external consultants, were followed by
well-documented Aide Memoires summarizing in detail the project progress, findings,
agreements and recommendation. In summary, the Bank: (i) demonstrated great flexibility
in times of economic and fiscal crisis; (ii) played a key role in modifying project
implementation strategy, when needed; (iii) supported fully the diversification of models;
(iv) ensured continuity during changes of administration; (v) succeeded in preserving
selectivity, flexibility and simplicity in the Project's design; (vi) paid special attention to
the establishment of a solid monitoring and evaluation system; (vii) demonstrated celerity
and flexibility in processing the amendments as well as the "no objections" requested; and


                                              25

(viii) was proactive in working with the Borrower to turn around Project implementation
from its unsatisfactory implementation status.

5.2 Borrower Performance
(a) Government Performance
Rating: Satisfactory

The Guarantor (National Government through the Ministry of Finance) and the DNP were
involved and fully supportive of the Project since its beginning.            The Government
participated actively in project's design, preparation, negotiation and supervision stages, as
well as in the mid-term review. Moreover, the DNP led the discussion during the process
of project identification. Additionally, the National authorities were very sensitive during
the critical period of low disbursements and financial constraints and by attending all the
supervision missions they provided useful recommendations as well as monitored the
Project's achievements carefully. Finally the loan amendments were always thoroughly
discussed and processed in a timely manner.

(b) Implementing Agency or Agencies Performance

The Project's implementing agencies, MEN and its Project Coordination Unit (PIU),
performed consistently well throughout the identification, preparation and implementation
stages of the Project, which contributed to produce a coherent and successful project. First,
during identification: (i) agreements on the Project's justification, scope and objectives
were easily reached since each administration endorsed the rural educational policy of the
previous one, which in turn were fully reflected in the Project's design; and (ii) with only
one preparation mission it was possible to reach consensus with the administration about
the Project's timeline, lending instrument and preparation strategy.

Second, at the preparation stage the MEN: (i) provided and partially financed a seasoned
team of expert consultants, as well as regular staff headed by the Vice Minister of
Education; (ii) assembled a good package of background information with research, reports
and studies on rural education, which fully supported project justification; (iii) displayed
strong political commitment during project implementation; (iv) adhered permanently to
the Project's objectives; (iv) incorporated stakeholders in the Project's design and assured
effective participation of key departments of the MEN; and (v) developed, with the Bank
assistance, a full set of operational and financial procedures that were updated during
project implementation.

Third, during the implementation stage, the MEN's performance ensured: (i) a low
turnover of project team coordinators ­ three in six years ­which facilitated adhesion to the
Project's original strategy and objectives; (ii) high capacity to adjust to unexpected changes,
amendments of the Loan Agreement, internal reorganizations and challenges arising from
the decentralization process and new legislation (Law 115 and 715); (iii) hiring skilled
project coordinators with a high degree of commitment, creativity and professional
excellence; and (iv) good communication and professional relationship with Departmental
and Municipal political authorities, as well as with communities, social actors and NGOs



                                               26

involved in the Project. The relationship between the Borrower and the Bank team was
characterized by an excellent rapport and transparent and timely communication during the
entire lending phase.

(c) Justification of Rating for Overall Borrower Performance
Rating: Satisfactory

In addition to the comments above, it is important to mention that the MEN: (i) adopted the
Project's strategy and Program as part of the national policy for rural education, therefore
generating consensus regarding the importance of rural education for the country's social
and economic development; (ii) was always responsive to Bank mission recommendations,
particularly to any adjustments arising from the supervision missions; (iii) provided, in
general, a working environment that was conducive to ensuring implementation of the
project's components assuring its role of policy and strategic support; and (iv) made the
necessary efforts to remove obstacles in the course of the Project's implementation.
Finally, in addition to paving the ground for the second phase of the Program, the Borrower
demonstrated that supporting an effective decentralization process and working with
strategic partnerships could yield valuable benefits.

6. Lessons Learned
(both project-specific and of wide general application)

An ICR mission was held in February 2007 with the active participation of the Project's
key stakeholders, mayors, school principals, teachers, parents, students and community
representatives, to assess the Project's implementation and to identify lessons learned, in
order to provide directions for future education sector investments in Colombia including
the Second Phase Project and elsewhere by the Government. The main lessons identified
are:

(a) The importance of political will, support and ownership. All three administrations
that were involved with the preparation and implementation of the project consistently
supported the Project's goals and objectives. This was an important factor in the project's
successful results. This situation is attributed to (i) the Project's alignment with economic
and social policies and agenda that were pursued by the three different Governments in
Colombia's rural sector; (ii) the Project's innovative interventions that were designed to
address the relevant issues identified; (iii) the appropriate timing for the Project, which
took advantage of political willingness; and (iv) the early involvement of the Government
in project design, selection of interventions and targeting criteria.

(b) Getting the teachers' schools involved. Originally, the Project expected to contribute
only to the upgrading of the curriculum, training of teachers and provision of learning
materials to permit the Escuelas Normales to produce competent rural teachers. However,
during implementation it became clear that the Escuelas Normales needed to play the
additional role of disseminating the school models and providing technical assistance to
their satellite schools during implementation. At the same time, it became clear that the




                                              27

Escuelas Normales should have been used for the provision of in-service training for
teachers and tutors involved in the implementation of the models in the schools.

(c) Bringing Peace and Coexistence activities into the comprehensive education
strategy. Activities similar to those included in the Education for Peaceful Coexistence
Subcomponent can only be effective as part of a comprehensive intervention involving the
national, departmental, municipal and school levels. This in turn, implies the need to: (i)
strengthen the capacity of the MEN to act as a pole of knowledge management in
Education for Peaceful Coexistence policy and strategy; (ii) incorporate conflict resolution
and civic values as part of the municipal education plans; (iii) support, through school-
community relationships and classroom methodology, activities that promote peaceful
coexistence; and (iv) improve the use of pedagogical methodologies to incorporate
democratic and participative practices at the school and class room levels.

(d) Placing educational institutions at the centre of educational change. To ensure
sustainability, interventions must address rural education institutions as a whole, and not
only consider management, technical, pedagogical and administrative aspects, but also the
institutions' environment. Sound knowledge of the schools' social, economic and cultural
settings is essential for the adoption of appropriate models, pedagogical methodologies and
management practices tailored to the specific needs of the schools' populations and the
prioritization of investments as identified by the communities.

(e) Local stakeholders participating in choosing educational models. The Project's
experience shows: (i) the need for a solid diagnosis of the local conditions before selecting
the models and their implementation strategies; (ii) that the models for vulnerable
populations must be part of the departmental policy to ensure real impact; (iii) that before
application, local teams and education authorities must be familiar with the models; (iv)
that monitoring and follow-up is fundamental for timely detection of implementation issues,
such as, lack of teachers, materials and learning resources; (v) the need for strong
articulation of the models with the PEI´s, PMI´s and PPPs; and (vi) that teachers must be
involved in the process of evaluating the models in the framework of curricular guidelines,
teaching of competences and school management strategies.

(f) The essential role of technical assistance. Technical assistance is essential for
empowering partnerships as a means for fostering the participation of broad sectors of civil
society in the management of rural education, while assuring, at the same time, the
development of a curriculum for rural education that is consistent with the socio-economic
framework of each local community. The Project permitted the team to learn that technical
assistance is effective when: (i) it is based on comprehensive and sustained monitoring at
the departmental and municipal level; (ii) authorities are trained to ensure improvement and
coordination of the PEMs (Municipal Education Improvement Plans) and PEIs; (iii)
principals are assisted to effectively lead the changes; (iv) student achievement test results
are used as an evaluation and to inform change and improvement; (iv) it provides concepts
to guide the investment of resources with community participation; (v) it generates an
atmosphere of trust between the departmental, municipal, school and community levels;




                                              28

and (vi) it develops sustainable implementation capacity at the departmental, municipal and
school levels.

(g) Getting the private sector involved. One basic element for linking school learning
with productivity and relevance was the inclusion of relevant PPPs in the PEMs. Some
basic conditions for successful outcomes are: (i) the inclusion of the PPP in the schools'
PEIs; (ii) total alignment of the PPP with the region's economic activities; (iii) effective
participation of the private sector and the community in the definition and implementation
of the PPP; (iv) availability of practices, both in school sites and in local companies; (v)
teachers' training to link the PPPs with the general competences taught under the different
subjects in the curricula; and (vi) the strong motivation of students on the benefits of the
PPPs for further education or for labour market participation . Finally, it is also relevant to
facilitate the dissemination of PPP's good practices through cross-fertilization activities
among participating schools, including the possibility of developing PPPs jointly under
partnership arrangements.

(h) Mobilizing resources through local governments. Encouraging the municipalities to
consider education as a key factor in local development yields important benefits. Efforts
in this regard demonstrated the capacity of municipalities to mobilize additional resources
for education. Antioquia, like Pasto, set examples of how municipalities might obtain
additional resources for education, either through their own resources, direct negotiations
with national bodies or international cooperation, provided that such applications are
supported by clear and coherent plans for the sector that have visible benefits.


7. Comments on Issues Raised by Borrower/Implementing Agencies/Partners

(a) Borrower/implementing agencies

Overall, the Borrower's appraisal of the Project was very positive. The main outcome of
the Project from the GOC's perspective was that it contributed to strengthening the rural
education policy at the national, departmental and municipal level. It played a significant
role in increasing educational coverage in the rural areas, redressing the urban bias in the
delivery of quality and efficient educational services. However, the Borrower highlighted
some aspects of the process that affected implementation at different stages: (i) The
Departmental Education Secretariat's unawareness of the MEN and Bank procedures and
lack of experience in implementing decentralized subprojects produced delays between
planning and execution phases; (ii) the delays in appointing qualified full time personnel,
the expanded scenario of 587 municipalities and the initial lack of definition of the
Departmental Secretariat of Education limited the departments' ability to provide timely
technical assistance to municipalities;      (iii) the lack of prior teachers' training in
pedagogical practices and technical materials affected the outcomes of the education model
specific training. The Borrower also signaled that education models required further
adapting and updating to curriculum changes and local conditions.




                                             29

(b) Cofinanciers

As stated in Annex 5 to this ICR, the main Project's cofinanciers were the local
governments. The project's positive outcomes were instrumental in convincing the local
government to increase its contribution, which exceed considerably the amount estimated
at Appraisal. During the meetings with the ICR team, while willing to keep supporting the
PER, Mayors made the following suggestions: (i) speed up the administrative and financial
process; (ii) address teachers' permanence in schools to avoid discontinuity in models'
implementation; (iii) develop and carry out early on a campaign to motivate potential
partners; (iv) strengthen the PPPs as a mean to retain students in rural areas; (v) improve
coordination among the partners of the AEDs, and the Municipal Education Secretariat,
schools and private sector.

(c) Other partners and stakeholders (e.g. NGOs/private sector/civil society)

The Project's contribution to NGOs, private sector and civil society's involvement in
education was highlighted during the meetings with the ICR team. Project implementation
strategies based on AEDs, on partnerships agreements and on models subcontracting
promoted stakeholders' appropriation of rural education's problems and available solutions.
Suggestions referred to: increase dissemination of rural programs' impact; insure teachers'
appropriate training in secondary education models through involving education faculty in
the process and exchange experiences among partners.




                                            30

Annex 1. Project Costs and Financing

(a) Project Cost by Component (in USD Million equivalent)

                                   Appraisal Estimate  Actual/Latest
          Components                                                        Percentage of
                                      (USD millions)  Estimate (USD
                                                          millions)          Appraisal

1. ENHANCING ACCESS AND
    QUALITY OF BASIC                       24.2              34.2               142
    EDUCATION
2. STRENGTHENING
    INSTITUTIONAL                           8.40               7.08              84
    CAPACITY
3. EDUCATION FOR
    PEACEFUL COEXISTENCE                    3.50               0.61              17

4. SUPPORTING THE
    REFORM OF TECHNICAL                     3.90               0.63              3
    EDUCATION



              Total Baseline Cost             40.00              42.09
Physical Contingencies                         0.00               0.00          0.00
Price Contingencies                            0.00               0.00          0.00
              Total Project Costs              0.00               0.00
Project Preparation Fund                       0.00               0.00          0.00
Front-end fee IBRD                             0.00               0.00          0.00
        Total Financing Required               0.00               0.00




(b) Financing



                                                     Appraisal Actual/Latest

           Source of Funds               Type of     Estimate      Estimate   Percentage of
                                       Cofinancing    (USD           (USD       Appraisal
                                                     millions)     millions)
Borrower                                              14.80          12.47         84
International Bank for Reconstruction
and Development                                       20.00          20.00         100

Local Govts. (Prov., District, City) of
Borrowing Country                                     5.20           9.62          185




                                              31

Annex 2. Outputs by Component

This Annex describes expected and real expenditures of the Project and briefly analyzes the
evolution of these expenditures according to project amendments that affected the cost
sharing and reallocated funds among disbursement categories. Below, two cost tables are
presented to further substantiate: (a) the documented expenditures by component and by
source of financing at Appraisal and at Loan Closing; and (b) the documented expenditure
by category and by source of financing at Appraisal and at Loan Closing.

Component A. Access and Quality of Basic Education. This Component was expected
to cost an equivalent of $24.2 million at Appraisal ($12.80 million equivalent from the
Bank Loan and $11.40 million equivalent from the Borrower as counterpart funding) and
disbursed and documented $34.2.million equivalent ($17.0 million equivalent from the
Bank and $17.3 million equivalent from the Borrower's counterpart funding).               It
represented 85.5 percent of the originally estimated Project costs. This component
represented the bulk of the project investment (42 percent over project cost) due to the
Government's strong commitment to scale up investment in rural education .

Component B. Institutional Strengthening. This Component was expected to cost $8.4
million equivalent at Appraisal ($3.30 million equivalent from the Bank and $5.10 million
equivalent from the Borrower counterpart funding) and ended up disbursing and
documenting $7.06 million equivalent ($2.6 million equivalent from the Bank and $4.46
million equivalent from the Borrower counterpart funding), 17.7 percent of the expected
total cost. The expenditures in this component were slightly higher (15.9 percent over) than
the original cost due to the substantial increase in the number of territorial entities and
municipalities assisted by the project.

Component C. Education for Peaceful Coexistence. This Component was expected to
cost $3.5 million equivalent at Appraisal ($1.80 million equivalent from the Bank and $1.7
million equivalent from the Borrower counterpart funding) and ended up disbursing and
documenting $0.63 million equivalent ($0.33 million equivalent from the Bank and $0.30
million equivalent from the Borrower counterpart funding), 1.5 percent of the expected
total cost. The cost of this component was substantially lower (82 percent) than expected
because early in project implementation, a decision was made to institutionalize the
component into the normal structure and budget of the MEN and work in close partnership
with the International organization for Migration (OIM).

Component D. Supporting the Reform of Technical Education. This Component was
expected to cost $3.90 million equivalent at Appraisal ($2.10 million equivalent from the
Bank and $1.8 million equivalent from the Borrower counterpart funding) and ended up
disbursing and documenting $0.10 million equivalent ($0.07 million equivalent from the
Bank and $0.03 million equivalent from the Borrower counterpart funding), 0.25 percent of
the expected total cost. The cost of the this component was lower than was expected (99
percent) because a decision was made during project implementation to limit its
intervention to the generation of a proposal for a new policy and strategy in technical



                                            32

education in partnership with the Fundación Manuel Mejía (financed by MEN's regular
budget).

Costs. According to Table 4 below, the total project cost estimated at Appraisal was $40.0
million equivalent, corresponding US$20 million equivalent to the Bank (50 percent of the
total) and $20 million equivalent to the Government (50 percent of the total). At the time
of Loan completion, the total documented expenditure amounted to $42.0 million
equivalent (105 percent of the appraised total), corresponding to $20.0 million equivalent
to the Bank (100 percent of the appraised total for the Bank) and $22.0 million equivalent
to the Government (105 percent of the appraised total for the Borrower).

Table 4. Documented expenditures by component and by source at the time of Appraisal and
at Loan Closing (in US$ millions)
Component           Appraisal          At Loan Closing            Percentages

               Bank Gov.      Total Bank    Gov. Total
               (1)    (2)      (3)     (4)   (5)     (6)   (4)/(1) (5)/(2)  (6)/(3)

Component A 12.80 11.40 24.20 17.00 17.30 34.30            133%    152%     142%

Component B    3.30    5.10   8.40    2.60  4.46     7.06   79%     87%      84%

Component C    1.80    1.70   3..50   0.33  0.30     0.63   18%     18%      18%

Component D    2.10    1.80   3.90    0.07  0.03     0.10    3%     2%        3%

Front-end fee   0.0    0.00   00.00


Total          20.00 20.00 40.00 20.00 22.09 42.09         100%    110%     105%




                                           33

Table 5. Documented expenditures by category and by source at the time of Appraisal and
at the Loan Closing (in US$)
Category of        At the time of Appraisal           At the time of Loan Closing         Percentages
Expenditure

                   Bank        Gov.        Total      Bank        Gov.         Total
                   (1)         (2)         (3)        (4)         (5)          (6)        (4)/(1) (5)/(2) (6)/(3)
1. Work (other     230,000     239,391     469,391    0           0            0          0       0       0
than
subprojects)
2. Goods (other
than under the     1,700,000   1,467,021   3,167,021  1,017,722   775,459      1,793,181  60%     53%     57%
subprojects)
3. Consultants'
services
                   1,680,000   1,600,249   3,280,249  2,166,070   3,142,315    5,308,385  129%    196%    162%
(a) other than
categories
 3 (b) , 3 (c) and
4 (c)


(b) for logistic   710,000     675,151     1,385,151  838,028     1,135,364    1,973,392  118%    168%    142%
services

(c)for the
Project Unit       670,000     2,340,325   3,010,325  492,555     2,271,821    2,764,376  74%     97%     92%




4. Subprojects
(a) works          720,000     549,253     1,269,253  2,986       2,749        5,735      0       1%      0
(b) goods          7,840,000   9,688,760   17,528,760 10,468,300  9,319,838    19,788,138 134%    96%     113%
(c) consultant     5,250,000   3,197,939   8,447,939  790,754     5,481,141    10,271,895 91%     171%    122%

5. Refunding of
Project
Preparation        240,000     71,109      311,109    223,585     0            223,585    93%     0       72%
Advance


6. Unallocated     960,000


Total              20,000,000  19,829,000  39,829,000 20,000,000  22,129,000   42,129,000 100%    112%    106%




                                                      34

Annex 3. Economic and Financial Analysis
(including assumptions in the analysis)

The economic analysis is based on the study carried out by Centro de Estudios de
Desarrollo Económico (CEDE) of Universidad de los Andes to complement the Project's
impact evaluation study developed by the same University.

The objective of the study was to compare the Project's benefits and costs using the
Internal Rate of Return (IRT) as the key indicator for measuring project economic and
social benefits.

Benefits. The benefits were calculated projecting the income to be received by PER I
students between 18 and 65 years of age. The reduction in the rate of dropout (about 4
percent) was considered along the 11 years of basic and secondary education, which
increased the number of years of schooling years of PER I students by 0.33 years. Based
on the study of Sánchez, Fabio (1999)2, this represents an increase in the students' income
of about 8 percent for each additional year of schooling.

The improvement in the students' achievement reflected in the SABER test also has a
positive effect in the projected student salary. According to a study by Lazer (2003), any
increase in the standard deviation of the academic test affects the expected salary by about
12 percent of the expected income. The PER I standard deviation was calculated in 10.56
percent in the impact evaluation study.

Therefore, considering the increase in the years of schooling due to the decrease in drop-
out rates and the increase in the quality levels as measured by the SABER test results, it is
assumed that each student's income will increase $105 ($156.00 Colombian pesos) or
$480.00 per year during his/her working life.

Costs. The total investment of PER I up to December 31, 2006 was $101.009.000,000
Colombian pesos, equivalent to US$42,000,000 dollars.         Given that PER I benefited
466,015 students, the average cost per student is $219.744 Colombian pesos. However, for
the purpose of the calculation of the internal rate of return, the projected cost to keep a
child in the system is 438.954 Colombian pesos (less than the originally projected value of
$580.330 Colombian pesos) given the combined effect of the increase in coverage, the
reduction in the dropout rate, the impact of the years of schooling by 0.33 percent and the
impact of income $105.159 Colombian pesos (See Table 6).

Net Present Value (NPT). Using an interest rate of 6 percent the net Present Value of the
Project is $1,062,321 representing an Internal Rate of Return of 21.62 percent.




2Sánchez Torres, Fabio. Director Centro de Estudios de Desarrollo Económico (CEDE).
Universidad de los Andes.



                                              35

Cost Benefits and the Internal Rate of Return Comparison between 1999 and 2006.
The comparison of the project expected economic and social benefits in 1999 and the
outcomes calculated in 2006 are summarized in the following table:

Table 6. Cost Benefits and the Internal Rate of Return Comparison between 1999 and 2006
                                 1999 (expected)          2006 (achieved)


Impact in the years of schooling 0.71                     0.33


Impact in education quality      Not included             0.11
(standard deviation)


Number of Students               66.406                   466.015


Unit cost per students           $580.330                 $438.954


Impact in the students' income   $146,517                 $105.159
(2005)


Net Present Value (6%)           $1.615.714               $1.062.321


Internal Rate of Return          $25.25                   $21.62




                                             36

Annex 4. Bank Lending and Implementation Support/Supervision Processes

(a) Task Team members
            Names                       Title                   Unit
Lending
Marco Mantovanelli       Task Manager                          LCSHD
David Harding            Task Manager                          LCSHD
Supervision/ICR
Carlos Rojas             Task Manager                          LCSHD
Raja Bentaouet Kattan    Task Manager                          LCSHD
Cecilia Balchun          Disbursements                          LOAG
Juan Carlos Alvarez      Sr Counsel                            LEGLA
Jeannette Estupinan      Financial Management Specialis        LCSFM
Henry Forero Ramirez     Senior Information Officer            ISGEG
Martha Laverde           Sr Education Spec.                    LCSHE
Sonia M. Levere          Language Program Assistant            LCSHS
Jose M. Martinez         Procurement Spec.                     LCSPT
Marcelo Amador Osorio    Consultant                            LCSPT
Luis Pisani              Consultant                            LCSHE



(b) Staff Time and Cost
                         Staff Time and Cost (Bank Budget Only)

Stage of Project Cycle                               USD Thousands
                         No. of staff weeks        (including travel and
                                                     consultant costs)
Lending
  FY98                                                        37.56
  FY99                                                      114.77
  FY00                         59                           211.33
 Subtotal                      59                           363.66


Supervision/ICR
  FY01                         14                             48.53
  FY02                         10                             61.65
  FY03                         10                             74.11
  FY04                         18                             89.57
  FY05                         15                             70.84
  FY06                         17                             77.36
  FY07                         13                             50.42
                         Total:            97               472.48




                                         37

Annex 5. Beneficiary Survey Results
Not applicable.




                                    38

Annex 6. Stakeholder Workshop Report and Results
(if any)

The workshops and interviews carried out before and during the ICR mission were attended
by about 160 participants ( 3 departmental secretaries of education, 14 municipal mayors,
19 PER I Departmental coordinators, 9 schools principals 12 parents, 16 models providers,
24 teachers, 16 nucleus directors, 17 supervisors, 12 good and services bidders, and 18
students). The main conclusions of these discussions follow:

Among all the stakeholders there was no reservation in highlighting that the great
achievement of the project was to make rural education a priority for the departments,
municipalities and schools. Specifically, there was consensus among the stakeholders that
the project: (i) fully achieved the objective of increasing coverage and access to rural
education population for children of grades 0° - 9°; (ii) contributed to improve the quality
of education in rural areas by implementing pertinent educational models; (iii) provided
incentives for the contribution of the partners to invest in rural education; (iv) created an
appropriate environment and mechanism for the participation of the education actors and
local communities; (iv) improved the relationship between schools and communities; (v)
provided useful materials (canasta educativa) to support the teachers in the application of
models; and (vi) brought together the various education actors around a common goal for
improving rural education. These results were conformed during the visit to Cundinamarca
and Boyaca, where the project continued and moreover expanded its implementation after
the completion date using resources provided by the departments and municipalities. The
ICR team confirmed that the 2007 budget of the other 20 departments also included about
$3.7 millions (allocated by the central government (35 percent) and the department (65
percent)) to continue project activities.

The centralization of the procurement process was mentioned as a positive decision
yielding benefits in terms of economy of scale and lower cost of goods and services. The
standardization of the educational material specifications also contributed to improve the
quality of the educational materials. However, despite the benefits, the departmental
authorities, schools principals and teachers raised concerns about the delays in the
provision of the educational materials and a marginal contribution to the improvement of
the institutional capacity and autonomy at the decentralized levels.

The negative factors that were raised included: (i) the army conflict that affected the
implementation schedules; (ii) the excessive mobility of the teachers; (i) the lack of
administrative and physical capacity at the departmental level to keep the stock of
educational materials and supervise its distribution; (iii) the weak coordination of the
schools with the Escuelas Normales and education faculties at universities; (iv) the need to
invest in improving the educational environment and educational technologies along with
the application of the models; (v) the need to inform principals and parents on the
characteristics and pedagogical features of the different models; and (vi) the cumbersome
administrative process that delayed the timely provision of educational materials.




                                             39

Stakeholders' recommendations included the need: (i) to improve the establishment and
functions of the Alianzas; (ii) to update the educational models; (iii) to strengthen the
technical advisory team in charge in order to multiply interventions at the municipal and
school levels; (iii) to reformulate the training process of principals and teachers, making it
more flexible; (iv) to expand the intervention to vulnerable and displaced population; (v) to
enhance the constitution of educational networks; and (vi) to develop new educational
methodologies for rural sectors.

Technical assistance provided by departments to municipalities in the framework of
departmental partnership arrangements experienced some difficulties due to the project's
expansion and to changes brought about by the implementation of the Revolución
Educativa. Given the effort made by the PIU, and the full support of the MEN's central
units as well the Departmental secretariat of education, this situation was progressively
overcome.

On the Peace and Coexistence subcomponent, the general opinion was that it effectively
reduced internal conflicts due to the reorientation of citizenship competences and to the
internal dissemination of human and citizen's participation rights.

The external consultants and model operators recognized several contributions of the
project in terms of putting rural education on the government agenda; engaging strategies
to improve rural education quality and coverage; strengthening the study and research
groups; involving the community in the education process; reaching isolated communities
that were excluded from continuing education; and improving the availability of good
learning materials in the schools. At the same time, they mentioned the need to improve
the articulation between the pedagogical models with the Educational Institutions
Improvement Projects (PEI) and the Municipal Improvement Projects (PMI) as well as
ensure the participation of the nucleus directors, supervisors and schools principals in the
training and technical assistance process.

The main negative aspects stressed in general were the insufficient knowledge preparation
of teachers in educational policies, curricular content, quality standards, basic competences
and in instructional resources and pedagogy for the rural sector. In their opinion this
situation should be addressed by improving the training process and involving the teaching
institutes and the education faculties of the Universities in the second phase of the PER.
Furthermore, the rural education interventions should be tailored to the specific conditions
characteristics of each department especially in those where low retention continues to be
an endemic problem.

The bidders that were interviewed considered that during 2001-2003, the delay in the
bidding process affected the timely delivery of the learning materials to schools, lack of
clarity of the TORs, and lack of personnel to control the quality of goods purchased. This
situation, however, was addressed during the subsequent years as the MEN itself hired an
external auditing firms to ensure quality control and timely delivery of agreed reports. To
improve competitiveness, the bidders also made several suggestions on how to improve the
bidding process in terms of procedures, content preparation submission, opening evaluation



                                               40

and contract awards of the bids. These suggestions were also shared by the External
Auditing firm Silva Carreño & Asociados.

The fiduciary agency (IICA) indicated that the project provided an excellent opportunity to
improve its cooperation with the rural sector suggesting that for the next phase, the project
should strengthen the financial, accounting and administrative training of national and
regional teams; decentralize the procurement process; provide more autonomy to territorial
entities; and enhance partnership arrangements Alianzas) at the departmental level.




                                            41

Annex 7. Summary of Borrower's ICR and/or Comments on Draft ICR

COMENTARIOS DEL GOBIERNO

El Proyecto de Educación Rural, PER, en su fase I, implementada entre el 2000 y el 2006,
fue determinante para fortalecer la política de la educación rural en el país, tanto a nivel
nacional como departamental, municipal y de los establecimientos educativos.

A partir del desarrollo del Proyecto se promovieron estrategias pedagógicas, se fortaleció la
capacidad de las entidades territoriales y se contó con el apoyo financiero de diversos
sectores que contribuyó a disminuir la brecha entre el sector urbano y el sector rural, en
términos de cobertura, calidad y eficiencia.

En lo pedagógico se consolidó un portafolio con 13 modelos educativos que ofrecen
alternativas pertinentes para la atención a la población rural en los niveles de preescolar,
básica primaria, básica secundaria, educación media y atención de adultos, teniendo en
cuenta sus necesidades específicas, la diversidad de los contextos rurales y las condiciones
de dispersión.

Los modelos se implementaron a través de la dotación de canastas educativas que incluyen
la capacitación de los docentes, las guías para maestros y estudiantes y los materiales
educativos de apoyo, como bibliotecas, laboratorios y centros de recursos del aprendizaje.

En cuanto a lo financiero se estableció una estrategia de Alianzas entre en MEN, los
departamentos, municipios y entidades del sector productivo, que aportaron recursos y
asistencia técnica para el desarrollo del Proyecto.

Como herramienta para lo administrativo se conformaron equipos departamentales y
municipales para el diagnóstico, la formulación y la ejecución de los proyectos donde
quedaban registradas las necesidades educativas de las entidades territoriales.

Otro elemento importante fue la conformación de equipos multiplicadores, aptos para
capacitar a los docentes en la implementación de los modelos en el aula, que aseguran la
sostenibilidad de la prestación del servicio de educación pertinente a la población rural a
largo plazo, sin incurrir en gastos para la contratación de consultorías destinadas a la
capacitación de los docentes.

Todos estos logros implicaron el incremento de la capacidad de gestión a nivel local y
aseguran la sostenibilidad de la educación rural aún después del cierre del PER I.

Es importante destacar la institucionalización del Proyecto al interior de la estructura del
Ministerio de Educación Nacional, a partir del cual, hoy en día la educación rural es un
tema transversal a todas las direcciones del MEN. Lo mismo sucedió en las Secretarías de
Educación de las entidades territoriales focalizadas, que hoy cuentan con equipos para
atender las demandas de la población rural.




                                              42

El sistema de administración de los recursos, mediante un agente cooperante, contribuyó a
la transparencia de los procesos de contratación, tanto en el período en que las
adquisiciones se hacían de forma descentralizada, como cuando se centralizaron todos los
procesos para ser tramitados por la Unidad Coordinadora del Proyecto, al interior del
Ministerio.

La participación comunitaria, como herramienta para el desarrollo del PER I, dio un giro en
la concepción, no sólo de la educación, sino del desarrollo de los municipios, comenzando
por los procesos de diagnóstico que en la mayoría de los casos nunca se habían hecho. A
partir de allí las comunidades tomaron conciencia de sus situaciones específicas, y de sus
necesidades más apremiantes. Los diagnósticos fueron además un insumo clave para la
planeación y la programación de demandas. De ese modo, las comunidades rurales se
comprometieron con el Proyecto y fueron veedores de las acciones que se desarrollaron.

Fue determinante la credibilidad creciente en el Proyecto a lo largo de su implementación,
que generó, por un lado, un incremento importante en los porcentajes de los aportes locales
(cerca de 1 millón de dólares más de lo previsto), y por otro, la extensión de las demandas a
municipios y departamentos no focalizados inicialmente, que manifestaron su interés en el
Proyecto ante los cambios positivos en sus vecinos participantes en el PER I.

1. Logros por componente

Componente de Cobertura con calidad

Se amplió la atención a 27 entidades territoriales. Así, a diciembre de 2006 se reporta un
logro de 460.000 estudiantes atendidos y 16.277 docentes capacitados en 587 municipios,
lo que representa cerca del 50 por ciento de municipios del país.

Durante la implementación del PER I se promovieron los modelos educativos de Escuela
Nueva, Postprimaria-MEN, Postprimaria-Caldas, Sistema de Aprendizaje Tutorial (SAT),
Servicio de Educación Rural (SER) y Educación Continuada con metodología CAFAM.

Por otro lado, más allá del logro de las metas propuestas, se avanzó en el desarrollo de
alternativas de atención para el grado 0 (Preescolar Escolarizado y No Escolarizado)

Se pilotearon los modelos de Aceleración de Aprendizaje y Telesecundaria y se
capacitaron operadores para la implementación en la etapa de expansión.

Se diseñó una versión adaptada del modelo Escuela Nueva, para la población del litoral
Pacífico, se diseñaron dos modelos de educación media: Media académica rural (MEMA),
y Media Académica con énfasis en el trabajo.

En total, se evaluaron 13 modelos educativos. Se definieron las especificaciones técnicas
de los materiales de las canastas educativas teniendo en cuenta las necesidades y contextos
de las zonas rurales, los estándares de calidad y el desarrollo de las competencias.




                                              43

Se diseñaron y ajustaron los procesos de formación de docentes y equipos multiplicadores
en aspectos conceptuales, metodológicos, pedagógicos, de gestión comunitaria y PPP
(Proyectos Pedagógicos Productivos), y se impulsó la conformación de redes y
microcentros.

Los PPP se desarrollaron como un componente de los modelos educativos de Escuela
Nueva, Postprimaria, Telesecundaria y Media Rural, como estrategia fundamental para
garantizar la pertinencia de la educación en las zonas rurales.

Se diseñó una estrategia para la articulación de los modelos con los PEI y los PMI y se
elaboró una guía para docentes de Escuela Nueva, que les permite utilizar las cartillas en el
marco de los estándares de calidad.

En el portal Colombia Aprende, del MEN existe una página, a disposición de todos, con
tutoriales de los modelos Escuela Nueva, Aceleración del Aprendizaje, Postprimaria y
Telesecundaria. Adicionalmente se diseño curso virtual de Escuela Nueva, para masificar
la capacitación de docentes.

Se impulsaron reformas curriculares, en 64 ENS (Escuelas Normales Superiores) para
impactar la formación inicial de docentes con pertinencia al sector rural, a través de la
investigación en el diseño de un nuevo currículo que permita la lectura de contextos.

Componente de fortalecimiento institucional

Después de seis años, el empoderamiento, tanto de los departamentos como de los
municipios y las instituciones, de la responsabilidad de la administración de la educación es
mucho mayor; en muchos casos se han adquirido la visión y las herramientas necesarias
para hacer diagnóstico, planificación y gestión.

Fueron fundamentales, para el éxito del Proyecto, los compromisos departamentales con el
aumento de la cobertura y el mejoramiento de la calidad educativa en el medio rural, y la
toma de decisiones acertadas sobre la aplicación de modelos educativos apropiados para la
satisfacción de las necesidades a nivel local.

Se crearon 12 AED (Alianzas Estratégicas Departamentales), con la participación de
municipios, el departamento, empresas privadas y algunas ONG, que aportaron recursos
que representan el 68 por ciento de valor total de la contrapartida local para el Proyecto. En
14 departamentos y un municipio certificado se firmaron CIC (Convenios Tripartitos de
Cooperación), que aportaron el 32 por ciento del total de la contrapartida local. Tanto los
departamentos con AED, como los que firmaron CIC, ampliaron, de forma autónoma, la
participación de nuevos municipios dentro del Proyecto.

Durante los procesos de capacitación y asistencia técnica para la implementación del PER
I, se dieron orientaciones en gestión educativa y comunitaria, para que las instituciones, los
municipios y los departamentos aumentaran su capacidad de gestión.




                                              44

En cuanto al sistema de gestión financiera, se estableció el plan de cuentas contable, se
diseñaron instrumentos para los reportes que debían presentar las AED sobre operaciones
regionales y se determinaron los soportes para el registro y la consolidación de las
operaciones. El manejo de la cuenta se ajustó a los requerimientos del Banco y el préstamo
fue desembolsado en su totalidad.

Se diseño y puso en marcha la herramienta de seguimiento que permite conocer las
programación y ejecución y medir las metas físicas y financieras en los establecimientos
educativos focalizados, la atención a estudiantes y la capacitación de docentes. La
herramienta de seguimiento se encuentra funcionando en un total de 27 entidades
territoriales.

Componente de Educación para la coexistencia pacífica

En los departamentos con AED se realizaron capacitaciones en resolución pacífica de
conflictos, mecanismos de participación escolar y formación en competencias ciudadanas.
Se hicieron avances importantes en los establecimientos educativos para identificar
problemas específicos; sobre esa base se capacitó a los equipos locales en derechos
humanos, en la resolución pacífica de conflictos al interior de los establecimientos, de
forma autónoma y en la elaboración de pactos de aula. Se desarrollaron dos proyectos
puntuales: la Maleta pedagógica de L'Ecole de la Paix, de Francia, en Caquetá y el
currículo de Juegos de Paz, en Norte de Santander.

El PER financió, con la Dirección de Calidad del MEN, un proyecto piloto de educación
para el ejercicio en derechos humanos, que plantea el desarrollo de actividades en tres
componentes específicos:

    Componente Pedagógico, que pretende transformar las prácticas pedagógicas
    orientadas a la construcción de ambientes democráticos que posibiliten el ejercicio de
    los derechos humanos, a partir del desarrollo de las competencias ciudadanas.
    Componente de Formación Docente, que busca desarrollar una estrategia de formación
    a partir del acompañamiento permanente a las ENS focalizadas por el Proyecto, con
    sistemas de investigación articulados al componente pedagógico.
    Componente de soporte Institucional y Redes de Apoyo, que permitan la
    retroalimentación, en coexistencia pacífica, entre docentes y directivos docentes de
    distintos establecimientos educativos.

Además, el Ministerio de Educación y la Defensoría del Pueblo elaboran un documento de
política pública en educación para el ejercicio de los derechos humanos.

Componente de Educación técnica

Se contrataron consultorías e investigaciones que dieron como resultado los documentos
"La Situación de la Educación Media en Colombia" y "Orientaciones Generales a la
Política de Educación Media General y Técnica", con el propósito de que sirvieran de
insumos para la formulación de la política nacional para este nivel educativo. Además,



                                              45

documentos como "Articulación de la Educación con el Mundo Productivo. La formación
de competencias Laborales", de agosto del 2003 y la Guía No. 21: "Articulación de la
Educación con el Mundo Productivo", de agosto del 2006, recogen los aprendizajes del
PER I y orientan el desarrollo de la educación media.

Se identificaron 30 experiencias piloto que se habían planteado en la formulación del
Proyecto, sin embargo se hizo seguimiento a propuestas educativas innovadoras de
educación media y planes de política regionales que sirvieron de referente para elaborar el
documento de orientaciones. Los pilotajes de educación media que realizó el PER I durante
los últimos años de ejecución formaron parte del componente de Cobertura con calidad.

Desempeño del Banco

El Banco Mundial ofreció apoyo técnico para el logro de los objetivos del Proyecto; en tal
sentido, hubo un permanente proceso de seguimiento y retroalimentación y orientación de
lineamientos sobre las adecuaciones necesarias que facilitaron la ejecución del PER I en
todos sus componentes.

    El Banco mantuvo comunicación permanente y apoyó a la UCP para resolver aspectos
    técnicos y para el desarrollo de procesos operativos, de adquisiciones y financieros.
    Las misiones siempre fueron un escenario para la concertación y la construcción de
    acuerdos que facilitaran el desarrollo ágil de los procesos de ejecución del Proyecto.
    Además hubo contacto permanente para agilizar los procesos de contratación en
    aquellas situaciones donde, por efectos de la metodología pactada, eran indispensables
    las solicitudes de no objeción.
    En la etapa de preparación, el Banco apoyó la realización de foros para la
    identificación de experiencias significativas para el componente de Educación para la
    coexistencia pacífica.
    Por otro lado, el equipo del BIRF compartió experiencias significativas de otros países
    para enriquecer el desarrollo del Proyecto.
    Para el caso de los componentes de Educación técnica, y Educación para la
    coexistencia pacífica, así como para la transformación de las ENS, el Banco facilitó la
    participación de expertos internacionales que aportaron su experiencia el la orientación
    de tareas específicas.
    El equipo del BIRF se mostró flexible prestó la asesoría necesaria para la identificación
    e inclusión de nuevas estrategias de apoyo pedagógico y modelos reconocidos que
    facilitaran la ampliación de cobertura y el mejoramiento de la calidad de la atención a
    nuevas poblaciones, como cuando se incluyeron los modelos para la atención a jóvenes
    y adultos, las estrategias para el nivel de preescolar y los pilotajes del nivel de media,
    dentro del componente de Cobertura y calidad.
    Emitió recomendaciones para la evaluación y seguimiento de los componentes y para
    la evaluación de los modelos.
    Además, dio lineamientos para delimitar y diseñar adecuadamente el sistema de
    información, seguimiento y evaluación.
    El Banco orientó la definición de especificaciones técnicas y aspectos financieros para
    agilizar los procesos de adquisiciones y contrataciones.



                                              46

    Se realizaron talleres dinamizados por expertos del Banco para el manejo de los
    formatos y procedimientos y talleres de capacitación en aspectos financieros, de
    desembolsos y adquisiciones, revisión de procesos de adquisiciones, apoyo y revisión
    de las relaciones y operatividad del agente cooperante y propuestas de ajuste en las
    obligaciones y actividades del agente. La entidad informó oportunamente sobre la
    actualización de aspectos claves de las normas del Banco aplicables en la ejecución del
    PER.
    El equipo del BIRF realizó visitas de supervisión a la UCP propiciando la participación
    de los diferentes actores del Proyecto.
    Por otro lado, se hicieron visitas a los departamentos, municipios e instituciones
    educativas (AED) para evaluar la ejecución del proyecto y hacer seguimiento y
    retroalimentación.
    Hizo recomendaciones puntuales y oportunas respecto de las mejores formas de operar
    e interactuar con los agentes gubernamentales del nivel nacional (el DNP y el
    Ministerio de Hacienda) local (las gobernaciones) y el agente cooperante, lo que
    contribuyó de manera importante a la institucionalización y al logro de los objetivos
    del Proyecto.


(UNOFFICIAL TRANSLATION OF BORROWER'S COMMENTS)

1. Project Development Objectives

The Rural Education Project, PER, in its first phase (2000 ­ 2006) contributed significantly
to strengthening the policy of rural education at the National, Departmental, Municipal and
school levels.

The Project played a significant role in increasing educational coverage in the rural areas,
redressing the urban bias in the delivery of quality and efficient educational services by:
promoting new pedagogical strategies, enhancing the institutional capacity of the territorial
entities and promoting strategic partnerships that led to financial contributions of the
various sectors involved.

The project contributed to the consolidation of 13 educational models at the preschool,
primary, basic secondary, upper secondary and adult education levels, tailored to the
specific needs and diversity of the rural sector and to the geographic dispersion of the
population.

The models provided teacher training, educational materials, guidelines for teachers and
students, libraries, laboratories, and learning resource centers.

The Project promoted and consolidated partnerships among the MEN, the departments, the
municipalities and productive sector entities (AEDs) that provided financial resources and
technical assistance to support Project's proposed activities.




                                               47

The Project also promoted departmental and municipal teams as a management tool to
carry out the diagnosis, formulation and execution of subprojects, that monitored the
educational needs of the territorial entities.

As part of the consolidation of the education models, the Project developed a "training the
trainers" team, that worked with teachers to insure that they could reproduce the training of
model implementation in the classroom, creating a sustainable training program that does
not require external assistance.

The Project's achievements led to an increase of the management capacity at the local level,
which in turn allows for a sustainable improvement in rural education, even after the PER I
closing.


The institutionalization of the Project within the structure of the MEN brought rural
education policy to the forefront of the MEN's structural units. Similarly, at the deparment
and municipal level, the Education Secretariat acknowledged the urge the rural
population's educational needs and are now equipped to respond to them.

The Project's financial resources administration through an external agency contributed to
transparency in the bidding process, both when procurement was decentralized and when it
was centralized in the Project's Implementing Unit, in the MEN

Community participation, as an operational tool for the Project development was an
innovative feature that promoted the municipalities' involvement in rural education. In fact,
taking part in the diagnosis process created awareness about the communities' pressing
needs in education. Community participation in project planning and monitoring insured
ownership and social control of the interventions.

The Project's positive outcomes during implementation generated credibility among local
partners and resulted in the increase of financial contribution, which exceed amount
estimated at Appraisal by approximately one million dollars and created the demand to
extend the Project to almost half of the country's municipalities.


2. Achievements by Components

Access to Quality Education

The project improved access to quality basic education services for a total of about 460,000
students by training 16.277, creating 246,338 new places in 582 municipalities located in 27
departments and territorial entities. The original targets were largely surpassed. .

PER I consolidated the implementation of the following models:
Escuela Nueva, Postprimaria-MEN, Postprimaria-Caldas, Sistema de Aprendizaje Tutorial
(SAT), Servicio de Educación Rural (SER) and Educación Continuada with CAFAM
methodology. Alternative models were developed for preschool using formal and informal


                                                 48

methodologies. Aceleración de Aprendizaje and Telesecundaria models were tested and
modeloperators were trained for the timplementation stage. The Escuela Nueva model
adapted to the specific conditions of the Afro-Colombian population located in the Pacific
coast, including two modalities for secondary education: Academic track (MEMA) and
with emphasis in productive activities.

Altogether, 13 models were evaluated. The technical specifications of the materials for the
basic educational package were defined according to the rural area's needs and context, to
the quality standards and to the capacity development.

The training process for teachers and for "training the trainers" teams was adjusted
conceptually, methodologically and pedagogically. Community management and the
Productive Pedagogical Projects (PPP) were considered and the creation of networks and
microcenters was promoted.

PPPs were a key strategy to successfully implement the Escuela Nueva, Postprimaria,
Telesecundaria and Media Rural models, as it contributed to the relevance of education in
the rural areas. Similarly, a strategy was designed and applied to assure the articulation of
the models with the Proyectos Educativos Institucionales (PEI).

In the MEN''s webpage Portal Colombia Aprende two tutorial courses for Escuela
Nueva, Aceleración del Aprendizaje, Postprimaria and Telesecundaria models and a
teachers' training program for Escuela Nueva that aims to reach a large number of teachers
were displayed.

Curricular reforms were implemented in 64 Escuelas Normales (Teachers' forming
schools) to improve teachers training for the rural areas.

Institutional Strengthening

The Project's six year implementation has empowered departments, municipalities and
institutions involved, contributing to provide the vision and necessary tools to lead the
process of diagnosing, planning and managing education projects.

The departmental commitment and adhesion to Project's objectives were determinant to
improve rural education quality and coverage. The well informed decision making process
contributed to tackle rural education problems attuned to the local needs.


The Project promoted the creation of 12 Alianzas Estratégicas Departamentales (AED)
which integrated representatives of departments, municipalities, private companies and
some NGOs. The AEDs contributed financial resources equivalent to 68 por ciento of the
counterpart funds of the Project. In 14 departments and one certified municipality,
Convenios Institucionales de Cooperación (CIC) were signed, contributing with 32 por
ciento of the local counterpart funds. Both AEDs and CICs increased their contribution to
the Project, to allow new municipalities to join.



                                             49

The Project's training and technical assistance program included guidelines for educational
management and community participation that improved substantially the capacities of
departments, municipalities and institutions to respond to the increasing educational
demand in rural areas:

The financial management system established an accounting plan, the AED regional
operations reporting formats, and the supporting system to register and consolidate the
Project's operations. The accounting system complied with Bank's requirements and the
total loan amount was disbursed.

The monitoring system controlled the key indicators for Project achievements, the financial
objectives, the number of students assisted and the number of teachers trained. The system
is operating in the 27 territorial entities.

Education for Peaceful Coexistence

Tangible results were achieved where AEDs were established: Pacific conflict resolution
training for principals and teachers; application of participation mechanisms at the school
and community level; and citizenship competences training for students.

Based on specific problem detection, training programs were developed for local teams on
human rights, on conflict resolution and on classroom guidelines for peaceful connivance..
Two specific projects were developed: the "Pedagogical Suitcase" from L'Ecole de la Paix,
France, in Caquetá and the "Peace Game" curriculum in the North of Santander.

The Project also financed a pilot experience which included three main actions:
(i) Pedagogical practices aiming to develop a democratic environment that allows for the
exercise of human rights (ii) teachers' training strategies that follows the Projects' focused
ENS(Escuelas Normales Superiores) with research systems articulated to the pedagogical
practices; and (iii) institutional support and networks that provide feedback on peace
coexistence among teachers and school authorities.

Finally, the MEN and the Defensoría del Pueblo (people's prosecution) prepared an
education for human rights public policy document.

Technical Education

As an input to develop the national policy on technical education for rural areas, the
Project's consultants carried out research and delivered two documents: "La Situación de
la Educación Media en Colombia" and "Orientaciones Generales a la Política de
Educación Media General y Técnica". Additionally, two others documents issued by the
MEN ("Articulación de la Educación con el Mundo Productivo. La formación de
competencias Laborales", August 2003 and Guía No. 21: "Articulación de la Educación
con el Mundo Productivo", August 2006), were based on the lessons learned from PER I.




                                              50

Finally, in collaboration with the Manuel Mejia Foundation several pilot experiences were
developed to include small agro-industries management subjects in the curricula.

3. World Bank Performance

The Work Bank provided technical and financial support to achieve Project's objectives
and targets. The Bank was instrumental in providing permanent follow up and feedback,
during Project preparation and implementation, responding with flexibility to the
adjustments during Project execution. Specifically:.

            · The Bank maintained permanent communication with the PIU, providing
                technical, financial, operational and administrative assistance during
                implementation.. The Bank's missions were the appropriate scenario to
                reach agreements to advance Project implementation.
            · During preparation the Bank supported and actively participated in seminars
                and round tables about relevant experiences to be taken into consideration
                for Project design.
            · The Bank provided international consultants that contributed their
                experience on technical education, education for peace and teachers' schools
                to the Project's components design.
            · The Bank's missions were particularly flexible and supportive in adjusting
                and improving rural models to insure increased access to quality education
                and relevance considering the heterogeneous conditions of the           rural
                population.
            · The Bank provided ongoing assistance for evaluation and follow up of
                Project execution, especially for education models' outcomes. Special
                attention was paid to the information system's quality and timely deliveries.
            · The Bank provided technical and financial specifications for the bidding
                process and contracting.
            · Bank's specialists provided training in the Bank's procedures for
                disbursements, financial management and procurement. Specialists also
                provided periodical reviews of these processes and of the external financial
                agency's performance
            · The supervision missions included visits to the field that allowed for
                interaction with different Project actors. Implementation problems detected
                during these visits were tackled, and solutions reached with the MEN's
                authorities. Well documented and detailed Aide Memoirs were signed by the
                parts at the end of each mission. The Ministry of Finance and the National
                Planning Directorate participated actively in the supervision missions.




                                              51

Annex 8. Comments of Cofinanciers and Other Partners/Stakeholders

Not applicable




                                    52

Annex 9. List of Supporting Documents

                              Document                                   Año
Project Appraisal Document                                               2000
Loan Agreement                                                           2000
Educación para la población rural: Balance prospectivo                   1998
Línea de base                                                            2002
Revolución Educativa, Plan Sectorial, 2002 ­ 2006                        2002
Orientaciones generales a la política de educación media rural y         2003
técnica, Elvia María Acuña.
Situación de la educación media en Colombia, Felix Guataquí.             2003
Proyecto de educación para el sector rural, PER, Jesús Nespirán          2004
Patiño
Política educativa para la formación escolar en la convivencia,          2004
Gustavo de Roux
Evaluación de los Modelos Educativos que Promueve el "Programa           2005
de Educación Rural" del Ministerio de Educación Nacional, CRECE,
MEN Universidad del Rosario
Situación de la educación rural en Colombia, -Seminario: Educación       2005
de la población rural en América Latina: Alimentación y educación
para todos, Isabel Segovia
Evaluación de impacto, CEDE, Universidad de los Andes                    2006
Portafolio de modelos educativos                                         2006
Documento preparatorio PER segunda fase                                  2006
Curso virtual de Escuela Nueva, Fundación Manuel Mejía                   2006
4 Tutoriales para la difusión de los modelos de Escuela Nueva,           2006
Posprimaria, Telesecundaria y Aceleración del Aprendizaje,
Universidad de Pamplona
Guía para la articulación de los modelos educativos flexibles a los      2006
PEI y a los PMI, CORPOEDUCACIÓN
Cartilla para la contextualización del modelo Escuela Nueva a los        2006
estándares de calidad y el desarrollo de las competencias. ASPROED
Aide Memoires                                                          1999-2007
ISRs                                                                   2000-2007




                                              53

Annex 10. Revisions to Loan Agreement (LA)

Amendment        Section in the LA          Changes                            Justification

First: April 4, Section 1.02 Article - Incorporation and   - Reflect the range of selectivity of the different
2003            I; table in Paragraph definition of three  models as well the increased demand under new
                A (1) of Schedule 1; models: SAT,SER       targeting criteria
                and Schedule 4, Part and CAFAM
                C, Section I of the   - Modify Schedule 1 - Respond to critical fiscal situation,
                Loan Agreement        to increase the      consolidation of achievements and better
                                      percentages of       operation of loan procedures
                                      expenditures to be
                                      financed by the      - Simplify operation and adapt procurement
                                      Loan from 55% to     procedures to increased demand
                                      70%.

                                      - Reallocation of the
                                      loan proceeds in an
                                      amount higher than
                                      5% of the total
                                      amount of the Loan

                                      - Addition of new
                                      procedures for
                                      contracting goods,
                                      services and
                                      consultants
                                      - Inclusion of three
                                      new procurement
                                      methods
Second:         Section 2.03;         - Extension of the   - Attend new requirements established by the
4/6/2004        Paragraph A ( c) of   Closing Date to      then newly passed 715 federal legislation and
                Schedule 1;           June 30, 2005        MEN policy to increase coverage in the rural
                Schedule 2, part A,                        sector
                paragraph 1; and      - Extension of
                Paragraph 5 of Part   subproject financing - Need to extend number and modalities for the
                C of Section II of    to partnerships      partnership arrangements (Alianzas)
                Schedule 4 of the     arrangements other
                Loan Agreement        than those proposed - Need to speed-up the hiring of consultants
                                      by Alianzas
                                                           - Due to critical situation in some Departamentos
                                      - Inclusion of goods hardest impacted by violence, the MEN needed to
                                      in the financing of  react quickly and provide education services
                                      models               without waiting for the creation of an Alianza,
                                                           process that may taken several months.
                                      - Increase of
                                      threshold for        - Due to a larger than anticipated demand for the
                                      selection of         Educación Continuada, SER and SAT programs,
                                      consultants          it was necessary to increase threshold for direct
                                                           contracting on the above programs, for which
                                                           only one source was available




                                                     54

Amendment  Section in the LA         Changes                           Justification

Third:     Section 2.03;       - Extension of the  - Although satisfactory project performance
4/20/2005  Schedule 4, Section Closing Date to     surpassed original target the original low
           1, Part C.2 of the  December 31, 2006   disbursement could not be overcome
           Loan Agreement
                               - Inclusion of non- - Need for additional resources in some
                               consultant services categories to finance increased demand in the
                               in the shopping     departments involved (from 10 to 27)
                               procedures
                                                   - Extension will provide time to successfully
                               - To increase       complete the Project
                               threshold for
                               Goods (Shopping)    - To accelerate project execution and
                               Procurement         disbursements.
                               method

Fourth:    Section 2.03,       Reallocation of     - Better utilization of loan procedures based on
4/17/2006  Paragraph 1 of      Loan Categories     implementation progress
           Schedule 1 of the
           Loan Agreement                          - These activities would include the completion
                                                   of sub-projects already under implementation, the
                                                   expansion of educational models being
                                                   implemented, the provision of pedagogic
                                                   materials and the training of teachers.

Fifth:     Section 2.03,                           - Better utilization of loan procedures based in
11/28/2006 Paragraph 1 of      Reallocation of the implementation progress
           Schedule 1 of the   Loan Categories
           Loan Agreement                          - To adjust loan balances to current project needs
                                                   and allow MEN to finalize project activities
                                                   before the Closing date of December 31, 2006.




                                              55

Annex 11. Achievement of PDOs/Key Indicators

Table 7. Achievement of PDOs
Indicators                     Baseline                               Phase I                          Actual Targets Achieved
                                                                      to
                                                                      Phase II (Targets of
                                                                      Phase I)
Year                           2000-2002                              2004                             2006
Number of target               0                                      >40 /70 municipalities           587 municipalities reached,
Municipalities                                                                                         corresponding to 830% of
                                                                                                       The initial target.
Enrollment rate                30%                                    >40%                             Between 2002 and 2006, a total
                                                                                                       of 460,000 students
                                                                                                       benefited from the program
                                                                                                       achieving 260% of the original
                                                                                                       target
Repetition rate                11.5%                                  7.5%                             6.82% by 20043

Learning Achievement           (with a scale from 0 to 100)
                                  2003                                                                    2005

                               Language            Language                                            Language            Language
                               Grade: 5            Grade: 9                                            Grade: 5            Grade: 9
                               Score: 57.13        Score: 60.33                                        Score: 57.14        Score: 62.23
                               SD: 7.16            SD: 7.27                                            SD: 7.58            SD: 7.32

                               Mathematics         Mathematics                                         Mathematics         Mathematics
                               Grade: 5            Grade: 9                                            Grade: 5            Grade: 9
                               Score: 53.01        Score: 57.38                                        Score: 55.87        Score: 58.78
                               SD: 9.30            SD: 6.31                                            SD: 9.91            SD: 6.26

                               Nat. Science        Nat. Science                                        Nat. Science        Nat. Science
                               Grade: 5            Grade: 9                                            Grade: 5            Grade: 9
                               Score: 49.98        Score: 55.61                                        Score: 51.08        Score: 57.63
                               SD: 7.99            SD: 6.73                                            SD: 8.54            SD: 6.81

                                                                                                       Social Science      Social Science
                                                                                                       Grade: 5            Grade: 9
                                                                                                       Score: 49.28        Score: 58.20
                                                                                                       SD: 7.04            SD: 6.28




        3 Source: Universidad de los Andes (Cede) Evaluación de impacto. Information on internal efficiency (repetition and
        dropout rates) is available only for 2004. The local entities were not able to provide updated data when the impact
        evaluation study was conducted.



                                                                      56

Alianzas disbursing at     N/A    10 Alianzas             27 (12 Alianzas plus 15
least 80%                                                 ("Acuerdos")
of budgeted resources to          Total of 13% of
municipal subprojects             Subproject cost         192% of subproject cost
Participation of civil            Qualitative evaluation  The project applied strategies to
society in education              verified that civil     strengthen community
management within                 society participated    participation in school
school networks                   in school               management and in the
                                  Management              determination of education
                                                          policies at the municipal and
                                                          departmental levels. In seven
                                                          departments the project
                                                          financed Education for Peace
                                                          Activities in all schools.

                                                          The project also financed a pilot
                                                          program to improve human
                                                          rights in 5 departments.




Existence of specific scho N/A    >70%                    Project participants defined
community                                                 minimum standards for peaceful
programs in municipal                                     coexistence in schools and
Subprojects(PEMs).                                        trained 17,316 teachers in the
                                                          application of "Peaceful Conflict
                                                          Resolution". These provided
                                                          the basis for the formulation and imp
                                                          of subprojects
                                                          on various themes of peaceful
                                                          Co-existence.

                                                          The Project trained 400
                                                          professors and administrators in
                                                          the areas of peaceful coexistence, an
                                                          management.

                                                          1,190 subprojects focusing on
                                                          school community activities were
                                                          successfully Implemented in
                                                          25 regions.




                                  57

Table 8. Planned and Achieved Output Indicators by Component
Component          Expected Output / Indicator                     Achieved
Access and quality  · Improvements made in 40        · Improvements made in 587 municipalities
of basic education     municipalities in 10            in 27 department affecting 460.000
                       department affecting 176.000    students
                       students                      · Curriculum evaluated in 13 existing
                    · 7 models evaluated and           models and 8 in cost effective
                       materials uograded
                    · Telesecundaria and             · Telesecundaria and Aceleración del
                       Aceleración del Aprendizaje     Aprendizaje model piloted, evaluated and
                       model piloted, evaluated and    upgraded
                       upgraded
                    · 70% of the staff trained in    · - 72 % of the staff trained in the use of
                       the use of above models in      above models in 8,388 educational
                       70 educational institutions     institutions targeted
                       targeted
                    · 70% of the staff in 40 the
                       Escuelas Normales organized   · 60% of the staff in 31 the Escuelas
                       on a network trained and        Normales organized on a network trained
                       curriculum reform               and curriculum reform implemented
                       implemented
                    · 70% of three annual study      · 15 studies representing 150% of three
                       programs, researches and        annual study programs, researches and
                       study ­ tours in knowledge      study ­ tours in knowledge management
                       management completed            completed

                    · 70% of the 40 municipalities   · 68% of the 587 municipalities
                       implemented a strategy to       implemented a strategy to increase access
                       increase access with quality    with quality using one or more of the
                       using one or more of the        evaluated models
                       evaluated models

                    · A minimum of 40                · 232 municipalities supported rural schools
                       municipalities supported        transportation and 587 nutrition as a part of
                       rural schools transportation    the national policy
                       and nutrition

                    · 80% of teachers in targeted    ·  75% of teachers in targeted schools
                       schools received upgraded       received upgraded training courses
                       training courses

                    · 80% of targeted schools        ·  100% of targeted schools implemented
                       implemented Productive          Productive Pedagogical Projects (PPP)
                       Pedagogical Projects (PPP)
Institutional       · 100% of Manuals, software      · 100% of Manuals, software and personnel
strengthening          and personnel of the            of the monitoring system in place and
                       monitoring system in place      trained
                       and trained
                    · The base line for impact       · The base line for impact evaluation
                       evaluation defined and          defined
                       evaluation systems in place.  · Communication strategy designed,
                    · Communication strategy           implemented and evaluated



                                               58

Component          Expected Output / Indicator                       Achieved
                       designed, implemented and
                       evaluated                      · 27 (12 Alianzas plus 15 ("acuerdos")
                    · 10 Alianzas created with its       Alianzas created with its subprojects' fund
                       subprojects' fund allocation      allocation disbursed
                       disbursed
                    ·   40 municipal projects         ·  587 municipal projects designed and
                       designed and implemented          implemented

                    · 80% of the targeted schools
                       organized in networks          · 85 % of the targeted schools organized in
                       providing the full basic cycle    networks providing the full basic cycle (gr.
                       (gr. 0-9)                         0-9)

Education for       · 70% of three annual study       · 6 annual programs ( representing 150% of
Peaceful               programs, researches and          the target) annual study programs, research
coexistence            study ­ tours in knowledge        and study ­ tours in knowledge
                       management completed              management completed
                    · Policy document for peaceful
                       coexistence in class, schools
                       and community practices        · Policy document for peaceful coexistence
                       completed                         in class, schools and community practices
                    · 80% of targeted schools            completed
                       implemented pedagogical
                       practices and community
                       projects promoting peaceful    · 100% of targeted schools implemented
                       coexistence                       pedagogical practices and community
                                                         projects promoting peaceful coexistence
Implication for     · Policy document on technical    · Policy document on technical education in
reform of technical    education in rural areas          rural areas completed
education              completed




                                               59

Annex 12. Learning achievement SABER results

 Table 9. Saber Results 2002-2005

                             SABER 2002                 SABER 2005            Variation 2002 ­ 2005


Area               Grade       Average StdDev       Average StdDev       Var Abs
                               2002          2002   2005        2005     Average        Var % Average


Mathematics        5o          52.33         9.01   55.89        9.59      3.56         7%


                   9o          57.16         5.84   59.18        6.17      2.02         4%


Language           5o          56.43         6.77   57.06        7.21      0.63         1%


                   9o          60.32         7.21   62.95        7.61      2.63         4%


Natural Sciences   5o          48.74         7.53   50.89        8.03      2.16         4%


                   9o          55.00         6.28   58.04        6.72      3.04         6%


Social Sciences    5o                               50.00        7.50

                   9o                               58.50        6.30

Source: MEN

.       Table 10. Saber Results by Subject

          65.00                                                                                         12.00


          63.00
(b) strengthening the Borrower's capacity to manage the implementation of education10.00
          61.00
projects in rural areas by applying 13 local demand driven (originally 7) models ( 1% of
the municipalities applied on average from 10 to 11 models, 4% from 8 to 9; 23% from 6
          59.00                                                                                         8.00


to 7, 40%57.00
             from 4 to 5 and 32 % from 1 to 2) ;
                                                                                                        6.00
          55.00
c) supporting through school-community activities and classroom methodology, the
          53.00                                                                                         4.00
development of social capital, thereby helping to achieve the prevention and resolution of
conflict by training 480 ( what was the target value?) NO SPECIFIC TARGET WAS
          51.00
                                                                                                        2.00
INCLUDED IN THE SAR ANNEX 1 PROJECT DESIGN SUMMARY schools
          49.00

teachers and administrators and developing 1,190 THE SAME NO TARGET IN SAR
          47.00                                                                                         -
                 5o              9o             5o           9o            5o            9o
subprojects on school work linkages ;
                        Ciencias Naturales               Lenguaje                   Matemáticas

      Prom 2002      48.74              55.00      56.43           60.32       52.33           57.16

one showed that in50.89
      Prom 2005         general in58.04            57.06           62.95
                                                                     models yield better results than,the
                                                                               55.89           59.18

      DsvStd 2002    7.53                6.28
                                          Mathematics the PER I7.21
                                                    6.77                       9.01            5.84
traditional models,8.03while in Language the7.21results were similar for9.59both models.
      DsvStd 2005                        6.72                      7.61                        6.17




                                                        60

