Document of
The World Bank
Report No: 20099-CO
PROJECT APPRAISAL DOCUMENT
ON A
PROPOSED ADAPTABLE PROGRAM LOAN
IN THE AMOUNT OF US$20 MILLION EQUIVALENT
TO THE
REPUBLIC OF COLOMBIA
FOR A
RURAL EDUCATION PROJECT
IN SUPPORT OF THE FIRST PHASE OF THE PROGRAM
March 10, 2000
Human Development Management Unit
Country Department Unit for Colombia, Ecuador and Venezuela
Latin America and the Caribbean Region



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
(Exchange Rate Effective November 5, 1999)
Currency Unit = Colombian Pesos
Colombian Pesos Il= US$ 0.000509
US$ I = Col. Pesos 1,965
FISCAL YEAR
January I  December 31
ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS
APL          Adaptable Program Loan (Prestamos Adaptables para Programas de Desarrollo,
PA PD)
CAS          Country Assistance Strategy
DIDTH        General Direction for Investigation and Development of Human Talent
(Direccion General de Investigaci6n y de Desarrollo del Talento Humano)
DNP          Department of National Planning (Departamento de Planeaci6n Nacional)
FMS          Financial Management Specialist
GDP          Gross Domestic Product
GNP          Gross National Product
GOC          Government of Colombia
IBRD         International Bank for Reconstruction and Development (Banco Internacional de
Reconstrucci6n y Fomento, BIRF)
ICBF         Colombian Institute for Family Welfare (Instituto Colombiano de Bienestar
Familiar)
ICR          Implementation Completion Report
IDA          International Development Agency
MEN          National Ministry of Education (Ministerio de Educacion Nacional)
NGO          Non-Governmental Organization
PAD          Project Appraisal Document
PIU          Project Implementation Unit
PEI          Institutional Education Project (Proyecto Educativo Institucional)
PEM          Municipal Education Project (Proyecto Educativo Municipal)
PHRD         Japan's Policy and Human Resources Development Fund
PMR          Project Management Report
PPP          Productive Pedagogical Project (Proyecto Pedag6gico Productivo)
UNDP         United Nations Development Programme
RSC          Rural Social Contract (Contrato Social Rural)
SAT          Tutorial Learning System (Sistema de Aprendizaje Tutorial)
SER          Rural Education Service (Servicio Educativo Rural)
TCR          Techincal Coordination Group (Grupo de Coordinacion Tecnica)
UCE          External Credit Unit (Unidad de Credito Externo)
UNDP         United Nations Development Programme
Vice President:    David de Ferranti, LCR
CMU Director:    Andres Solimano, LCC4C
SMU Director:    Xavier Coll, LCSHD
Task Team Leader/Task Manager:    David Harding, LCSHD



COLOMBIA: RURAL EDUCATION PROJECT
RURAL EDUCATION PROJECT
CONTENTS
A. Program Purpose and Project Development Objective                                 Page
1. Program purpose and program phasing                                                 3
2. Project development objective                                                       3
3. Key performance indicators                                                          4
B. Strategic Context
1. Sector-related Country Assistance Strategy (CAS) goal supported by the project      4
2. Main sector issues and Government strategy                                          4
3. Sector issues to be addressed by the project and strategic choices                  8
4. Program description and performance triggers for subsequent loans                   9
C. Program and Project Description Summary
1. Project components                                                                 1 2
2. Key policy and institutional reforms supported by the project                      13
3. Benefits and target population                                                     13
4. Institutional and implementation arrangements                                      14
D. Project Rationale
1. Project alternatives considered and reasons for rejection                          18
2. Major related projects financed by the Bank and other development agencies         20
3. Lessons learned and reflected in proposed project design                           21
4. Indications of borrower commitment and ownership                                   23
5. Value added of Bank support in this project                                        23
E. Summary Project Analysis
1. Economic                                                                          23
2. Financial                                                                          24
3. Technical                                                                          24
4. Institutional                                                                      25
5. Social                                                                             27
6. Environmental assessment                                                           28
7. Participatory approach                                                             28
F. Sustainability and Risks
1. Sustainability                                                                     29



2. Critical risks                                                                       30
3. Possible controversial aspects                                                       31
G. Main Loan Conditions
1. Effectiveness Condition                                                              32
2. Other                                                                                32
H. Readiness for Implementation                                                            32
I. Compliance with Bank Policies                                                           33
Annexes
Annex 1: Project Design Summary                                                            34
Annex 2: Project Description                                                               43
Annex 3: Estimated Project Costs                                                           46
Annex 4: Cost Benefit Analysis Summary                                                     47
Annex 5: Financial Analysis and Fiscal Impact Analysis                                     53
Annex 6: Procurement and Disbursement Arrangements                                         57
Annex 7: Project Processing Schedule                                                       65
Annex 8: Documents in the Project File                                                     66
Annex 9: Statement of Loans and Credits                                                    67
Annex 10: Country at a Glance                                                              69
Annex I 1: Sector Policy of the Government of Colombia                                     71
Annex 12: Pedagogical models available to rural areas                                      89
Annex 13: Educational Attainment for Different Age Cohorts (1995 WB data)                  91
Annex 14: Strategy for Incorporating Indigenous and Anfro-Colombian Communities            92
Annex 15: Departmental Strategic Partnerships (Alianzas Estrategicas Departamentales)      96
Annex 16: Information and Communication Strategy                                          104
MAP(S)



COLOMBIA
RURAL EDUCATION PROJECT
Project Appraisal Document
Latin America and Caribbean Region
LCSHE
Date: March 10, 2000                                Team Leader: David Harding
Country Manager/Director: Andres Solimano           Sector Manager/Director: Xavier E. Coll
Project ID: P050578                                 Sector(s): EP - Primary Education
Lending Instrument: Adaptable Program Loan (APL)    Theme(s): RURAL DEVELOPMENT; EDUCATION
Poverty Targeted Intervention: Y
Program Financirg Data
Estimated
APL             Indicative Financing Plan          Implementaton Perod             Borrower
l _____    ___________                                     (Bank  FYI
IBRD             Others       Total    Commitment   Closing
US$ m     %       US$ m       US$ m         Date        Date
APL 1        20.00    50.0    20.00        40.00     05/31/2000   06/30/2004 Republic of Colombia
Loan/
Credit   _____
APL 2        20.00    50.0    20.00        40.00     07/01/2004   06/30/2007 Republic of Colombia
Loan/
Credit _600601__*
APL 3        20.00    50.0    20.00        40.00     07/01/2007   06/30/20 10 Republic of Colombia
Loan/
Credit
APL 4
Loan!
Credit
Total        60.00   _   _    60.00       120.00                             _____________
Project Financing Data
IZ Loai         El Credit       El Grant         IGuarantee       KOther (Specify)
For LoanslCredits/Others:
Amount (US$m): First Phase: US$20.0 (in US dollars)
Proposed Terms: Fixed-Spread Loan (FSL)
Grace period (years): 5                                  Years to maturity: 17
Commitment fee: 0.85% p.a. during
first 4 years; 0.75% p.a. thereafter
Front end fee on Bank loan: 1.00%
F                      re                                       Local         Foreign         Total
Government                                                       14.80            0.00          14.80
IBRD                                                             16.00            4.00          20.00
IDA
LOCAL CONTRIBUTION                                                5.20            0.00           5.20
Total:                        _                                  36.00            4.00          40.00



Borrower: REPUBLIC OF COLOMBIA
Responsible agency: MINISTERIO DE EDUCACION NACIONAL (MEN)
Viceministerio de Educaci6n Nacional
Address: CAN, Avenida El Dorado. Bogota, Colombia
Contact Person: Dra. Marta Lucia Villegas, Viceministra de Educaci6n Basica
Tel: (571)315 7777                 Fax: (571) 222 4958                 Email:
Men32@Hemeroteca.Icfes.Gov.Co
Estimated disbursements ( Bank FYIUS$M):
Annualt     0.2           3.0          6.7         7.4          2.7
Cumulative     0.2           3.2           9.9        17.3        20.0
Project implementation period: 3 years 7 months
Expected effectiveness date: 05/31/2000  Expected closing date:  06/30/2004
OCS PPL PAO Foer  O-ber 9 19
-2-



A. Program Purpose and Project Development Objective
1. Program purpose and program phasing:
The Rural Education Program (the Program) is the Government's principal program for realizing its rural
education strategy (see Letter of Sector Policy, Annex 11) for improving access to quality basic education
in rural areas. The Program would pursue this objective by: (a) supporting changes in the central Ministry
of Education (MEN) to enable it to assume its role in a decentralized system of educational management as
the source of knowledge management and evaluation of strategic education models; (b) building
public-private sector partnerships at the departmental level to manage and finance subprojects; and (c)
strengthening local planning processes at municipal and institutional levels. The Program will also support
the development of social capital, through fostering school-community relationships and introducing
appropriate classroom methodologies. The Program will be implemented over a period of 9-12 years,
through a series of phased, three-year projects, linked by a logical sequencing to allow results and lessons
learned to be incorporated into the preparation and appraisal of subsequent phases. During the first phase,
the Project will support the establishment of the capacity to implement, monitor and evaluate the Program
and the financing of investments in basic education (defined as grades 0-9) for 176,000 students in 40 to 70
selected rural municipalities within 10 departments.
The choice of an Adaptable Program Loan (APL) is justified for several reasons. First of all, the complex
nature of the development process in rural areas of Colombia can be supported only through a sustained,
multi-phase effort. This adaptable lending program will allow the innovative content of the Project, which
supports the strengthening of the institutions responsible for basic education involved in the ongoing
process of decentralization in Colombia, to be tested in the first phase so that the design of subsequent
phases can be refined to incorporate lessons learned. On one hand, the Project will support the
development of the MEN's role in the decentralized context, as an agent of knowledge generation,
evaluation and promotion of new activities and policies, supervision of the quality and equity of the
education services, and information dissemination concerning the impact of the four Project components.
On the other hand, the Project will support the strengthening of the municipalities' capacity to promote the
development of education. This will be achieved through the implementation of municipal education plans
(PEMs) or municipal subprojects, with the technical and financial assistance of other bodies, both public
and private, through the formation of Departmental Strategic Partnerships (Alianzas Estrategicas
Departamentales).
The long-term program would allow a constant focus on the development objectives, while permitting
flexibility in the design of each phase to adapt to changing needs, priorities, leadership and personnel. The
logical sequencing of the program is described in Block B, section 4.
2. Project development objective: (see Annex 1)
The development objectives of Phase I (the Project) reflect the Program goals of promoting coverage and
quality in grades 0-9 in rural areas by: (a) improving access to quality basic education services for a total
number of 176,000 students in 40-70 rural municipalities located in 10 departments; (b) strengthening the
Borrower's capacity to manage the implementation of education projects in rural areas; (c) supporting,
through school-community activities and classroom methodology, the development of social capital, thereby
helping to achieve the prevention and resolution of conflict; and (d) strengthening the Borrower's capacity
to implement a reform of technical education in rural areas.
Particular attention will be given to improving access to the pre-school class for 3-5 year olds (grado cero)
and to grades 6-9, through strategic interventions for increasing educational coverage through the efficient
- 3 -



and equitable allocation of existing resources rather than construction of new buildings or the hiring of new
teachers. Project financing for quality improvement will concentrate on grades 1-5 to address one of the
reasons for the high drop-out rates that reduce coverage in grades 6-9 (Annex 13). The improvement of
teacher effectiveness and the overall quality of education in the targeted municipalities will be mainly
achieved through: (a) the implementation of a reform of Escuelas Normales (teacher training schools)
located in rural areas, and the strengthening of in-service teacher training in the selected municipalities; (b)
the strengthening of sector management at all levels, including the creation of Redes Educativas (rural
school networks); and (c) the provision of curricular and school-community activities in support of an
innovative Education for Peace concept aimed at developing social capital, thereby helping to mitigate the
incidence of violence and conflict. The activities mentioned above will be financed through an integrated
strategy based on national interventions under the leadership of the MEN coupled with demand-driven
subprojects prepared by selected municipalities.
3. Key performance indicators: (see Annex 1)
Key performance indicators for the Project will be: (a) increased educational enrollment and learning
achievement and reduction in student dropout and repetition rates among basic education students in
participating municipalities; (b) strengthened community participation in school governance; (c) formation
and effective functioning of public-private sector partnerships at departmental level; (d) financial and
human resources contributed as needed at municipal levels; and (e) definition of effective
school-community programs in the PEMs.
B. Strategic Context
1. Sector-related Country Assistance Strategy (CAS) goal supported by the project: (see Annex 1)
Document number: 17107 CO (11/6197)               Date of latest CAS discussion: 11/18/99
The Bank's Country Assistance Strategy (CAS) has two main objectives: poverty reduction and social
development with sustainable growth. To address these objectives it identifies six areas of strategic
importance: (a) promoting peace and development through a focus on the socio-economic determinants of
violence; (b) promoting rural development; (c) developing human capital; (d) attaining public sector
responsiveness and efficiency; (e) improving infrastructure services; and (f) ensuring sustainable
development. The CAS explicitly recognizes that the country's development is adversely affected by the
following conditions: low levels of educational quality and coverage, which affect particularly poor
communities and rural areas; an ever-widening rural-urban gap; and the widespread existence of high levels
of political, drug and interpersonal violence, which has had an increasing impact on the rural areas.
The proposed Program and its Phase I Project would contribute directly to the first three strategic areas
identified in the CAS and would also contribute to improving public sector responsiveness and efficiency
and sustainable development. The Project will address these objectives by: (a) redressing the urban bias in
the delivery of social services; (b) strengthening institutions in the rural sector and promoting the creation
of strategic partnerships among the public, private and non-profit sectors; and, (c) increasing social capital,
participation and democratic processes through programs and interventions designed to build local capacity
to address the underlying causes of violence and conflict.
2. Main sector issues and Government strategy:
Rural sector issues:
Poverty. In Colombia, 29 percent of the population live in dispersed areas or in centers of fewer than
5,000 people, while 38 percent of the Colombian population live in municipalities and towns whose
-4 -



economies are based on agriculture. The Colombian rural sector is afflicted by poverty, rising
unemployment, and criminal and political violence. Despite a steady decline in the incidence of poverty in
the last decades, poverty remains a critical problem with strong rural and regional dimensions. Seventy
percent of people with incomes below subsistence level live in rural areas, compared to an average of 54
percent in Latin America and the Caribbean. Inadequate access to basic health and education services are
among the leading causes of rural poverty, together with low access to productive resources (i.e. land,
finance, and appropriate technology).
Restoring peace. Participants consulted during preparation of the Project, as well as those involved in
preparation of the CAS, identified restoring peace as the most significant development priority for
Colombia. Levels of violence have increased dramatically since 1985. While political violence receives the
most public attention, only 20 percent of homicides are categorized as "political" (i.e. attributed to
paramilitary, guerrilla and army), with the remaining 80 percent the result of organized crime (related to
irug trafficking and organized kidnappings) and social violence (including domestic violence), which is
particularly related to alcohol and drug use. The lack of educational and employment opportunities have
been cited as one of the main contributing factors for the burgeoning criminal market and for violence
among youth. This, in turn, has been attributed to the limitations in availability and quality of primary and
secondary education, especially in the rural areas.
Rural Education issues:
The main issues affecting education in rural areas are: (a) inadequate and inequitable coverage; (b) poor
educational quality; (c) weak institutional capacity and governance at the local level; and (d) lack of
relevance and responsiveness of education, especially technical education, to the needs of the labor market.
Insufficient coverage. In rural Colombia, geographic isolation and reliance on child labor for household
income, as well as low average level of parental schooling, have a negative impact on children's
preparation for an access to schooling, as well as on the quality of the education provided to them.
Dropout and repetition rates are higher in rural than urban areas, as is the incidence of children who never
attend school. The net enrollment rate for rural areas is 30 percent compared with 65 percent in urban
areas; dropout rates for rural and urban areas are 10.9 and 2.5 percent respectively. Participation in
pre-school programs is less than 4 percent for rural children, compared with 23 percent nationally. The
educational indicators also tend to be lower for indigenous and Afro-Colombian communities in rural areas,
although there is a paucity of disaggregated data on these groups to make a systematic assessment. These
gaps in access to schooling (particularly wide at pre-school and post-primary levels) are closely associated
with the low socio-economic status of rural dwellers and the limited availability of quality education
services in rural areas.
Low quality: International educational assessments of learning achievement have indicated low standards of
education in Colombia compared with other countries. According to the 1996 Third International
Mathematics and Science Study (TIMMS), Colombia placed low in scores of mathematics and science
tests compared to 40 other countries. Whereas Colombia scored about average in a 1999 study of
mathematics and language performance among third and fourth grade students conducted by UNESCO in
13 Latin American and Caribbean countries, scores indicated a high level of disparity between the
achievement of urban students and their rural counterparts who scored consistently lower. National
assessments in Colombia have indicated the inadequacy of educational standards, with students in rural
areas of most departments consistently performing worse in achievement tests than urban areas,
particularly in such tasks as knowledge application and problem-solving in language and mathematics.
- 5 -



Needfor technical education: While very little data is available on the needs of the labor market in rural
areas, the need for technical education has been identified by representatives of local government and the
productive sectors as a key need. While a number of initiatives have been undertaken in this area, little or
no evaluation is available on their effectiveness. Moreover, the responsiveness of technical education
programs in the formal education system to these needs has not been evaluated.
Weak institutional capacity: As part of the overall process of political reform, the MEN has embarked on a
process of decentralization. However, the Government has recognized weaknesses that have emerged in
implementation of decentralization. In particular, the process of decentralization has focused on financial
and administrative reforms without sufficiently strengthening institutional capacity and initiative at the
local level. In addition, the role of the Central Government in ensuring equitable distribution of resources is
still insufficiently developed. For example, financial transfers to local authorities tend to favor the richer
municipalities, resulting in surplus teachers in the richer municipalities and a lack of teachers in the poorer
ones. The role of departments in the decentralized system is ambiguous, with the result that they have
neither the responsibility nor will to redress such imbalances. Municipalities and educational institutions
are required to prepare education plans, but in many cases they lack the capacity to fulfill this
responsibility. Technical assistance to help them build capacity in planning and management has been
inadequate. Ironically, the private sector, NGOs, universities and other members of civil society have
shown interest in providing assistance, but the municipalities and schools lack the autonomy necessary to
work directly with such groups.
MEN's evolving decentralized role: The challenge facing the education system is in addressing
institutional weaknesses within the ongoing process of decentralization. This can be achieved through
strengthening the role of the MEN in policy-making, knowledge management, and overall evaluation of
educational performance, so as to ensure that coverage, quality and equity issues are addressed. At a
decentralized level, the role of the MEN is to offer the necessary technical assistance to develop capacities
at the departmental and municipal levels for planning, financing and Project implementation.
Government strategy:
Experiences in Rural Education: Colombia, despite its limitations in education coverage and quality
service for the rural population, boasts an impressive array of innovative educational initiatives and
experiences that should form the basis for future education strategies. Escuela Nueva, for example, a
model first piloted in Colombia in the 1960s is based on multi-grade teaching and the use of
self-instructional materials for interactive and independent learning by individual children or groups of
children. The model encourages students to work together, yet allows for periods of absence. Upon
returning to school after harvest season, for example, the students continue where they left off instead of
repeating the year. Over half of the basic education schools in rural areas operate with the Escuela Nueva
methodology and many more recently developed school models reflect Escuela Nueva's flexible, modular
approach. These proposals include the post-primary rural education programs promoted by various
Departmental Education Secretariats (and supported by the MEN) and programs supported by the
cooperation between not-for-profit and public sectors, such as the Tutorial Learning System (SAT) for
basic secondary school. This program has been effective in helping out-of-school students and young adults
through tutoring and self-learning activities. Annex 12 presents further details on the main pedagogical
models available for the rural areas.
Recent Developments: A new National Development Plan for Education for 1998-2002, named Change
to Build Peace was approved by President Andres Pastrana's administration, which took office in August
1998. The National Development Plan for Education builds on the principles set by the wider Ten-Year
- 6 -



Development Plan and defines a series of principles to promote interest in and around education, with the
ultimate aim of identifying new pedagogical, administrative, and financial solutions for education
management. According to this plan, Government's involvement in education will focus on five
fundamental aspects: (a) human developmnent; (b) coverage; (c) efficiency; (d) equity; and (e) quality. In
carrying through the National Developmenit Plan for Education for 1998-2002, the government will follow
five guiding principles: (i) decentralization of the education sector; (ii) consistency of local investments
with national policy framework and objectives; (iii) inter-sectoriality; (iv) participation of rural
communities in the decision-making process; and (v) support to the strengthening of civic and democratic
values in schools. It is expected that the MEN will develop and consolidate its roles of knowledge
generator, policy maker at the macro level, and guarantor of the equity of funds allocation to rural
education, while management of the education sector will be progressively delegated to the departments and
the municipalities.
The Plan puts particular emphasis on increasing coverage of basic and rural education. With regard to
rural education, the main principles contained in the National Participatory Plan, the National Consultation
Process, and the National Development Plan for Education for 1998-2002, represent the framework for the
definition of a National Policy for Rural Education (Annex 1 1), the main objectives of wvhich are to: (a)
increase access to quality basic education up to grade 9; (b) strengthen the delivery of pre-school education
for 0-5 year-olds; (c) reorganize technical and vocational education in rural areas to respond to the needs of
the rural productive sectors; and, (d) support the development of social capital through an emphasis on
civic and democratic values in schools. This effort in rural areas will be complemented by the broader
governmental strategy to address the issue of coverage at the national level, which will be tackled through
the implementation of the following programs:
(a)    Programa Caminante (Main Framework for Basic Education Strategy) aims at increasing
coverage in pre-school and achieving universal coverage of basic education, with special focus on
pre-and post-primary levels. The program is tailored to adapt to the specific educational and
administrative need of each municipality. In rural areas, for example, the government plans to
strengthen post-primary education by linking formal education with productive projects based on1
the economic structure of the local communities. In an effort to decrease the illiteracy rate by 1%
by the end of 2002, attention will be devoted to building literacy among youth and adults.
(b)    Organizacion de la Educaci6n Formal (Organization of Formal Education) aims at improving
the organization of formal education, as well as at increasing coverage and retention. This is to be
achieved through the creation of a system based on1 the principles of autonomy, cohesion, and
community involvement, through the different school government bodies (such as the Consejo
Directivo and the Consejo Acadenfico) in the design and implementation of the Proyectos
Educativos Intitucionales, PEls (Institutional Educational Plans), responding to the
socio-economic needs of the surrounding communities.
(c)    Educaci6n es Calidad (Education is Quality). Building on the existing systems of educational
evaluation, this program aims at creating a National System of Evaluation of the Education Sector
based on the definition and functional combination of curriculum, learning achievement, and
teachers' performance standards, to be ascertained through periodic observations. Test results will
permit development of guidelines pre-service and in-service teacher training, and school-resource
management.
(d)    Ursulas (early childlhood dav-care centers) aims to improve early childhood development through
non-formal educational initiatives and aims at training parents and community members in charge
of child care, in basic pedagogical techniques. The training initiative recognizes the central role that
those involved in non-formal education have in chidren's development, especially in those
- 7 -



communities lacking public day care institutions, or where community education is an essential and
unavoidable step of individuals' growth (i.e. in indigenous communities).
(e)    Technical Education. According to the national debate on the role of Technical Education, a
renewed effort should be made in the definition of a clear proposal that will strengthen technical
education and define strong links with basic education, higher education, and the overall economic
context.
The Project will contribute to this strategy by supporting the process of strengthening the role of the MEN
in policy-making, evaluation, and knowledge management while, at the same time, building the capacity of
local authorities at the departmental and municipal levels for planning, financing and implementing
education projects. The formation of partnerships between civil society and local government at
department level will help to increase responsiveness and accountability of service providers and increase
resources, thereby improving service delivery. Institutional strengthening of the planning and
implementation functions at municipal level will ensure the relevance of the various interventions within
subprojects to the socio-economic context and to the beneficiaries.
3. Sector issues to be addressed by the project and strategic choices:
Development of the MEN's role. The Project will support the MEN in developing its role as an agent of
knowledge generation, evaluation and promotion of new activities and policy; supervision of the quality and
equity of the education service; information dissemination concerning the impact of the four Project
components; and guarantor of the equity of resource allocation to rural education. At the same time, this
Project will support the strengthening of the capacity of municipalities to promote the development of
educationi through the implementation of municipal education plans (PEMs) or municipal subprojects, with
the technical and financial assistance of other bodies, both public and private, through the formation of
Departmental Strategic Partnerships (Alianzas Estrategicas Departamentales).
The Project will address the issue of access to the basic cycle (grades 0-9) through strengthening the
delivery of public education services ( private education is virtually non-existent in rural areas). Project
interventions in this area will focus on grades 0 and 6-9, which have the lowest coverage and receive
proportionally less attention from Government interventions. The issue of quality will be tackled by
Project interventions aimed at improving teachers' effectiveness. Particular attention will be paid to
improving the quality of grades 1-5, as poor quality at this level contributes to the low coverage in later
grades. Finally, responding to both the CAS and the concerns of most of the actors involved, the Project
will address the issue of violence in rural areas from the school/community perspective, by supporting,
through school-community relationships and classroom methodology, the development of social capital
through emphasis on civic values and techniques for the prevention and peaceful resolution of conflicts.
Colombian and international experiences demonstrate that relevance of education to the demands of
everyday life is one of the main factors affecting education quality in a rural setting. Using a model that has
been tested successfully in a number of regions of the country, the Project would work through Alianzas
Estrategicas (strategic partnerships) to engage a variety of actors in each department, including local
representatives of the productive sector, in the development of a strategy for strengthening rural education
services in each department. This approach is intended to enhance the relevance of rural education to rural
life, which is considered key to reducing rural poverty, violence and improving living conditions. (Annex 15
provides additional information on Strategic Partnerships). Finally, in support of the development of a
relevant, technical education program for rural areas, the Project will finance 30 pilot programs in technical
education, provide support for the creation of a database, and conduct an impact assessment of the
responsiveness of such programs to the demand for technical competences in rural areas.
- 8 -



4. Program description and performance triggers for subsequent loans:
The attached table describes the program sequencing. The triggers for subsequent loans (to be assessed
after the Mid-Term Review) will be incremental increases in coverage and learning achievement,
accompanied by reductions in repetition rates in th; targeted municipalities. Other trigger indicators would
include the effectiveness of municipalities in utilizing resources for educational subprojects and the
participation of civic society in education management. Details are described in Annex 1.
Key Trigger Indicators
for targeted rural municipalities
Indicators              Baseline             Phase I                       Phase II
(if available)l      to Phase II                   to Phase III
Year                               2000                   2004                         2007
Number of target municipalities      0                     >40                         +50
municipalities               municipalities
Enrollment rate                     30%                   >40%                         >60%
Repetition rate                    11.5%                  7.5%                         4.5%
Learning Achievement            Baseline to be    Achievement meaurement              >+3%
assessed        conducted on schedule
Alianzas disbursing at least 80%    N/A                    10                           20
of budgeted resources to
municipal subprojects
Participation of civil society in    0           Qualitative evaluation      Qualitative evaluation verifies
education management within                      verifies civil society      civil society participates in
school networks.                                 participates in ed.         ed. management
management
Existence of specific               N/A                  >70%                         >70%
school-community
programs in municipal
subprojects.
I/ Projections are based on available data. As agreed during negotiations, baseline surveys will be available by January 2001
-9-



PHASE I                PHASE II               PHASE III, IV, etc.
Program launch         Consolidation          Completion
Program Development  Phase I Development   Phase II Development  Phase III, IV, etc.
objectives             objectives             objectives             Development objectives
Improve access to quality (i) Improved access to    To be determined during  To be determined during
education in           quality basic education   Phase I - probable   Phase I - probable
approximately 120 to 210 services in a cluster of   expansion of the program expansion of the program
municipalities within 30  approximately 40 to 70  to 50 additional   to 50 additional
selected departments of  rural municipalities of 10 municipalities and  municipalities and to
Colombia, while        departments (i.e. at least enhancement of the  sustain the investments
supporting the         176,000 students) while  sustainability of the  made in the
development of social    supporting, through  investments made in the  municipalities of Phase I
capital.               school-community       municipalities of Phase I. and II.
relationships and
classroom methodology,
the prevention and
resolution of conflict and
the development of civic
values; and, (ii)
strengthened national
capacity for the reform of
technical education in
rural areas.
Key Activities         Establish the capacity to  Use feedback from   Use feedback from
implement, monitor and  monitoring process to    monitoring process to
evaluate the Program.    improve effectiveness in  improve effectiveness in
Initiate relevant      meeting Program        meeting Program
investments focusing on  objectives. Continue  objectives.
basic education       investments and         Continue investments and
(particularly grades 0 and expansion of the Program expansion of the Program
6-9) in approximately 40 to 50 additional     to 50 additional
to 70 municipalities   municipalities. Financing municipalities. Financing
through the creation of 10 of (i) enhancements to   of (i) enhancements to
Alianzas (i.e.         sustain the investments  sustain the investments
approximately 176,000   made in the           made in the
students.) Develop/test  municipalities of Phase I municipalities of Phase
new investment strategies and (ii) new investment  I/II and (ii) new
for rural areas in: (i)    strategies developed  investment strategies
technical and vocational  during Phase I.     developed during Phase
education (ii) distance                       II. Continue investment
post-primary education,                       program until Program
(iii) accelerated strategies                  objectives are fully met.
for over-age students and
(iv) pre-service and
in-service teacher
training.
- 10-



Key Program Outputs  See Annex 1              To be determined during  To be determined during
implementation Phase I  implementation Phase II
Benchmarks for         See Annex I            Major benchmarks, to be See Annex I for
Subsequent financing                          determined during the    end-of-Program
Project, will be      indicators.
(i) incremental increases
in student enrollment and
learning achievement; (ii)
reduction in repetition
and dropout rates; (iii)
strengthened community
participation in school
governance; (iv)
formation and effective
functioning of
public-private sector
partnerships at
departmental level; (v)
financial and human
resources contributed as
needed at municipal
levels; and (vi) definition
of effective
school-community
programs in the PEMs.
- 11 -



C. Program and Project Description Summary
1. Project components (see Annex 2 for a detailed description and Annex 3 for a detailed cost
breakdown):
=:~~~~~~~~~~Idctv                                            Bk   % ofsnk
1. Enhancing Access and Quality of    Primary         24.20      60.5      12.80      64.0
Basic Education.                Education
2. Strengthening Institutional Capacity  Institutional  8.40      21.0      3.30      16.5
Development
3. Education for Peaceful Coexistence   Primary        3.50        8.8      1.80       9.0
Education
4. Supporting the Reform of        Vocational          3.90        9.8      2.10      10.5
Technical Education.             Education &
Training
Total Project Costs                   40.00      100.0     20.00     100.0
Front-end fee                    0.00        0.0      0.00       0.0
Total Financing Required                   40.00      100.0     20.00      100.0
Each component would entail strategies and activities at the national level as well as support for
subprojects at the level of the municipalities.
Enhancing Access and Quality of Basic Education. Activities to be financed at national level include:
(a) research and evaluation of innovative educational models, strategies, and curriculum for grades 0-9 and
pre-K for meeting needs of the rural areas, and the dissemination of the results of this work; (b) pilot
testing and evaluation of the programs of Telesecundaria and Aceleraci6n del Aprendizaje; and (c) the
design of reforms of pre-service teacher training programs in the Escuelas Normales, as well as their
provision of equipment and training materials to improve the capacity to produce competent rural teachers.
At the local level, the Project would finance municipal subprojects (PEMs) that would support activities
designed to address the key problems affecting rural basic education in each municipality. Subprojects
may support: the reform of in-service teacher education programs; creating/ strengthening demand for
education through targeted information campaigns; the creation of incentive schemes for increasing school
coverage; implementation of educational projects linking school learning with productivity (Productive
Pedagogical Projects); strengthening demand for schooling through communication campaigns, incentive
systems, etc.
Strengthening Institutional Capacity. Activities at the national level would include the provision of
technical assistance to strengthen the MEN's capacity for Project implementation, monitoring, evaluation,
and knowledge management. Technical assistance would also support the formation of strategic
- 12 -



partnerships (Alianzas Estrategicas Departamentales) for the design and implementation of subprojects at
the departmental level.
At the local level, activities will include the provision of technical assistance for building the capacity of
municipalities to: (a) create municipal education plans; (b) design and implement subprojects based on the
MEN knowledge base; and (c) improve school governance by facilitating the creation of school networks
(Redes Educativas) and/or strengthening capacity at school level in school planning and management.
Developing Education for Peaceful Coexistence. Activities at the national level would involve the
provision of technical assistance for strengthening the MEN's role to evaluate and disseminate effective
educational and community practice, in order to act as a source of knowledge management in education for
peaceful coexistence.
At the local level, activities will include technical assistance for strengthening participatory and democratic
forms of school governance and developing social capital and civic values by school-community linkages.
Supporting the Reform of Technical Education. Technical assistance would be managed at the national
level to strengthen information systems for technical education in rural areas (including features of supply,
demand, cost-effectiveness, program impact, and legal framework) and to design, implement, and evaluate
30 pilot projects in technical education.
2. Key policy and institutional reforms supported by the project:
Role of the MEN in a decentralized setting: The Project will support the MEN in developing its new role
as an agent of: (a) knowledge generation, evaluation and promotion of new activities and policies; (b)
supervision of the quality and equity of the education services; (c) information dissemination concerning the
impact of the four Project components; and (d) guarantor of the equity of fund allocation to rural education.
Capacity for the management of education will be built for participating departments and municipalities,
which have had legal responsibility for managing education since 1992.
Development of strategic partnerships (Alianzas Estrdtegicas Departamentales): The Project will
provide technical assistance for the creation of public-private sector partnerships at the departmental level
that will provide technical and financial resources for the management of the education sector. It is
expected that the policy will foster the participation of broad sectors of civil society in the management of
rural education, while assuring, at the same time, the development of a curriculum for rural education
consistent with the socio-economic framework of each local community.
3. Benefits and target population:
Benefits: The Program is expected to produce social and institutional benefits with regards to:
(a)    Social Benefits
Increased access to basic education for rural population.
Increased quality of basic education cycle.
Increased learning and achievement of 5-15 year olds in participating communities.
Greater equality of educational opportunities between rural and urban areas.
Increased motivation of teachers, students and parents to integrate school teaching and learning
- 13 -



with the community, particularly through organizing joint-activities and outreach events.
Improved civic attitudes at the community level .
(b)    Institutional Benefits
- Strengthened management of the sector at all levels.
Improved effectiveness of education services delivery at departmental, municipal and school
levels by transferring decision -making power on certain investment strategies closer to the
end-user clients (parents, principals, teachers and students).
Increased municipal and community commitment to and ownership of the process for
improving the quality of education provided by the schools.
The departmental level partnerships between public, productive and not-for-profit sector will
promote: (a) synergy and cooperation among the various actors of the Alianza to promote the
development of a departmental policy for rural education; (b) quality and relevance of the
municipal projects to the rural context; (c) sustainability of the investment made; (d)
participation of the civil society; and, (e) efficient and transparent management of Project
funds.
Target population: About 3 million children aged 5-15 living in rural areas, of whom an estimated 45
percent are currently receiving some kind of education, will directly benefit from increased access or
quality of education under the Program. Around 176,000 students will be benefited under the Project
(Phase 1). In Phases II and III, the numbers of direct beneficiaries will rise more rapidly, as strengthened
institutional capacity and realization of efficiencies will have a broad impact. The number of students
benefiting indirectly from the Program is expected to grow even faster as the Alianzas Estrategicas
Departamentales will reach to other municipalities not directly targeted by the Project. Teachers will also
benefit from the improved training, as will educational administrators from the increased capacity to
diagnose, implement and manage educational programs in rural areas. Additionally, indigenous and
Afro-Colombian populations in the areas of Program implementation will benefit from educational
programs targeted to their special needs. Indirect beneficiaries of the Program include the parents of the
children and the rural communities at large.
Geographic targeting in each stage of the program will direct Project resources towards some of the poorest
rural areas of the country. It is therefore expected that achievement of the Program's development
objectives will contribute to the reduction of poverty in Colombia.
4. Institutional and implementation arrangements:
As part of the National Development Plan for Education, which takes into account national and
international experience, the Government has decided to pilot, during the first phase of the Program, an
implementation scheme based upon four main principles: (a) Government's leadership in managing the
Project; (b) strengthening of existing management capacities and learning from past management of
projects with the Bank (e.g., Primary Education Subsector Project, Secondary Education, Peasant
Enterprises Zones); (c) development of public-private partnerships; and, (d) use of an international agency
(the Agent) contracted to administer Project funds and contracts, both at national and local levels.
- 14 -



Project Structure:
The Project is articulated into two main strategies:
(a) A supply-driven, centrally managed investment (which, under the new role of the MEN as an agent
of resource and knowledge creation and management, would include the revision and improvement of
existing and new pedagogical methodologies; piloting of Telesecundaria and Aceleraci6n del Aprendizaje,
etc.) that will be managed directly from the MEN, except for disbursement, which will be made directly
through the contracted Agent. However, funds for the implementation of subprojects related to the reform
of Escuelas Normales (Component 1), and Technical Education institutions (Component 4), will be
transferred directly by the Agent to the Teachers' Service Fund (Fondos Servicios Docentes) upon the
MEN' s approval.
(b) A demand-driven, decentralized investment carried out through subprojects conceived, managed,
and approved by Alianzas Estratfgicas Departamentales, under the supervision of the MEN. Loan and
national counterpart will be disbursed through the Agent, which will also manage funds provided by local
partners of the different Alianzas.
Project Management structure:
At the national level, the MEN Vice Ministry Office is responsible for the Project. This office will work
through the Direcci6n General de Investigaci6n y de Desarrollo del Talento Humano (DIDTI), which
will be responsible for coordinating and implementing Project management activities. Responsibilities will
be assigned as follows:
*   T/e Vice Ministry Office is responsible for ensuring the implementation of the educational
policy for rural areas and represents the MEN before the World Bank and the Agent.
*   The DIDTH is responsible for planning, managing, and coordinating planned activities to
achieve Project objectives. DIDTHwill mainly work through a Technical Coordination Group
and a Financial and Administration Group. The Technical Coordination Group will be
responsible for:
-  monitoring the implementation of technical and pedagogical aspects of the Project;
- preparing, in coordination with the Financial and Administration Group, the annual action
plan and related budget and presenting them to the DIDTH for approval;
-  preparing technical, operational, monitoring and evaluation reports required by the DIDTH,
MEN, other governmental bodies, and the Bank; and
-  defining, applying and monitoring performance indicators for the Agent.
*   The Financial and Administration Group will support the DIDTH and the Office of the Vice
Ministry with the adequate financial instruments and activities directly correlated to the overall
implementation of the Project. The Financial and Administration Group is responsible for the
following activities:
-  Execution of the planned budget;
-  Financial and accounting control over the destination and execution of the financial
resources of the loan, the national and local contributions assigned to the Project;
-  Elaboration, in conjunction with the Technical Coordination Group, of the Yearly Cash
- 15 -



Flow Plan, of the Annual Operation Plan (PAC), the Quarterly Operational Plan (POT),
and ex-post analysis of planned vs. executed activities;
- Elaboration of the disbursement requests to be submitted to the MEN, as the basis of the
transfer of funds to the Agent;
- Support to the DIDTH for the preparation of the reimbursement requests to be submitted to
the Bank on a periodic basis;
- Monitoring, in coordination with other relevant divisions of the MEN, of the implementation
of Project funds and elaboration of financial management reports for auditing purposes
based on the information sent by the Alianzas;
- Monitoring and evaluation of overall financial activities carried out by the Agent and
cross-checking and control of financial activities and accounting transactions; and
- Strict collaboration with the Bank and the auditing agency to assure transparency in
financial management conduct, appropriateness of information provided, and updating of
Project files.
*  The international agency (the Agent), selected through a bidding process on the basis of terms
of reference satisfactory to the Bank, will be responsible for managing the disbursement of all
funds for the implementation of the Project. This function will be governed by: (a) a legal
agreement between the MEN and the Agent; and (b) tripartite agreements among the MEN, the
respective departmental Alianza, and the Agent. In order to carry out this task, the Agent will:
- Execute the six-month procurement schedule prepared by the Technical Coordination
Group of the MEN and any additional activities related to procurement, as defined in the
original contract between the MEN and the Agent (e.g. drafting invitations to bid, bidding
documents, minutes of bid opening and evaluation; signing of contracts and payment to
suppliers of goods and services, all according to Bank guidelines and the Operational
Manual);
- Receive advances of Project funds and disburse according to the schedule defined by the
DIDTH.
-  Keep the accounting and financial books in a format compatible with that of the MEN, to
enable the DIDTH Financial and Administrative Group to prepare Project Management
Reports (PMRs);
-  Provide to the DIDTHthe reports on disbursement required by the MEN, and by the Bank,
according to a pre-defined time schedule;
- Allow the Bank and the external auditor to access the information related to procurement
and disbursement; and
- Monitor the flow of funds directed to the Alianzas and advise them on possible corrective
measures.
At the departmental level, 1 0 Alianzas Estratgicas Departamentales will be created. Each of them will
be represented by a Technical Coordinator and will be governed by a Technical Committee, which will be
mainly responsible for:
- 16 -



- Structuring the Annual and Quarterly Operational Plans (POAs) and (POTs);
- Monitoring the overall implementation of the Project on a departmental basis;
- Monitoring the performance of the Agent's promptness in disbursements; and
- Providing reports on Project progress to the DIDTH of as and when agreed.
At municipal level, a Project coordinator will act as a liaison between the municipality and the Alianza and
will assist with the design and supervision of the subproject in the schools of the municipality.
Annex 15 describes (in Spanish) the general principles, criteria and operating structure of the Alianzas, as
well as the operating scheme of the Agent. The establishment of the Alianzas, their relations with the
Agent, and the relation between the MEN and the Agent will be governed by legal agreements that will
establish the conditions, roles and responsibilities of each party. The Project Operational Manual defines
the required legal and operational agreements.
Information, Monitoring and Evaluation. The monitoring and information system designed as a Project
management tool aims to: (a) determine the degree of compliance under efficacy, efficiency and quality
standards of the physical and financial activities of the Project; (b) serve as a learning and support tool for
decision making and for the Project's management at all territorial and structural levels, according to their
competencies; and (c) serve as information instrument aimed to the public and to the fiscal and financial
control organisms. The structure of the system and the indicators that will be used as "warning bells"
during implementation is presented in a separate document, Design of the Monitoring and Information
Systems, available in Project files.
The impact evaluation system, which has been designed by the MEN but will be implemented by an
independently contracted entity, aims to measure: (a) the effects caused by the different intervention
strategies employed under the Project; (b) the degree of efficiency in the use of resources; and (c) the
effectiveness of the different interventions. The expected changes to be measured in the impact evaluation
can be organized as follows:
-  Education sector in general: changes in coverage, quality, relevance of education, changes in
management (administrative, legal, financial and pedagogical) at all levels.
-  Teachers: changes in abilities and practices of teaching/learning (teaching, change in attitudes).
-  Community: changes in participation (school government, partnership), in financial management
and the forms of communication.
- School population.' changes in learning achievement, in access to and retention in the education
system.
The structure of the evaluation system and its indicators and verification tools is presented in a separate
document (Sistema de Evaluaci6n de Impacto) available in Project files.
- 17 -



D. Project Rationale
1. Project alternatives considered and reasons for rejection:
Discussions on Project design considered the following alternatives:
(a) Centrally designed and implemented project vs. a demand-driven operation from local levels:
In view of the low implementation capacity at the local level, a centrally managed approach for the
Program was considered. However, lessons learned from the implementation of other projects in
Colombia and from the nation-wide consultation process have shown how nationally designed projects
implemented at decentralized level have had to deal with the limited responsiveness of state institutions
to social priorities and needs. Centrally managed projects are destined to fail unless the decentralized
level is given some decision-making power in the identification of the objectives and nature of the
investment. As a result of this experience, the Bank has strongly promoted the decentralization of key
public functions to municipal levels in sector work addressing inefficiencies and inequities in the social
sector. In education, initiatives in the coffee growing areas and in Bank-supported projects in Antioquia
and Pasto, have demonstrated the value of empowering local communities and private sector
representatives, by involving them directly in the management of the schools.
(b) Low vs. High level of Technical Assistance:
Experience also shows, however, that it is imperative that the transfer of decision-making to local
levels needs to be supported by informational, promotional, technical and financial assistance to
develop institutional capacity.
(c) Low vs. High Participatory Approach:
Experiences with the management of change within organizations and larger systems have shown that
successful reforms are correlated with high participation of local stakeholders, managers and staff in
the planning, decision-making, implementation and evaluation of their own initiatives and activities.
Additionally, a successful change management effort must provide the needed financial resources to
promote innovation, team-building and knowledge building. Promotion and implementation of changes
in management policy and procedures must be accompanied by direct access to resources.
(d) Low vs. High level of inter-sectoral dialogue and consultation during preparation and
implementation:
The development of the education sector in rural areas cannot be achieved from the perspective of the
education sector alone. Under the Program, preparation will not only be based on the leadership and
active inputs of the MEN and the education community, but will also rely on the continuous dialogue at
the national level with representatives of the Ministry of Agriculture, Instituto de Bienestar Familiar
(ICBF), farmers and indigenous organizations, producers associations, labor unions and NGOs.
(e) Inclusion vs. exclusion of pre-school and technical and vocational education from the objectives of
the Project:
It was decided to postpone any direct investment in increasing coverage in these two areas to later
phases of the Program in order to simplify the design and management of the Project. These areas of
intervention fall under the purview of other institutions (ICBF and the Ministry of Labor) with which
coordinating links would need to be developed. Finally, the MEN decided further investigation was
necessary in order to be able to develop a coherent strategy for the reform of technical and vocational
education to take into consideration the needs of rural productive sectors.
- 18-



(f) ifunicipal Strategic Partnerships vs. Departmental Strategic Partnerships:
Problems encountered in the ongoing process of decentralization to the municipalities of the
management of financial resources for social sectors, as well as the high potential existing at the
departmental level, led to the concept of the Departmnental Strategic Partnership as an instrument to
channel funds and manage the project funds.
- 19 -



2. Major related projects financed by the Bank and/or other development agencies (completed,
ongoing and planned).
Latest Supervision
Sector Issue                      Project          j       (PSR) Ratings
:an knanced  phas of    SecondaryEducation(Bank-financed projects only)
Implementation   Development
Bank-financed                                                   Progress (IP)   Objective (DO)
COMPLETED:                                                          S             S
-Support first development phase of   - Secondary Education
diversified secondary education.  (L0552), 1973
- Support second project phase of  - Second Education Project
diversified secondary education.  (L0679), 1975
- Provide common centers for      - Third Education Project
secondary education.              (L0920), 1982
- Rural Development with a primary   - Integrated Rural Development
education component.              (DRI) (L1352), 1984
- Strengthen primary education and    - Primary Education Project in
integrate social services in rural areas  rural areas (L2192), 1989
- Sustain the quality of child care  - Community Child Care and
program by community mothers.     Nutrition (L3201), 1997
- Improve the quality, coverage and    - Second Primary Education
efficiency of primary education.  Subsector (L3010), 1998
ONGOING:
- Improve coverage quality and cost-   - Secondary Education        S             S
effectiveness of secondary education   (L3683)
- Expansion of quality and coverage    - Antioquia Basic Education  S             S
of basic education and strengthening    (L4243)
departmental and municipal       - Pasto Basic Education
education anagement.              (L4242)
- Integrated youth development.   - Youth Development               S             S
(L4383)
- Develop local operational capacity    - Magdalena Medio           S             S
to reduce poverty and increase    (L4371)
peaceful coexistence in municipalities
- Development of areas in conflict,  - Peasant Enterprises Zones    S             S
particularly rural and Protection of the Development Project
environment.                      (L4364)
PLANNED:
- Consolidation of the safety net in  - Manos a la Obra: Community
favor of the poorest subgroup to  Projects (P68762)
mitigate social impact of economic
crisis.
- Reconstruction of social and    - Earthquake Emergency
economic infrastructure in rural areas. Recovery (P65263)
- 20 -



- Transfer of resources to          - Decentralized Human
decentralized public entities for   Capital Devel. (P52608)
investment human development.
Other development agencies
- IDB                               - Improvement of education
management.
- IDB                               - Strengthening of local
government administration.
- IDB                               - Reconstruction of social and
economic infrastructure in
coffee areas destroyed by
earthquake.
- IDB                               - Program for Social Solidarity
Net
IP/DO Ratings: HS (Highly Satisfactory), S (Satisfactory), U (Unsatisfactory), HU (Highly Unsatisfactory)
3. Lessons learned and reflected in the project design:
This Project supports the strategy of developing an innovative education strategy by relying for its
implementation on a synergistic action between central, local government and private sector. In defining
the main objectives to be achieved, as well as the implementation mechanisms, the Rural Education Project
relies upon the main lessons learned from past Bank projects, summarized below:
(a) Definitions of objectives: Past projects have frequently failed in achieving their targets because of lack
of specificity in project design. It is therefore essential for projects undertaking comprehensive educational
reform programs to identify concrete and measurable objectives that can be attained within project life.
(b) Project Flexibility: Past experiences show that, despite an initial agreement on the program
development objective, projects have failed due to frequent changes in the policy environment as well as in
defacto changes of key personnel in the project implementation unit. A flexible approach in
implementation that permits modifications in project design to adapt to changes in the environment would
facilitate timely adjustment to ensure achievement of project objectives.
(c) Participatory approach: Local administrations and communities are directly involved in program
design and implementation through a bottom-up, participatory process which relies upon the diagnosis of
their educational needs according to the socio-economic characteristics of the community. However, in
order to avoid the major drawbacks of past Bank projects relying upon participation of the local
communities (see ICR DRI -1997), implementation procedures should be flexible so to reduce burdens
imposed by the central government authorities. It is also important to strengthen the consensus for the
Project among the public and the Colombian political environments by means of informational campaigns,
developing dialogue and ties between government, local authorities, NGOs, and rural associations, etc.
-21 -



(d) New mechanisms to work directly with local governments: The Bank's experience indicates that a risk
in working through local governments is that they may represent specific interest groups and ignore the
interests of the majority of the population. In order to ensure successful implementation of the Project and
achievement of its objectives, implementation arrangements should provide for balanced participation and
strong monitoring to ensure adherence to the Project's objectives and principles. The establishment of
Alianzas Estrategicas Departamentales, a cohesive partner among the major stakeholders (central
government, local authorities, and private entities), is intended to address this risk. In concrete terms, this
requires:
*   A stronger capacity of the MEN and Departments to assist and evaluate local level activities in rural
areas: Institutional strengthening should not focus solely on defining a legislative or operational
framework for Program operations and the provision of technical assistance and training on these
issues; it should also focus on the development of plans and operational tools to strengthen the
management capacity at every level of involvement in the implementation of the Project.
*   A better integration of all levels of public administration and interest groups in the management and
evaluation of the Project.
The aim of such actions should be to strengthen the organization and structure of the education system and
to create more efficient and responsive management of change and human resources. It would also facilitate
the identification and solution of conflict of interest across levels and key stakeholders. Moreover,
whenever problems occur in the implementation of the Project due to ongoing major systemic reforms, all
stakeholders would be involved in taking corrective actions. Finally, departments and municipalities would
be entrusted fully with financial resources, and granted the necessary autonomy to make decisions.
(e) Need for an integrated management system: The decentralized nature of the Project requires the
creation of an integrated management information system, as well as a network among executing entities in
order to guarantee effective and rapid communication among the different levels of administration.
Moreover, it is worth considering the possibility of promoting community-wide multi-agency collaborative
arrangements that would tap resources available within communities in order to take advantage of
potential economies of scale and multiplier effects.
(f) Financial Mechanisms: The national cofinancing system, the financial instrument designed to transfer
investment resources from the national budget to local governments, including the funds of Bank financed
operations, was recently dismantled. Therefore in the resulting legal vacuum, it was, and still is, vital to
identify some alternative mechanisms for fund transfers that could facilitate the implementation of projects
involving central and decentralized authorities.
For a more detailed description of the major lessons learned from past projects, refer to a separate
document (Lessons Learnedfrom Past Education Projects in Colombia and other Selected Latin
American Counties) available in Project files.
-22 -



4. Indications of borrower commitment and ownership:
The Governmelt of Colombia has assigned high priority to reducing the poverty and violence afflictiig
rural areas through devoting resources to their development. The Sector Policy Note (Annex I 1) states the
commitmenit of Colombian authiorities to the development of education in rural areas. Concrete
demonistrationi of the Government's commitment is provided by the fact that fundinig for program
preparationi has been provided even during severe fiscal crisis and that the Government has already
comimlitted the funds required for the implementation of the Project, despite severe fiscal restraints. Interest
in rural education is also strong at regional level. Some departments demonstrated their commitment to the
goals of the Program by moving ahead to establish teams in charge of developing technical and financial
proposals to address these needs in rural education, and others have taken initiatives toward the creation of
Alianzas.
5. Value added of Bank support in this project:
The Bank has brought international experience and expertise to broaden and strengthen the technical and
operational design of the Project. Experience in rural education in other countries of the region examined in
the course of preparation included EDUCO in El Salvador and Mece Rural in Chile. In addition, the Bank
has brought a team-centered, participatory approach to Project preparation that has facilitated the Ministry
in gaining crucial institutional and technical knowledge. This process has facilitated the dialogue and
cooperation at many institutional levels.
E. Summary Project Analysis (Detailed assessments are in the project file, see Annex 8)
1. Economic (supported by Annex 4):
* Cost benefit     NPV=US$108.8 million
o Cost effectiveness
O Other (specify)
The econoiic analysis was conducted with respect to the objective of increasing basic education coverage
in the Project areas based on the following conservative assumptions:
(a) The Project is targeting a minimum number of 40 municipalities, with an average population of about
20,000 iniabitanits, and an average number of 5,530 children (5-15 years old);
(b) The population growth rate is 2 percent per aninum;
(c) The Project durationi is 3.5 years;
(d) Key goals of the Project are to raise school enrollment in rural basic schiools from less than 30 percent
to 75 percent and to increase the average level of attainment by 30 percent (i.e. from 3 to 4 years)
durinig the Project period; and
(e) The Project will finanlce neithier building of new schools, nor hirinlg of new teachers. The cost of
coverage will be containied throughi reallocation of existing resources; incremenital recurrent costs
durinlg the operational period are assumed to be minimal and limited to activities such as the upgradinig
of school equipmenit and materials (modification of PC hardware and software, purchase of new books,
etc.).
- 23 -



Based on the assumed population growth rate, achievemenit of the targeted level of coverage would imply a
growth in schiool enrollment in the 40 municipalities from about 66,200 to 176,000, or an increase of
109,800 students who would benefit from basic education as a result of the Project. Based on recent
hiousehold survey data, persons earn an additional income with a NPV of US$1,014 for each additional
year of sclhoolling completed at the basic education level. Assuming that each additional student and 30
percent of existing students complete exactly one additional year and taking into account a total Project
cost of US$40 million disbursed over 3.5 years, the total NPV for the Project is equal to US$108.8
million. The NPV would remain positive as long as 5,560 students remain in the school system for at least
one additional year. To the extent that gains made in coverage can be sustained beyond the Project period,
the quantifiable benefits of the Project would be greater than the NPV shown.
Certain risks may affect these results. For example, the redeployment of teachers from richer
municipalities to poorer ones may require additional financial incentives (contrary to the assumption that
reallocation of existing resources would entail no incremental recurrent costs). In addition, in some cases,
increased enrollmenit may result in overcrowding of classes, putting pressure on the efforts to
simultaneously improve quality.
2. Financial (see Annex 5):
Fiscal Impact:
The fiscal analysis shows that the Project will have a very limited impact on both national and
decentralized budgets, under the following assumptions: (a) a constant GDP growth rate of 3.6 percent per
anium; (b) maintenance of education expenditure on a national level at 5.3 percent of GDP throughout the
Project period; (c) local contribution (through the Alianzas) equal to 13 percent of the national contribution
for the Project; and (d) no additional recurrent costs would be needed since the costs of coverage increases
would be contained through the reallocation of existing resources (for example, the Project will not finance
the building of new schools or the hiring of new teachers but will use underutilized school buildings more
efficiently and redeploy existing teachers from areas where there is a surplus to areas where there is a
scarcity of teachers).
At the nationial level, the cost of the Project represents a minimum amount of the projected educational
expenditure (0.165 percent). Considering Project costs on a per beneficiary basis, the average per capita
investment is US$227 (i.e. US$ 65 per year of the Project period). For comparison, the average unit cost in
the basic educationi cycle is US$179 per year.
At the decentralized level, the Project is sustainable as long as the municipalities would be able to cover
the necessary recurrent costs following the Project period. If the assumptions listed above hold, such costs
would be related only to mainteniance of equipmenit and learning materials purchased under the Project.
3. Technical:
The Project takes into considerationi the context of the current education system and the government sector
strategies expressed in the National Development Plan for Education 1998-2002, and provides appropriate
techilical responses to issues such as access, quality and equity in rural areas. Project preparation has
benefited greatly from lessons learned from the implementation of other education operations in Colombia
and from interinationial experience with rural education such as those of Mexico, El Salvador and Chile.
- 24 -



4. Institutional:
a. Executing agencies:
The MEN has not demonstrated a strong implementation capacity in previous Bank-financed operations.
With this in mind, the probability of success of this operation has been strengthened by the partnership
approach with other levels of government and the private sectors (Alianzas). It is expected that the
departmental level partnerships between public, productive and not-for-profit sector will support the: (a)
synergy and co-operation of the various actors of the Alianza to promote the development of a departmental
policy for rural education; (b) quality and relevance of the municipal projects for rural environment; (c)
sustainability of the investment made; (d) participation of civil society; and (e) efficient and transparent
management of Project funds.
The risk of using these new entities for the implementation at decentralized level is mitigated by the role of
the Agent which should ensure the efficient transfer and use of funds. The national cofinancing system, the
financial instrument designed to transfer investment resources from the national budget to local
governments, including the funds of Bank-financed operations, has been recently dismantled. Therefore in
the resulting legal vacuum, it was vital to identify some mechanisms for fund transfers that could facilitate
the implementation of projects involving central and decentralized authorities. A technical and legal
assessment financed with PHRD funds concluded that to date the only viable alternative to the defunct
cofinancing system involves the use of an the Agent for the administrative management of Project contracts
and payments, both at national and local level.
Overall evaluation of implementing structure:   The implementation structure has been designed on the
basis of experience under other internationally financed projects in Colombia. Overall, as far as financial
management is concerned, the present capacity of the MEN to manage funds and produce adequate reports
can be considered satisfactory. In addition, the use of the Agent for the transfer of funds to the
municipalities has already proved to be successful, as confirmed by experience under another
Bank-financed project (Peasant Enterprise Zones). In case this implementation scheme does not prove to
be sustainable over time, the disbursement through Fondos Servicios Docentes might be considered as an
alternative to be adopted for future phases of the Project.
Since the Project is introducing the concept of Strategic Partnership on a departmental basis for the
implementation of the Project, some reservations exist as to the capacity of the Parternships to disburse on
time and produce the necessary information on procurement and disbursement flows. These inputs are
fundamental since, once consolidated by the Agent in the format required by the MEN and the Bank, they
will be used to produce the PMRs according to a pre-defined time schedule. It is essential, therefore, to
strengthen the coordination between the different units of the MEN, and between these and the other
implementing bodies to ensure timely implementation of the Project and production of appropriate
management reports.
b. Project management:
For the purposes of this Project, the MEN will operate through a specific Division (Division de
Investigacion y Desarrollo del Talento Humano - DIDTH), which, in turn, will be articulated into a
Technical Coordination Unit, and a Financial and Administrative Unit. Both will have to work closely in
order to assure the prompt implementation, monitoring, and evaluation of the Project. In order to assure the
same result, it is hoped that the Division will reinforce its coordination with the decentralized entities
targeted by the Project, and with the international Agent.
- 25 -



Procurement: A procurement assessment was completed as part of Project preparation and appraisal.
The PIU of the MEN operates its procurement system independently of the central MEN office, thus
allowing full application of Bank guidelines and documentation. An action plan was agreed during
negotiations. Its aim is to ensure that the PIU adopts a proactive approach in making effective changes
directed to the strengthening of internal controls and accountability, development of staff skills and so
reducing the impact of political pressures during implementation. Key measures, proposed under the action
plan, to enable the PIU to support a heavy program of procurement during the life of the Project, would
require training for staff in the preparation of technical specifications and terms of reference.
The MEN's procurement capacity and experience in the PIU is satisfactory with regard to the procurement
of goods and services, and compares favorably with the experience of personnel of other World Bank
projects. In order to strengthen the PIU, a certified procurement professional should be included within the
Unit. Actions still need to be taken by the MEN, with the help of external technical assistance, to
strengthen the efficiency, accountability and performance of the PIU in order to coordinate and supervise
the activities between the Agent and Alianzas.
Considering the type and number of activities expected in the Project, the size of the Procurement Unit in
the PIU is considered acceptable. A General Procurement Plan for the national component of the Project
has been prepared to include all relevant activities; this key instrument would be updated annually to
include both the national component and subproject activities, on the basis of the agreed action plan.
Success in the performance of procurement procedures would depend on the clarity and sufficiency of
information contained in the Operational Manual, to be adopted as a condition of effectiveness.
The PIU would be responsible for preparing the Annual Procurement Plan, based on annual action plan for
the Project, and this would be submitted to the Bank by no later than December 15 of each year. The PIU
would also prepare quarterly reports of planned and completed purchases during the implementation of the
Annual Procurement Plan. The Annual Procurement Plan and the publication of the Annual Procurement
Notice (APN) would be done yearly, no later than December 15, and would be a prerequisite for any
procurement activities in the Project.
The MEN will adopt the Operational Manual to ensure acceptable procedures for procurement, accounting,
disbursement and auditing. The manual would include the specific operating and control mechanisms
agreed under the financial and monitoring system.
Financial Management: A financial management assessment was performed by a Financial Management
Specialist (See Institutional and Implementational Arrangements, Part C.4). The certificate resulting
from this review is included in separate document available in Project files. The Project Operational
Manual will describe the nature of Project operations and details of the flow of funds, accounting controls,
internal reporting, computerized Project monitoring system and Project audit arrangements, all satisfactory
to the Bank. Project Funds will be administered by an international Agent acceptable to the Bank.
The MEN/PIU will have to comply with a time-bound action plan acceptable to the Bank for the
strengthening of the financial management system. This will enable the MEN/PIU to prepare quarterly
PMRs, with effect from the 12/31/2000, each of which: (a) sets forth actual sources and applications of
funds for the Project, both cumulatively and for the period covered by the report, and projected sources and
applications of funds for the Project for the six-month period following the period covered by the report, (b)
shows separately expenditures financed out of the proceeds of the Loan during the period covered and
expenditures proposed to be financed out of the proceeds of the Loan during the six-month period following
-26 -



the period covered by the report; (c) describes physical progress in Project implementation, both
cumulatively and for the period covered; (d) explains variances between the actual and previously forecast
implementation targets; and (e) sets forth the status of procurement under the Project and expenditures
under contracts financed out of the proceeds of the Loan.
In order to prepare quarterly PMRs, the MEN will have to coordinate with the Alianzas Estrategicas
Departamentales, and with the Agent disbursing and administering funds for the Project, by setting the
adequate accounting standards and formats to be used by these latter institutions; by training them on how
to set, and/or adapt their accounting system in order to produce PMRs; by monitoring the quality and
reliability of the information provided; and by consolidating this information in a format acceptable to the
Bank.
5. Social:
Direct and indirect beneficiaries of the Project include school-age children, youth, and adults living in the
rural areas of Colombia. The completion of Project preparation will lead to the design of a preliminary
baseline to determine at departmental levels: (a) access, coverage, internal efficiency and productivity of
rural education in each of the departments participating in the Program; and (b) the particular needs,
expectations, concerns and potential contributions of the beneficiaries and other stakeholders.
Furthermore, the Project preparation analysis has identified three groups whose individual, cultural and
social characteristics demand differentiated treatment: (a) indigenous groups organized in Cabildos, (b)
Afro-Colombian communities; and (c) rural women (for further details, refer to the document Analisis
Preliminar de Impacto Social, available in Project files). A project-financed assessment will strengthen the
capacity of the MEN to analyze the socio-cultural and institutional conditions of these groups, including the
collection of personal and demographic data, views, perceptions and expectations on the quality, quantity
and relevance of educational services, good practices and preferences of the population. This activity will
culminate in the identification of best practices for meeting the educational needs and concerns of the
specific groups. The criteria for the selection of departments and municipalities, as used in the Institutional
Capacity Analysis and specified in the Operational Manuals, includes the existence of indigenous and
Afro-Colombian populations in the rural areas. In addition to activities at the national level, the Project will
work through the Strategic Partnerships at departmental level to develop, implement and evaluate
educational strategies to address the needs of these ethnic groups (see Annex 14 for details of the
Government's ethno-education strategy and its links with Project activities).
According to criteria established in the Operational Manual, each eligible municipality participating in the
Project, assisted by the MEN and the Alianza, will complete an assessment of the social impact of each
municipal subproject. The justification for this rests on the geographical, cultural and socio-economic
diversity of the country and of the diversity of the regions and municipalities that will take part in the
Project. It would be extremely difficult to conduct a single national assessment because of the high degree
of diversity. The social assessment at the local level will therefore be one of the eligibility criteria for the
financing of municipal subprojects.
Indigenous populations are organized in Cabildos, entities with an administrative jurisdiction similar to that
of the municipalities. The Project recognizes the possibility that a department, particularly those with a
high concentration of indigenous populations, might select some Cabildos in the targeting of the five
subprojects. In this case, the Cabildo will act as a municipality developing, with the necessary autonomy,
a proposal for a subproject to be financed under the Project.
- 27 -



In the MEN, a working group on the subject of gender equity, with the participation of specialized NGOs
and women's organizations, will identify the state of the art and current practice on this subject and make
recommendations on the most appropriate strategies for handling the educational needs of rural women.
These recommendations will be shared with the municipalities that will also receive technical assistance to
develop their own proposals in this area. A special tool, a "Gender Handbook", is currently being
evaluated and adapted by the MEN and this will be made available to schools and municipalities as a tool
for the identification and correction of gender-biased stereotypes and behaviors in school.
Detailed information on the Government Strategy for Incorporating Indigenous People and
,4nfro-Colombian is included in Annex 14.
6. Environmental assessment:                   Environment Category: C
Since the Project will not finance construction of new schools, it is not expected to have a negative
environmental impact. On the contrary, higher levels of education of rural populations should promote a
more positive attitude towards the protection and development of environment.
7. Participatory Approach (key stakeholders, how involved, and what they have influenced or may
influence; if participatory approach not used, describe why not applicable):
a. Primary beneficiaries and other affected groups:
Participation is the key to Project preparation. The main consultation activities concluded up to now have
involved representatives of all direct beneficiaries of the program and other stake-holders. Students,
teachers, principles and school managers, community leaders and representatives of farmer associations,
indigenous organizations, NGOs operating in the sector, producers associations, departmental and
municipal education administrators, representatives of national ministries; have all participated during the
last eight months through: (a) five regional forums on rural education covering the 32 departments; (b) a
systematic consultation with the agricultural sector (including a permanent working group with
representation of all stakeholders, organizations and institutions of the rural sector, studies about the
relationship between education and production, and a national seminar with the public and private
agricultural sectors); and (c) a national technical seminar and an international panel on best practices in
rural education.
Participation Level
School Children in Rural Areas aged 5-15               Consultation
Teacher in rural areas                                 Consultation
Indigenous and Afro-Colombian populations              Collaboration (see section 5)
Rural Women                                            Collaboration (see section 5)
b. Other key stakeholders:
Participation Level
Producers Associations                                 Consultation/Collaboration
Labor Unions                                           Consultation
Farmers Associations                                   Consultation
Ministry for Agriculture                               Collaboration
Departments and departmental education secretariats    Collaboration
Municipalities and municipal education secretariats    Collaboration
Rural Communities at large                             Information
- 28 -



F. Sustainability and Risks
1. Sustainability:
The Government of Colombia has assigned high priority to reducing the poverty and violence afflicting
rural areas through devoting resources to their development and by involving municipalities more in the
management of these resources. The National Development Plan places education as the country's highest
priority and the Letter of Sector Policy (Annex 11) states the commitment of Colombian authorities to the
development of education in rural areas. A concrete demonstration of this commitment is provided by the
fact that despite severe fiscal constraints, the Government has provided funding for Project preparation.
The institutional sustainability will also be guaranteed by the implementation mechanism adopted by the
Project. The participation of the private and not-for-profit sectors in partnerships within the Alianzas will
be a key factor for ensuring sustainable and effective education programs in the targeted municipalities.
Municipalities participating in the Project will be carefully selected taking into consideration their potential
role in the economic and cultural web of the subregions to become models and catalysts for those
municipalities not directly participating in the Project.
The recurrent costs generated at municipal level are minimal and the participation of private and public
sectors in the Alianzas has the potential for generating additional funding for rural education during and
after the implementation of the Project. It is also planned that, in its subsequent phases, the Program will
finance the operating costs of the Alianzas created during the first phase as an incentive for maintaining the
partnership beyond the investment period.
- 29 -



2. Critical Risks (reflecting assumptions in the fourth column of Annex 1):
Risk                    Risk Rating            Risk Minimization Measure
From Outputs to Objective
1. Inefficient mechanisms may exist for      S         - As an alternative to the cofinancing system,
the transfer of funds from the center to the           use of international Agent for the management
local level.                                           of Project funds.
2. Insufficient public funding and human     M          Eligibility criteria for selection of municaplities
resources may be available at municipal                to include counterpart financing from strategic
level.                                                 public-private partnerships (Alianzas).
3. Possible lack of political commitment     M          Participation and communication strategy to
at local level to the objectives of the                achieve high level of consensus and support.
Program.
4. Indigenous and Afro-Colombian             N          Specific attention will be given to these groups
communities may resist Program                         during the consultation process. Eligible
interventions.                                         Cabildos would participate in the Project, as
municipal entities. Whenever selected, Cabildos
as well as eligible Afro-colombian communities,
would present their own subproject proposals.
5. Teacher unions may see Program as a       M         - Participation of and consultation with teacher
threat to their interests; possibility of              unions and teachers in planning process at
insufficient interest/will on part of                  national, Parterniship, and subproject levels;
teachers to education reform.                          teacher participation in curriculum reform
through school networks.
6. Demand for education services may         N          Use of appropriate communication strategies
remain low in rural areas                              and use of incentives (such as school transport
and school nutrition programs) planned through
participatory approaches and with continuous
monitoring.
7. Political and social conflict may         H         . Continuous monitoring system of the security
prevent Project teams in implementing                  situation especially by credible local NGOs; use
and supervising activities and therefore               of communication strategies and a high degree
prevent attainment of Program objectives,              of participation from school communities.
particularly those relating to Education
for Peace.
8. Existing resources are not sufficiently   M          Selection criteria and management of
reallocated to contain costs of extended               municipal subprojects to include planned
coverage.                                              resource reallocations (specified in Operational
Manual); use of continuous monitoring.
From Components to Outputs
1. Possibility of absence of institutional   M          Focus on appropriate TA and creation of
capacity to manage Program at all levels.              Alianzas with the private sector and
Universities; use of an Agent for the
management of project management of Project.
- 30 -



2. The Alianzas may not function as          M           TA program to emphasize strategies for
envisaged in providing a partnership                   partnership using a flexible approach and
between public and private sectors.                    appropriate communication strategies.
Overall Risk Rating                          M
Risk Rating - H (High Risk), S (Substantial Risk), M (Modest Risk), N(Negligible or Low Risk)
3. Possible Controversial Aspects:
(a) Unstable security conditions in some targeted municipalities may prevent access for Project personnel
for adequate Project implementation and supervision. Project presence in such areas may be politically
sensitive as could the use of NGOs as monitors of the security situation. As much as possible, security
conditions would need to be taken into consideration in the selection of the municipalities.
(b) Political sensitivities could arise in some municipalities over the representation of civic society as
partners in the Alianzas in the management of public education; this would particularly apply in the
case of private sector involvement which could be perceived as serving a vested interest. Intensive and
appropriate communication strategies will help to reduce these sensitivities as will rigorous monitoring
of the functioning of the Alianzas.
(c) A possible controversy may arise concerning the Project's Education for Peace component, particularly
in areas with political violence, where activities to develop social capital may be perceived as
politically motivated. The use of an effective communication strategy will help to reduce the public
perception of this, as will more participatory and democratic strategies of school governance and
school-community linkages.
(d) Indigenous and Afro-Colombian communities have tended to perceive education interventions as
culturally and politically insensitive to their community values. The adaptation of existing educational
models to the needs of these groups and their participation in educational management through the
elaboration of community-based Life Plans (Planes de Vida) and Community Ethno-education Projects
(Proyectos Etnoeducativos Comunitarios, PECs) would greatly improve this situation (see Annex 14).
(e) Teachers and teacher unions would be sensitive to attempts to redeploy existing teaching staff
according to identified local needs. The possible controversy could be reduced through the offer of
incentive schemes for the redeployment of teachers among the municipalities.
- 31 -



G. Main Loan Conditions
1. Effectiveness Condition
(a) Approved Project Operational Manuals satisfactory to the Bank, including the criteria and procedures
for selection of Eligible Municipalities; the criteria for selection and financing of subprojects; the
financial management procedures for the Project, and the models of Alianza Agreements and
Subproject Agreements.
(b) Agent Agreement in effectiveness.
(c) Establishment of the Project Unit.
(d) Provision of a Plan satisfactory to the Bank for the establishment of a Project monitoring and
evaluation system.
2. Other [classify according to covenant types used in the Legal Agreements.]
(a) Establishment of the Monitoring and Evaluation System for the Project by 12/31/2000.
(b) Maintain a financial management system, including records and accounts (and Agent's Account), and
prepare financial statements in accordance with auditing standards acceptable to the Bank; certified
copies of these financial statements for such year as so audited, and an opinion on such statements,
records and accounts and reports of such audit, should be submitted to the Bank not later than six
months after the end of each year in format acceptable to the Bank.
(c) Comply with a time-bound action plan acceptable to the Bank for the strengthening of the financial
management system in order to enable the Borrower, not later than 31 December, 2000, to prepare
quarterly PMRs, according with guidelines acceptable to the Bank. Those reports would be furnished
not later than 45 days after the end of each calendar quarter.
H. Readiness for Implementation
0 1. a) The engineering design documents for the first year's activities are complete and ready for the start
of project implementation.
El 1. b) Not applicable.
Z 2. The procurement documents for the first year's activities are complete and ready for the start of
project implementation.
O 3. The Project Implementation Plan has been appraised and found to be realistic and of satisfactory
quality.
X 4. The following items are lacking and are discussed under loan conditions (Section G):
Project Manual
- 32 -



1. Compliance with Bank Policies
Z1. This project complies with all applicable Bank policies.
O 2. The following exceptions to Bank policies are recommended for approval. The project complies with
all other applicable Bank policies.
David H   ng                      Xavier E. C                       Andres Solimano
Team Leader                       Sector Manager/Director           Country Manager/Director
- 33 -



Annex 1: Project Design Summary
COLOMBIA: RURAL EDUCATION PROJECT
Key, Perormanceo
Hierrch  of  bjetivs  inicaors     oniori & EvluaIon         Critca Asumptions
Sector-related CAS Goal:   Sector Indicators:         Sector/ country reports:    (from Goal to Bank Mission)
Developing Human Capital:  - 2% increase in primary    - DNP and MEN statistics.  - Economic, social and
Expand access and improve   education at the national level - Various assessments of  political conditions ensure
quality of education within a  and 5% increment in rural  learning achievement    employability of a more
decentralized framework, with areas by the year 2000.                             educated and skilled young
(i) the responsibility for the   - 1.5% annual average                            population
provision at municipal level;  increase at the national level
(ii) strengthened school   in secondary education
management, quality and    enrollment rates.
autonomy; and (iii)        - In schools participating in
community and private sector projects, academic
participation. Particular  achievement test results
attention to be paid to the    improve by 1 0%.
needs of rural education.  Municipalities:
- In areas participating in the
projects, increased number of
municipalities are certified to
directly manage the education
system and fiscal resources.
- Municipalities involved in
the projects, increase the
participation of the education
sector in the use of national
investment transfers Schools.
- 80% of schools (basic and
secondary) participating in the
projects have a high level of
community participation and
manage their own investment
to improve quality of
education.
Promoting Rural Development - No indicators directly linked
: Eliminate urban bias in the  to the CAS
delivery of social services
Promoting Peace and       - New operations include
Development: (i) Support    specific activities that
changes in cultural values and  reinforce in a cross sectoral
behavior with respect to    manner the issue of peace
violence/peace; and (ii)    and civil coexistence in
develop capacity to deal with   Colombia
conflict resolution through    - Increased number of training
pacific means at local level    programs on alternative
mechanism for conflict
resolution in many regions of
the country
- 34 -



Key Performance
Hierarchy of Objectives           Indicators          Monitoring & Evaluation j  Critical Assumptions
Program Purpose:           End-of-Program Indicators:  Program reports:          (from Purpose to Goal)
Improved access to quality    By the year 2010 in the   Education statistics       Sustained political and
education in rural areas while targeted areas of        Test results               financial commitment to
supporting, through        implementation (a cluster of    Regional information    education programs, rural
school-community           municipalities in at least 120    Beneficiary assessments  development and
relationships and classroom    ruiral municipalities selected    Impact evaluations  complementary social and
methodology, the prevention   under approved criteria in 30                        economic policies
and resolution of conflict and  departments.
the development of civic
values.                    - Increased coverage: 75% of
school age population gains
access to grades 0-9 in
targeted municipalities
- Reduced repetition rates by:
30% in basica primaria and
35% in basica secundaria
- Learning achievement: test
scores as a proxy for LA
improve on average by 18%
(6%/o per phase)
- Community participation: (i)
100% of focalized
municipalities strengthen
their participation for the
management of the school
sector;-(ii) 100% of the
schools participating in the
program use school
management techniques
which promote community
involvement
- Peaceful coexistence: (i)
pedagogical and school
management practices in
participating schools
promote and encourage the
peaceful resolution of
conflict; (ii) reduction of
violent behaviors and
discipline problems in the
participating schools
- 35 -



Hir,cyo Objctlie                  lr8kt               MoI_nit    &lEshatkni        G$I  As:   uptn s
Project Development       Outcome I Impact            Project reports:           (from Objective to Purpose)
Objective:                 Indicators:
(i) Improved access to quality  By the year 2003 in the  Municipal and project    Sustained political and
basic education services in a  targeted areas of      information systems         budgetary support for the
cluster of rural          implementation (between 40   * Education statistics     Program
municipalities             and 70 municipalities selected  Beneficiary assessment and   Sustained support by civil
included in of 10 targeted  under approved criteria in IO  school and classroom   society for the Program
departments while          departments. It is expected  observations              Social unrest does not affect
supporting, through       that around 176, 000 will be  Site visits               Program implementation
school-community          attended):                   Impact evaluations         Interest and availability of
relationships and classroom    - Increased access: creation of                    municipal resources to
methodology, the prevention  school places sufficient to                          participate in Program.
and resolution of conflict and  satisfy 100% of the school                        Monitoring and evaluation
the development of civic   age population demand                                  results of the Phase I of the
values; (ii) strengthened  - Repetition rates: reduced by:                        APL are integrated into
Borrower's capacity to     30% in basica primaria and                             program
manage the implementation of 35% in basica secundaria                             Demand for child schooling
education projects in rural    - Learning achievement: test                       is maintained and/or
areas; and (iii) strengthened  scores as a proxy for LA                          increased during Program
national capacity for the  improve on average by 6%                               despite continued stagnation
reform of technical education  - Community participation: (i)                     and poverty of rural areas
in rural areas.            100% of targeted
municipalities strengthen their
participation for the
management of the school
sector; (ii) 100% of the
schools participating in the
program use school
management techniques
which promote community
involvement.
- Peaceful coexistence: (i)
pedagogical and school
management practices in
participating schools promote
and encourage the peaceful
resolution of conflict; (ii)
reduction of violent behaviors
and discipline problems in the
participating schools
- Technical education:
decision whether to use public
funds to reform technical
education for rural areas is
made and reform is designed.
- 36 -



Key Performance
Hierarchy of Objectives           Indicatos           Monitoing & Evaluaton    Ctical Assumptions
Output from each           Output Indicators:          Project reports:           (from Outputs to Objective)
component:
1. Access and quality of   By the year 2003 in the      Project information systems   Interest/will on the part of
basic education            targeted areas of            (MEN, Agencia and Alianzas teachers to use upgraded
implementation (at least 40  )                          pedagogical techniques and
municipalities in 10         Municipal information      materials
departments; i.e. around    systems                     Transport and school
176,000 students attended).  Beneficiary assessment and   nutrition incentives support
In parenthesis the indicators   school and-classroom    demand for education
to meet before Phase II     observations                services
becomes effective:                                       Social conflict enables
National Level:                                                                     school communities to
.I Curricular and           7 models evaluated and                                  practice values of peaceful
cost-effectiveness evaluation    materials upgraded (100%)                          coexistence
of existing models (grade 0-9)
for attending basic education
needs in rural areas
completed.
1.2 Piloting and evaluation of  The 2 models are piloted,
Telesecundaria and          evaluated and upgraded
Aceleraci6n del Aprendizaje   (100%)
Staff of focused educational
institutions of respectively 40
and 30 targeted
municipalities is trained on
use of 2 pilot models (70%)
1.3 Initial teacher training:  40 Escuelas Normales are
reform of Escuelas Normales  trained and implement
curricular reforms (70%)
Network among 40 Escuelas
Normales is created to
promote and develop teacher
training schemes
1.4 Various studies and     3 annual programs of
investigations to strengthen    studies, research, and
the MEN's knowledge         study-tours completed (70%)
management completed.
Subproiects:
1.5 Improved capacity to    At least 40 municipalities
provide access with quality    implement a strategy to
through a strategy using one   increase access with quality
or more evaluated pedagogical based on the evaluated
models.                     models (70%)
- 37 -



1.6 Demand for child      - At least 40 municipalities
schooling is supported     implement programs
supporting rural school
transport and school
nutrition (50%)
1.7 In-service teacher training   80% of teachers in targeted
schools receive upgraded
training courses (70%)
1.8 Successful implementation  80% of targeted schools
of Productive Pedagogical   implement PPP (70%)
Projects
2. Institutional strengthening
National Level:
2.1 Strengthened capacity for   Manuals, software,
the implementation and      monitoring system in place
monitoring of the Project   (100%)
Key personnel trained
(100%)
2.2 System for the impact   Baseline designed,
evaluation created          evaluation system in place
(100%/)
2.3 Communication and       Communication strategy for
information strategy limits    the Project is designed,
implementation risks and    implemented and evaluated
improves project ownership    (I00%Y.)
2.4 Creation of 10 Alianzas    10 tripartite agreements
for the design and          (MEN, Agencia, Alianza) are
implementation of subprojects  signed (100%)
Subprojects fund allocation is
fully disbursed (70%)
Subprojects:
2.5 Increased municipal    * At least 40 municipal
capacity to design and      subprojects designed and
supervise subprojects and to   implemented (70/)
manage the sector
2.6 Improved school         80% of targeted schools are
management, including the    organized in Redes providing
creation of redes educativas   the full basic cycle (gr. 0-9)
(70%)
- 38 -



3. Education for peaceful
coexistence
National Level:
3.1 Capacity of the MEN to    3 annual programs of study,
act as a pole of knowledge    research, and study-tours
management in education for  completed (70%)
peaceful coexistence is
strengthened
Subproiects:
3.2 In the class: Improved use  A policy document on class,
of pedagogical methodologies  school and community
promoting peaceful resolution  practices promoting peaceful
of conflicts                coexistence is completed
(100%/)
3.3 In the school: improved    80% of targeted schools use
democratic and participative   pedagogical, management
practices of school         practices and implements
management                  community projects
promoting peaceful
coexistence (70%)
3.4 In the community:
strengthening of peaceful
coexistence values through
educational, cultural, social
and sport projects for the
community
4. Implications for a reform
of technical education
National level:
4.1 Strengthened information  Policy document on technical
systems for technical       education in rural areas is
education in rural areas    completed (100%)
(supply, demand,
cost-effectiveness, impact,
legal framework)
4.2 30 pilot experiences in
technical education are
financed and evaluated
- 39 -



H
Project Components /        Inputs: (budget for each     Project reports:            (from Components to
Sub-components:             component)                                               Outputs)
1. Access and quality of    24.2 US$ million              Project files                Institutional capacity to
basic education                                           Bank files and missions     manage Program at all levels
* Implementation reports    * Social conflict enables
* Follow-up reports.         Project teams to implement
National Level:                                            Information compiled       and supervise activities
1. 1 Consultant printing and                             through the subprojects cycle  The Agent is able to create
graphic services,                                         and stored in the MEN       an efficient and transparent
* Statistical and budgetary  mechanisms for the transfer
1.2 goods and equipment,                                  information                 of funds from the center to
consultant, printing and                                  Internal and external reports  the local level
graphic services, seminars                                                             The Alianzas function as
(logistics)                                                                           envisaged with the
partnership of public and
1.3 goods, equipment and                                                              private sector
materials; consultant, printing                                                        Availability of local funding
and graphic services; seminars                                                        and human resources
(logistics)                                                                            Political commitment at
local level to the objectives of
1.4 studies, study tours,                                                             the Project/program
consultant, printing and                                                               Participation of other sectors
graphic services                                                                      involved with rural
development
Subproiects:                                                                           Indigenous communities
support
1.5 goods, equipment and                                                               Non-obstructive attitude
materials, consultant, printing                                                       from the teacher unions to
and graphic services, seminars                                                        the activities of the Project
(logistic)                                                                           * Appropriate delivery of
technical assistance
1.6 goods and equipment                                                               programs relevant to the real
(school restaurants), transport                                                       needs
services
1.7 goods, equipment and
materials; consultant, printing
and graphic services; seminars
(logistics)
1.8 goods, equipment and
materials; consultant, printing
and graphic services; seminars
(logistics)
-40 -



2. Institutional strengthening 8.4 US$ million
National Level:
2.1 goods, equipment and
materials; consultant, printing
and graphic services; seminars
(logistics)
2.2 equipment and materials;
consultant, printing and
graphic services; seminars
(logistics)
2.3 goods, equipment and
materials; consultant, printing
and graphic services; seminars
(logistics)
Subproiects:
2.4 consultant, printing and
graphic services; seminars
(logistics)
2.5 goods, equipment and
materials; consultant, printing
and graphic services; seminars
(logistics)
3. Education for peaceful    3.5 US$ million
coexistence
National Level:
3.1 consultant, printing and
graphic services; seminars
(logistics), study tours
Subproiects:
3.2 goods, equipment and
materials; consultant, printing
and graphic services; seminars
(logistics)
3.3 goods, equipment and
materials; consultant, printing
and graphic services; seminars
(logistics)                    _
-41 -



3.4 goods, equipment and
materials; consultant, printing
and graphic services; seminars
(logistics)
4. Implications for a reform 3.9 US$ million
of technical education
National level:
4.1 Strengthened information
systems for technical
education in rural areas
(supply, demand,
cost-effectiveness, impact,
legal framework)
4.2 30 pilot experiences in
technical education are
financed and evaluated
- 42 -



Annex 2: Project Description
COLOMBIA: RURAL EDUCATION PROJECT
Total Project Amount - US$40.0 million (of which US$ 20 million of loan)
The Project's design is based on two integrated strategies. The Project will finance interventions that for
their nature, size or scope fall logically under the responsibilities of the national level, MEN. The MEN
will progressively become an agent of knowledge generation, evaluation and promotion of new activities
and policies, supervision of the quality and equity of the education services and information dissemination
in the areas of impact of the four components. On the other side, this Project will support, the
strengthening of the capacity of the municipalities to promote the development of the education sector
through the implementation of demand-driven municipal subprojects (PEMs), with the technical and
financial assistance of other entities, both public and private, organized around Departmental Strategic
Partnerships (Alianzas Estrategicas Departamentales.) (Annex 15) or strategic partnerships between the
municipalities, the departments, the regional productive sector and other voluntary partners such as NGOs
and Universities.
In a decentralized system such as that of Colombia, this approach will on one side promote the role of the
MEN, as a pole of knowledge generation, evaluation and promotion of new activities and policies,
supervision of the quality and equity of the education services and information dissemination in the areas
of impact of the four components. On the other side, the Project will support, at the same time, the
strengthening of the capacity of the municipalities to fulfill the role assigned to them by the law to promote
the development of the education sector through the implementation of education municipal projects
(PEMs), or municipal subprojects, based on the integration of the various school based projects (PEIs) in
their territory.
The Project will finance between 40 and 70 PEMs (subprojects) in rural municipalities often departments
of the country. It is expected that around 176,000 students will be attended. Using a model which has
been adopted successfully in various regions of the country, the Project supports the creation of 10
Alianzas to lead the definition of a strategy for the development and strengthening of education services in
the municipalities of each department.
The Alianzas will assist rural municipalities either directly, by using the services of one of the partners, or
indirectly, by contracting these services out, in the development of quality PEMs , based on the integration
of various school PEIs, which will address the objectives of component I (access with quality), 2
(institutional strengthening), and 3 (education for peaceful coexistence) of the Project. The Project will
then finance the implementation of the subprojects which will meet the minimum technical and operational
standards identified by the MEN and described in the Project manuals.
It is hoped that the departmental level partnerships between public, productive and not-for-profit sector
will promote the: (a) relevance of the municipal projects for the rural medium; (b) sustainability of the
investment made; (c) synergy and cooperation of the various actors of the Alianza to promote the
development of a departmental policy for rural education; (d) participation of the civil society; and (e)
efficient management of Project funds.
A fourth component coordinated at national level (implications for a reform of technical education) will
evaluate the possibility of a reform of technical/vocational education for rural areas through studies,
investigations and the funding and evaluation of 30 innovative experiences in this area. Subsequent
-43 -



phases of the Program might finance the actual reform.
By Component:
Project Component i - US$24.20 million
Access and Quality of Basic Education
The objective of this component is to improve access to quality education in rural areas. The component
will promote: (a) the adaptation and upgrading (modifications and improvement of the materials and
teacher training programs) of various educational models (Grado 0, Escuela Nueva, Postprimaria rural,
SAT, SER and some others currently implemented in several regions of the country) to make them
available to the municipalities for their subprojects to be defined according the specific needs of their
school population; (b) the evaluation of other innovative models for rural education used in Colombia; (c)
the adaptation of the materials of Telesecundaria and Aceleraci6n del Aprendizaje, i.e. two methods
imported respectively from Mexico and Brazil, for their piloting and evaluation; (d) the reform of
Escuelas Normales, the teacher training schools, on the basis of a rethinking of the competencies and
skills of rural teachers; and (e) the training of teachers currently in service in rural areas.
The MEN will coordinate the upgrading of existing models through several studies and evaluations
culminating in the preparation of master documents and information materials on the costs, training needs
and pedagogical content of each model. A program of technical assistance and informational events will
provide the 10 Alianzas and their targeted municipalities with the tools for presenting proposals for the
expansion of access with quality under the subprojects utilizing the appropriate combination of
educational models. Under the subprojects, the Alianzas will finance the local adaptation and printing of
educational materials, teacher training and minor infrastructure works to implement a strategy of
expanded access in the targeted municipalities of the department.
The MEN will also lead the piloting and evaluation of Telesecundaria and Aceleracion del Aprendizaje in
respectively 40 and 30 rural municipality of the country. Following a successful piloting, these two
models would also be available for financing under the subprojects later during the implementation of the
Project.
Forty Escuelas Normales in rural areas will receive funds directly from the MEN, through Fondos de
Servicios Docentes, to upgrade their curriculum, train their teachers, and upgrade their pool of equipment
and materials. The objective is to assist these schools with the development of a program to prepare new
teachers with the competencies and skills for teaching in rural areas. At the same time, technical
assistance to the Alianzas/municipalities will be provided to assist them in preparing proposal under the
subprojects for in-service teacher training which are methodologically linked to the activities of Escuelas
Normales. The Project will finance those proposals meeting the minimum technical and operational
criteria set in the operational manuals.
Project Component 2 - US$8.40 million
Institutional Strengthening   .
The Project will promote the strengthening of the capacity at national, departmental and municipal level to
manage, implement, monitor and evaluate the Project. The Implementation Unit of the MEN and the
operational staff of the Alianzas, will receive technical assistance and training for the design and operation
of a comprehensive system for the monitoring of the physical, and financial implementation of the Project.
Software programs and manuals will be produced and the staff will be trained on their use.
-44 -



The component will also finance the design of the impact evaluation of the Project, providing funds for
technical assistance and for the implementation of tests and interviews for the design of a set of baseline
indicators.
Technical assistance and materials will be provided to assist the departments in the creation and operation
of the Alianzas Estrategicas and in the preparation and implementation of the municipal subprojects.
The component will also finance the information and communication strategy for the Project at national
and decentralized levels.
Municipal subprojects will be eligible for financing of technical assistance when aimed at strengthening
school, management, creating redes educativas or rural school networks for pedagogical exchange and
coordination.
Project Component 3 - US$ 3.50 million
Education for Peaceful Coexistence
The Project aims at supporting, through school-community relationships and classroom methodology, the
prevention and resolution of conflict and the development of civic values. Following the general philosophy
of the program, the Project will finance different sets of activities, articulated between a national and a
decentralized level.
At the national level, the Project will strengthen the capacity of the MEN to act as a pole of knowledge
management in education for peaceful coexistence. The component will, therefore, finance the execution of
study programs, study tours, and investigations on class school and community practices promoting
peaceful coexistence.
At the decentralized level, the Project will finance municipal subproject, which will be considered eligible if
including proposals that aim at: (a) improving the use of pedagogical methodologies promoting peaceful
resolution of conflicts in the class; (ii) improving democratic and participative practices of school
management; (iii) strengthening peaceful coexistence values through educational, cultural, social, and sport
projects for the community.
Project Component 4 - US$3.90 million
Implications for a Reform of Technical Education
The Project will promote the strengthening of an information system for technical education in rural areas,
in the view of assessing the viability of a proposal for rural technical education with pertinence to the
socio-economic conditions of the rural areas, to be implemented in the subsequent phases of the Program.
The Project will, therefore, finance activities leading to the assessment of the characteristics of supply and
demand of rural technical education; cost-effectiveness; and legal framework. Relevance and foreseen
impact of a possible future reform will be evaluated through the financing of thirty pilot experiences
implementing institutional curricula based on a revised and pertinent model for technical education.
- 45 -



Annex 3: Estimated Project Costs
COLOMBIA: RURAL EDUCATION PROJECT
_  ;   lProjec Cos B.f Copnn                    US. $mUiC    US....     smlo    US $ml A;
Access and Quality of Basic Education                    18.10         1.66        19.76
Institutional Strengthening                              5.51          1.48         6.99
Education for Peaceful Coexistence                        2.58         0.23         2.81
Implications for a Reform of Technical Education          2.88         0.23         3.11
Total Baseline Cost                                      29.07         3.60        32.67
Physical Contingencies                                   1.51         0.18         1.69
Price Contingencies                                      5.42         0.22         5.64
Total Project Costs             36.00         4.00        40.00
Front-end fee                    0.00         0.00
Total Financing Required             36.00          4.00        40.00
Goods                                                      2.97          0.43          3.40
Works                                                      0.53           0.00         0.53
Services                                                   6.77           1.37         8.14
Subprojects                                               23.82          2.18         26.00
PPF                                                        0.22          0.02          0.24
Operational Costs                                          1.69          0.00          1.69
Total Project Costs    36.00          4.00        40.00
Front-end fee                   0.00         0.00
Total Financing Required    36.00           4.00        40.00
-46 -



Annex 4: Cost Benefit Analysis Summary
COLOMBIA: RURAL EDUCATION PROJECT
INTRODUCTION
Project objectives
The main objectives of this Project are to increase the quality of teaching for children and youth in the rural
areas, and the promotion and development of peace processes and conviviality in rural areas througlh
increasing access and permanence in pre-school and basic education.
The Project will be undertaken in three phases. One of the main objectives of the Phase I of the APL is to
increase enrollmenit in the transition grade (grade 0) and in basic education (especially grades 6 to 9) in the
rural sector of a cluster of municipalities from 10 selected departments.
The objective of this annex is to evaluate the economic impact of the Project. Section I describes in general
terms the reasons and the rationale for World Bank involvement in the education sector and public sector
intervention, according to the results of past and present education projects in Colombia. Section II will
present the cost-benefit analysis of the Project, using the Net Present Value, with the measured economic
benefit, being the increase in future earnings of children who will benefit from the Project. Finally, Section
IIl will evaluate the fiscal impact of the Project.
SECTION I
(a) Social Rates of Return to Education
Research consistenitly provides strong evidence that investments in all levels of education are profitable,
and that the rates of return to society are highest in primary education. In Colombia, the social rates of
returin for primary education were about 20 percent, that for secondary education, about 11.4 percent, and
that to unliversity education, about 14 percent. These rates of return are higher than the cost of capital,
thereby making investments in education justifiable on economic grounds. (See Table I below on Latin
America for comparison.) Therefore, this Project, which supports public investments in basic education,
would yield benefits to Colombian society.
-47 -



Table 1: Social Returns to Education by Level of Education: Full Method (percent) and the latest year
Country                   Primary                Secondary               University
Colombia                   20.04                   11.36                   14.03
Argentina                  8.44                    7.06                     7.55
Bolivia                    9.31                    7.31                    13.13
Brazil                     35.55                   5.08                    21.44
Chile                      8.05                    11.10                   13.96
Costa Rica                 11.16                   14.43                    9.03
Ecuador                    14.71                   12.73                    9.87
El Salvador                16.38                   13.33                    8.00
Jamaica                    17.73                   7.92                     n.a.
Mexico                     19.04                   9.57                     12.91
Source: Psacharopoulos and Ng (1992). Earnings in Education in Latin America: Assessing Priorities for
Schooling Investments. World Bank.
(b) The Public and Private Partnership
Given the significant role human capital plays in increasing productivity, and the market failures in the
demand of education, the government has an undeniable responsibility in the financing of education,
particularly at the basic level. Government financing, however, does not preclude private provision and
financing. In some departments, such as in Antioquia, private sector participation is extensive. For
example, between 1995 and 1997, the Government of Antioquia financed 100,000 student places in high
quality, nonprofit, private institutions. The Project supports the extension of coverage in rural areas, by
fostering this partnership between the public and private sectors in other departments. The aim is to
guarantee, in other cases, and develop, in some others, access to basic education through a pool of
complementary resources formalized and managed through Alianzas, especially in those areas where costs
associated to public provision of education services are prohibitive.
(c) Impact on the Poor
"[...]Studies from international experiences suggest that investment in basic education (primary and lower
secondary) is likely to be more efficient and equitable than investment in higher education." The World
Bank Country Study, Poverty in Colombia (1994) confirmed that in 1992 the poorest 20 percent of
households received 39 percent of total subsidies, an amount 9 times that received by the richest 20 percent.
At the secondary level, because the poorest quintile had low enrollment and resided mostly in rural areas,
the second and third quintiles benefited the most. Nevertheless, the first 3 quintiles benefited more from
public spending in secondary education than the last 2 quintiles. The situation is the reverse in higher
education, because enrollment in higher education is concentrated in the fourth and the fifth quintiles. (See
Table 2 below.)
-48 -



Table 2. Enrollment and Distribution of Subsidies to 3 levels of Public Education 1992
Enrolime     (Student   Household)    Distributi   of Subisidies   (percent)
nt         per                         on
Quintiles    Primary    Secondary       Higher       Primary      Secondary      Higher
I (poorest)    1.09        0.30          0.01         39.4          20.6           5.1
2              0.70         0.39         0.02          26.2          26.8          9.4
3              0.51         0.37         0.03          19.4          25.3          18.6
4              0.28         0.26         0.06          10.8          17.7          33.2
5 (richest)    0.11         0.14         0.06          4.3           9.6           33.8
The overall distribution impact shows that public education expenditures benefit low income households
relatively more than other income groups mainly because of the poors' high participation rates in primary
and lower secondary education (See Table 3). In 1992, households in the poorest quintile accounted for 23
percent of all subsidies. However, because the poor tends to have larger families, the distribution of per
capita subsidies is neutral. It is also evident that because enrollment ratios at different levels of education
differed by quintile, poor students benefited less at the higher level.
Table 3. Total Education Subsidies, 1992
Subsidy                               Contribution
Quintile      Share       Pesos per    Pesos per     Primary      Secondary       Higher
(percent)   Household      ca(ita      (percent)          (percent)   ercent
l              23.1       152,076       28,022         60            34             6
2              21.9        144,636      29,418          42            47            11
3              21.4        141,274      29,917          32            45            23
4              19.4        127,883      31,104          20            35            45
5              14.2        93,550       25,658          l             26            64
Source: World Bank (1994, Poverty in Colombia, p. 62)
For the above mentionied reasons, thle Rural Education Project is targeting poorer populations, as 90
percent of the poor attend public schools. In order to guarantee a fair access to educational services to poor
populations, the Project is targeting eight departments, and, inside these departments, a cluster of rural
mullicipalities, characterized by different levels of economic development and wealth. Particular attention
will be devoted to those municipalities with a considerable concentration of indigenous and
Afro-Colombiani populations. In fact, as the main data published by the principal national statistic
institutionls show, these groups live in very disadvantaged areas, where both economic opportunities, and
access to public services are particularly deficient'.
SECTION ll
Cost-Benefit Analysis - Description of variables and methodology used
This economic analysis is based upon the elaboration of the data contained in "Educaci6n et? cifras:
Avances en el Periodo 1985-1997" publishied by the Departarnento de Planeacion Nacional in 1999, and
on some indepenidenit calculationis provided by the MEN of Colombia.
- 49 -



Based on the consideration that the main aim of this Project to increase the quality of education for
childreni and youth in the rural areas through increasing access and permanenice in pre-school and basic
education, the analysis results from a model that combines two elements. The first element consists of a set
of variables wliich are postulated to take on a specified probability distribution. Information about project
intervenitioni is said to be a set of "assumption variables" modeled as random variables. These assumption
variables are then used to arrive at a final "forecast variable", whicih in the present case is the Net Present
Value of the Project.
The second elemenit of the model is a computer simulation which randomly samples different values for
each of the assumptioln variables to arrive at a value for the forecast variable. The random sampling is
repeated for a large number of trials, thus giving a chanice for a great number of possible parameter values
to be used, leading to a simulated distribution of the forecast variable. In this case, the sample size was
1 0,500. The model has two interllinked parts in a series which begins from immediate project interventions
to the ultimate flow of benefits. The immediate project interventions are based upon the following pool of
conservative assumptions:
(a) The Project is targeting a minimum number of 40 municipalities, with an average population of about
20,000 inhabitanits, and an average number of 5,530 children (5-15 years old);
(b) The population growth rate is 2 percent per annum;
(c) The Project duration is 3.5 years;
(d) Key goals of the Project are to raise school enrollment in rural basic schools from less than 30 percent
to 75 percent and to increase the average level of attainment by 30 percent (i.e. from 3 to 4 years)
during the Project period;
(e) The Project will finance neither building of new schools, nor hiring of new teachers. The cost of
coverage will be containied througlh reallocation of existing resources; incremental recurrent costs
during the operational period are assumed to be minimal and limited to activities such as the
upgrading of school equipment and materials (modification of PC hardware and software, purchase of
new books, etc.).
Calculation of Net Present Value
Based on the assumlied population growth rate, achievemenit of the targeted level of coverage would imply a
growth in school enrollm1enlt in the 40 municipalities from about 66,200 to 176,000, or an increase of
109,800 students who would benefit from basic education as a result of the Project. Based on recent
houselhold survey data, persons earn an additional incomiie with a NPV of US$1,014 for one additional year
of schooling completed at the basic education level. Assuming that each additional student and 30 percent
of existing students complete exactly one additional year and taking into account a total Project cost of
US$40 million disbursed over 3.5 years, the total NPV for the Project is equal to US$108.8 million. (See
Table 4 below)
- 50 -



Table 4. Calculation of NPV of the Project
Average population in representative municipality                                 19,583.00
Average population in school age (5-15 years old) in representative municipality   5,528.00
Average yearly population growth rate                                                 2.00
5-15 ys. Old population growth in three years (absolute number)                    5,866.36
Current coverage in representative municipality                                    1,653.98
Average coverage % in rural areas in basic education schools                         29.92
Target enrollment rate                                                                 0.75
5-15 ys. Old population growth in three years (absolute number)                    5,866.36
Expected enrolled students in 3 year time                                          4,399.77
Expected newly enrolled students in 3 year time                                    2,745.79
Attainment Rate                                                                        3.05
Increase in attainment                                                                0.30
New enrollment rate                                                                    3.97
NPV of I Extra Year of Schooling USD                                               1,014.00
Number of project years                                                                3.50
Increase in flow of earnings of already enrolled children                       504,793.96
Increase in flow of earnings of newly-enrolled children                        2,784,231.84
Total increase in earnings                                                    3,289.025.80
Total increase in earnings in 40 municipios                                     131.600,000
PV of Total Project Cost (US$ 40 million)                                        22,800,000
NPV of Project                                                                  108,800,000
This Net Present Value is just one among the possible outcomes that could derive from the 10,500 trials.
Chart I shows the distribution of outcomes that emerge from this model. In the worst combination of
assumptions, the Project will have a NPV of US$ 47.3 million while in the best combination, the NPV will
be of US$ 182 million.
Chart 1. Model Forecast about Project
Forecast: NPV of project
1 0,500 Trials                     Cumulative Chart                          0 Outliers
.   1 000-                                                                   10500
25
000                                                  ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~0
25,000,000.00  68,750,00000    112,500,000.00    156,250,000.00    200,000,000.00
Another important instrument provided by the model is the sensitivity chart which shows how the different
assumption variables contribute to the variance of the Net Present Value. The sensitivity chart represents a
good operational and policy tool, since its results can be used as a guideline to determine the soundness of
the interventions adopted to implement the Project.
- 51 -



Chart 2. Sensitivity Chart of Assumptions
Sensitivity Chart
Target Forecast: NPV of project
Expected attainment of neWvy enrolled af        95s5%
Target enrollment rate                           4.49 
% Increase in attainment                         0.1%/
0%          25%           5C0%         75%           100% /
Measured by Contribution to Varance
The sensitivity chart 2 shows that the expected attainment of newly enrolled in the system of at least a year
explains almost entirely the variation of the Net Present Value. The NPV remains positive as long as 5,560
students remain in the school system for at least one additional year. To the extent that gains made in
coverage can be sustained beyond the Project period, the quantifiable benefits of the Project would be
greater than the NPV shown.
Certain risks may affect these results. For example, the redeployment of teachers from richer
municipalities to poorer ones may require additional financial incentives (contrary to the assumption that
reallocation of existing resources would entail no incremental recurrent costs.) In addition, in some cases,
increased enrollment may result in overcrowding of classes, putting pressure on the efforts to
simultaneously improve quality.
Quoted from Project Appraisal Document on a Proposed Loan in the Amount of US$40.0 million equivalent to the Department of Antioquia in
the Republic of Colombia for a Basic Education Project, 1997, pag. 36.
2
Besides the direct correlation between an increased investment in education and the reduction of poverty rates in rural areas, some possible
correlation between an increased investment in education and the mitigation of some social plagues currently affecting Colombia, such as rural
violence, infant and child labor practices, etc. could be identified. However, given the complexity of these phenomena, with regards to their
origin and their dynamic, it is not possible to define this correlation in a concrete manner this correlation. Therefore, this analysis will
deliberately avoid producing any data on this issue.
Estimated number resulting from the analysis of the data published by theConsejo Nacional de Politica Social (1998),and by DANE
(Departamento Administrativo Nacional de Estadisticas) Censo 600 (1996).
4
ldem.
- 52 -



Annex 5: Financial Summary
COLOMBIA: RURAL EDUCATION PROJECT
Years Ending
US$ million equivalent
Year  I   Year 2     Year 3      Year 4     Year5     Year 6     Year 7
Total Financing Required
Project Costs
Investment Costs            0.6        8.5       12.8       12.3        2.7        0.0       0.0
Recurrent Costs             0.0        0.9         0.9        0.9        0.4        0.0       0.0
Total Project Costs           0.6        9.4       13.7       13.2        3.1        0.0       0.0 1
Front-end fee     0.0        0.0        0.0        0.0        0.0        0.0       o.o
Total Financing               0.6        9.4       13.7       13.2        3.1        0.0       0.0
Financing
IBRDIIDA                   0.2         3.0        6.7        7.4        2.7       0.0        0.0
Government                 .0.4        6.4        7.0        5.8        0.4       0.0        0.0
Central                 0.4        5.9        5.7        4.5        0.0       0.0        0.0
Provincial              0.0        0.5        1.3        1.3        0.0       0.0        0.0
Co-financiers               0.0        0.0        0.0        0.0        0.0       0.0        0.0
User Fees/Beneficiaries    0.0        0.0         0.0        0.0        0.0       0.0        0.0
Others                      0.0        0.0        0.0        0.0        0.0       0.0        0.0
Total Project Financing      0.6        9.4       13.7        13.2       3.1       0.0         0.0
| Year  I   Year 2  | Year 3  | Year 4  | Year 5  | Year 6          Year 7
Total Financing Required
Project Costs
Investment Costs           0.0        0.0        0.0        0.0        0.0       0.0         0.0
Recurrent Costs            0.3        0.3        0.4        0.4        0.4       0.5        0.5
Total Project Costs          0.3        0.3        0.4         0.4        0.4       0.5        0.5
Front-end fee    0.0        0.0        0.0        0.0         0.0       0.0        0.0
Total Financing              0.3        0.3        0.4         0.4        0.4       0.5        0.5
Financing
IBRDIIDA                   0.0        0.0        0.0        0.0        0.0       0.0         0.0
Govemment                  0.3        0.3        0.4        0.4        0.4       0.5         0.5
Central                0.0        0.0        0.0         0.0        0.0       0.0        0.0
Provincial              0.3        0.3        0.4        0.4        0.4       0.5         0.5
Co-financiers              0.0        0.0        0.0        0.0        0.0       0.0         0.0
User FeeslBeneficiaries    0.0        0.0        0.0        0.0        0.0       0.0         0.0
Others                     0.0        0.0        0.0        0.0        0.0        0.0        0.0
Total Project Financing     0.3        0.3         0.4        0.4        0.4       0.5        0.5
- 53 -



FISCAL IMPACT ANALYSIS
Thiis fiscal impact analysis is articulated into two main parts. The first part describes the trend in
educational expenditure for Colombia, whereas the second part evaluates the impact of the Project on the
mLllicipalities.
(a) Trend in Educational Expenditure in Colombia
Durinig the past decades, Colombia put a considerable effort in extending educational services to all sector
of populations, with the aimn of reducing the considerable differences among regions and social groups. For
this reason, educational expenditure grew constanitly in the 1970s and in the 1980s at an average annual
rate of 9.7%  . After a sharp decrease (to 2.7%) between the mid 1980s and the mid 1990s, educational
expendituire lhas started to increase again, by reaching an average of 5.3% in the period 1993/1998.
As in many other countries of Latin America, public spending in education has a very limited investment
componenit. Since education was nationalized under Law 43 in the mid-1970s, public education has been
primarily funded by the national government. At present, the Colombian government (which results from
the combinationi of the central and the decentralized levels) funds around 95% of all the national education
budget. However, throughout the last decade, there has been a redistribution in the responsibilities between
thle national and the local governments, mainly in terms of management and funding of the education
services.
Following to the administrative and political reforms implemented between 1986 and 1991, the
departmental and municipal authorities were granted more responsibilities in managing their own financial
resources, as well as delivering social services. The new Constitution passed in 1991, allows department
and municipal governments to raise tax and non tax revenues, as well as to borrow resources to finance
their investmenits. Through this pool of resources, as well as those made available to them by the national g
overnmenit, local authorities have increased their share of resources destined to educational expenditure.
However, most of this amount is allocated to pay for the salaries of those teachers who are recruited
outside of the nationial roster. As in the case of the nationial level, very little is spent in investments.
Since the launchlig of the above mentioned reforms, the local authorities have proved to have the
potentialities to invest and manage the educational sector, as confirmed by the experience of two recent
World Bank financed projects, namely the Antioquia and the Pasto Education Reforms.
(b) Fiscal Impact Analysis
The total cost for the Project is US$ 40 million for a period of approximately three and a half years. The
Project will be finaniced for 50% by the World Bank, and for the remaining 50% by the Governmenit of
Colombia. Of these, local institutions and possible partners of the private sector will contribute for 13% of
the total amount of each subproject (i.e., US$ 3.4 millions) througlh the Alianzas. The local governmenits
will be also responsible for the finanicinig of recurrenit costs for USD 2.8 millions (averaging, US$ 0.4
millioni a year) over an operational period of approximately seven years, to be counted from the last year of
disbursement for the Project (See Table 5.)
- 54 -



Table 5. Fiscal Impact Analysis
1990         1999         2000         2001          2002           2903         2004        2005         2006        2007         2008
GDP Growth           0.036         (1.036       0.036       (l.()36        0.(36          0.036        O (36       0.136        0.036       0.03G6       O (36
GDP (1998 USD
million.)          14)2.940()4) 4 066.6(444    ()().442.16   14.4184()9    I 1537 13   422,804 46    127.225.42   131(405.54   136.550454   141.466.36   146.559 15
Educ.
Expend/GDP         ( 053        O.O53         (053        0.053         () (53         (.(153       ().()53      O (053      0.()53       t (53       04053
Educ. Expenditure
(1990 USD million)    5453 7(     5650(403     585343       6(06446       6282.47        654(A64      6742.95      6985.69     7237.1X      749772      7767.63
Tot. Project
DisburoJye,                                      0(60         () 40        13 7(4         13.20         3 10_
N Tot. Ru-al Ed.
ProjectlTot. Ed.
Expenditures                                     4.44        44.16          0)22          0.2(0         e5          44.46       (4.44 00                  .(404
Contib. Municipal
- Investmeat +
Operational coost
(IJSD Milliult)    _                 (I                       445           1 3         1  .3                   I                         _ _
Recurrent
Enpendilutes foe
municipalities
(I SD million)                                                                             O4            O           04          0.4          44 4
"v; .To-t
Contlib.Municip,ld
Educ.
E.penditures                         c}         4(4.444,4   11 44082       0 02447       44.442444    (t.(K4    I  44 4657     4.6(355     4( 0053      0(4129
Tot. Project Cost                                                        40,000,000
Tot. Targeted
Students                                                                  176,000
Average per capita
i-vestmnent (Project
Length)                                                                     227
Average per capita
investoent (per
annum)                                                                      65
The fiscal analysis for the Project shows that the Project will have a very limited impact on both national
and decentralized budgets, under the following assumptions: (a) a constant GDP growth rate of 3.6
percent per annum; (b) maintenance of education expenditure on a national level at 5.3 percent of GDP
throughout the Project period; and (c) effective local contribution (i.e. Alianzas) equal to 13 percent of the
national contribution for the Project. A key assumption in this analysis is that no additional recurrent costs
would be needed since the costs of coverage increases would be contained through the reallocation of
existing resources.
At the national level, the cost of the Project represents a minimum amount of the projected
educational expenditure (0.165 percent). Considering Project costs on a per beneficiary basis, the average
per capita investment is US$227 (i.e. US$ 65 per year of the Project period). For comparison, average
unit cost in the basic education cycle is US$179 per year.
At the decentralized level, the Project is sustainable as long as the municipalities are able to cover
the necessary recurrent costs following the Project period. If the assumptions listed above hold these will be
related to costs related to maintenance of equipment and learning materials purchased under the Project.
- 55 -



The World Bank, Poverty in Colombia (1994), The World Bank Country Study, Washington D.C., pag. 54
idem
Educational Sectoral Data on Colombiapublished on Edstats web page, World Bank Intranet.
In order:
I) Law II of 1986, establishing the electoral system for local officials and members of Congress;
2) law 12 of 1986, establishing the legal framework for fiscal transfers from the central level to the municipalities;
3) Public election of mayors and governors, in 1988 and 1991;
4) 1991 's Constitution.
These provisions will be then formalized and defined in depth through Law 60 of 1993, and Law 115 of 1994.
I.e. Situato Fiscal, Fondos de Inversion Social (FIS),and Ingresos Corrientes de la Naci6n (ICN).
The World Bank (1999), Colombia: Country at a Glance.
Calculations based upon the actualization of the data provided by The World BankPoverty in Colombia (1994), The World Bank Country
Study, Washington D.C., pag. 56
- 56 -



Annex 6: Procurement and Disbursement Arrangements
COLOMBIA: RURAL EDUCATION PROJECT
Procurement
Goods and works shall be procured in accordance with the provisions of the "Guidelines for Procurement
under IBRD Loans and IDA Credits" (The Guidelines), published by the Bank in January 1995 and
revised in January and August 1996, September 1997 and January 1999, and the provisions stipulated in
the Loan Agreement.
The Borrower will hire an international Agency (the Agent) with is own resources, to administer all Project
funds and provide support to the Project in the administrative and procurement procedures for its
implementation under terms and conditions satisfactory to the Bank. An agreement will be signed with the
Agent stipulating the terms for administering the Project funds and supporting the procurement processes
which will be carried out by the MEN and the Alianzas (Strategic Partnerships). A general agreement will
be signed by the MEN, each participating Alianza, and the Agent detailing the arrangements for the Agent
is participation in the Municipal Subprojects. The text of the mentioned agreement will be included in the
Operational Manual of the Project which will be completed with the Bank's no objection and will be a
condition for loan effectiveness.
The MEN and the Alianza will be responsible for the preparation of technical specifications, terms of
reference, and short lists. The Agent will prepare the bidding documents and invite according to the
appropriate selection process. Furthermore, the Agent, together with the MEN and the Alianza, will
complete the evaluation of the proposal. Finally, the Agent will prepare and sign all relevant contracts.
The Operation Manual will also include a chapter on procurement procedures and standard bidding
documents to be used. The Operational Manual will also provide information on central and local
responsibilities, supervision, reporting and auditing requirements.
(a) Municipal Subprojects
Each one of the targeted municipalities will receive, via the departmental Alianza and according to the
provisions set by the Operational Manuals, an amount ranging from US$350,000 and US$650,000
equivalent in goods and services for the first three years of implementation of the Project to support the
design and execution of municipal subprojects. Each subproject will be approved on the basis of technical
and operational criteria described in the operational manual. Given the small size of single municipal
subprojects, packaging of works, goods, and consulting items into large procurement groups is not feasible.
The cost of each package will not exceed US$50,000; thus, most contracts will be awarded on the basis of
national shopping and quotations obtained from at least three (3) eligible consultants or suppliers.
Consequently, the value of contracts for such projects will not be taken into account when calculating the
limits mentioned in the following paragraph.
(b) Other Activities
Civil Works
At the national level, the Project will only finance civil works for subprojects developed and implemented
by technical education institutions. The works to be financed include minor rehabilitation of school
- 57 -



infrastructure to comply with the general objective of the component. Works estimated to cost less than
US$50,000 will be procured through National Shopping.
The Project will also finance minor works contemplated by the municipal subprojects, limited to a 5% of
their value for minor renovation works.
Goods
Goods to be procured under the Project include: printing of texts and of educational materials, audiovisual
and aid supplies and materials, school laboratories, furniture and kitchen supplies, and computer
equipment. Goods estimated to cost US$250,000 or more will be procured through ICB procedures. Goods
estimated to cost between US$75,000 and $250,000 will be procured through NCB procedures. Goods
estimated to cost less than US$75,000 will be procured through National Shopping procedures up to an
aggregate amount of US$3,200,000.
Employment of Consultant Services
Consultant's services shall be procured in accordance with the provisions of the "Guidelines: Selection and
Employment of Consultants by World Bank Borrowers" published by the Bank in January 1997, revised in
September 1997 and January 1999, and the provisions in the Loan Agreement.
Except as provided below, consultants' services shall be procured under Quality-and Cost-Based
Selection methods (QCBS).
The Consultant services for the: design of achievement tests for the teacher training schools and analysis of
their results; design of teacher training networks; review and adaptation of education materials; and piloting
of Telesecundaria and Aceleraci6n del Aprendizaje will be selected under Quality Based Selection
(QBS) procedures.
Consultants' services for general technical assistance and training for subprojects, and for the
implementation of an information and communication strategy for the Project, estimated to cost less than
US$100,000 equivalent per contract, may be procured under Least-Cost Selection procedures. Other
services, which do not require the activity of a firm, may be awarded to individual consultants in
accordance with the provisions Section 5.1 of the Guidelines, up to an aggregate amount of
US$3,000,000, exclusively for consultants' fees.
Bank Prior and Post Review.
Prior Review by the Bank will be required for the following procurement actions: for goods (a) all ICB
procurement; (b) first contract of each year procured through NCB procedures; (c) all consultants' services
provided by a firm selected by QCBS, estimated to cost US$ 100,000 or more (prior review of all
documentation including technical and final evaluation) and those provided by firms selected by QCBS
estimated cost less than US$70,000 and less than US$100,000 (prior review of all documentation and final
evaluation only); (d) all consultants' services provided by an individual estimated to cost US$50,000 or
more; and (e) all terms of reference for key personnel of the Coordinating units. All other contracts not
included above shall be reviewed ex-post by Bank supervision missions.
- 58 -



Procurement Plan, including samples of letters of invitation, terms of reference for the first year of
implementation, will be elaborated prior to Project negotiation.
Standard Documents for national procurement and contracting of consultants will be developed by the
Coordinating Unit for the use of the Agent and approved by the Bank before the first request for proposals.
Participating Departmental Alianzas will follow procurement procedures detailed in a Operational Manual,
satisfactory to the Bank.
A Project launch workshop will be organized at an early stage in Project Implementation to familiarize the
implementing unit and other institutions involved in the execution of the projects. The workshop will cover
procurement, disbursement, reporting and auditing requirements.
A General Procurement Notice is planned to be published by March 31, 2000. Annual financial and
procurement audit reports, will be submitted to the Bank within six months of the end of each fiscal year. 3/
Procurement methods (Table A)
Table A: Project Costs by Procurement Arrangements
(US$ million equivalent)
ExenitreCategory                                                            TotaloProcurement Method  st
expen dih] re C_go w   ICB        ~NC            other**                      ott Cs
1. Works                            0.00           0.00           0.53           0.00           0.53
(0.00)         (0.00)         (0.29)         (0.00)         (0.29)
2. Goods                            0.00           0.20           3.20           0.00           3.40
(0.00)         (0.14)         (1.51)         (0.00)         (1.65)
3. Services                         0.00           0.00           6.62           1.52           8.14
(0.00)         (0.00)         (3.52)         (0.00)         (3.52)
4. Subprojects 3                    0.00            0.00          26.00          0.00           26.00
(0.00)         (0.00)        (14.34)         (0.00)        (14.34)
5. Front-end fee                    0.00            0.00          0.00           0.00           0.00
(0.00)         (0.00)         (0.00)         (0.00)         (0.00)
6. PPF                              0.00            0.00           0.24           0.00          0.24
(0.00)         (0.00)         (0.20)         (0.00)         (0.20)
7. Operational Costs                0.00            0.00           0.00           1.69           1.69
(0.00)         (0.00)         (0.00)         (0.00)         (0.00)
Total                            0.00            0.20          36.59          3.21           40.00
(0.00)         (0.14)        (19.86)         (0.00)        (20.00)
Figures in parenthesis are the amounts to be financed by the Bank Loan. All costs include contingencies
2/ Includes civil works and goods to be procured through national shopping, consulting services, services of
contracted staff of the Project management office, training, technical assistance services, and incremental
operating costs related to: (i) managing the Project, and (ii) re-lending Project funds to local government
units.
3/ Civil works limited to up to 5% of the value of the municipal subprojects.
- 59 -



Table Al: Consultant Selection Arrangements (optional)
(US$ million equivalent)
A. Firms           0.42     0.22      0.00      1.10      0.00      0.00      1.52      3.26
(0.21)    (0.12)    (0.00)    (0.61)    (0.00)    (0.00)    (0.00)    (0.94)
B. Individuals     0.00     0.00      0.00      0.00      0.00      4.88      0.00      4.88
(0.00)    (0.00)    (0.00)    (0.00)    (0.00)    (2.58)    (0.00)    (2.58)
Total   0.42     0.22      0.00      1.10      0.00      4.88      1.52      8.14
(0.21)    (0.12)    (0.00)    (0.61)    (0.00)    (2.58)    (0.00)    (3.52)
1\ Including contingencies
Note: QCBS = Quality- and Cost-Based Selection
QBS = Quality-based Selection
SFB = Selection under a Fixed Budget
LCS = Least-Cost Selection
CQ = Selection Based on Consultants' Qualifications
Other = Selection of individual consultants (per Section V of Consultants Guidelines),
Commercial Practices, etc.
N.B.F. = Not Bank-financed
Figures in parenthesis are the amounts to be financed by the Bank Loan.
- 60 -



Prior review thresholds (Table B)
Table B: Thresholds for Procurement Methods and Prior Review
.... .......
Contract Value                                Contracts subject to
Threshold              Procurement              Prior Review
Expenditure Catego _y  (US$ thousands}                Method
1. Works                         <50               National shopping             None
2. Goods                        > 250                    ICB                       All
>75 - <250                 NCB            First contract of each year -
all documents
<75               National shopping             None
Goods Subprojects              <50               National shopping
3. Services-
Consultants:
- Firms                         >100                    QCBS             All documents, technical
evaluation report, and final
evaluation report
>70 - <100            QCBS, CQ, LS         All documents, and final
evaluation report only
- Individuals                    >50             Sect. 5.1, Capacity and      All documents
Qualification
<50                                             TOR
Total value of contracts subject to prior review:
Overall Procurement Risk Assessment
Average
Frequency of procurement supervision missions proposed: One every 6 months (includes special
procurement supervision for post-review/audits)
Furthermore, ex-post procurement audit will be carried through every six months.
-61 -



'Thresholds generally differ by country and project.
- 62 -



Disbursement
Allocation of loan proceeds (Table C)
Table C: Allocation of Loan Proceeds
Expenditure Category         Amount in US$million l       Financing Percentage
1. Works, other than those financed         0.23                          55%
under 3
2. Goods, other than those financed         1.70                          55%
under 3
3. Consulting Services, other than those    0.00
financed under 3
3.1 General Consultants' Services          1.68                         55%
3.2 Logistics Services                    0.71                          55%
3.3 PIU                                   0.67                          55%
4. subprojects (goods, works, and
consultants' services)
4.1 Works                                 0.72                          55%
4.2 Goods                                 7.84                          55%
4.3 Training, Consultants and             5.25                          55%
Services
5. Refunding of PPF                         0.24
6. Unallocated                              0.96
Total Project Costs                         20.00          _
Front-end fee         0.00
Total                                      20.00
Use of statements of expenditures (SOEs):
The proposed allocation of Loan proceeds for the Project is shown in Table C shown above.
Disbursements would not be made for works, goods and services which have been procured from ineligible
sources or which have not been procured according to Bank's procurement and consultants' guidelines.
The Bank Loan for the first phase of the Program is expected to be fully disbursed over a three-year period.
All applications to withdraw from the Loan will be made in accordance with guidelines set out in the bank's
disbursement handbook. All applications to withdraw will be fully documented, except those for training
and contracts not subject to prior review, as shown above, for which reimbursement may be made against
certified statements of expenditures (SOEs).
No disbursement from category 3 (subprojects) will be authorized unless an Alianza Agreement has been
signed under terms and conditions satisfactory to the Bank, to establish an Alianza in respect of such
Subproject and the subproject has been approved according to the procedures established in the Operational
Manual.
-63 -



Project accounts will be subject to an independent audit for each fiscal year, in accordance with auditing
standards acceptable to the Bank.
The MEN/PIU will have to comply with a time-bound action plan acceptable to the Bank for the
strengthening of the financial management system. This will enable the MEN, not later than December 31,
2000, to prepare quarterly PMRs, acceptable to the Bank, each of which: (a) sets forth actual sources and
applications of funds for the Project, both cumulatively and for the period covered by the report, and
projected sources and applications of funds for the Project for the six-month period following the period
covered by the report; (b) shows separately expenditures financed out of the proceeds of the Loan during
the period covered and expenditures proposed to be financed out of the proceeds of the Loan during the
six-month period following the period covered by the report; (c) describes physical progress in Project
implementation, both cumulatively and for the period covered; (d) explains variances between the actual
and previously forecast implementation targets; and, (e) sets forth the status of procurement under the
Project and expenditures under contracts financed out of the proceeds of the Loan.
Administration of Disbursement:
The MEN will co-ordinate and monitor the overall implementation of the different components of the
Project and the PIU will be responsible for the maintenance of a centrally managed financial management
system, including records and accounts, and for the preparation of financial statements in a format
acceptable to the Bank, adequate to reflect the operations, resources and expenditures and of all withdrawal
applications in accordance with Bank's guidelines.
The Agent (Block C, section 4) will receive advances of Project funds and manage the disbursements of
those funds according to the directives of the PIU and the Alianzas. In an arrangement similar to the
UNDP Projects which are partially or totally funded by Government Cost-Sharing resources originating in
World Bank Group Loans or Credits, the Agent will be responsible for: (a) drafting invitations to bid,
bidding documents, minutes of bid opening and evaluation; (b) signing of contracts and payment to
suppliers of goods and services, always according to bank guidelines and the Operational Manual and
under the technical leadership of the PIU at national level, and overall for the Project, and the technical
coordinator of the Alianza at departmental level; and, (c) maintaining appropriate financial and accounting
practices to allow the supervision of its activities. The government is currently completing a competitive
selection process, using terms of references cleared by the Bank, of the Agent among a pool of 5 of such
entities all of them with experience with the handling of Project co-financed by the Bank.
- 64 -



Annex 7: Project Processing Schedule
COLOMBIA: RURAL EDUCATION PROJECT
Projet Schedule                                     Planned                      Actual
Time taken to prepare the project (months)        9                             16
First Bank mission (identification)              01/31/98                       01/31/98
Appraisal mission departure                       06/30/98                      10/17/99
Negotiations                                     09/01/98                       02/14/2000
Planned Date of Effectiveness                    04/13/2000                     05/31/2000
Prepared by:
Ministry of Education (MEN)
Department of National Planning (DNP)
Preparation assistance:
Project Preparation Facility (PPF)   US$200,000
PHRD Japanese Trust Fund             US$191,000
Bank staff who worked on the project included:
Name                                      Speciality
Marco Mantovanelli                 Former Task Team Leader / Operations Officer
David Harding                      Task Team Leader / Education Specialist
Martha Laverde                     Operations Officer
Massimiliano Paolucci              Operations Analyst/In charge of Economic and Fiscal Impact Analysis
Jairo Arboleda                     Social Development Specialist
Joel Reyes                         Institutional Development Specialist
Lavinia Gasperini                  Education Specialist
Gabrielena Alcala                  Economist
Antonio Gomes Pereira              Education Specialist
Jose Augusto Carvalho              Lawyer
Livio Pino                         Financial Management Specialist
Daniel Boyce                       Financial Management Specialist
Issam Abousleiman                  Disbursement Officer
Efraim Jimenez                     Principal Regional Procurement Specialist
Maria Lucy Giraldo                 Procurement Specialist for Human Development projects
Marta Ospina                       Procurement Analyst for Human Development projects
Albert Berry                       Economist
Erik Bloom                         Various issues related to Monitoring and Evaluation
Edmundo Salas                      Peer Reviewer / Senior Education Specialist
Ernesto Cuadra                     Peer Reviewer / Director of CONAFE in Mexico
Charles Maguire                    Peer Reviewer / Senior Institutional Development Specialist
Veronica Jarrin                    Administrative and Operational issues (Team Assistant, LCSHD)
-65 -



Annex 8: Documents in the Project File*
COLOMBIA: RURAL EDUCATION PROJECT
A. Project Implementation Plan
- Project Implementation Plan
B. Bank Staff Assessments
- Procurement/Contract Management System Assessment
- Financial Management Assessment
- Physical Monitoring Indicators and Overall Assessment
- Assessment of teacher training system
C. Other
- Economic and Fiscal Impact Analysis in Spanish
- Design of Monitoring and Information Systems in Spanish
- Information and Communications Campaign in Spanish
- Impact Evaluation System in Spanish
- Social Impact Analysis and Participation Plan
- Project's costing tables in Costab
- Lessons Learned from past Education Projects in Colombia and other selected Latin American
countries
- Net Enrollment Rates and Drop Out Rates
*Including electronic files
- 66 -



Annex 9: Statement of Loans and Credits
COLOMBIA: RURAL EDUCATION PROJECT
Difference between expecte(
and actual
Original Amount in US$ Millions          disbursements
Project ID    FY   Borrower                       Purpose                               IBRD       IDA         Cancel.   Undisb.       Orig   Frm Rev'd
P006880        1995 Colombia                    AGRICULTURE TECHNOLO                      51.00       000         0.00       3466       24.29      8.16
P006891        1998 Colomba                     ANTIOQUIA EDUCATION                       40.00       0.00        0.00       37.93       9.62      0.00
P044140        2000 Colombia                     CARTAGENAWTR & SEWE                      85.00       0.00         000       85.00       4.26      000
P063643        2000 Colombia                     CO-FSAL                                 472.82       0.00         0 00     234 05       0.00      0 00
P006893        1995 Colombia                     ENERGY TA                                11.00       0.00         0.00       2.94       294       000
P006884        1997 Colombia                     FINANCIAL MARKETS DEVELOPMENT            1500        000          0.00      12.33       8.35      0.00
P046031        1998 Colombia                     MAGDALENA MEDIO                           500        0.00         0.00       222        043       0.00
P006852        1991 Colombia                     MUNIC DEVT                               60 00       0 00         0 00       3 76       3 76      0 00
P006854        1993 Colombia                     MUNICIPAL HEALTH SER                     50.00       000          000        212        0.29      -2.04
P006868        1994 Colombia                     NATURAL RESOURCE MAN                     39.00       000          0.00      1643       1217      14.23
P046112        1998 Colomb[a                     PASTO EDUCATION                           7.20       000         000         5.52       2.01      0.00
P053243        1998 Colombia                    PEASANT ENTERPRISE Z                       5.00       000         000         4.09      0.53       000
P006887        1996 Colombia                     POWER MARKET DEVELOP                    249.30       0.00        000        37.68      -882     -29.78
P006889        1994 Colombia                     PUBLIC FINANCIAL MAN                     30.00       0.00        000         2.08       2.08      0.00
P040102        1997 Colombia                    REG REF TA                                1250        0.00        0.00        9.85      435        000
P006894        1996 Colombia                    SANTAFE I (WateriSupply)                 14500        0.00        000        79.87      66.07      000
P006866        1994 Colombia                     SECONDARY EDUC                           9000        000          000       20.36      1391       6.18
P039082        1999 Colombia                    TOLL ROAD CONCESSION                     13710        0.00         000      10000       50.00      000
P039291        1996 Colombia                     URBAN ENVIRONMENTTA                      2000        000          000       1094       10.94      0.00
P006861        1998 Colombia                     URBAN INFRASTRUCTURE                     7500        000          000       65.82       3.82      0.00
P006872        1996 Colombia                     URBAN TRNSPRT                            65.00       000          0.00      3115       22.15      7.99
P050576        1999 Colombia                     YOUTH DEVELOPMENT                         5.00       0.00         000        429        1.46      0.00
Total:     1669.92       0.00        0 00      803 09    234.61      -7.62
- 67 -



COLOMBIA
STATEMENT OF IFC's
Held and Disbursed Portfolio
31-Jul-1999
In Millions US Dollars
Committed                          Disbursed
IFC                                IFC
FY Approval          Company                         Loan   Equity    Quasi   Partic    Loan   Equity    Quasi   Partic
Total Portfolio:           0.00     0.00     0.00     0.00     0.00    0.00      0.00    0.00
Approvals Pending Commitment
FY Approval         Company                             Loan     Equity      Quasi      Partic
Total Pending Commitment:           0.00       0.00       0.00      0.00
- 68 -



Annex 10: Country at a Glance
COLOMBIA: RURAL EDUCATION PROJECT
Latin    Lower-
POVERTY and SOCIAL                                             America   middle-
Colombia   & Carib.   income        Development diamond'
1998
PoDulation. mid-vear (milions)                           40.8       502       908                   Life expectancy
GNP ner caDita (Atlas method. USS)                     2.600      3.940      1.710
GNP (Atlas method. USSbillions)                         106.1     1.978      1.557
Averaae annual arowth. 1992-98
Ponulation /%)                                            1.9        1.6       1 1
1 a;hnr forre (%                                          2 7        2 3       is       GNP                               Gross
per                              primary
Most recent estimate tlatest vear available. 1992-98)                                   capita                        rnrollmr-nt
Povertv (% of ooDulation below national Dovertv line)     18
Urban DoDulation (% of total Dooulation)                  74         75        58
Life exoectancv at birth (vears)                          70         70         68
Infant mortalitv toer 1.000 five births)                  24         32         38
Child malnutrition (% of children under 5)                 8          8          .                Access to safe water
Access to safe water (% of DoDulationf                    75         75         75
Illiteracv (% of DODUlation aae 15+)                       9         13         14
Gross orimarv enrollment (% of school-aoe oooulation)    113        113        103               Colombia
Male                                                   113          .       105               Lower-middle-income group
Female                                                 112         ..       100
KEY ECONOMIC RATIOS and LONG-TERM TRENDS
11977    1987       1997       1998
Economic ratios*
GDP (USS billionsl                             19.5      36.4     108.6      102 9
Gnrnss domestic invextment/GlrP                18 7      19 1       23 n      22 3
Exoorts of noods and serviceslGDP              16.9      17.0       13.9      13.9                      Trade
Gross domestic savinos/GDP                     22.3      23.1       18.0      16.6
Gross national savinas/GDP                     21.1      21.2       17.6      16.5
Current account balance/GDP                     1.9      -0.1       -5.4      -5.7
Interest oavments/GDP                           0.8       3.7        1.5       1.7      Domestic                     Investment
Total debt/GDP                                 26.0      46.8       31.2      351       Savings
Total debt servicelexoorts                     10.7      39.1      46.7       47.3
Present value of debt/GDP                        ..        ..       27.9         -
Present valiue nf dephiexnnrts                                    198 4
Indebtedness
1977-87  1988-98      1997       1998   1999-03
(averaoe annual orowth)
GDP                                   3.4       4.0      3.1        0.6        3.6                Colombia
GNP oer caDita                        0.7       2.6       1.1       -1.3       1.7                Lower-middle-income group
Exoorts of ooods and services         5.0       7.1       6 1       -4.8       83
STRUCTURE of the ECONOMY
1977     1987       1997       1998      Growth rates of output and investment (%)
t% of GDP)
Aoriculture                                    25.0      17.4       14.1      14.5      45
Industrv                                       30.3      34.8       29.0      27.1      30
Mannufracitrinn                              23 A      20 3       14 2       13 8     16 +
Services                                       44.7      47.8       57.0      58.4
Private consu,mntinn                           70 0      18 7       15 1      17 2     -        93   94   95   9S   97   98
General oovernment consumotion                  7.7       8.7       16.2      16.3                      GDI        :  GDP
Imoorts of ooods and services                  13.3      12.9       19.4      19.6
(averaae annual orowthl                     1977-87  1988-98       1997       1998      Growth rates of exports and imports (%)
Anricidtihre                                    2 5       1 7        0 2       0       60
Industrv                                        41        2.3        1.3      -2.3    40
Manufacturino                                  2.5      1 7        2.5        0.0    30
Services                                        3.4       5.7        3.6       2.4    20.
Private consumetion                             2.9       4.0        3.7       1.9    10
General oovernment consumotion                  5.1       5.3        4.7       0.3      0
Gross domestic investment                       2.3      14.0        3.5        ..
Imoorts of ooods and services                   2.5      16.0        4.4       1.5                    Exports    0lmports
Gross national oroduct                          2.9       3.9        3.1      -2.5
Note: 1998 data are preliminary estimates.
The diamonds showfour kev indicators in the countrv fin bold) comDered with its income-aroun averace. If data are missino. the diamond will
he incomnlete
- 69 -



Colombia
PRICES and GOVERNMENT FINANCE
1977     1987       1997      1998      Inflation (%)
Domestic prices                                                                        3
(% change)                                                                             3
Consumer prices                                32.7     23.3        18.6      18.7    20
Implicit GDP deflator                          29.2     23.4        17.0      17.5
Government finance
(% of GDP, includes current grants)                                                    o
Current revenue                                   .     22.2       27.7      27.6              93    94    95    96    97    9s
Current budget balance                            ..     5.5         6.5       5.7               GDP deflator       CPI
Overall surplus/deficit                          ..    -2.3        -3.8      -3.7
TRADE
(US$ millions)                                 1977     1987       1997      1998      Export and import levels (USS millions)
Total exports (fob)                           2,660    5,254     11,680    11,331      1650O0
Coffee                                      1,498    1,633       2,259     1,915
Hydrocarbons                                  105    1,342       2,707     2,387     12000
Manufactures                                1,025    1,556       5,293     5,614
Total imports (cif)                           1,970    3.793     14,409    14.836           k     I I U
Food                                            ..       ..      1,728                4o00
Fuelandenergy                                 136      148        240
Capital goods                                 664    1,381       5,561     5,680
92  93  94  95  9s   97   st
Fxnnrt nricp indrw 11995=100)                             2fi       178       117
imoortorice index t1995=100)                      3       26        123       116               M 3Exports     *Imports
Tprm%s nf trarei. f1995=100)                    17R      103        107       9A
BALANCE of PAYMENTS
1977     1987       1997      1998      Current account balance to GDP ratio (-b)
(USa miDlionsl
Exports of goods and services                 3,378    6,421     14,238    13,339      4
Imports of goods and services                 2,736    5,751     18,399    17,468      2
Resource balance                               642       670      -4,161    -4,129             _                     I
Net income                                     -313   -1,692      -2,371    -2,187         92                          M
Net current transfers                            49    1,001        640       407      -2
Current account balance                         378      -21     -5,892    -5,909      -4
Financing items (net)                        -1,280       43      5,982     4,454      s6
Changes in net reserves                         902      -22        -90     1,455      e-
Memo:
Reserves includinronold (USS millions)        3.197    3.587      9.611     8.397
'onv*rsinn ratS (DEC. local/USS)               36.8    242.6    1.142.6   1.426.0
EXTERNAL DEBT and RESOURCE FLOWS
1977     1987       1997      1998
IUSS millions)                                                                         Composition of total debt, 1998 (USS millions)
Total debt outstanding and disbursed          5.053   17.023     33,865    36,084
IBRD                                         716    4,111       1,723     1,740                        A: 1,740
IDA                                           22        17         10         9              Ge 6,403         8: 9
Total debt service                              379    2.830      7,131      6,853                                    D 5,45     |
IBRD                                          93       618        573       347
IDA                                             0        1          1         1                                      :1.397
Composition of net resource flows
Official grants                               15        18         85
Official creditors                            65       232       -456       107
Private creditors                            121      -318      4,053       566
Foreign direct investment                     65       319      5,574     3,192
Portfolio equity                                0        0        593      -286
F: 21.084
World Bank program                                                                     A - IBR                        E - Bilateral
Commitments                                  281       180         28       227     B IDA      D- Other multilateral   F - Private
Disbursements                                 85       395        152       184      C-IMF                          G- Short-term
Principal repayments                          41       279        380       232
Net flows                                     45       116       -228       -48
Interest payments                             53       268        150       115
Net transfers                                 -8    -152         -378      -163
Development Economics                                                                                                      9/8/99
- 70 -



Additional
Annex No.: I1
Sector Policy of the Government of Colombia
COLOMBIA: Rural Education Project
Recent Developments: The Government, conscious of the deteriorated socio-economic and political
conditions of the rural sector, led an inter-sectoral debate culminating in the 1996 Contrato Social Rural
(Rural Social Contract, RSC). The RSC was agreed upon by farmers and the private and public agrarian
organizations, and addressed the needs of the rural areas with a set of multi-sectoral policy proposals. In
particular, the RSC highlighted the importance of education to the development of rural areas, with
emphasis on increased access and quality, particularly at the basic and technical education level. In
addition, the RSC linked education and productive development as mutually reinforcing dimensions
necessary for the overall improvement of rural living conditions.
The increased attention to rural education fostered a considerable political effort to involve relevant social
actors at the local and regional levels in the elaboration of an action plan for rural education based on the
RSC. In this context, the MEN, with World Bank support, sponsored a National Consultation Process
with five macro-regions, to examine the needs of the various rural actors and to identify best practices. The
main activities of this comprehensive and inclusive consultation exercise were: (a) five regional fora on
rural education covering the 32 departments; (b) a systematic consultation with all stakeholders in the
agricultural sector (Consejo Nacional de Educaci6n Rural), and including, inter alia, completion of
studies on the relationship between education and production; and (c) a national technical seminar and an
international panel on best practices in rural education. Furthermore, in 1998 the MEN put in place a
National Participatory Plan for education aimed at achieving three objectives: (i) categorization of the
different educational experiences of the country; (ii) development of technical studies to determine a new
educational strategy; and (iii) establishment of a permanent national consultation process.
Statement of Sector Policy:   The following letter addressed to the Bank by Marta Lucia Villegas
Botero, Vice-Minister of Education, MEN, outlines the Government policy in education and places the
requested Project within the context of the national education reform process:
- 71 -



LETTER OF DEVELOPMENT PROGRAM
(FREE TRANSLATION)
Republica de Colombia
MINISTERIO DE ED/&CA4 6N NACIONAL
Bogota, October 29, 1999
Mr. Andres Solimano
Director
Country Management Unit
Colombia, Ecuador and Venezuela
Latin America and the Caribbean Regional Office
Washington, DC
Dear Mr. Solimano,
The Government of the Republic of Colombia, through the Ministry of Education (MEN), confirms its
interest in an Adaptable Lending Program (APL), with the purpose of improving the education sector in
rural areas in Colombia according to specific local education policies focusing on human development,
coverage, equity and quality and which are included in the National Development Plan named "Change to
Build Peace" (Cambio para Construir la Paz).
The objectives of the National Development Plan for Education are described in a separate document
available in Spanish.
In the context of the National Development Plan for Education which aims at increasing the coverage (Plan
Caaminante), improving the quality (Educaci6n es Calidad), and developing early childhood education
(Ursulas); the Government identified the importance of a Rural Education Project. The specific objectives
of the Project are aimed at increasing the coverage and improving the quality of the education in rural
areas, developing, at the same time, the living conditions of rural population.
The Program is expected to be implemented over a period of 8 years through a series of phased projects of
2.5 years each. The first phase of the Program called "Application and Learning" will be implemented in
eight departments, forty municipalities and their schools.
The determination of the Program focus was based on an implementation scheme appropriate for APLs and
on the learning nature of the first phase. The process of categorization and prioritization considered
different criteria and variables resulted from considering an ample variety of departments and
municipalities. The variables included aspects of education, socio-economic and political situation,
institutional development and participation. The criteria took into consideration rural and equity issues.
From the preliminary list of high, medium and low-developed municipalities and departments, twenty
departments were pre-selected. They were required to furnish information about the programs developed
in relation to rationalization of teachers, extension of school hours, technical assistance provided to
municipalities and about the targeting criteria to be used to select the municipalities that would participate
in the first phase of the Program.
- 72 -



The first phase will place emphasis on increasing coverage and improvement of the quality of education,
ensuring access to schooling and retention of children, youth and adults in rural schools.
The second and third phases will include eight new departments and municipalities in order to reach a total
of twenty-four departments, one hundred and twenty municipalities/indigenous resguardos, and their
respective schools. The objectives of these phases, will be to ensure the access to schooling, retention and
education autonomy in municipalities/indigenous resguardos through the participation and commitment of
civil society and the strengthening of schools networks.
The goals to be achieved with the completion of the three phases of the Program are detailed in a separate
document in Spanish.
In the first intervention phase, the Rural Education Project centres around the concepts of supply and
demand. The supply concept, which is applicable in targeted and non-targeted departments and
municipalities, considers actions aimed at developing education policies at a national level which include:
(a) definition of guidelines; (b) provision of technical assistance on the curricular reformulation of Escuelas
Normales; (c) testing and adaptation of education models to solve the problems of over-age children, and to
integrate the use of interactive media in the education process; (d) systematization and dissemination of
conceptual and practical experiences of education management; and (e) school and community coexistence.
On the other hanld, the schools, as providers of education services, prepare and adjust their institutional
education projects (proyectos educativos institucionales, PEIs) in a community participatory process. The
PEls are the basis for an administrative and pedagogical integration of school networks (Redes Escolares)
which, in a more ample context, will be part of the municipal rural education subprojects. The subprojects
will be prepared considering the Project components' objectives and will meet the need of coverage and
education quality of the rural population.
The first phase will be developed through four components whose objectives are:
Access and Quality of Basic Education. It will be implemented through the implementation and
upgrading of various educational models for the Transitional Grade (Grade 0) as well as for Basic
Education (Escuela Nueva, Post-Primaria Rural, Servicio de Educaci6n Rural/SER, Sistema de
Aprendizaje Tutorial/SAT, various ethno-educational programs and other local innovations). In addition,
also to be considered are: the adaptation of Telesecundaria and Aceleraci6n del Aprendizaje models, the
development of a strategy for the curricular reform of Escuelas Normales and a permanent plan for rural
teacher training. Basic Education in rural areas with indigenous and Afro-Colombia populations will
consider aspects of ethnicity, cultural identity, social organization as well as specific ethno-education
proposals.
Institutional Strengthening. The program aims to strengthen the local capacity of beneficiary education
institutions, municipalities/resguardos indigenas, selected departments, and the central government, by
building on their competencies to manage Rural Education Regional Projects. It will contribute to the
organization of formal education through developing institutional organizational models, focusing on the
administrative and pedagogical functioning of schools in order to ensure the provision of basic education to
children in rural areas.
Education for Peaceful Coexistence. It will promote projects aimed at improving the coexistence,
participation, equity and peaceful resolution of conflicts among members of targeted rural education
- 73 -



communities.
Technical Education. Concerning technical education and its role in basic and higher education, this
component will finance the generation of learning based on thirty education pilot experiences in order to
establish policy and strategic guidelines for the development of rural technical education. A learning and
piloting process will take place aimed at adapting available models of technical education according to the
requirements of the rural sector (eg. productive, social and cultural needs) in the framework of the new
paradigms of competition, sustainability and private sector management.
In order to conclude the first phase, the Rural Education Project will verify that the trigger indicators have
been met to move to the next phase; detailed information of which is included in a separate document
available in Spanish.
Based on the above, the MEN requests Bank support to finance a lending operation according to the
following specifications:
* The financing of the operation under an APL instrument to be, implemented in phases, for a total
amount of US$120 million with a Bank support of US$60 million and a national counterpart of US$60
million. The national counterpart includes US$36 million to be financed by the national level and
US$24 by the Departmental Strategic Partnerships that include municipalities/resguardos indigenas.
a The first phase will be implemented in a period of two and a half years with a total cost of US$40
million of which US$20 million are financed by the Bank and US$20 million by the counterpart. The
counterpart funds correspond to US$12.8 of national financing and US$5.2 of regional financing. The
resources will be invested in goods, services and consultant services and basically in the formulation
and implementation of municipal subprojects of rural education. These subprojects will receive 85% of
these resources. The remaining 15% will be invested in the development of central aspects of the Rural
Education Sector Policy, which is one of the permanent Program responsibilities of the MEN. Out of
the total cost of the project, US$4 million will finance the process of learning and innovation in
technical education.
Sincerely,
MARTA LUCIA VILLEGAS BOTERO
Vice Minister of Basic Education
cc:   Mrs. Constance Corbett, Sector Leader for Human Development, The World Bank, Washington
Resident Representative, The World Bank, Bogota
Dr. Javier Saenz, Chief of Social Development Unit, Department of National Planning, Bogota
- 74 -



RepOblica de Colombia
MINISTERIO DE EDUCAC/ON NACIONAL
""1VII'
Bogota, November 5, 1999
Mr. Marco Mantovanelii
Operations Officer
Department of Human Development
Latin America and the Caribbean Regional Office
The World Bank
Washington DC
REF.: Goals of Rural Education Program (APL)
Dear Mr. Mantovanelli,
In regard to the Letter of Development Program dated October 29, 2000, we would like to inform you of
the following goals defined for the Program:
(a) Average rate of coverage in basic education would increase to 75% in the targeted municipalities;
(b) Repetition rate would be reduced to 30% in basic primary education and 35% through basic education;
(c) Students in the targeted rural municipalities would increase their learning achievement on average by
6% per Program phase;
These indicators respond to a reassessment prepared by the Project preparation team, based on the analysis
of data of coverage and quality of education, and considering the new investment amounts for these
activities.
Sincerely,
MARIA EUGENIA ESCOBAR DE SIERRA
General Director for Investigation and Development of Human Talent
- 75 -



Republica de Colombia
MNINS1ERO DE EDUCACI6N NACIONAL
Bogota, February 17, 2000
Mr. Andres Solimano
Director
Country Management Unit
Colombia, Ecuador and Venezuela
Latin America and the Caribbean Regional Office
Washington, DC
Dear Mr. Solimano,
In regard to our Letter of Development Program of October 29, 1999, we would like to be more precise in
some goals and commitments of the Rural Education Project, considering the agreements reached during
the last Negotiations Mission which took place from February 14 to 17, 2000.
l .    Program (APL)
- Implementation period:           10 years
- Average period per phase:        3.5 years
- Targeted departments:     30
- Range of targeted municipalities:  120-210
2.    Trigger indicators to move to next phase (first phase)
- Ten Departmental Strategic Partnerships would implement at least 80% of the resources
established for the municipal subprojects.
- Ten Departmental Strategic Partnerships would be organized and would have clear definition of
responsibilities.
- Range of targeted municipalities:    40 to 70.
Sincerely,
German Bula Escobar
Minister of Education
cc:    David Harding, The World Bank, Washington DC
Martha Laverde, The World Bank, Bogota
-76 -



00726
Santa:4 de Bogoti, D.C., 29 de octubre de 1999
Senor
ANDRES SOUMANO
Director para Colorbia, Ecuador y Venezuela
Ofizina Regional pera Anerica Latina y el Caribe
BANCO MUNDIAL
WASHI3IGTCN D.C,
Estsrnado Seffor Soiimano -
Fl Gobiemo Nacional, a traves del Ministerle de Educacdn Naclonal, ratifica su interes por un
Prcyecto de Cr6dlto Externo (APL), deslrkado al neioramiento educativo en el sector rural de
nuesto pais, el cal se enmaica dentro de polkicas edicativas especifiCas orientadas al deserrolho
humano, la cobetjra, la eficerica, la equidad y la calidad en el contexto del Plan Naclonal de
Desarrollo "Camnbo para Construir la Par.
Las rnetas propuestas por el Gabierno en e Rlan Naconal de Desarrolo Educativ; relaconadas con
las poitircas descntas previomente, se anexan en la Tabla 1.
En el ccntextu de las poUticas del Plan de Desarrollo Eductivo, relaoonadas con la ampliaciin de
cobertuo (Plan Caninanta), d mejorarmiento de la calidad (Educac5an es Calided) y la eduami6n
infantil (Ursulas) se inserta el Pryectv de Educedign pww . Sector wal, cuyo objWvo es
ampgar la cobertura y mejurc la caldad de la Educacidn ael Sector Rural, de moao que ela se
convierta en un factr estrat4qco para el rre)oramiento de [as condidanes de Ide de los habitantes
del campo colomblano.
El horiLonte de imFIemenLadin del Prograna es de 8 allos, a desarrolar en tres etapas, cada una
aproxmadarrente de dos afics y rmedio, cuya prierer etapa (APL 1) derkmbida "Aplclae6n y
Aprendizaje"' incidii en ocho Departamenlos, cuare-ita Munkiplos focalizados y sus Instttuconares
Escolares.
La Fcalzaci6n se deterrriin6 con base en el esquemrn de implernentad6n par etapas proplo de los
Prdstamns Adaptables a Prog-amas de Desarroll (APL) y la caracterstica de aprendizaje de ba
prinmra etapa, lo cual exige disponer de Ia mis amplia gama de variabilidad de departarnertos
y municipios en cuanto a 05 princpales critMros y vaIobles que se utilizaron para su categorzacldn
y priorimac6n. Al respecto, se incorporaron al rnodel criterios de rurzldbd y equidad, varbbles
educativas, socioecon6rrcas, StJaciOn pol(tic., desaroll isrtltucional y partlclpa6rn.
De la lista priori23aza de mur1dptos y departamentDs con a3 o, medio y bajo desarrollo, FLeraw
preseleclznados veinte (20) departarnentos, a bs cuaes se solicE explidtar las preyets a
- 77 -



00726
-dp; d!e ga1Gc40e fYc
programas que vlenen desaTolaindo respecto a radonalizaci6n de planta de docentes, extensi6n de
lornada escolar, asisterria t4ionca a los municipios y los cnterios para focallzar los munliplos en [Os
cuales intervendra el proyecto en su primera etapa.
En la primera etapa, el Ministerlo de Educad6n Nadonal se centrari en la a,mplMdch de la
cobertura y mejorah la caiad aW servico educatho para que log nif@s, j6venes y adultos del
sector rural accedan y perTnanezcan en el servido educathvo.
En la segunda y tercera etapas, se incorporaran en cada una ocho (a) nuevos departamentos y
munidplos ten1endo cono meta veinticuatro departamentos, ciento veinte municpiosresguardos
Indigenas y sus respecivas Insitudones Escalares, buscando el pleno acceso y permanendca de la
poblaci6n escolar, asi como la autoromia educativa en los munkcipios/resguardos lndgen2as con
base en La participacl6n y cornpromiso de otros sectores de la Socieda CiMt y el fortalecMnlento de
las redes esclanes
Las metas al conduir as tres(3) etpas del programa (APL) de educad6n para el secor rural se
detaikan en Ib Tabla 2.
En la primera etapa de Intervercd6n, el Proyecto de Educad6n para el Sector Rural, plantea las
dimensiones de oferta y demanda. El conjunto de acclones que orlentan su eshuerzo a posbilitar
el desarrollo de poiltcas educativas que son competencia del nivel nacional, como la produccd6n de
lineamientos y la asistenaa t&cnica para a reformulacdn curricular de Las EscueLas Nornales, la
experlmentad6n y adaptaci6n de alternativas educativas para superar los problemas de extraedad
o integrar el uso de medios interactivos en el proceso educativo, ia s[sternatzadc6n y dlvul6acidn de
experienclas conceptual y estrategfcamente solPdas en el 6rea de la gestib6n educativa, la
convivencia escolar y comunitaRa que permeen e irriguen el sector educatiwo, constltuyen de
manera integrada la dimensl6n que el proyecto denomina oferta, la cual se orienta tanto a
departamentos y municipios focalizados como no focalizados.
De otra parte, [as instituciones escolares, coorn prestadoras del senricio educatlvo, con la
pafbicipacion de la comunidad elaboran y/o ajustan sUs proyectos educatios Institucionales (Pt1s),
que confomnan el insumo para una integrad6n administrativa y pedag5glca de las insfltudones
escolares (Redes Escolares), que de manera articulada configuran los subproyectos munlipales de
educacl6n rural, en los cuales se concretan los componentes del proyacto y las necesidades de
cobertura y calidad educativa requerlda por los pobladores escolarizados y no escolarizados de las
zonas rurales.
La prirnera etapa se desarrollard mediante cuatro componentes cuyos objetivos y acciones se
describen a cantinuacifn:
Amplicdn Se cbertura y mejoramiento de la calidad de As educaddn, medlante la implementacion
y actualizaci6n de opciones e innovaciones educativas pertinentes tanto en el Grado de Transici6n
(propuestas escolrizadas y no escolarizadas) coma en la Educaci6n Biska (Escuela Nueva,
Postprimaria Rural, Servicio Edurativo Rural/SER, Sistema de Aprendizaje TutorialISAT, Programas
de Etnoeducaci6n, y otras Innovaciones locales.). Igualmente se adaptara la experiencia de
- 78 -



00726
Telesecundaria (Mexico) y Aceleraci6n del Aprendizaje (BrasHi), se desarrollari una estrategia para
la reforma currIcular de las escuelas normales superlores y un plan de capacttaci6n perrmnente de
agentes educadores rurales. La Educacion Basica en las zonas rurales, con predominio de poblacidn
4i ena y oL ornen afiwofobano, tendra en cuenta sus particulardades  tnlcas, Identidad
cuttural, formas de organizaci6n social y propuestas etnoeducativas.
ForWedmiento de la cpacdad institcional y la gestidn educativzr. El Proyecto buscara fortalecer fa
capaddad de los actores panftvs presentes en las Instltudones Educativas beneficarlas, los
munkipios/resguardos indigenas, departamentos focalizados y la nacion, de acuerdo con sus
cDnpetencias, para gestionar Proyectos Regionales de Educaci6n Rural. Contribuir* a la
organizacl6n de ia Educaci6n Formal mediante modelos de organizaci6n institucional oriantedos a Ia
articulan6n administrativa y pedag6gica de las institudones escolares que garantcen la Educaci6n
Sisica completa a los niios y ninas del sector rural.
conda Escolar y Conwunitara: Se peramfvern proyectos orientados a lograr qute los mienbros
de las comunidades educativas ruraies focalizadas, mejoren sus condidones de corwivencia, la
participad6n activa, la equldad y la solud6n pacifica del confficto.
a*nc   7&lcna: Ante la evidente necesidad de una identidad propia de la Educaci6n Media y
darWficar su papel entre la Educacd6n BHsica y la Educad6n Superior o el mundo del trabajo,
finandarS la generacl6n de aprendlzaes a partir de treinta experiencias educativas para plantear
Kneas de politica y propuestas estratgicas para el desarrollo de la Educaci6n Tecnica en el Sector
Rural. Particularmente, se requiere una labor de aprendlzaje y experimentaci6n sobre la adecuaci6n
de las ofertas disponibles de Educacan Tecnica a los requerimientos del sector rural, tanto en b0
productivo, lo social como en lo cultural, ecorde a los nuevos paradlgmas de competitivdad,
sosterbilbidad y gesti6n empresarial.
Para dar por concluida la prlmera etapa, el Proyecto de Educad6n para et Sector Rural verifxcara los
irdcadores de cambia de etapa que se detallan en la Tabla 3.
Conr base en Las anteriores definiciones, el Ministerio de Educaci6n Nacional sdoita el apoyo del
Bancio Mundial para acceder a los recursos de crdito segCn las siguientes especlflcackxne:
* FinarNiar la operaci6n bajo la modalidad de Prestamos Adaptables para Programas de Desarrollo
(APL). Seri una operwci6n para ejecutar por etapas, par un valor total de $US120 milknes con
un cupo de creidto extemo de US$60 millones y una contrapartida nacional por ULS$60 milbones,
de los cuales US$36 millones aportara la nacl6n y US$24 millones las regiones (Alianza
EsiatdgLca Departamrental, induyendo municipios/resguardos).
a La primera de las etapas tendra una durad6n de dos arlos y medio y una Inversi6n total de
US$40 millones, cle los cuales US$20 millones corresponden a credito externo y US$20 rmilones a
contrapartida nacional, para la cual la naci6n aportara US$12.8 millones y las regiones US$5.2
mglones. Los recursas seran invertidos en bienes, servicios, consultorias y fundamentairnente en
la formnulaci6n e implementaci6n de Subproyectos Municipales de Educacdin Rural, a los cuales
se destinara el 85% de los recursas, el porcentaje restante (15%) se orientara at desarrollo de
- 79 -



00726
bs aspectos centrales de la Politica de Educacl6n para el Sector Rural que son competencia
penmanente del Mirsterto de Educad6n Nacioal. Del costo total del proyecto se invmrtIrn US$4
milones para el proceso de aprendizaje e Inndova6n en educad6n t6cnica.
Lt  mers(6n en la primea etapa, par fuenbe de finandact6n, cornponente y dimensi6n oferta y
demarda se detaflan en la tabla 4.
Agradeoneos la atencidn a ta presente y estamos disponibles para cualquier aclaraci6n o
wntribud6n en esta materia.
Atertameft
sA   LUCIA V&LLEGAS BOTERO
Intra (E) de Educad6n Nodonal
.GJ  pfa Sra. Constance Corbett, 3efe Sectorbl, Banco Mundbl, Washigton
Reprentante Residente. Banco Mundial, Colombia.
Sr. Marco Mantovaneill, Gerente Proyecto, Banco Mundiat, Washingjton.
Dr. lavir S6enz, lefe Unidad Desarrollo Social, DNP, Colombia.
- 80 -



Tabla 1
Plan Nadonal de Desarrollo Educativo
Metas reladonadas con algunas de las Politcas de Goblerno
Plan Camfnante
# 40 municipios graduados (plena cobertura)
# Readonalizad6n Planta Docentes (30% adicional de cobertura)
p Cobertura neta del 90% en educaci6n basica
Educac6n es Calidad
e 138 Escuelas Norrnales Superiores con situaci6n definida frente a acreditad6n previa.
*  Generalizaci6n de los lineamientos pedag6gicos y curriculares para todas las areas
#  Formulacl6n de un modelo de ftornaci6n de educadores en servidos
p  450 Instituciones del sector rural con jomada extendida
  DesarrolJo de una estrategia nadonal de reconocimiento y estimulo a proyectos educativos
indigenas
  Dffusl6n de experiendas para el nejoramiento de la calidad y ampliad6n de cobertura en
cnmunklades afrocolombianas.
Ursulas
i  Amplaren un 15% Ia cobettura en grado transid6n
Sistbua Nadonal de Calidad
t Apilac!6n de pruebas en Clendas Naturales y Sociales en grado 3 y 5
e Dlsponer de informaci6n de logros de estudiantes en las cuatro (4) areas basicas del curriculo
para los grados 3 y 5, y de Lenguaje y Maternticas para los grados 7 y 9. Estudio de factores
asociados.
Evaluad6n de ia Instituci6n Escolar
p Dotar a la totalidad de las instftudones del pafs con las guias de autoevaluaci6n y mejoramiento
lstitucional
Slstema Nadonal para la Intormad6n Educativa
e  Institudonalizadcn e implementacl6n del sistema naaonal de estandares para el manejo de
datos y sistema de infornaci6n del sector educativo
- 81 -



Tabla 2
Proyecto de Educadl6n para el Sector Rural
Mets del APL (operadc6 total)
  Cberura total en Imeducai6n btsica en los muniapios focaliados
e La tasa de Mepitencia se. disminuye en b6sica primara en un 30% y en bisica y media en -un
35%
  MejamIento del looto-educat1vo de los estdiantes en un 3%
*  Por lo menos el 70.%de los docentes, directores y agentes educadores de las insbitdones
haevenidas generanen sus institudones procesos de partidpaci6n.
  Vefntluatro (24) Allanzas Estrat6glcas Departamentales creadas controlan y ejeuan por lo
menos di 80% de los recursos destinados a los subproyectos municipales.
*  ios subproyectos munidpales presentan resutados satisfactorios en cuanto a efidenda, eficacia
y transparenda en su ejeain.
d El 80% de los municipios.focalizados contribuyen, como minimo con la contrapartida regional
(Aportes de los sodos de [as Alianzas Estrategicas Departamentales)
*  8 100% de los muniWpios han .potenrdalizado de forma satisfactowia los espacios y mecanismos
exdstes de partidpad6n.
* En el 80% de los departamentos las Alianza Estrathgic Departamental conformadas se
ansftuyen en el ereerto de sostenibilidad del proyecto.
*  En el 80% de los cams se-asume la responsabilaad de los recursos que requkeran las ofertas
educatvas, despuesxde conduidk el proyecto.
* Sistena de seguimaimto y evaluad6n implantado y fundonando.
Los estudiante mepan su desempeiio en las pruebas de acttudes y valores
* Los estudiartes mejoran su xanportamiento en la escuela en disciplhia y comrnportamientos no
v-enDS
*   Las IstTuclones educativas atendidas implementan prctticas pedagicas y de gesb6n que
prnueven la partidpacin y la convivencba padfia escolar y comunitaria.
O 19 100% de las tnstitudones educativas intervenidas reformulan y rediseilan su PEI de forrna
partcipativa.
E 5 100%o de ias instituciones educativas atendidas muestran evidenctas de que las decisiones en
el gobierno escolar son producto de consultas con los representados.
* E 100% ie las instituciones educativas atendidas Implementan con la comunidad proyectDs
sodales, cutturates, deportivos y recreativos para la convvencda.
e  Domreo cDn lineamientos de polbiMcas para la educaci6n tdcnka valkdado por los diferentes
eatMMAos.
? Docunento de modelos educativos (pedag6glcos y de gestl6n) Para la educaci6n tcnilca valido
por ksdlfrentes estamentos.
- 82 -



Tabla 3
Proyecto de Educaci6n para el Sector Rural
Indicadores de Camblo de Etapa (APL 1)
A Las opciones educativas para el sector rural validadas e impulsadas por el proyecto, se ajustan
a los lineamientos, estandares y criterios pedag6gicos concertados con el Ministerbo
& Telesecundaria y Acelerad6n del Aprendizaje se ajustan a los lineamientos, estandares y
riterias pedag6gicos concertados con el Ministerio
&  40 experiencias piloto de telesecundaria y 30 de aceleraci6n del aprendizaje implementadas
e  40 PEIs de escuelas normales superiores reformulados segun lineamentos, criterios y
estandares del proyecta y el CAENS para la forrnacin iniaal de docentes.
L  Las Facultades de educacd6n en convenio con las escuelas normales superiores focalizadas y las
universidades con vocad6n y experiencia en educaci6n para el ambito rural, desarrolla
propuestas de formaci6n dirigidas a este sector.
*  Red de las 40 normales y las 5 facultades de educacd6n focalizadas conformada para a
kvestigad6n y capadtad6n de agentes educadores para el ambito rural.
#  A mewnos el 70% de las instituciones educativas atendidas por el proyecto incorporan en el PEI
los lneamientos pedag6gicos, organizaclonales y de convivenda de las opciones e innovaciones
seleccionadas.
e  Al menos el 70% de los docentes de [as institucdones atendidas participan en cursos  de
capadtaci6n y actualizao6n en [as opciones educativas seleccionadas.
t  La capacidad de oferta educathva en los municpios focalizados garantiza el acceso del 100%
de la poblad6n en edad escbar.
# Por lo menos el 70% de las instituckones atendidas garantizan progresivamente la continuidad
de la educad6n desde transicl6n hasta el noveno grado de basica, medlante una forma de
organizac6n y articutacl6n administrativa y pedag6gica.
# Por la rnenas el 70% de las instituclones educativas forrnulan y ejecutan proyectos pedag6gicos
productivs.
e  40 escuelas normakes formulan e implementan subproyectos orientados a la reforna curricular
de sus nropuestas de forrnaci6n inicial.
e El 80%Yc de bs actores del sector rural conocen el proyecto.
a, Ocho (8) Alianza Estrategica Departamentales controlan y ejecutan al menos el 80M/ de los
vecursos destinados a los 40 subproyectos municipales.
El 100% de los departamentas y municipios focalizados aportan el 15% de contrapartida
reoibnal (sumatoria de los aportes de los socios de la Alianza Estrat6gica Departamental)
2  lDs organismos ejecutores y coordinadores del proyecto elaboran informes trinestrales de
seguimiento para apoyar la toma de decisiones en la gestion del proyecto.
 Ocho Alianzas Estrat6gicas Departamentales organizadas y dotadas con asignaci6n dara de
funciones.
' El 70% de bs miembrosde.equipos departamentales y municipales focalizados son capacitados
en la -wesbgaci6n y ia formulaci6n de proyectos pedag6gicos democraticos en el aula,
practicas de gestl6n institucional democa-ticas, prayectos pedag6gicos de convivencia pacffica
esctuea - comunidad y proyectos de coeducaci6n.
a  Por lo menos el 70%  'de las instituciones escolares atendidas han inicado un proceso de
nvesticic'6n sobre practicas pedag6gkcas, gesti6n democratica y de interacd6n de la
con turifi- 1.
e  Por to menos el 70% de las instituciones educativas o las redes formulan e implementan planes
de mejoramlento relacionados con: practicas pedag6gicas de aula, de gesti6n institucional
democrAtica, de interacci6n escuela - comunidad y coeducaci6n.
e  Por lo menos el 70% de las instituciones educativas o las redes implementan con la comunidad
kKhW proyectos sociales, culturales, deportivos y recreativos para la convivencia.
- 83 -



Urneamientos de politicas y estrat6gicas para la educacd6n t6cnica para el sector rural,
concertados y validados por los diferentes sectores gubernamentales y no gubernamentales
iu      ,ado. --
#  Propuestas de formas organizativas de la insftudones, municlplos, departamentos y nacl6n,
para la administrad6n de la educacd6n tnlcna en el sector rural, probadas y experimentadas.
  La ristltucones educativas selecdonadas ejecutan al rnenos el 80% de los recursos de los
subproyectos destinados a educad6n tcnica.
- 84 -



Tabla 4
Poiyeco de Educa6n pare el Sector Rural
XnVWsI6n del Pryeco PrIMW   Etapa (APL 1)
VON  PPMERA ErAPA(AL 1) mfle de dCe .
SFtJ  RIDiTE DE FUINCZ        - O
QuA                n             Ragid&  - .   _
.xU5&    iA  mbis$    96    valorU WA  %         dur J   f  -
E     ixan   1RMO   - j50 12.6W       356   5200    14.4  3bmv
hiuz  a   -zoa(       x5  2            I    CW        0     4_ ._    1%
1it.ul>     2OM        50 14]o        37    SEZ       13-   10.000   IM
te lw&O[i m  de$1nda ;i .h osn6n de mrbeara y m    rrntn de b cidd eidarmi, el
b4a~dwa, de la gesinm ,educaima,lani n-idq pam la b mvw   esdar ywrnunt ab yal derdlo
deqerbI3s*  *cindf *z*Z uya, ar,   9d& n p - A rmi tIrenvRix absauo  as f    sguile:
1VrON PRMIMRA ETAPA (APL 1) mUes de d6lares
u Cm                                                        PNENfTE
aw4nJENt                                YmILOI USS          POI&RdTAJE
,ARii3,- *e dCabettra y MeopmrientzdeI ab icia   25.000     62,
ftx~1i5Wo de I cajadd  Imsoril t    y la 65500
m-    da      y comunbria                 4500              11,3
-1 Ta    4.30D             lO,D
1tbIew - -                              i4,~ 4.o         - 1001'
- 85 -



rIE!   -PIMERA ETAPA(APL t)mft sde dda 
SErf QW4PONOT PORTkRTAY DMADA (SUbpweCto Munidpafe)
COMdaENIE                 |OFERTA .         DEIMANDA            TOTALES
IValor U  %      ItalorUS$ 1%         Vaor US$   %
d e   obeWrbm  y 2.500    10.0    22.500    90.00     25.000     62,5
Meoraiert de a t-it
FtWe&nleM de la capdad 2.400         36.90    4.100    63.00      6.500     163
histhuok-i y la gest6n- de
smponedt munidpales ._.
Convieda    escolar    y  400        8.90     4.100    91.00     4S00       11,3
axnutri
E&Kac6n T6odca               600     15.00    3.400    85.00     4.000      10,0
TOTALES                    5.900     15.0o   34.100    85.00    40.000      100%
- 86 -



Republica de Colombia
MINIsTERio DE EDUCACOON NA CONAL
11111111
DIRECCI&N GENERAL DE INvESTIGACI6N
Y DESARROLL0 PEDAGOGICO
Santafe de Bogota, D.C., 5 de noviembre de 1999
Senior:
Marco Mantovanelli
Oficial de Operaciones
Departamento de Desarrollo Humano
Oficina Regional para America Latina y el caribe
Banco Mundial
Washington DC
REF: Modificaci6n metas programa APL Educaci6n Rural
Apreciado Marco:
En relaci6n con la carta programa de desarrollo, remitida el pasado 29 de octubre de 1999, al
Sefior Andres Solimano, deseo notificar los siguientes cambios a las metas definidas en la Tabla
2 - Metas del APL (operaci6n total), adjunta a la carta en menci6n:
(a) La tasa promedio de cobertura en la educaci6n basica se incrementa a un 75%, en los
municipios focalizados (se anula /a meta de cobertura totao
(b) La tasa de repitencia se disminuye en basica primaria en un 30% y en basica en un 35% (se
anula el nivel de media)
(c) Los estudiantes del sector rural de los municipios intervenidos por el proyecto, incrementan
sus logros educativos, en promedio un 6% acumulado por etapa (se modifica mejoramiento del
logro educativo de los estudiantes en un 3%)
Las modificaciones introducidas responden a una reevaluaci6n efectuada por el grupo de
preparaci6n del proyecto una vez analizados los datos referentes a tendencias en cobertura y
calidad de la educaci6n y los montos de inversion que se focalizaran fundamentalmente en
ambos aspectos. Adjunto Tabla 2 debidamente modificada.
Agradezco su atenci6n a la presente,
Atentamente
Y .,  ; < -_
MARIA EUGENIA ESCOBAR DE SIERRA
Directora General de Investigaci6n
y Desarrollo Pedag6gico
- 87 -



Rep)blica de Colombia
MINISTERIO DE EDUCACION NACIONAL
1111 111
Santafe de Bogota, D.C., Febrero 17 del 2000                  00041
17 FEB 2000
Sehior
ANDRES SOLIMANO
Director para Colombia, Ecuador y Venezuela
Oficina Regional para America Latina y el Caribe
BANCO MUNDIAL
WASHINGTON
Estimado sen'or Solimano:
Damos alcance a nuestra Carta Programa del 29 de Octubre de 1999 con el objeto de precisar
algunas metas y compromisos del Proyecto de Educaci6n para el Sector Rual, como resultado de
los acuerdos a que se lleg6 en la pasada Misi6n de Negociaci6n, realizada entre el 14 y 17 de
Febrero del 2000, a saber:
1. Programa (APL)
- Horizonte de implementaci6n: 10 anios
- Duraci6n promedio por etapa: 3 1/2 anos
- Departamentos atendidos: 30
- Rango de municipios atendidos: 120-210
2. Indicadores de Cambio de Etapa (APL1)
- Diez (10) Alianzas Estrategicas Departamentales controlan y ejecutan al menos el 80% de
los recursos destinados a los subproyectos municipales.
- Diez (10) Alizanas Estrategicas Departamentlaes organizadas y dotadas con asignaci6n
clara de funciones.
- Rango de municipios atendidos: 40 a 70.
Agradecemos su atenci6n a la presente.
Atentamente,
GERMAN BULA ESCOBAR
Ministro de Educaci6n Nacional
c.c. David Harding, Banco Mundial, Washington DC
Martha Laverde, Banco Mundial, Misi6n Residente, Santafe de Bogota D.C.
- 88 -



Additional
Annex No.: 12
Pedagogical models available to rural areas
COLOMBIA: Rural Education Project
Associated Cost
Educational Options                                         Description                                       (US$/student)i
Traditional pedagogical methodologies
It promotes an active process of learning, focused on the student.
Curriculum reflects life in the countryside.
Escuela Nueva               Students attend according to their working schedule.                                $300
*    Promotion is flexible, but not automatic.
*    Peer instruction with older students teaching younger ones.
Learning based on active and cooperative methodologies.
Teacher trained in innovative teaching methodologies, production of teaching materials,
and multigrade techniques.
Limited supervision and high classroom autonomy.
For students between the age of 12 and 17.
It integrates formal and informal education taught inside and outside the schools.
Postprimaria Rural            It allows the students to attend classes on flexible schedules.                     TBD
It is organized in 4/5 centers offering classes from grade I to 5 and one center offering
from grade 6 to 9.
Traditional system existing before the introduction of Escuela Nueva, but still in use in
Escueia Graduada             some rural areas.                                                                   $200
Frontal education, with little or no team work.
Achievement tests.
It allows for the creation of school government.
Educacion contratada           Following to agreements with the MEN, the Colombian Church, and other NGOs are
responsible to providepublic education (grades 0 to 9) through its private institutions,  TBD
mainly to rural and indigenous populations.
Pedagogical Methodologies developed by
non profit entities,
but formally recognized by the MEN
3 vocational training modules (Impulsor; Practico;and Nivel Medio) to provide
secondary education to adults in rural communities.
S.A. T.                 It establishes a direct link between the content of the curriculum and the socio-economic  $225
(developed by FUNDAEC)           need of the rural community, through productive projects.
Based on problem-solving techniques; self-learning; adaptable schedule; and flexible
promotion.
It has its own material, mainly focused on rural environment-related issues.
Trained community teachers.
Designed for dropped-out youths and adults.
S.E R.                  Based on self-learning; development of problem-solving skills; flexible schedule; and
(developed by t(ie           tutoring from community members.                                                    TBD
Universidad Catolica del        Curriculum based on socio-economic conditions of the community.
Oriente)                 Structured on four phases encompassing the nine grades of basic education. Attendance
required: 20 weeks/phase, 8 hours/day.
- 89 -



Pilot experiences of methodologies
successfully implemented elsewhere
Based on remote broadcasting, it provides a complete package of support to teachers and
Telesecundaria (originally         students in remote rural areas.                                                           TBD
developed and implemented           It is a comprehensive instructional model that enables schools to deliver a complete junior
in Mexico)                  secondary curriculum at costs comparable to those provided in more populated, urban
areas.
It offers a viable solution to increasing rural access to a quality secondary education.
Combination of written and audiovisual material, constantly evaluated and updated-
Specific training modules for teachers implemented.
Programa de Aceleracidn            Aimed to redress problems and costs deriving from repetition.
del Aprendizaje para ninios        It focuses on the first five years of school.
en extraedad (originally          Its implementation relies on a strong involvement by local political authorities.         TBD
developed and implemented          It aims at developing students' personality, self-esteem and knowledge.
in Brazil)                 Students work on micro-learning projects with very clear objectives.
Teachers are constantly trained and use ad-hoc pedagogical material.
1) Associated cost: Cost based on the concept ofUnidad de Pago por Capacitaci6n (UPC). It is calculated on ayear basis, and includes all the
costs, with the exception of those related to teacher and administrative staffs salaries. Among the others, UCP includes: books for teachers and
students; stationary for teachers and students; desks; other school furniture; public services; transportation; audiovisuals; sanitary units; sport plants
and fields; teachers' training modules; pedagogical projects; maintenance. A thorough cost effectiveness evaluation of each pedagogical option will be
conducted throughout the first phase of the Program.
- 90 -



Additional
Annex No.: 13
Educational Attainment for Different Age Cohorts (1995 WB data)
COLOMBIA: Rural Education Project
The following tables show, through the analysis of educational attainment for different age cohorts, the
existing correlation between the low level of educational quality in grades 1-5 and high drop-out rates,
which, in turn, negatively affect coverage in grades 6-9.
Colornbia 1C5                          Celembia 1995                      Colombia 1995
;::n3nrc itprolile, egc  l.-I         .Aiainmnt prof le. ages C-29        Atainment profile. eges 30-39
.E                                      080 
0       N                   ~~~~~~~~~c
to                                                                       o  t-         .    X t
0 4 - 
0.2                                   02                                  0.2
L   .0. .   . .0
1    3 4 5    f i                                                       1 2 3 4 5 6;; 8 9
Girudl                               G'-ce                               Grfde
-- LUr                  -u lU| Jrban    +                   Rul   1            Urban            Rural
Source: Encuesta Nacional de Demografia y Salud (1990 y 1995) - PROFAMILIA - Asociacion Pro-Bienestar de la Familia
Colombiana. Published by DHS - Demographic and Heatlh Surveys - Institute for Resource Development/Macro Int., Inc.
Calverton, MD
- 91 -



Additional
Annex No.: 14
Strategy for Incorporating Indigenous and Afro-Colombians Communities
COLOMBIA: Rural Education Project
Among the population groups in rural areas identified for special treatment under the Project are
indigenous groups organized in Cabildos (municipal areas) and Afro-Colombian communities. One
criterion for the selection of the departments and the municipalities, used in the Institutional Capacity
Analysis and to be established in the Operational Manual, is the existence of these population groups. At
the national level, the Project will finance the activities to strengthen cultural, educational and linguistic
research, and to assist in the creation of the MEN's information system on these ethnic groups (see
Section 5). At the local level, through the Strategic Parternships formed at the departmental levels,
municipal subprojects will be created to address the needs of the rural populations and, where
indigenous and Afro-Colombian population groups exist, subprojects will address the specific needs of
these communities. Among the strategies for addressing the educational needs of these groups will be:
-   adaptation of existing educational models to meet the specific needs of these ethnic groups.
-   strengthening educational management through assisting in the elaboration of local
Community-Based Life Plans (Planes de Vida) and the Community Ethno-education Projects
(Proyectos Etnoeducativos Comunitarios, PEC).
-   creating a regional database on ethno-educational experiences and of the Life Plans and PECs.
-   provision to indigenous schools of mother tongue/bilingual libraries and other pedagogic materials
developed by communities.
-   creation/strengthening of pre-service and in-service training programs for indigenous
/Afro-Colombian teachers and community leaders.
The Project will strengthen the Government's ethno-education strategy to improve the quality of
education for indigenous and Afro-Colombian communities. Project impact on these groups will be
assessed through the monitoring and evaluation unit of the MEN and through the various project
supervision missions. The following letter from the Director General of Investigation and Pedagogical
Development of the MEN, outlines the Government commitment to serve the indigenous and
Afro-Colombian communities in relation to the Project:
- 92 -



Republica de Colombia
MINISTERIO DE EDUCACIN NAACIONAL
11111111
D/RECC/ GENERAL DE iN/ESTGACN
Y DESARROLLO PEDAG6GiCO
Free Translation of letters dated December 15 to 20, 1999 sent by the MEN
One of the objectives of the Rural Education Project is to increase the supply and to improve the quality
of education for the Indigenous and Afro-Colombian communities, according to the Political
Constitution of Colombia (1991), the General Law for Education (115 of 1994), the Decree 804 of
1995, the Law 70 (1993) and the policies stated in the current National Development Plan for
Education.
In this context, the Rural Education Project organized, in its preparation stage, a consultative process
by regions named CORPES with the participation of local and regional indigenous organizations. In
order to reach agreements to foster Ethno-education processes, several working meetings were held with
representatives of local Indigenous Organizations and specialized members of the MEN.
As a result of this process, it was agreed to strengthen Ethno-education, as an education option and
proposal, under the scheme of implementation of the Rural Education Project. It is expected to support
the provision of public education for Ethno- Indigenous and Afro-Colombian groups, considering the
fundamentals of their inter-culture, diversity of languages, and traditions. This provision of this service
is developed by Ethno-Education Community Projects (Proyectos Etnoeducativos Comunicatios, PEC)
and by the same communities.
The implementation strategy of the Rural Education Project will be to develop links with the
Resguardos Indigenas which are special legal entities created by a community which owns land and
whose organization is ruled by the Cabildos and Capitanias, (or by an Association of Cabildos and
Capitanias when there are several resguardos in a Municipality).
The following communities have been identified for targeting in the development of projects aimed to
increase the coverage and improve education quality:
-   Five Resguardos Indigenas
-   Indigenous people inhabiting in the Municipalities of Uraba and Northeast Antioquia, Nothern
Department of Bolivar and C6rdoba.
For the indigenous populations it is essential that education corresponds to their own Life Plan or
project (Plan de Vida). The Life Plan is an organized strategy which helps each indigenous community
identify and formulate the human and societal profile they want to build, in accordance with their
necessities and aspirations. Moreover, it describes the history, current situation, and projection of the
cultural and spiritual components of each ethnic group.
The proposal for improvement of the quality of life through Ethno-education, articulated through the
Planes de Vida, are reflected in the Ethno-education Community Projects (PEC), whose objectives,
principles, profile and strategies allow their implementation.
-93 -



Through a Etno-educational Community Project, it is possible to identify the purposes and strategies of
the education process of various communities, such as the formal school education subsystem.
However, the Project has also to consider other alternatives of education modules, such as the traditional
and non-formal education subsystem which exists among human beings, society and nature.
The activities to be considered under the Rural Education Project are oriented to:
-   Linguistic and pedagogical research, as well as publication and systematization of curricula
developed by the communities for their own basic primary and secondary cycles. In addition, there
would be activities to spread knowledge around the community which would integrate their own
cultural education and the intercultural and bilingual education.
-   Provision to Indigenous schools of Ethno-libraries and pedagogic material developed by the
communities in their own mother language or in Spanish for the students and teachers.
-   Cultural Strengthening: development of research on different styles of child-rearing, and
strengthening of indigenous people's education. This will allow the intercultural development to
assimilate and apply their new concepts and universal knowledge mainly in conflict rural zones
where indigenous communities have high cultural vulnerability and potential loss of their own
languages and traditions.
-   Teachers training: a) Pre-service and in-service training for indigenous teachers and community
leaders for the development and management of multicultural contexts and education in Normales;
b) Support to formulate an Ethno-education, Ethno-lingual and multi-cultural Program through a
higher education institute; c) articulation and consolidation of higher education institutes network
which offer Ethno-education programs.
-   Secondary Education: Since the educational options, SAT and SER, need to be adapted, it is
necessary to finance research and activities leading to collaboration among teachers, community
leaders and government authorities. In relation to the options proposed in the Decree 3011 (Adult
Basic Education), more support will be provided to their own indigenous education institutions, the
community schools, and traditional, scholastic boarding schools.
Keeping in mind the Plan de Vida (Life Plan), the Proyectos Etnoeducativos Comunitarios, PEC
(Ethno-education Community Projects) and the Rural Education Project, the following issues will be
focused in relation to the strengthening of education management:
-   Elaboration of community-based local Planes de Vida (Life Plans).
-   Elaboration and formulation of PECs, through the resguardos or/and regional indigenous
organizations.
-   Systematization of the Ethno-educational experiences at national and regional levels.
-   Creation of regional databases and updating of the national database of Planes de Vida and PECs.
In relation to the technical education component, it is important to emphasize that the analysis of the
existing situation and the proposal of new alternatives for the reform of this sector will have to take into
consideration:
- 94 -



(a) The economic structure of indigenous communities, based, at present, on subsistence economy and
isolated cases of over-exploitation of biodiversity resources;
(b) The important achievements made by some rural indigenous schools, where Garantia Alimentaria
programs were carefully researched, evaluated, and developed on the basis of the local
communities' socio-economic and productive frameworks.
(c) The ongoing effort to integrate ethno-education, through Planes de Vida and PECs into the
secondary education cycle, by assimilating lessons learned from a similar attempt made inside the
reform of basic education. Eventually, the reform should lead the communities to elaborate
flexible Planes de Vida, resulting from the combination of flexible pedagogical and management
models, which define plausible scenarios for the use of land and resources, as well as of the
production, introduction, and/or adaptation and use of technology relevant to the communities'
economic framework.
Sincerely,
MARIA EUGENIA ESCOBAR DE SIERRA
General Director for Investigation and Development of Human Talent
- 95 -



Additional
Annex No.: 15
Departmental Strategic Parternships
(Alianzas Estrategicas Departamentales)
COLOMBIA: Rural Education Project
1. Diagn6stico situacional
Pasadas operaciones llevadas a cabo con el BIRF revelan que, aunque los proyectos educativos han
hecho hincapie en la descentralizacion y en la construcci6n de capacidades de los gobiernos locales,
tales proyectos se han diseniado y administrado enteramente en la capital del pais. Este hecho en
buena parte obedece a la resistencia que han mostrado los actores de las instancias centrales, a delegar
en las regiones el poder real, los recursos financieros y la autonomia completa; de tal suerte que
aseguran para si mismos un papel fundamental en la prestaci6n de la capacitaci6n y asistencia tecnica
a las regiones; la cual se desarrolla, sin tener un claro entendimiento del nuevo papel ni de los objetivos
y los servicios que debe prestar el MEN, dentro de un marco descentralizado.
El control centralizado genero un sistema administrativo complejo que aun hoy dificulta el traslado de
fondos al nivel local; por lo cual ha resultado ineficaz la asignaci6n y desembolso de fondos. El monto
y tipo de financiaci6n es controlado por asignaciones nacionales anuales (por lo general desembolsadas
muy tardiamente durante el afio fiscal de la implementaci6n) a cada uno de los municipios, sin la
participaci6n de los gobiernos locales.
Igualmente, a pesar de existir normas que desarrollan la descentralizaci6n, persisten formas y
elementos organizacionales y culturales que no hacen viable la implementaci6n de proyectos bajo esta
nueva politica de organizaci6n del estado.
2. Marco de Politica Nacional
El Plan Nacional de Desarrollo Educativo (1998-2002), inicialmente y a traves de su politica de
movilizacion social, convoca la adhesi6n de toda la sociedad en torno de los objetivos y metas de la
educaci6n, para que usuarios, padres y madres de familia, empresarios y empleados asuman la
educacion, como eje de la construcci6n del futuro de Colombia.
El esquema de alianzas se articula con las propuestas del Nuevo Sistema Escolar, que promueve la
actual politica del sector. A traves de las alianzas es posible integrar y movilizar a la sociedad en torno
a los fines de la educaci6n. generando un valor agregado entre los aliados, al tiempo que se impactan
los principales indicadores educativos.
En segunda instancia, la movilizaci6n social busca generar una activaci6n de ideas, metodos y
procedimientos pedag6gicos, de alternativas administrativas, financieras y organizativas, dentro de la
escuela como fuera de ella. Para lograr este prop6sito se hace necesaria la difusi6n nacional de
politicas y lineamientos curriculares y pedag6gicos, leyes y proyectos de ley, normas y sistemas de
gesti6n y financiacion.
El escenario apropiado para la discusi6n lo constituiran nuevos espacios para la participaci6n de la
sociedad organizada, los grupos de investigaci6n, las ONGs y todo tipo de manifestaci6n de la
- 96 -



sociedad civil que permita avanzar en la consecuci6n de los fines nacionales de la educaci6n.
Uno de los motores de esta politica es el programa caminante, enfocado precisamente a promover la
movilizaci6n de los diversos sectores y actores sociales, publicos y privados, del nivel central, los entes
territoriales y la comunidad internacional, para garantizar la educaci6n de todos los nifios, niflas y
j6venes, especialmente de los que, por una u otra raz6n, se han visto marginados de este beneficio.
El Programa Latinoamericano de Alianzas fomentado por el Banco Mundial, y en el cual viene
participando Colombia, tiene por objetivo promover y facilitar la creaci6n de alianzas entre gobiernos
locales y regionales, otros organismos del sector publico, organizaciones no gubernamentales,
empresas privadas y otras organizaciones civicas y comunitarias, con el fin de emprender iniciativas
para la superaci6n de la pobreza. Dicho programa asegura que el desarrollo sostenible s6lo se puede
alcanzar si el estado asume el papel de regulador y facilitador, el sector privado act(ia con eficiencia,
eficacia y responsabilidad social, y la sociedad civil se comporta solidaria y fortalecida.
Se reconoce ademas que los modelos unicos y estabilizados por algunos de estos sectores para pensar
el desarrollo, han fracasado. La monopolizaci6n estatal de los programas de desarrollo, la reverencia
ciega a "la mano invisible del mercado" y/o la mitificaci6n social no han demostrado ser respuestas
viables para la superacion de la pobreza y demas problemas sociales. Las alianzas entre los sectores
p,oblicos, privado y civil son un paso para el rompimiento de la absolutizaci6n que hacen algunos de
estos sectores y un llamado a la necesidad de construir una "casa publica en donde todos podamos
vivir".
Estas alianzas representan una estrategia novedosa para mejorar la calidad de las intervenciones,
incrementar la sostenibilidad de los logros sociales y econ6micos, y fortalecer la capacidad de impacto
de los proyectos.
Acuerdos de Desarrollo Gobierno -Banco Mundial: El Gobierno continua adelantando su proceso
participativo de base amplia, para el desarrollo de los Planes de Mejoramiento Educativo, con el fin de
propiciar la autonomia y la toma de responsabilidad a nivel regional y local. Por esta via, el Gobierno y
el Banco Mundial, ban acordado trabajar conjuntamente a traves de programas piloto que le otorguen
autonomia a los gobiernos locales. Varios estudios sobre construcci6n de capacidades en el piano local
han mostrado que estas se logran obrando y aprendiendo, y permitiendoles a los interesados identificar
sus debilidades y fortalezas, para luego definir el tipo de proyectos que solucionan sus problemas, y a
la vez el tipo de apoyo tecnico, de habilidades y conocimientos que requieren.
La operaci6n y financiaci6n directa de los proyectos, por parte de los gobiernos locales, ofrecen la
oportunidad de evaluar los beneficios que representa la eliminaci6n de procedimientos presupuestarios
rigidos e instancias de control centralizados. Recientemente se han logrado importantes cambios en las
politicas y en el marco institucional; entre los cuales se incluyen: Una mayor prioridad dada por el
Gobierno a la implementaci6n exitosa de la estrategia de descentralizaci6n, asi esto implique la
perdida de control y de funciones al nivel central. tnfasis en la autonomia de las escuelas como factor
crucial para la estrategia de descentralizaci6n. Reducci6n de los controles presupuestarios a los fondos
asignados a los municipios y escuelas, incluyendo la financiaci6n de bloques, y no a cada rengl6n de
rubros.
De esta manera el Gobierno considera las tres operaciones sobre educaci6n (el Proyecto de Educaci6n
Secundaria reestructurado, el Proyecto de Educaci6n para el Departamento de Antioquia y el Proyecto
de Educaci6n para el Municipio de Pasto) y mAs recientemente el Proyecto de Educaci6n para el Sector
- 97 -



Rural y el Proyecto Nuevo Sistema Escolar del BID, como una estrategia articulada de aprendizaje
para apoyar la gestion descentralizada de las inversiones educativas y garantizar el maximo impacto.
3. Principios del Proyecto de Educacion Rural
Pertinencia: Es evidente que el vinculo entre el proceso educativo y la vida local, en sus dimensiones,
social, cultural y econ6mica, es un generador e "instaurador" de saberes, aprendizajes y competencias
basicas que permiten al estudiante, integrarse activamente a su entorno natural y social, promoviendose
su mayor arraigo y senticdo de pertenencia al mismo. La participaci6n y compromiso de otros sectores
en la formulaci6n prospectiva y la dinamizacion de la educacion posibilita crear o intensificar dicho
vinculo.
Sostenibilidad: En la entidades territoriales, la presencia y permanencia de organizaciones, gremios y
otros sectores, descubren sus ya tradicionales o hist6ricos vinculos con la comunidad, gestado a partir
de intereses econ6micos, sociales y politicos. Dichos vinculos de arraigo y compromiso - aunados a la
reciente pero creciente credibilidad en la educaci6n - por parte de otros sectores, como componente o
factor estrat&gico del desarrollo al que es indispensable y retributivo invertirle, desde el punto de vista
productivo y social, crea un escenario potencialmente fertil y oportuno que es necesario animar,
mediante actuaciones concretas como las Alianzas Estrategicas para garantizar la sostenibilidad futura
del desarrollo educativo en zonas rurales, y del proyecto en particular.
Sinergia: La confluencia de saberes y las experiencias de diversos actores vinculados al sector rural,
entendidas como fortalezas puestas al servicio del desarrollo educativo, inciden en dos grandes areas.
De una parte, en los aspectos de administraci6n y prestaci6n del servicio publico educativo; por otra,
en el desarrollo de competencias basicas en los estudiantes, y en mayores niveles de logro educativo.
En ambas areas, la presencia del sector educativo y el compromiso de otros sectores permite la
transferencia y apropiaci6n reciproca de dichos saberes y experiencias a los diversos actores de la
comunidad educativa, que son el eje y sentido del proceso educativo. La Alianza Estrategica se
convierte en un espacio concreto, generador de desarrollo social, en el cual reside el potencial de hacer
efectiva esa necesaria integraci6n mutua de conocimientos, experiencias, y recursos tanto humanos y
tecnicos, como de infraestructura.
Movilizaci6n Social: La educacion asunto de todos es un estado deseable que todos compartimos;
pero, para ello se requiere hacer innovadores y sostenidos esfuerzos para que la educaci6n ascienda y
mantenga el estatus que todos anhelamos y compartimos. La Alianzas Estrategicas se convierten en un
espacio innovador, concreto y operativo para que el sector privado y las organizaciones de la sociedad
civil se comprometan, a largo plazo, con el desarrollo de la educaci6n en las zonas rurales.
Administraci6n de Recursos: La Alianza Estrategica como espacio donde convergen entidades
publicas, socios privados y organizaciones de la sociedad civil busca construir relaciones de confianza
y cooperaci6n entre los actores involucrados a partir de la transferencia y administraci6n transparente y
eficiente de los recursos que se constituyen en el fondo de la alianza, con el fin de mejorar la eficacia de
la inversi6n social y las relaciones gobierno - sociedad civil, bajo este modelo mixto de organizacion y
de trabajo.
3. Justificaci6n de la Alianza
El Proyecto de Educaci6n para el Sector Rural, es una respuesta a las demandas educativas de este
sector y se enmarca dentro de las politicas del actual plan nacional de desarrollo educativo.
- 98 -



Asume el mandato Constitucional de convertir la educaci6n en una responsabilidad del estado, la
sociedad y la familia. Con base en este postulado, el Proyecto considera necesaria la creaci6n de un
espacio en el cual se integren de manera concertada el estado, el sector privado y la sociedad civil. Alli
se incorporan experiencias, conocimientos, recursos y expectativas que los diversos sectores, entidades
y comunidades han venido desarrollando en torno de la educaci6n rural. A este espacio se denomina
Alianza Estrategica.
La Alianza Estrategica busca, ademas, desarrollar un modelo de organizaci6n y gesti6n, superar
modelos administrativos tradicionales y fortalecer los procesos de desarrollo pedag6gico, de
descentralizaci6n y autonomia de los entes gubernamentales territoriales.
Se pretende que los actores participes de la experiencia de la Alianza Estrategica, queden con la
capacidad de constituir organizaciones que den sostenibilidad al desarrollo educativo rural, una vez
finalizada la ejecuci6n del proyecto.
5. Definici6n
Para el Proyecto de Educaci6n Rural, se entiende por alianza estrat6gica una forma voluntaria de
asociaci6n del estado, el sector privado y la sociedad civil, para realizar actividades conjuntas en la
direcci6n, gesti6n y financiamiento de este, con una visi6n de sostenibilidad prospectiva en donde los
asociados se comprometen a hacer aportes diversos y complementarios, con el fin de alcanzar objetivos
y metas acordadas por todos asociados.
6. Objetivos
General
*Generar una alternativa organizacional y de operaci6n pertinente, para que las regiones gestionen
de manera descentralizada el Proyecto de Educaci6n para el Sector Rural
Especificos
*  Viabilizar el compromiso de los diversos actores sociales y la confluencia de recursos, en torno a
los objetivos y metas educativas que se concreten, para el desarrollo de Proyecto de Educaci6n Rural.
*  Promover en el marco del Proyecto una educaci6n de calidad que garantice el incremento del
acceso y la permanencia de los estudiantes en el sistema educativo.
*  Dinamizar mecanismos y propiciar espacios para la intervenci6n de los actores territoriales, en la
gesti6n, desarrollo y evaluaci6n del Proyecto de Educaci6n Rural.
*  Contar con un interlocutor de caracter local e intersectorial, entre el municipio, el departamento, la
naci6n, el sector productivo y la sociedad civil, que gestione de manera eficiente y eficaz la
implementaci6n de Proyecto Educativo Rural.
*  Poner a prueba un sistema de transferencia de recursos, que permita el cumplimiento de los
objetivos del proyecto, haciendo coherente los intereses y condiciones de la naci6n, con los de las
- 99-



entidades territoriales. Dicho sistema propendera por el desarrollo de procesos agiles, eficientes y
transparentes en el manejo de los recursos.
*  Brindar al conjunto de actores territoriales aprendizajes que generen condiciones para la
sostenibilidad del Proyecto de Educaci6n Rural.
* Contribuir desde el sector educativo, en los procesos de desarrollo social y econ6mico pertinentes
para la poblaci6n rural.
7. Criterios Generales para la Conformaci6n, Organizaci6n y Funcionamiento de la Alianza
*  Participaci6n y concertaci6n intersectorial
*  Presencia activa de los actores territoriales
*  Organizaci6n y gesti6n eficiente
*  Visi6n prospectiva y de sostenibilidad
*  Consecuci6n y racionalizaci6n de recursos
8. Organizaci6n de la Alianuza Estrategica Departamental
(a) Conformaci6n e inhabilidades
Todos los actores territoriales reconocidos legal y socialmente en el ambito territorial, tienen la
posibilidad de conformar la Alianza Estrategica Departamental.
La Alianza Estrat6gica estara conformada por todos aquellos actores territoriales que voluntariamente
se asocien mediante un convenio para el logro de los objetivos del PER.
La organizaci6n de los actores territoriales se da bajo el liderazgo de la Secretaria de Educaci6n
Departamental.
El nivel Nacional junto con el departamento informaran y convocaran a los gremios, entidades
gubernamentales y no gubernamentales, Universidades, entre otros a traves de mecanismos adecuados,
garantizdndoles el acceso a la informaci6n para que todos tengan la oportunidad de ser aliados.
Como resultado de la primera convocatoria y del conocimiento pleno de las caracteristicas de la
Alianza Estrategica en el marco del Proyecto, debe surgir un grupo de actores territoriales interesados
y preparados para constituirse en la Alianza Estrategica Departamental. Este grupo procede
establecera entre sus miembros un convenio de voluntades en donde expresan su intensi6n de: i)
participar en las tareas previas a la firma de un acuerdo de voluntades que serA parte integrante del
convenio de alianza; ii) integrar la alianza asumiendo las responsabilidades estipuladas en el convenio
de alianza, y iii) seleccionar los municipios y/o resguardos indigenas, con base en criterios
suministrados por el nivel nacional.
Una vez seleccionados los municipios y/o resguardos indigenas, y confirmada su participaci6n como
aliados, se contara con el conj unto total de actores integrantes del respectivo convenio de Alianza
Estrategica Departamental.
Se espera que la conformaci6n minima de una Alianza Estrategica Departamentales integre a los
-100 -



siguientes actores: el Departamento, los municipios y/o resguardos indigenas seleccionados, y un
gremio productivo con presencia en el departamento o en los municipios y/o resguardos.
El aporte de los aliados consistira en recursos humanos, fisicos, tecnicos, financieros y/o logisticos.
Dicho aporte debe ser claramente estipulado en el acuerdo de voluntades, sin que aquello obste para
nuevos aportes por parte de los aliados. Por otra parte, para cumplir el principio de transparencia, los
aliados no podran contratar bienes, obras o servicios con el proyecto.
Los aliados giran sus aportes en dinero a las cuentas regionales que administrara el Organismos
Intergubernamental.
(b) Estructura Organizativa
La Alianza debe darse su propia organizaci6n para el cumplimiento de sus funciones. No obstante, los
aliados para garantizar la operaci6n de la Alianza Estrategica deberin conformar:
* Un Comite de Alianza
El Comite de Alianza se constituye en la instancia de mayor decisi6n. En este comite deberan estar
representados todos los aliados agrupados por sectores. Los principales sectores dentro de los cuales
se pueden agrupar a los actores territoriales son: El departamento, los municipios; los gremios
productivos; las universidades y ONGs; otras organizaciones civicas o comunitarias; otras
organizaciones de diversa indole.
La conformacion del comite debe ser equitativa con respecto al grado de representacion de los sectores
integrantes de la alianza estrategica.
Cada representante tendra voz y voto para la toma de decisiones.
NOTA: Dada la preponderancia de los asuntos educativos en el marco del proyecto de Educaci6n
Rural, se considera que el delegado para el departamento ante el comite debe ser el Secretario de
Educaci6n o su designado. Para el nivel municipal igualmente se considera que el (los)
representante (s) debera (n) ser el Secretario de Educaci6n o quien cumpla sus veces.
Coordinador Tecnico de la Alianza:
La Alianza contarA con un coordinador tecnico: El Comite de la Alianza con base en una terna
presentara ante el nivel nacional, el candidato a coordinador tecnico de la alianza, quien deberi contar
con experiencia en educacion y en la operaci6n y administraci6n de proyectos de desarrollo social.
El Coordinador sera contratado con recursos del Proyecto, siguiendo los terminos estipulados por los
manuales del Banco Mundial y del Proyecto. Tendra una dedicacion de tiempo completo y la Alianza
debera garantizarle una dotaci6n minima de oficina, equipos y suministros para el desarrollo de sus
funciones. Adicionalmente y si la alianza lo considera conveniente, le designara con recursos propios,
un asistente.
Para apoyar el trabajo del coordinador tecnico, la Alianza podrA designar una o varias personas que
actuen como equipo de apoyo en las tareas administrativas y tecnicas. De la misma manera se podra
- 101 -



designar una o varias personas que desarrollen tareas de apoyo y asesoria en los aspectos pedag6gicos.
En todos los casos se debera acudir al personal de las entidades miembros de las alianzas.
Funciones del Coordinador
-  Asistir tecnicamente a los equipos municipales para la elaboraci6n de los POA y los PMRs.
-  Consolida los POA y los PMRs de los municipios y los presenta al comite de la alianza para su
respectiva aprobaci6n.
-  Solicitar los desembolsos al Organismo Intergubernamental.
-  Revisar y ajustar los Terrninos de Referencia presentados por los municipios.
- Autorizar la ejecucion de los recursos inferiores o equivalente a US$1 .500 para el desarrollo de los
subproyectos municipales.
-  Organizar, actualizar y hace uso del Banco de Oferentes.
-  Solicitar al Organismos Intergubernamental iniciar los procesos de licitacion y contrataci6n de
bienes, obras y servicios
-  Convocar al Comite de la Alianza para la toma de decisiones que corresponde a asuntos de mayor
complejidad.
-  Supervisar el avance y la entrega de los productos objeto de los contratos derivados (subcontratos).
-  Rendir cuentas y reportar la informaci6n al Ministerio de Educaci6n Nacional, otros sectores y
entes de control.
-  Recibir y sistematizar los reportes de interventoria efectuados por los beneficiarios de los proyectos
y las veedurias.
-  Garantizar la aplicaci6n del plan de seguimiento y evaluaci6n del Proyecto de Educaci6n para el
Sector Rural, tanto a nivel departamental como municipal y reportar a! Comite de la Alianza.
-  Actuar como interlocutor entre el Ministerio de Educaci6n Nacional, El Organismo
Intergubernamental administrador de los recursos y el Comite de la Alianza.
U Un Comite de compras y licitaciones
El Comite de compras y licitaciones, estara integrado por un representante del departamento, un
representante de los municipios, un representante del gremio(s) u ONG(s) socio(s) de la alianza, el
coordinador y el representante departamental del Organismos Intergubernamental Administrador de los
recursos. Dicho comite aprobara compras superiores o equivalentes a US$1.500, siempre ajustando
sus procedimientos a las disposiciones del Banco para la materia de licitaci6n y contrataciones.
Funciones del Comite de la Alianza
El Comite de la Alianza procedera a:
- Darse su estructura organizativa para el desarrollo eficiente de sus funciones.
- Garantizar que la coordinaci6n cuente con los recursos humanos, fisicos, financieros y logisticos
necesarios para el cumplimiento de sus funciones.
- Elaborar su programa de asistencia tecnica, orientado a que cada municipio formule su
subproyecto. Para el efecto podra ejecutar dichas actividades de asistencia tecnica empleando los
recursos tecnicos aportados por los aliados o a traves de consultorias canceladas con recursos del
Proyecto de Educacion para el Sector Rural'.
Aprobar los POA y PMRs consolidados.
- 102 -



- Vigilar la ejecuci6n del PER a nivel departamental.
- Evaluar y seleccionar las propuestas de los oferentes de bienes y servicios.
- Decidir sobre ajustes a partir del seguimiento y evaluaci6n del Proyecto de Educaci6n para el
Sector Rural.
- Vigilar el desempefio del organismo intergubernamental para que la administrador de los recursos
sea pertinente y oportuna a los requerimientos de los demandantes.
-   Colaborar en la ejecuci6n de las auditorias.
-   Convocar las veedurias y divulgar los resultados de los proyectos.
-   Reportar a los organismos de control.
Esta tarea de asistencia tecnica para la formulaci6n, termina cuando los subproyectos son viabilizados tdcnicamente por el Comite, empleando
los manuales establecidos y suministrados por el Proyecto de Educaci6n para el Sector Rural.
- 103-



Additional
Annex No.: 16
Information and Communication Strategy
COLOMBIA: Rural Education Project
The information and communication campaign has three basic objectives:
(a) To inform both the targeted regions (their institutions and populations), and the national community at
large about the main features of the Project (amount, development strategy, implementation schedule,
etc.);
(b) To foster effective ownership of the Project between the national community, private sector entities,
and public authorities; in particular, those of the targeted departments and municipalities;
(c) To maintain a constant debate over rural education, thus inducing the development of autonomous
initiatives to improve its quality and coverage also in those regions that are not specifically targeted and
financed by the Project.
Operational Arrangements
In general terms, the information and communication strategy has been conceived to provide the different
audiences with a wide array of information about the Project throughout its implementation phases.
However, the specificity of the message, as well as the media to be used will vary according to the
characteristics of the audience.
National Level
The MEN will define the terms of reference for the selection of an agent (an NGO, a Foundation, a private
communication agency, or any other private or public entity) which will be responsible of designing and
implementing, through the appropriate media, the information and communication strategy at the national
level.
An integral part of this assignment is the design and implementation of a web page. This page will be
articulated in a first part, with general information about the Project, links with similar experiences in other
countries, etc. freely accessible by everybody. A second part will be available only to focused departments
and municipalities. It will carry all the information about the implementation of the Project; it will also
serve to maintain a constant flow of information between the MEN, the Funds Managing Agency, and the
focused administrative bodies implementing the Project at the regional level.
The MEN will also be in charge of monitoring the implementation of the campaign at the national level. In
particular, it would have to work closely with the selected agent and the Press Office of the Minister of
Education whenever a situation of crisis (such as campaigns against the Project, national strikes, etc.)
endangers the implementation of the Project.
Regional Level
At the regional level, the Alianzas Estrategicas Departamentales will be in charge of the implementation of
the information and communication strategy. Every Alianza will be responsible of including and spending a
5% of the total budget destined to the subprojects for this activity, which, as in the national case, will be
sub-contracted according to specific terms of reference. Any Alianza will be also responsible of providing
- 104 -



the necessary information to update the web-page, especially for the restricted access area, and to maintain
a constant flow of communication with the MEN, so to provide the necessary feedback to implement the
strategy at the national level.
The validity of this strategy will be constantly monitored by the MEN during the implementation of the
Project, in order to prove its suitability for second phase of the Program, and introduce the required
changes, if any.
The Information and Communications Strategy in Spanish is presented in a separate document available in
Project's files.
- 105 -






-  7!pX  -                74-                                              g  ccua-A               ______ ~~~~~~~~~~~~- IBR.D 261,53
JAMAlCAc  OMeNICAN f;BP.            -
12-  L O M B I A                                                      t                 a           c>ry bor or Seo               Jc ^w-,~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ 
~~~~~~~~~12~~~~~~~~~~~~   -                                                                  12'- CzSiA!'t g
9iohocha0   ^  .<              ~~~~~~~SANTAFE DE BOtA@i(-r '  F,,f R GUfANA
Sant. Mart.<E /                                                                                         ' \//cHC8   _  
Borrmq -1         ,              _                   , -ECU,kDORT'
/) / , > / J2t . > rrocsf>e < ot ~~~~~~~~~~BOLIVIA '
=                        x t   ~~~~~~~~~~~~~Sinceleo                                                          oc  gM  e'3ontPfAUA
XANA A 4 ~~~~~~~~~~Monlerir-~                                                                                                    i A -~ _/ RGENiTINA
.  c 9  %   t X           <    ~~~~~~~~~~~ i B.- <.  \                                        70 ~~~~~~~~~~~ancl arry other informationl sho-wn on
~~8- 0 ' df ! 4 C , . n \ f Cur,uh@: . ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~on the iegol status of any forrifor), or
X  t  $: -   t- -   i'       }~~~~~~~~~~~~<  9   qs  t                           K ~~~~~ such bounclarOf- 
SE 0 X J jr t t__~~~~-ucorama ol  X
i< >       t N  -1  0  CD r;J 1 A   o            \a       Ai         ;      .             ;         .      V   E  N    E Z  U  E L A       .j 
47 c        I o    cJ A er                               Jl2D>fM2Ci,M    
,,C~~~~~~~~~~A'  Ai' ', f  /
C                   <       sFlorencio           \        ^ s_  "  A   .  j  -s  S          *   ..                                t;        <-, \icenco  2[-
4<|e  #kC'q- r,..-,.,   \ '^...........s ,,t M 
>~~~~~~~o Jose de GuLObiFTre
E~~~t C U A D                                                                                                                 A R   
J                       ~~~~~~~~ELEVATIONAbSOVE 1 000 METERS               t                    -      S      <1-                                                   ,
i     NATIONAL CAPITAL'                                                                                                            ;       -= 
@     DEPARTMENT CAPITALSp                                       E      R     UJ                        i         --i 
DEPARTMENT BOUNDARIES  ---*_-
--INTERNATIONAL BOUNDARIES r= ,,   
-478 4-                                                                                                                                                                  'b 4J
AUGUST 1 994



