Page  1
July
20, 1998
Mr. Jose David Marin Enriquez 
Director
Agencia Colombiana de Cooperaci
ón Internacional
Bogotá, Colombia
Re:
Japanese PHRD Grant for the preparation of the Colombia Rural Education Project
Grant Number
025373
Dear Sir:
I
am writing on behalf of the International Bank for Reconstruction and Development (the 
Bank) to indicate the Bank's agreement, as administrator of grant funds provided by the government 
of Japan, to make a grant in an amount not exceeding US$ 191,000 (one hundred ninety-one 
thousand) (the Grant) to Republic of Colombia (the Recipient).
The Grant is made in response to the Recipient's request for financial assistance and for the 
purposes and on the terms and conditions set forth in the Annex to this Letter Agreement.  The 
Recipient represents, by confirming its agreement below, that it is authorized to contract and 
withdraw the Grant for the said purposes and on the said terms and conditions.
Please confirm your agreement with the foregoing, on behalf of the Recipient, by signing, 
dating, and returning to us the enclosed copy of this Letter Agreement.  Upon receipt by the Bank of 
the copy of this Letter Agreement countersigned by you, this Letter Agreement will become effective 
as of the date of the countersignature.
Very truly yours,
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION
AND DEVELOPMENT
By
/s/ Jonathan Parker
Acting Director
Country Management Unit
Ecuador, Colombia and Venezuela
AGREED:
REPUBLIC OF COLOMBIA
By José David Marín
Director
Agencia Colombiana de Cooperación Internacional
Page  2
Date: 
_______________
ANNEX I
Purposes, Terms, and Conditions of the Grant
1.
Purposes and Activities
1.1. The purposes of the Grant are to assist in the preparation of the Rural Education Project 
(the Project) aimed at the betterment of the deteriorated life conditions of rural populations 
through improved access and quality of education services provided in rural areas and the 
strengthening of decentralized sector management capacity.  The activities (the Activities) for 
which the Grant is given are as follows:
(i) Information Systems
:
analyzing existing statistical data relevant to the sector and 
identifying eventual gaps in order to design a reliable information system as a management 
tool and the designing of a staff training program on the use of the system; (ii) Distance
Education
:
assisting in  exploring different ways of using technology for the provision of 
distance or tutorial education in the specific setting of Colombia and the rural sector, 
analyzing impact and cost-effectiveness issues; (iii)  Project Monitoring and Evaluation
:
assisting in establishing a monitoring and evaluation system for all activities under the Project 
and the required dissemination strategy.  Specifically, this TA would focus on the 
development of a monitoring strategy throughout the life of the Project by supporting the 
definition of monitoring tools and by helping to create an early warning system for the 
implementation of corrective actions during Project implementation; (iv) Financial
Management
:
developing a transparent mechanism for timely and reliable financial 
information and audit control to serve as a management tool and as an early warning system 
for problems in Project implementation; and (v) International Panel of Experts
:
participation
of about
5
international experts in rural education in a project specific seminar in Colombia to 
discuss and inform about the perspective of the experiences of other countries or donors 
active in the region with rural education.
2.
Implementation Generally
Page  3
2.1. The Recipient shall carry out the Activities through the Technical Secretariat of the 
Recipient
’s Ministry of Education (
Secretar
ía Técnica
)
with due diligence and efficiency 
and, for that purpose, the Recipient shall promptly provide the 
Secretaría Técnica
 all 
required funds, including but not limited to the proceeds of the Grant, facilities, services and 
other resources required for that purpose.   Furthermore, the Recipient shall furnish all 
information covering the Activities and the use of the proceeds of the Grant as the Bank shall 
reasonably request and from time to time exchange views with the Bank's representatives on 
the progress and results of the Activities.
2.2. The Recipient, through the 
Secretaría Técnica
 shall enter into contractual arrangements 
with an entity acceptable to the Bank (the payment Agent), satisfactory to the Bank, to 
facilitate payments by the recipient (or on behalf thereof) to suppliers of services to be 
financed under the Grant.   Except as the Bank shall otherwise agree, procurement of the 
consultants
’
services required for the carrying out of the Activities and to be financed out of 
the proceeds of the Grant shall be governed by the provisions of Attachment I to this Annex.
3.
Procurement
3.1. Except as the Bank shall otherwise agree, procurement of the consultants’ services 
required for the carrying out of the Activities and to be financed out of the proceeds of the 
Grant shall be governed by the provisions of Attachment I to this Annex.
4.
Withdrawal of Grant Proceeds
4.1. The amount of the Grant shall be credited to an account opened by the Bank on its books 
in the name of the Recipient (the Grant Account), and may be withdrawn therefrom by the 
Recipient in accordance with the provisions of this Section 4, for expenditures in respect of 
the reasonable cost of services required for the Activities and to be financed out of the 
proceeds of the Grant.
4.2. (a).
The expenditures for the following items may be financed out of the proceeds of 
the Grant and shall be used exclusively in the carrying out of the Activities:
Page  4
Amount of the Grant
% of
Allocated
(in
Expenditures to
Item
US dollars
)
be Financed
(1)
Consultants
’
191,000
100%
services
4.2
(b)
The Recipient, through the 
Secretar
ía Técnica, 
shall ensure at all times that: (i) 
the expenditures incurred in pursuant to the carrying out ogf the Activities shall not duplicate 
expenditures financed or to be financed under the Advance for preparation of the Project 
granted by the Bank (PPF 345-CO) to the Recipient under letter dated May 1, 1998; and (ii) 
the Activities to be financed under the Grant are consistent with the activities financed or to 
be financed under PPF
345-CO.
4.3.
Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph
4.2 above, no withdrawals shall be made:
 
(i) for payments made for expenditures prior to the date of signature of this Letter Agreement 
by the Bank, except that withdrawals, in an aggregate amount not exceeding the equivalent of 
19,000 US dollars, may be made on account of payments made for expenditures before that 
date but after April 10, 1998; (ii) on account of payments for any taxes levied by or in the 
territory of the Recipient; (iii) on account of expenditures in the territories of any country 
which is not a member of the Bank or for services supplied from such territories; (iv) for the 
purpose of any payment to persons or entities if such payment, to the Bank
’s knowledge, is 
prohibited by a decision of the United Nations Security Council taken under Chapter VII of 
the Charter of the United Nations; or (v) after
 
April
30,
2000
or
such later date as the Bank 
shall establish by written notice to the Recipient (the Closing Date), except that withdrawals 
may be made for expenditures incurred prior to the Closing Date if the corresponding 
application is received by the Bank within four months after the Closing Date, after which 
time any amount of the Grant remaining unwithdrawn from the Grant Account shall be 
canceled. 
4.4. When the Recipient shall desire to withdraw any amount from the Grant Account, it shall 
deliver to the Bank a written application for withdrawal of such amount in the form specified 
by the Bank.  Withdrawal applications shall be: (a) signed on behalf of the Recipient by the 
Director of the Recipient’s 
Agencia Colombiana de Cooperaci
ón Internacional
 
(
Agencia
)
or such other person as he or she shall have authorized in writing; and (b) be accompanied by 
Page  5
such evidence in support of the application as the Bank shall reasonably request.
Authenticated specimen signatures of the person authorized to sign withdrawal applications 
shall be provided with the first application bearing his or her signature.  Each withdrawal 
application for an amount of the Grant and its supporting evidence must be sufficient in form 
and substance to satisfy the Bank that the Recipient is entitled to withdraw such amount from 
the Grant Account and that such amount is to be used in the carrying out of the Activities.
The Bank shall pay the amounts withdrawn by the Recipient from the Grant Account only to 
or on the order of the Recipient.
4.5. The Bank may require withdrawals from the Grant Account to be made on the basis of 
statements of expenditure for expenditures for: (a) services of consulting firms costing less 
than $50,000 equivalent;  (b) services of individual consultants costing less than $ 40,000 
equivalent, all under such terms and conditions as the Bank shall specify by notice to the 
Recipient. 
4.6. Withdrawals of the proceeds of the Grant shall be made in the currency of the Grant.
The Bank, at the Recipient
’s request made through the 
Agencia
and acting as an agent of the 
Recipient, shall purchase with the currency of the Grant withdrawn from the Grant Account 
such currencies as shall be required to pay for expenditures to be financed out of the proceeds 
of the Grant.  Whenever it shall be necessary, for the purposes of this Letter Agreement, to 
determine the value of one currency in terms of another, such value shall be as reasonably 
determined by the Bank.
5.
Accounts and Audits
5.1. (a)
The Recipient through the 
Agencia
shall maintain or cause to be maintained 
records and accounts adequate to reflect in accordance with sound accounting practices the 
operations, resources and expenditures in respect of the Activities of the departments or 
agencies of the Recipient responsible for carrying out the Activities or any part thereof.
(b)
The Recipient through the 
Agencia
shall: (i) have the records and accounts 
referred to in subparagraph (a) above for each fiscal year audited, in accordance with 
appropriate auditing principles consistently applied, by independent auditors acceptable to the 
Page  6
Bank;
(ii) furnish to the Bank as soon as available, but in any case not later than[six] months 
after the end of each such year, the report of such audit by said auditors, of such scope and in 
such detail as the Bank shall have reasonably requested; and (iii) furnish to the Bank such 
other information concerning said records and accounts and the audit thereof as the Bank 
shall from time to time reasonably request.
(c)
For all expenditures with respect to which withdrawals from the Grant Account 
were made on the basis of statements of expenditure, the Recipient shall: (i) maintain or cause 
to be maintained, in accordance with subparagraph (a) above, records and accounts reflecting 
such expenditures; (ii) retain, until at least one year after the Bank has received the audit 
report for the fiscal year in which the last withdrawal from the Grant Account was made, all 
records
(contracts, orders, invoices, bills, receipts and other documents) evidencing such 
expenditures;
(iii) enable the Bank
’s representatives to examine such records; and (iv) ensure 
that such records and accounts are included in the annual audit referred to in subparagraph
(b) 
above and that the report of such audit contains a separate opinion by said auditors as to 
whether the statements of expenditure submitted during such fiscal year, together with the 
procedures and internal controls involved in their preparation, can be relied upon to support 
the related withdrawals.
6.
Suspension and Cancellation
6.1. The Bank may at any time, by notice to the Recipient, suspend the right of the Recipient 
to make further withdrawals from the Grant Account if any of the following events has 
occurred and is continuing: (a) the Recipient has failed to comply with any of its obligations 
herein specified; or (b) the right of the Recipient, or any other entity to which the Bank has 
made a loan with the guarantee of the Republic of Colombia, to make withdrawals under any 
loan agreement with the Bank shall have been suspended.
6.2.
The Bank may, by written notice to the Recipient, terminate the right of the 
Recipient to make further withdrawals from the Grant Account: (a) at any time after the right 
of the Recipient to make withdrawals from the Grant Account shall have been suspended 
pursuant to the provisions of paragraph 6.1 above; or (b) if the Recipient shall have failed to 
take action, satisfactory to the Bank, within six months after the effective date hereof, to carry 
Page  7
out the Activities; or (c) if the Bank has decided, at any time after consultation with the 
Recipient through the 
Agencia
and the 
Secretar
ía Técnica
,
to withdraw its support to the 
Project; or (d) if the Recipient, through the 
Agencia
,
has withdrawn its request for  Bank
’s 
assistance in financing the Project.
Attachment I
Procurement
Section I
.
Consultants
’
Services
Part A
:
General
Consultants’ services shall be procured in accordance with the provisions of the 
Introduction and Section IV of the “Guidelines: Selection and Employment of Consultants by 
World Bank Borrowers”, published by the Bank in January 1997 and revised in September 
1997
(the Consultant Guidelines), and the following provisions of this Section I.
Part B
:
Quality
-
and Cost
-
based Selection
1.
Except as otherwise provided in Part C of this Section, consultants’ services shall be 
procured under contracts awarded in accordance with the provisions of Section II of the 
Consultant Guidelines, paragraph 3 of Appendix 1 thereto, Appendix 2 thereto, and the 
provisions of paragraphs 3.13 through 3.18 thereof applicable to quality- and cost-based 
selection of consultants.
Part C
:
Other Procedures for the Selection of Consultants
2.
Selection Under a Fixed Budget
Services for the information systems, distance education and monitoring and evaluation 
under paragraph 1.1 (i) and (iii) respectively of Annex I, if to be provided by a consultant 
firm,  may be procured under contracts awarded in accordance with the provisions of 
paragraphs
3.1
and
3.5
of the Consultant Guidelines.
Page  8
3.
Single Source Selection
Services under paragraph 2.2 of Annex I, may, with the Bank
’s prior agreement, be 
procured in accordance with the provisions of paragraphs 3.8 through 3.11 of the consultant 
Guidelines if the entity selected has experience and characteristics of exceptional worth for 
the assignment.
4.
Individual Consultants
Services for the Activities under paragraphs 1.1 (i) through (vi) of Annex I that meet the 
requirements set forth in paragraph 5.1 of the Consultant Guidelines shall be procured under 
contracts awarded to individual consultants in accordance with the provisions of paragraphs 
5.1 through 5.3 of the Consultant Guidelines.
Part D
:
Review by the Bank of the Selection of Consultants
1.
Selection Planning
Prior to the issuance to consultants of any requests for proposals, the proposed plan for the 
selection of consultants under the Activities shall be furnished to the Bank for its review and 
approval, in accordance with the provisions of paragraph 1 of Appendix 1 to the Consultant 
Guidelines.
Selection of all consultants’ services shall be undertaken in accordance with such 
selection plan as shall have been approved by the Bank, and with the provisions of said 
paragraph
1.
2.
Prior Review
(a)
With respect to each contract for the employment of consulting firms estimated 
to cost the equivalent of $70,000 or more, the procedures set forth in paragraphs 1, 2 (other 
than the third subparagraph of paragraph 2 (a)) and 5 of Appendix 1 to the Consultant 
Guidelines shall apply.
Page  9
(b)
With respect to each contract for the employment of consulting firms estimated 
to cost the equivalent of $50,000 or more, but less than the equivalent of $70,000 the 
procedures set forth in paragraphs 1, 2 (other than the second subparagraph of paragraph 2 
(a)) and 5 of Appendix 1 to the Consultant Guidelines shall apply.
(c)
With respect to each contract for the employment of individual consultants 
estimated to cost the equivalent of $40,000 or more, the qualifications, experience, terms of 
reference and terms of employment of the consultants shall be furnished to the Bank for its 
prior review and approval.  The contract shall be awarded only after said approval shall have 
been given.
3.
Post Review
With respect to each contract not governed by paragraph
1
of this Part, the procedures set
forth in paragraph
4
of Appendix
1
to the Consultant Guidelines shall apply.
