Page  1
\08
CONFORMED COPY
LOAN NUMBER 7012-CO
Loan Agreement
(Rural Education Project)
between
REPUBLIC OF COLOMBIA
and
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION
AND DEVELOPMENT
Dated October 20, 2000
LOAN NUMBER 7012-CO
LOAN AGREEMENT
AGREEMENT, dated October 20, 2000, between REPUBLIC OF COLOMBIA 
(the Borrower) and INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT 
(the Bank).
WHEREAS (A) the Borrower delivered to the Bank the letters, dated 
October 29, 1999 and February 17, 2000 (the Program Letter), describing 
the Borrower’s program, to be carried out during the period 2000-2008, to 
improve access to quality education in rural areas while also supporting, 
from the school, the development of peaceful coexistence and civic values 
in the community, to strengthen the Borrower's capacity to manage the 
implementation of education projects in rural areas, and, during the 
first phase of the Program, to undertake a reform in technical education 
in such areas (the Program);
(B)
the Borrower, having satisfied itself as to the feasibility 
and priority of the project described in Schedule 2 to this Agreement 
(the Project), which Project forms part of the first phase of the 
Program, has requested the Bank to assist in the financing of the 
Project; and
Page  2
WHEREAS the Bank has agreed, on the basis, inter alia, of the 
foregoing, to extend the loan provided for in Article II of this 
Agreement (the Loan) in support of the first phase of the Program, upon 
the terms and conditions set forth in this Agreement;
NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:
ARTICLE I
General Conditions; Definitions
Section 1.01. The “General Conditions Applicable to Loan and 
Guarantee Agreements for Fixed-Spread Loans” of the Bank, dated September 
1, 1999, with the modification set forth below  (the General Conditions) 
constitute an integral part of this Agreement.
Paragraph (c) of Section 9.07 is modified to read as follows:
“(c) Not later than six months before the Closing Date or 
such later date as may be  agreed for this purpose between the Bank and 
the Borrower, the Borrower, through its 
Ministry of 
Education, shall prepare and furnish to the Bank a report, of such scope 
and in 
such detail as the Bank shall reasonably request, on the 
execution and initial operation of 
the Project, its cost and the 
benefits derived and to be derived from it, the performance by 
the 
Borrower and the Bank of their respective obligations under the Loan 
Agreement and the 
accomplishment of the purposes of the Loan.”
Section 1.02. Unless the context otherwise requires, the several 
terms defined in the General Conditions and in the Preamble to this 
Agreement have the respective meanings therein set forth and the 
following additional terms have the following meanings:
(a)
"Agent" means the entity referred to in Section 3.01 (c) of 
this Agreement which is a party to the Agent Agreement;
(b)
"Agent's Account" means the Agent's account referred to in 
Part B.1 of Schedule 1 to this Agreement;
(c)
“Agent Agreement” means the agreement referred to in Section 
3.01 (c) of this Agreement;
(d)
“Alianza” means any of the associations to be formed, 
pursuant to an Alianza Agreement, by representatives of the Departamento 
where the Eligible Municipalities are located, such Eligible 
Municipalities, productive private sector entities operating in such 
Eligible Municipalities, and non-governmental organizations and 
universities located in such Departamento, for the purpose of leading the 
development of a strategy for the strengthening of education services in 
the Eligible Municipalities, selecting Subprojects, and assisting the 
Borrower and the Agent in the carrying out, monitoring and evaluation of 
Subprojects, the formation of any such Alianza to observe the 
requirements and procedures set forth in the Project Manual for the 
selection of its members (other than the Departamento and the Eligible 
Municipalities);
(e)
“Alianza Agreement” means any of the agreements referred to 
in Part A. 2 (c) (i) of Schedule 1 to this Loan Agreement;
(f)
“Departamento” means any of the territorial entities of the 
Page  3
Borrower where Subprojects will be carried out, which will be specified 
in the Project Manual, or any other Departamento which, with the 
agreement of the Bank, may replace, or may be added to, those originally 
selected for purposes of the Project;
(g)
“Eligible Categories” means categories (1) through (4) set 
forth in the table in Part A.1 of Schedule 1 to this Agreement;
(h)
“Eligible Expenditures” means the expenditures for goods, 
works and consultants' services referred to in Section 2.02 (a) of this 
Agreement;
(i)
“Eligible Municipalities” means the municipalities and/or 
indigenous territories, in each Departamento, which form part of an 
Alianza, and where Subprojects will be carried out, or any other 
municipality and/or indigenous territory which may replace any such 
Eligible Municipality, or may be added for purposes of the Project, as 
provided in the Project Manual;
(j)
“MEN” means Ministerio de Educación Nacional, the Borrower's 
Ministry of Education;
(k)
“Project Manual” means the manual referred to in Section 
6.01 of this Agreement;
(l)
“Project Management Report” means any of the reports 
prepared in accordance with Section 4.02 of this Agreement;
(m)
“Project Preparation Advance” means the project preparation 
advance granted by the Bank to the Borrower pursuant to the letter 
agreement (P345-0 CO) signed on behalf of the Bank on May 1, 1998 and on 
behalf of the Borrower on May 21, 1998;
(n)
“Project Unit” means the unit referred to in Section 3.03 of 
this Agreement;
(o)
“Subproject” means any of the projects, consisting of the 
activities set forth in Part E of the Project, which have been approved 
by an Alianza, in accordance with the criteria set forth in the Project 
Manual, to be carried out for the benefit of an Eligible Municipality; 
and
(p)
“Subproject Agreement” means any of the agreements referred 
to in Section 3.01 (d) of this Agreement.
ARTICLE II
The Loan
Section 2.01.  The Bank agrees to lend to the Borrower, on the 
terms and conditions set forth or referred to in this Agreement, an 
amount equal to twenty million Dollars ($20,000,000), as such amount may 
be converted from time to time through a Currency Conversion in 
accordance with the provisions of Section 2.09 of this Agreement.
Section 2.02.  (a) The amount of the Loan may be withdrawn from the 
Loan Account in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 1 to this 
Agreement for expenditures made (or, if the Bank shall so agree, to be 
made) in respect of the reasonable cost of goods, works and consultants' 
services required for the Project and to be financed out of the proceeds 
Page  4
of the Loan.
(b)
Promptly after the Effective Date, the Bank shall, on behalf 
of the Borrower, withdraw from the Loan Account and pay to itself the 
amount required to repay the principal amount of the Project Preparation 
Advance withdrawn and outstanding as of such date and to pay all unpaid 
charges thereon. The unwithdrawn balance of the authorized amount of the 
Project Preparation Advance shall thereupon be canceled.
Section 2.03.  The Closing Date shall be June 30, 2004 or such 
later date as the Bank shall establish.  The Bank shall promptly notify 
the Borrower of such later date.
Section 2.04.  The Borrower shall pay to the Bank a front-end fee 
in an amount equal to one per cent (1%) of the amount of the Loan. Such 
fee shall be payable not later than sixty (60) days after the Effective 
Date.
Section 2.05. The Borrower shall pay to the Bank a commitment 
charge on the principal amount of the Loan not withdrawn from time to 
time, at a rate equal to: (i) eighty-five one-hundredths of one per cent 
(0.85%) per annum from the date on which such charge commences to accrue 
in accordance with the provisions of Section 3.02 (b) of the General 
Conditions to but not including the fourth anniversary of such date; and 
(ii) seventy-five one-hundredths of one per cent (0.75%) per annum 
thereafter.
Section 2.06.  The Borrower shall pay interest on the principal 
amount of the Loan withdrawn and outstanding from time to time, at a rate 
for each Interest Period equal to the Variable Rate; provided, that upon 
a Conversion of all or any portion of the principal amount of the Loan, 
the Borrower shall, during the Conversion Period, pay interest on such 
amount in accordance with the relevant provisions of Article IV of the 
General Conditions.
Section 2.07. Interest and commitment charges shall be payable 
semiannually in arrears on March 15 and September 15 in each year.
Section 2.08. The Borrower shall repay the principal amount of the 
Loan in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 3 to this Agreement.
Section 2.09. (a) The Borrower may at any time request any of the 
following Conversions of the terms of the Loan in order to facilitate 
prudent debt management:
(i)
a change of the Loan Currency of all or any 
portion of the principal amount of 
the Loan, 
withdrawn or unwithdrawn, to an Approved Currency;
(ii)
a change of the interest rate basis applicable to 
all or any portion of the 
principal amount of the Loan 
from a Variable Rate to a Fixed Rate, or vice 
versa; and
(iii)
the setting of limits on the Variable Rate 
applicable to all or any portion of 
the principal 
amount of the Loan withdrawn and outstanding by the 
establishment of an Interest Rate Cap or Interest 
Rate Collar on said Variable 
Rate.
(b)
Any conversion requested pursuant to paragraph (a) of this 
Section that is accepted by the Bank shall be considered a “Conversion”, 
as defined in Section 2.01 (7) of the General Conditions, and shall be 
Page  5
effected in accordance with the provisions of Article IV of the General 
Conditions and of the Conversion Guidelines. 
(c)
Without limitation upon the provisions of paragraph (a) of 
this Section, the Borrower and the Bank hereby agree that unless 
otherwise notified by the Borrower in accordance with the provisions of 
the Conversion Guidelines, the interest rate basis applicable to the 
aggregate principal amount of the Loan withdrawn during each Interest 
Period shall be changed from the initial Variable Rate to a Fixed Rate in 
accordance with the provisions of Article IV of the General Conditions 
and of the Conversion Guidelines.
ARTICLE III
Execution of the Project
Section 3.01.  (a) The Borrower declares its commitment to the 
objectives of the Project, and, to this end, shall carry out Parts A, B, 
C and D of the Project, through MEN, with the assistance of the Agent, 
and Part E of the Project, through MEN, with the assistance of the Agent 
and the Alianzas, all with due diligence and efficiency and in conformity 
with appropriate administrative, educational and environmental practices, 
and shall provide, promptly as needed, the funds, facilities, services 
and other resources required for the Project.
(b)
Without limitation to the provisions of paragraph (a) above, 
the Borrower, through MEN, shall cause the Project to be carried out in 
accordance with the Project Manual.  Except as the Bank shall otherwise 
agree, the Borrower shall not amend, waive or fail to enforce such 
Manual, or any provision thereof.
(c)
The Borrower, through MEN, shall enter into an agreement, 
under terms and conditions satisfactory to the Bank (the Agent Agreement) 
with an entity acceptable to the Bank (the Agent) whereby: (i) the 
Borrower will authorize the Agent to undertake, on behalf of the 
Borrower, the procurement of goods and services under the Project in 
accordance with the procedures set forth or referred to in this Loan 
Agreement, and the bidding documents and requests for proposals prepared 
by the Borrower; (ii) the Agent will undertake to keep separate records 
and accounts in respect of such goods and services, and to assist the 
Borrower in all other aspects of the carrying out of the Project and in 
complying with the Borrower's obligations under this Loan Agreement; and 
(iii) the Borrower will undertake to transfer to the Agent the proceeds 
of the Loan and the counterpart funds as required for the Agent to effect 
the payments of goods and services under the Project.
(d)
For the purpose of the carrying out of Subprojects, the 
Borrower, through MEN, shall enter into an agreement with the Agent and 
each Alianza (the Subproject Agreement), under terms and conditions 
satisfactory to the Bank, which shall be substantially similar to those 
of the model form contained in the Project Manual, providing, inter alia, 
for: (i) the obligation of the Agent to carry out the procurement of 
goods, works and consultants' services under the Subprojects for the 
benefit of the corresponding Eligible Municipality, in accordance with 
the applicable provisions set forth or referred to in this Loan 
Agreement, and to keep separate records and accounts for each Subproject; 
(ii) the condition that any Subproject submitted by the Alianza shall be 
financed under the Subproject Agreement if such Subproject meets the 
eligibility criteria set forth in the Project Manual for such financing; 
(iii) the condition that no payment for goods and services by the Agent 
will be made in respect of a Subproject unless a pari-passu contribution 
equivalent to at least 13% of the cost of such Subproject has been made 
by the member or members of the Alianza which undertook to make such 
contribution pursuant to the Alianza Agreement; (iv) the condition that 
Page  6
no Subproject shall be financed under a Subproject Agreement if the 
Alianza shall not have appointed and is maintaining a person, with 
qualifications and experience satisfactory to the Borrower and the Bank, 
to be responsible for the coordination, at the level of the Eligible 
Municipalities, of the implementation of the Subprojects; and (v) the 
obligation of the Borrower to make available to the Agent the proceeds of 
the Loan allocated to finance Subprojects, and the corresponding 
counterpart funds.
(e)
The Borrower, through MEN, shall exercise its rights, and 
comply with its obligations under the Agent Agreement and the Subproject 
Agreements in such a manner as to protect the interests of the Borrower 
and the Bank and to accomplish the purposes of the Project, and, except 
as the Bank shall otherwise agree, the Borrower, shall not assign, amend, 
abrogate, waive or fail to enforce any of such agreements, or any 
provision thereof.
Section 3.02.  Except as the Bank shall otherwise agree, 
procurement of the goods, works and consultants’ services required for 
the Project and to be financed out of the proceeds of the Loan shall be 
governed by the provisions of Schedule 4 to this Agreement.
Section 3.03.  The Borrower, through MEN, shall establish, and 
thereafter maintain during the execution of the Project, a unit within 
MEN responsible for the management, coordination, supervision and 
evaluation of the Project, such unit to have a structure and functions 
satisfactory to the Bank, and staff with qualifications and experience 
satisfactory to the Bank (the Project Unit).
Section 3.04.  The Borrower shall:
(a)
not later than December 31, 2000, establish and thereafter 
maintain the Project monitoring and evaluation system referred to in 
Section 6.01 (d) of this Agreement;
(b)
through MEN, maintain policies and procedures adequate to 
enable it to monitor and evaluate on an ongoing basis, in accordance with 
the indicators set forth in the Attachment to the Program Letter, the 
carrying out of the Project and the achievement of the objectives 
thereof;
(c)
through MEN, prepare, under terms of reference satisfactory 
to the Bank, and furnish to the Bank, on or about the 17th month after 
the Effective Date, a report integrating the results of the monitoring 
and evaluation activities performed pursuant to paragraph (b) of this 
Section, on the progress achieved in the carrying out of the Project 
during the period preceding the date of said report and setting out the 
measures recommended to ensure the efficient carrying out of the Project 
and the achievement of the objectives thereof during the period following 
such date; and
(d)
through MEN and the Borrower's National Planning Office (
Departamento Nacional de Planeación), review with the Bank, on the 18th 
month after the Effective Date, or such later date as the Bank shall 
request, the report referred to in paragraph (c) of this Section, and, 
thereafter, take all measures required to ensure the efficient completion 
of the Project and the achievement of the objectives thereof, based on 
the conclusions and recommendations of the said report and the Bank’s 
views on the matter.
Section 3.05.  The Borrower, through MEN, shall, not later than six 
months after each year of Project execution, furnish to the Bank a 
report, of such scope and in such detail as the Bank shall request, by 
Page  7
auditors acceptable to the Bank on the compliance with procurement 
procedures for the Project during the year in question.
Section 3.06.  For the purposes of Section 9.08 of the General 
Conditions and without limitation thereto, the Borrower, through MEN, 
shall:
(a)
prepare, on the basis of guidelines acceptable to the Bank, 
and furnish to the Bank not later than six months before the Closing Date 
or such later date as may be agreed for this purpose between the Borrower 
and the Bank, a plan for the future operation of the Project; and
(b)
afford the Bank a reasonable opportunity to exchange views 
with the Borrower on said plan.
ARTICLE IV
Financial Covenants
Section 4.01.  (a) The Borrower, through MEN, shall maintain a 
financial management system, including records and accounts, and prepare 
financial statements in a format acceptable to the Bank, adequate to 
reflect the operations, resources and expenditures of the Agent related 
to the Project.
(b)
The Borrower, through MEN, shall:
(i)
have the records, accounts and financial statements 
referred to in paragraph 
(a) of this Section and those for 
the Agent's Account for each fiscal year 
audited, in accordance with auditing standards acceptable to the 
Bank, 
consistently applied, by independent auditors 
acceptable to the Bank;
(ii)
furnish to the Bank as soon as available, but in any 
case not later than six 
months after the end of each such 
year, (A) certified copies of the financial 
statements referred to in paragraph (a) of this Section for such year as 
so 
audited, and (B) an opinion on such statements, 
records and accounts and 
report of such audit, by 
said auditors, of such scope and in such detail as 
the Bank shall have reasonably requested; and
(iii)
furnish to the Bank such other information concerning 
such records and 
accounts, and the audit thereof, 
and concerning said auditors, as the Bank may 
from 
time to time reasonably request.
(c)
For all expenditures with respect to which withdrawals from 
the Loan Account were made on the basis of Project Management Reports or 
statements of expenditure, the Borrower, through MEN, shall:
(i)
maintain or cause to be maintained, in accordance 
with paragraph (a) of this 
Section, records and 
separate accounts reflecting such expenditures;
(ii)
retain, until at least one year after the Bank has 
received the audit report 
for the fiscal year in which the 
last withdrawal from the Loan Account was 
made, all records (contracts, orders, invoices, bills, receipts and 
Page  8
other 
documents) evidencing such expenditures;
(iii)
enable the Bank’s representatives to examine such 
records; and
(iv)
ensure that such records and accounts are included in 
the annual audit 
referred to in paragraph (b) of 
this Section and that the report of such audit 
contains a separate opinion by said auditors as to whether the 
Project 
Management Reports or statements of 
expenditure submitted during such year, 
together with the procedures and internal controls involved in their 
preparation, can be relied upon to support the 
related withdrawals.
Section 4.02.  (a) Without limitation upon the provisions of 
Section 4.01 of this Agreement, the Borrower, through MEN, shall carry 
out a time-bound action plan acceptable to the Bank for the strengthening 
of the financial management system referred to in paragraph (a) of said 
Section 4.01 in order to enable the Borrower, not later than December 31, 
2000, or such later date as the Bank shall agree, to prepare quarterly 
Project management reports, acceptable to the Bank, each of which:
(i) 
(A) sets forth actual sources and applications of 
funds for the Project, both 
cumulatively and for the 
period covered by said report, and projected sources 
and applications of funds for the Project for the six-month period 
following 
the period covered by said report; and (B) 
shows separately expenditures 
financed out of the 
proceeds of the Loan during the period covered by said 
report and expenditures proposed to be financed out 
of the proceeds of the 
Loan during the six-month 
period following the period covered by said report;
(ii)
(A) describes physical progress in Project 
implementation, both cumulatively 
and for the period 
covered by said report; and (B) explains variances between 
the actual and previously forecast implementation targets; 
and
(iii)  sets forth the status of procurement under the 
Project and expenditures under 
contracts financed out of 
the proceeds of the Loan, as at the end of the 
period covered by said report.
(b)
Upon the completion of the action plan referred to in 
paragraph (a) of this Section, the Borrower shall, through MEN, prepare, 
in accordance with guidelines acceptable to the Bank, and furnish to the 
Bank not later than 45 days after the end of each calendar quarter a 
Project Management Report for such period.
ARTICLE V
Remedies of the Bank
Section 5.01. Pursuant to Section 6.02 (p) of the General 
Conditions, the following additional events are specified:
(a)
The Agent shall have failed to perform any of its 
obligations under the Agent Agreement or any Subproject Agreement.
Page  9
(b)
Any of the Alianza Agreements has been amended, abrogated, 
assigned, or failed to be complied with by its members, in a manner that, 
in the opinion of the Bank, may adversely affect the carrying out of a 
Subproject.
ARTICLE VI
Effectiveness: Termination
Section 6.01. The following events are specified as additional 
conditions to the effectiveness of this Agreement, within the meaning of 
Section 12.01 (c) of the General Conditions:
(a) 
The Borrower, through MEN, has adopted a manual, 
satisfactory to the Bank (the Project Manual), containing the detailed 
procedures for the carrying out of the Project, the criteria and 
procedures for selection of Eligible Municipalities and the 
non-governmental members of an Alianza, the criteria for selection and 
financing of Subprojects, the procurement procedures, including standard 
bidding documents and contracts to be used in the Project, the financial 
management procedures for the Project, and the models of Alianza 
Agreements and Subproject Agreements.
(b)  
The Agent Agreement has become effective.
(c)  
The Project Unit has been established.
(d)  
The Borrower, through MEN, has furnished to the Bank a plan, 
satisfactory to the Bank, for the establishment of a Project monitoring 
and evaluation system.
Section 6.02.  The date January 19, 2001 is hereby specified for 
the purposes of Section 12.04 of the General Conditions.
ARTICLE VII
Representative of the Borrower; Addresses
Section 7.01. The Minister of Finance and Public Credit of the 
Borrower is designated as representative of the Borrower for the purposes 
of Section 11.03 of the General Conditions.
Section 7.02. The following addresses are specified for the 
purposes of Section 11.01 of the General Conditions:
For the Borrower:
Ministry of Finance and Public Credit
Palacio de los Ministerios
Plaza San Agustín
Carrera 7a, No. 6-45, Piso 3
Santa Fé de Bogotá
Colombia
Cable address:
Telex:
Facsimile:
MINHACIENDA
43289 MHAC CO
(571) 3509344
With copies to:
Page  10
National Ministry of Education
CAN, Avenida El Dorado
Santa Fé de Bogotá
Colombia
Cable address:
Facsimile:
MINEDUCACION
(571) 2224676
For the Bank:
International Bank for
  Reconstruction and Development
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America
Cable address:
Telex:
Facsimile:
INTBAFRAD
248423 (MCI) or
(202) 477-6391
Washington, D.C.
 64145 (MCI)
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their duly 
authorized representatives, have caused this Agreement to be signed in 
their respective names in the District of Columbia, United States of 
America, as of the day and year first above written.
REPUBLIC OF COLOMBIA
By /s/ Luis Alberto Moreno García
Authorized Representative
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR
 RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
By /s/ Jane Armitage
Acting Regional Vice President
Latin America and the Caribbean
SCHEDULE 1
Withdrawal of the Proceeds of the Loan
A.
General
1. 
The table below sets forth the Categories of items to be 
financed out of the proceeds of the Loan, the allocation of the 
amounts of the Loan to each Category and the percentage of 
expenditures for items so to be financed in each Category:
Amount of the
Page  11
Loan Allocated
   % of
(Expressed in
Expenditures
Category
Dollars)
to be Financed
(1)
Works (other than
          230,000
55%
under Subprojects)
(2)
Goods (other than under
 1,700,000
55%
Subprojects)
(3)
Consultants' services: 
(a) other than under
    Categories 3 (b),
    3 (c) and 4 (c)
        1,680,000
55%
(b) for logistics services    710,000
55%
(c) for the Project Unit
   670,000
55%
(4)
Subprojects:
(a) Works
   720,000
55%
(b) Goods
 7,840,000
55%
(c) Consultants' services
 5,250,000
55%
    and training
(5)
Refunding of
          240,000
Amounts due 
Project Prepara-
pursuant to 
tion Advance
Section 2.02 (b)
of this Agreement
(6)
Unallocated
   960,000
TOTAL
20,000,000
2.
Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1 above, no withdrawals 
shall be made in respect of:
(a) 
any Category, other than Category (5) set forth in the table 
in paragraph 1 of this Schedule, unless and until the Borrower shall have 
paid to the Bank in full the front-end fee referred to in Section 2.04 of 
this Agreement;
(b)  
payments made for expenditures prior to the date of this 
Agreement, except that withdrawals, in an aggregate amount not exceeding 
the amount of $1,500,000, may be made on account of payments made for 
expenditures incurred within twelve months before the date of this 
Agreement; and
(c)  
any Subproject, unless: (i) an agreement has been entered 
into, under terms and conditions satisfactory to the Bank (the Alianza 
Agreement), among the members of an Alianza, providing for the 
establishment, organization and functioning of such Alianza, including 
the appointment of a technical coordinator to be responsible for the 
relationship among such Alianza and MEN and the Agent in respect of such 
Subproject, and the obligations of its members to provide funds and other 
resources for such Subproject; and (ii) the corresponding Subproject 
Agreement has been entered into by the respective parties thereto.
3.
The Bank may require withdrawals from the Loan Account to be made 
on the basis of statements of expenditures for expenditures: (a) for 
training and operational costs; and (b) under contracts that are not 
Page  12
subject to prior review by the Bank pursuant to Section I, Part D.2, and 
Section II, Part D.2, of Schedule 4 to this Agreement.
B.
Agent's Account
1.
The Borrower shall cause the Agent to open and maintain in Dollars 
an account in a commercial bank acceptable to the Bank, on terms and 
conditions satisfactory to the Bank, including appropriate protection 
against set-off, seizure and attachment.
2.
After the Bank has received evidence satisfactory to it that the 
Agent's Account has been opened, withdrawals from the Loan Account of 
amounts to be deposited into the Agent's Account shall be made as 
follows:
(a)
until the Bank shall have received: (i) the first Project 
Management Report referred to in Section 4.02 (b) of this Agreement; and 
(ii) a request from the Borrower for withdrawal on the basis of Project 
Management Reports, withdrawals shall be made in accordance with the 
provisions of Annex A to this Schedule 1; and
(b)
upon receipt by the Bank of a Project Management Report 
pursuant to Section 4.02 (b) of this Agreement, accompanied by a request 
from the Borrower for withdrawal on the basis of Project Management 
Reports, all further withdrawals shall be made in accordance with the 
provisions of Annex B to this Schedule 1.
3.
Payments out of the Agent's Account shall be made exclusively for 
Eligible Expenditures.  For each payment made by the Agent, on behalf of 
the Borrower, out of the Agent's Account, the Borrower shall, at such 
time as the Bank shall reasonably request, furnish to the Bank such 
documents and other evidence showing that such payment was made 
exclusively for Eligible Expenditures.
4.
Notwithstanding the provisions of Part B.2 of this Schedule, the 
Bank shall not be required to make further deposits into the Agent's 
Account:
(a)
if the Bank determines at any time that any Project 
Management Report does not adequately provide the information required 
pursuant to Section 4.02 of this Agreement;
(b)
if the Bank determines at any time that all further 
withdrawals should be made by the Borrower directly from the Loan 
Account; or
(c)
if the Borrower shall have failed to furnish to the Bank 
within the period of time specified in Section 4.01 (b) (ii) of this 
Agreement, any of the audit reports required to be furnished to the Bank 
pursuant to said Section in respect of the audit of: (A) the records and 
accounts for the Agent's Account; or (B) the records and accounts 
reflecting expenditures with respect to which withdrawals were made on 
the basis of Project Management Reports.
5.
The Bank shall not be required to make further deposits into the 
Agent's Account in accordance with the provisions of Part B.2 of this 
Schedule if, at any time, the Bank shall have notified the Borrower of 
its intention to suspend in whole or in part the right of the Borrower to 
make withdrawals from the Loan Account pursuant to Section 6.02 of the 
General Conditions.  Upon such notification, the Bank shall determine, in 
its sole discretion, whether further deposits into the Agent's Account 
may be made and what procedures should be followed for making such 
Page  13
deposits, and shall notify the Borrower of its determination.
6.
(a)
If the Bank determines at any time that any payment out of 
the Agent's Account was made for an expenditure which is not an Eligible 
Expenditure, or was not justified by the evidence furnished to the Bank, 
the Borrower shall, promptly upon notice from the Bank, provide such 
additional evidence as the Bank may request, or cause the Agent to 
deposit into the Agent's Account (or, if the Bank shall so request, 
refund to the Bank) an amount equal to the amount of such payment.  
Unless the Bank shall otherwise agree, no further deposit by the Bank 
into the Agent's Account shall be made until the Borrower has provided 
such evidence or made such deposit or refund, as the case may be.
(b)
If the Bank determines at any time that any amount 
outstanding in the Agent's Account will not be required to cover payments 
for Eligible Expenditures during the six-month period following such 
determination, the Borrower shall, promptly upon notice from the Bank, 
cause the Agent to refund to the Bank such outstanding amount.
(c)
The Borrower may, upon notice to the Bank, refund to the 
Bank all or any portion of the funds on deposit in the Agent's Account.
(d)
Refunds to the Bank made pursuant to sub-paragraph (a), (b) 
or (c) of this paragraph 6 shall be credited to the Loan Account for 
subsequent withdrawal or for cancellation in accordance with the 
provisions of the Loan Agreement.
Annex A to SCHEDULE 1
Operation of Agent's Account When Withdrawals Are Not 
Made On the Basis of Project Management Reports
1.
For the purposes of this Annex, the term “Authorized Allocation” 
means the amount of $2,000,000 to be withdrawn from the Loan Account and 
deposited into the Agent's Account pursuant to paragraph 2 of this Annex; 
provided, however, that unless the Bank shall otherwise agree, the 
Authorized Allocation shall be limited to the amount of $1,000,000 until 
the aggregate amount of withdrawals from the Loan Account, plus the total 
amount of all outstanding special commitments entered into by the Bank 
pursuant to Section 5.02 of the General Conditions shall equal or exceed 
the equivalent of $2,000,000.
2.
Withdrawals of the Authorized Allocation and subsequent withdrawals 
to replenish the Agent's Account shall be made as follows:
(a)
For withdrawals of the Authorized Allocation, the Borrower 
shall furnish to the Bank a request or requests for deposit into the 
Agent's Account of an amount or amounts which in the aggregate do not 
exceed the Authorized Allocation.  On the basis of each such request, the 
Bank shall, on behalf of the Borrower, withdraw from the Loan Account and 
deposit into the Agent's Account such amount as the Borrower shall have 
requested.
(b)
For replenishment of the Agent's Account, the Borrower shall 
furnish to the Bank requests for deposit into the Agent's Account at such 
intervals as the Bank shall specify.  Prior to or at the time of each 
such request, the Borrower shall furnish to the Bank the documents and 
other evidence required pursuant to Part B.3 of Schedule 1 to this 
Agreement for the payment or payments in respect of which replenishment 
is requested. On the basis of each such request, the Bank shall, on 
behalf of the Borrower, withdraw from the Loan Account and deposit into 
the Agent's Account such amount as the Borrower shall have requested and 
as shall have been shown by said documents and other evidence to have 
Page  14
been paid out of the Agent's Account for Eligible Expenditures. Each such 
deposit into the Agent's Account shall be withdrawn by the Bank from the 
Loan Account under one or more of the Eligible Categories.
3.
The Bank shall not be required to make further deposits into the 
Agent's Account once the total unwithdrawn amount of the Loan minus the 
total amount of all outstanding special commitments entered into by the 
Bank pursuant to Section 5.02 of the General Conditions shall equal the 
equivalent of twice the amount of the Authorized Allocation. Thereafter, 
withdrawal from the Loan Account of the remaining unwithdrawn amount of 
the Loan shall follow such procedures as the Bank shall specify by notice 
to the Borrower.  Such further withdrawals shall be made only after and 
to the extent that the Bank shall have been satisfied that all such 
amounts remaining on deposit in the Agent's Account as of the date of 
such notice will be utilized in making payments for Eligible 
Expenditures.
Annex B to SCHEDULE 1
Operation of Agent's Account When Withdrawals Are 
Made On the Basis of Project Management Reports
1.
Except as the Bank may otherwise specify by notice to the Borrower, 
all withdrawals from the Loan Account shall be deposited by the Bank into 
the Agent's Account in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 1 to 
this Agreement. Each such deposit into the Agent's Account shall be 
withdrawn by the Bank from the Loan Account under one or more of the 
Eligible Categories.
2.
Each application for withdrawal from the Loan Account for deposit 
into the Agent's Account shall be supported by a Project Management 
Report.
3.
Upon receipt of each application for withdrawal of an amount of the 
Loan, the Bank shall, on behalf of the Borrower, withdraw from the Loan 
Account and deposit into the Agent's Account an amount equal to the 
lesser of: (a) the amount so requested; and (b) the amount which the Bank 
has determined, based on the Project Management Report accompanying said 
application, is required to be deposited in order to finance Eligible 
Expenditures during the six-month period following the date of such 
report; provided, however, that the amount so deposited, when added to 
the amount indicated by said Project Management Report to be remaining in 
the Agent's Account, shall not exceed the amount of $4,000,000.
SCHEDULE 2
Description of the Project
The objectives of the Project are: (a) to improve the access to 
quality basic education services in the Eligible Municipalities, while 
supporting, through the school-community relationships and classroom 
methodology, the prevention and resolution of conflict and development of 
civic values; (b) to strengthen the Borrower's capacity to manage the 
implementation of education projects in rural areas; and (c) to 
strengthen the Borrower's capacity to implement a reform of technical 
education in rural areas.
The Project consists of the following parts, subject to such 
modifications thereof as the Borrower and the Bank may agree upon from 
time to time to achieve such objectives:
Page  15
Part A:
Access to Quality Basic Education
1.
Adaptation and upgrading of various basic education models 
currently being implemented in various regions of Colombia to make them 
available to the Eligible Municipalities for their choice on the most 
appropriate use of such models according to the specific needs of their 
school population.  This will require the carrying out of: (a) studies 
and the preparation of master documents and information materials on the 
costs, training needs and pedagogical content of each such education 
model; and (b) a program of technical assistance and informational events 
to provide the Alianzas and Eligible Municipalities with tools for 
presenting proposals for the their respective Subprojects.
2.
Evaluation of the models for rural education used in Colombia.
3.
Adaptation of the educational methods known as Telesecundaria and 
Aceleración del Aprendizaje (including, inter alia, the corresponding 
text books, manuals and audio visual materials) for their use, on a pilot 
basis, in rural areas in Colombia, and evaluation of such pilot 
experiment.
4.
Upgrading of the curriculum, equipment and materials, and training 
of teachers of forty teacher training schools (Escuelas Normales), in 
order to assist those schools in developing a program to prepare new 
teachers with the competencies and skills required for teaching in rural 
areas, and in establishing working links with the primary and secondary 
schools in Eligible Municipalities for purposes of providing technical 
assistance to such primary and secondary schools in the formulation of 
their school development plans.
Part B:
Institutional Strengthening
Strengthening of the capacity, at the national, departmental and 
municipal levels, to manage, implement, monitor and evaluate the Project, 
which will include:
(i)  
training for the staff of the Project Unit and the 
Alianzas;
(ii)   design and operation of a comprehensive system for 
the monitoring of the 
physical and financial 
implementation of the Project;
(iii)  design of indicators to measure the impact of the 
Project;
(iv)   development of an appropriate management information 
system for the 
collection, use and 
diffusion of relevant, up-to-date, educational data in the 
Eligible Municipalities with links to MEN's national 
information system;
(v)  
assistance in financial management and procurement 
matters;
(vi)
assistance in the establishment and operation of 
Alianzas, and in the 
preparation and 
implementation of Subprojects; and
(vii)
preparation of a communication strategy for 
dissemination of the Project 
objectives and 
Page  16
results, at the national, departmental and municipal levels. 
Part C:
Education for Peaceful Coexistence
Carrying out of studies, analyses and evaluation of national and 
foreign experiences and knowledge management in the area of education for 
peaceful coexistence.
Part D:
Technical Education
Carrying out: (a) on a pilot basis in about 30 technical schools, 
of institutional development plans for the reform of technical education 
in rural areas; and (b) studies, analyses and evaluation of the 
implementation of such plans, with a view to a possible implementation of 
such reform in the subsequent phases of the Program.
Part E:
Subprojects
Carrying out of projects consisting of: (a) adaptation and printing 
of educational materials, teacher training, and minor infrastructure 
works to implement a strategy for expansion of education access in the 
Eligible Municipalities, utilizing the selected educational models 
developed under Part A of the Project; (b) provision of technical 
assistance aimed at strengthening education management at school and 
community levels, and creation of rural school networks for pedagogical 
exchange and coordination, including establishment of transportation 
facilities for teachers and students, and construction and/or adaptation 
of school cafeterias; and (c) improvement in the use of pedagogical 
methodologies promoting peaceful resolution of conflicts in the class, 
improvement in the participatory practices of school management, and 
strengthening of peaceful coexistence values through educational, 
cultural, social, and leisure activities for the community.
***
The Project is expected to be completed by December 31, 2003.
SCHEDULE 3
Amortization Schedule
1.
The following table sets forth the Principal Payment Dates of the 
Loan and the percentage of the total principal amount of the Loan payable 
on each Principal Payment Date (Installment Share).  If the proceeds of 
the Loan shall have been fully withdrawn as of the first Principal 
Payment Date, the principal amount of the Loan repayable by the Borrower 
on each Principal Payment Date shall be determined by the Bank by 
multiplying:  (a) the total principal amount of the Loan withdrawn and 
outstanding as of the first Principal Payment Date; by (b) the 
Installment Share for each Principal Payment Date, such repayment amount 
to be adjusted, as necessary, to deduct any amounts referred to in 
paragraph 4 of this Schedule, to which a Currency Conversion applies.
Installment Share
Payment Date
(Expressed as a 
%)
On each March 15 and September 15
Beginning September 15, 2005
 through September 15, 2016
Page  17
4.17%
On March 15, 2017
    4.09%
2.
If the proceeds of the Loan shall not have been fully withdrawn as 
of the first Principal Payment Date, the principal amount of the Loan 
repayable by the Borrower on each Principal Payment Date shall be 
determined as follows:
(a)
To the extent that any proceeds of the Loan shall have been 
withdrawn as of the first Principal Payment Date, the Borrower shall 
repay the amount withdrawn and outstanding as of such date in accordance 
with paragraph 1 of this Schedule.
(b)
Any withdrawal made after the first Principal Payment Date 
shall be repaid on each Principal Payment Date falling after the date of 
such withdrawal in amounts determined by the Bank by multiplying the 
amount of each such withdrawal by a fraction, the numerator of which 
shall be the original Installment Share specified in the table in 
paragraph 1 of this Schedule for said Principal Payment Date (the 
Original Installment Share) and the denominator of which shall be the sum 
of all remaining Original Installment Shares for Principal Payment Dates 
falling on or after such date, such repayment amounts to be adjusted, as 
necessary, to deduct any amounts referred to in paragraph 4 of this 
Schedule, to which a Currency Conversion applies.
3.
(a)
Withdrawals made within two months prior to any Principal 
Payment Date shall, for the purposes solely of calculating the principal 
amounts payable on any Principal Payment Date, be treated as withdrawn 
and outstanding on the second Principal Payment Date following the date 
of withdrawal and shall be repayable on each Principal Payment Date 
commencing with the second Principal Payment Date following the date of 
withdrawal.
(b)
Notwithstanding the provisions of sub-paragraph (a) of this 
paragraph 3, if at any time the Bank shall adopt a due date billing 
system under which invoices are issued on or after the respective 
Principal Payment Date, the provisions of such sub-paragraph shall no 
longer apply to any withdrawals made after the adoption of such billing 
system. 
4.
Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraphs 1 and 2 of this 
Schedule, upon a Currency Conversion of all or any portion of the 
withdrawn principal amount of the Loan to an Approved Currency, the 
amount so converted in said Approved Currency that shall be repayable on 
any Principal Payment Date occurring during the Conversion Period, shall 
be determined by the Bank by multiplying such amount in its currency of 
denomination immediately prior to said Conversion by either: (i) the 
exchange rate that reflects the amounts of principal in said Approved 
Currency payable by the Bank under the Currency Hedge Transaction 
relating to said Conversion; or (ii) if the Bank so determines in 
accordance with the Conversion Guidelines, the exchange rate component of 
the Screen Rate.
5.
If the principal amount of the Loan withdrawn and outstanding from 
time to time shall be denominated in more than one Loan Currency, the 
provisions of this Schedule shall apply separately to the amount 
denominated in each Loan Currency, so as to produce a separate 
amortization schedule for each such amount.
SCHEDULE 4
Page  18
Procurement
Section I.
Procurement of Goods and Works
Part A:
General
Goods and works shall be procured in accordance with the provisions 
of Section I of the "Guidelines for Procurement under IBRD Loans and IDA 
Credits" published by the Bank in January 1995 and revised in January and 
August 1996, September 1997 and January 1999 (the Guidelines) and the 
following provisions of this Section, as applicable.
Part B:
International Competitive Bidding
1.
Except as provided in Part C of this Section, goods shall be 
procured under contracts awarded in accordance with the provisions of 
Section II of the Guidelines and paragraph 5 of Appendix 1 thereto.
2.
The provisions of paragraphs 2.54 and 2.55 of the Guidelines and 
Appendix 2 thereto, regarding preference for domestically manufactured 
goods, shall apply to goods manufactured in the territory of the 
Borrower.
Part C:
Other Procurement Procedures
1.
National Competitive Bidding
Goods estimated to cost less than the equivalent of $250,000 per 
contract may, and works shall, be procured under contracts awarded in 
accordance with the provisions of paragraphs 3.3 and 3.4 of the 
Guidelines regarding national competitive bidding procedures.  Bidding 
documents, acceptable to the Bank and in a standardized form for the 
Project, shall be used in the procurement under this Part C.1.  Without 
limitation to any other provision of this Schedule or the Guidelines, the 
following shall apply to the procurement of goods and works to be 
undertaken pursuant to this Part C.1:
(a)
All bidders, irrespective of whether they are foreigners or 
Colombians, will be treated equally and, particularly, no preference will 
be granted to any bidder or group of bidders for bid evaluation purposes. 
Bidders shall be allowed to submit their bids by hand or through the post 
office or private mailing services. There shall not be any requirement 
for any bidder to show evidence of the bidder's registration in any 
public registry, chamber of commerce or similar entity, whether in 
Colombia or elsewhere, or to appoint a representative domiciled in 
Colombia, unless and until such bidder is awarded the corresponding 
contract.
(b)
Bids shall be opened in a public meeting to which bidders 
and their representatives shall be allowed to attend if they so wish. 
Date, time and place for the opening meeting shall be set forth in the 
bidding documents. Bid opening shall coincide with, or take place 
promptly after, the final date and time of the period for bid submission 
stipulated in the bidding documents.
(c)
Each bid shall be evaluated and the corresponding contract 
awarded to the responsive bidder who meets appropriate technical and 
financial standards of capability and whose bid has been determined to be 
the lowest evaluated bid. Such determination shall be made exclusively on 
the basis of the specifications, conditions and evaluation criteria 
stipulated in the bidding documents. If any factor additional to the 
Page  19
amount or amounts of each bid is to be considered in bid evaluation, such 
factor or factors and the quantified manner on which they will be applied 
for purposes of determining the lowest evaluated bid shall be precisely 
stipulated in the bidding documents. For purposes of bid evaluation and 
comparison, the only bid amount or amounts to be used as a factor shall 
be the bid amount or amounts as quoted in the corresponding bid, 
including correction of arithmetic errors.
(d)
The provisions of paragraph 2.46 of the Guidelines shall 
fully apply and, more specifically, bids shall not be disclosed to 
persons other than the persons officially charged with the task of 
comparing and/or evaluating the bids while they are performing their 
official duties, without the corresponding bidder's written 
authorization. Moreover, bidders shall not be required to provide such 
authorization as a condition to be entitled to bid. This confidentiality 
requirement shall apply until the award of contract is notified to the 
successful bidder. Thereafter, confidentiality of the bids shall be 
limited to those bid portions for which confidentiality has been 
specifically requested by the bidder in question.
2.
Shopping
Goods (other than those under Subprojects) estimated to cost less 
than $75,000 equivalent per contract, up to an aggregate amount 
equivalent to $3,200,000, and goods under Subprojects estimated to cost 
less than $50,000 equivalent per contract may be procured under contracts 
awarded on the basis of national shopping procedures in accordance with 
the provisions of paragraphs 3.5 and 3.6 of the Guidelines.
3.
Procurement of Small Works
Works estimated to cost less than $50,000 equivalent per contract 
shall be procured under lump-sum, fixed-price contracts awarded on the 
basis of quotations obtained from three qualified domestic contractors in 
response to a written invitation. The invitation shall include a detailed 
description of the works, including basic specifications, the required 
completion date, a basic form of agreement acceptable to the Bank, and 
relevant drawings, where applicable. The award shall be made to the 
contractor who offers the lowest price quotation for the required work, 
and who has the experience and resources to complete the contract 
successfully.
Part D:
Review by the Bank of Procurement Decisions
1.
Procurement Planning
Prior to the issuance of any invitation to bid for contracts during 
any year of Project implementation, the proposed procurement plan for the 
Project during such year shall be furnished to the Bank for its review 
and approval, in accordance with the provisions of paragraph 1 of 
Appendix 1 to the Guidelines. Procurement of all goods and works during 
any such year shall be undertaken in accordance with the corresponding 
procurement plan as shall have been approved by the Bank, and with the 
provisions of said paragraph 1.
2.
Prior Review
With respect to: (i) the contracts for goods to be awarded pursuant 
to the provisions of Part B of this Section I; and (ii) the first 
contract for goods to be awarded in each year pursuant to the provisions 
of Part C.1 of this Section I, the procedures set forth in paragraphs 2 
Page  20
and 3 of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines shall apply.
3.
Post Review
With respect to each contract not governed by paragraph 1 of this 
Part D, the procedures set forth in paragraph 4 of Appendix 1 to the 
Guidelines shall apply.
Section II.
Employment of Consultants
Part A:
General
Consultants’ services shall be procured in accordance with the 
provisions of the Introduction and Section IV of the “Guidelines:  
Selection and Employment of Consultants by World Bank Borrowers” 
published by the Bank in January 1997 and revised in September 1997 and 
January 1999 (the Consultant Guidelines) and the following provisions of 
Section II of this Annex.
Part B:
Quality- and Cost-based Selection
1.
Except as otherwise provided in Part C of this Section, 
consultants’ services shall be procured under contracts awarded in 
accordance with the provisions of Section II of the Consultant 
Guidelines, paragraph 3 of Appendix 1 thereto, Appendix 2 thereto, and 
the provisions of paragraphs 3.13 through 3.18 thereof applicable to 
quality- and cost-based selection of consultants.
2.
The short-list of consultants for services to be procured in 
accordance with the procedures referred to in paragraph 1 above, 
estimated to cost less than $100,000 equivalent per contract, may 
comprise entirely national consultants in accordance with the provisions 
of paragraph 2.7 of the Consultant Guidelines.
Part C:
Other Procedures for the Selection of Consultants
1.
Quality-based Selection
Consultants' services for evaluation of the pilot program under 
Part A.3 of the Project (Telesecundaria and Aceleración del Aprendizaje), 
design of achievement tests for the teacher training schools under Part 
A.4 of the Project and analysis of their results, design of teacher 
training networks, and review and adaptation of education materials may 
be procured under contracts awarded in accordance with the provisions of 
paragraphs 3.1 through 3.4 of the Consultant Guidelines.
2.
Least-cost Selection
Consultants' services for general technical assistance and training 
under Part E of the Project, and for implementation of an information and 
communication strategy for the Project, estimated to cost less than 
$100,000 equivalent per contract, may be procured under contracts awarded 
in accordance with the provisions of paragraphs 3.1 and 3.6 of the 
Consultant Guidelines.
3.
Individual Consultants
Consultants' services for tasks that meet the requirements set 
forth in paragraph 5.1 of the Consultant Guidelines, with remuneration 
not exceeding in the aggregate an amount equivalent to $3,000,000, shall 
Page  21
be procured under contracts awarded to individual consultants in 
accordance with the provisions of paragraphs 5.1 through 5.3 of the 
Consultant Guidelines.
Part D:
Review by the Bank of the Selection of Consultants
1.
Selection Planning
Prior to the issuance to consultants of any requests for proposals 
during any year of Project implementation, the proposed plan for the 
selection of consultants under the Project during such year shall be 
furnished to the Bank for its review and approval, in accordance with the 
provisions of paragraph 1 of Appendix 1 to the Consultant Guidelines.  
Selection of all consultants’ services during any such year shall be 
undertaken in accordance with the corresponding selection plan as shall 
have been approved by the Bank, and with the provisions of said paragraph 
1.
2.
Prior Review
(a)
With respect to each contract for the employment of 
consulting firms estimated to cost the equivalent of $100,000 or more, 
the procedures set forth in paragraphs 1, 2 (other than the third 
subparagraph of paragraph 2(a)) and 5 of Appendix 1 to the Consultant 
Guidelines shall apply.
(b)
With respect to each contract for the employment of 
consulting firms estimated to cost the equivalent of less than $100,000 
but more than the equivalent of $70,000, the procedures set forth in 
paragraphs 1, 2 (other than the second subparagraph of paragraph 2(a)) 
and 5 of Appendix 1 to the Consultant Guidelines shall apply.
(c)
With respect to each contract for the employment of 
individual consultants estimated to cost the equivalent of $50,000 or 
more, the qualifications, experience, terms of reference and terms of 
employment of the consultants shall be furnished to the Bank for its 
prior review and approval.  The contract shall be awarded only after the 
said approval shall have been given.
3.
Post Review
With respect to each contract not governed by paragraph 1 of this 
Part, the procedures set forth in paragraph 4 of Appendix 1 to the 
Consultant Guidelines shall apply, provided, however, that the terms of 
reference for the respective assignments shall be subject to the Bank’s 
prior review and approval.
