Report No. PID6876
Project Name                     Colombia-Rural Education Project (APL)
Region                           Latin America and Caribbean Region
Sector                           Primary Education
Project ID                       COPE50578
Borrower(s)                      REPUBLIC OF COLOMBIA
Implementing Agency
Address MINISTERIO DE EDUCACION NACIONAL (MEN)
Viceministerio de Educacion Nacional
CAN, Avenida El Dorado. Bogota, Colombia
Contact Person: Dra. Marta Lucia Villegas,
Viceministra de Educacion Basica
Tel: (571)315 7777
Fax: (571) 222 4958
Email: Men32@Hemeroteca.Icfes.Gov.Co
Environment Category             C
Date PID Prepared                January 8, 2000
Projected Appraisal Date         December 6, 1999
Projected Board Date             April 11, 2000
1. Country and Sector Background
Poverty in Colombia remains a critical problem with strong rural and
regional dimensions. Seventy percent of the people with incomes below
subsistence live in rural areas. Among the underlying causes of rural
poverty are the people's precarious access to basic social services and to
productive resources. It is calculated that twenty-nine percent of the
population in Colombia live in dispersed areas, or in centers of less than
5,000 people. However, there are in the country more than 900
municipalities and towns (municipios) with less than 50,000 inhabitants,
where economic activities revolve around agriculture operations. The
Colombian rural sector is a sector in crisis afflicted by poverty, rising
unemployment and criminal and political violence.It is possible to
determine that in Colombia poverty and poverty-related characteristics of
rural inhabitants (such as geographic isolation and reliance on child
labor for household income) have a negative impact on children's
preparation for and access to schooling, as well as on the quality of the
education provided to them. Drop-out and repetition rates are higher in
rural than urban areas. These gaps in access to schooling (particularly
wide at pre-school and post-primary levels) are closely associated with
the low socio-economic status of rural dwellers and the limited
availability of quality education services.
2. Objectives
The purpose of the Program is to improve the access to quality education
in rural areas while also supporting, from the schools, the development of
peaceful coexistence and civic values in the community. The Program will
be implemented over a period of 9-12 years, through a series of phased
three years projects, linked by a logical sequencing to allow results and
lessons learned to be incorporated into the preparation and appraisal of



subsequent phases. During the first phase the project will support
establishing the capacity to implement, monitor and evaluate the Program
and initiating relevant investments focusing on basic education
(particularly grades 0 and 6-9) in a cluster of selected rural
municipalities.
3. Rationale for Bank's Involvement
The Bank has had a long standing commitment to provide technical and
financial support to the education sector, and has made this a central
priority of its country assistance strategy for Colombia. Team-centered
work and participatory approaches to project preparation have
characterized the most recent operations and allowed the Ministry to gain
crucial institutional and technical knowledge as a result. Increased
dialogue and cooperation at many institutional levels has contributed to a
growing feeling of trust between MEN staff and Bank's team members.
4. Description
The Project's design is based on two integrated strategies. The Project
will finance interventions that for their nature, size or scope fall
logically under the responsibilities of the national level, the MEN. On
the other end, it will also support demand driven sub-projects in selected
rural municipalities organized at departmental level in Alianzas or
strategic partnerships between the municipalities, the departments, the
regional productive sector and other voluntary partners such as NGOs and
Universities.During APL1, the project will finance Municipal Education
Subprojects (PEMs) in a selected number of rural municipalities of at
least eight departments of the country. Using a model which has been
adopted successfully in various regions of the country, the Project
supports the creation of eight Alianzas Estrategicas to lead the
definition of a strategy for the development and strengthening of
education services in the municipalities of each department.The Alianzas
will assist rural municipalities either directly, by using the services of
one of the partners, or indirectly, by contracting these services out, in
the development of quality PEMs , based on the integration of various
school PEIs. The Project will then finance the implementation of the
sub-projects which will meet the minimum technical and operational
standards identified by the MEN and described in the Project manuals.
Components:
1. Access and Quality of Basic Education: Its objective is to improve
access to quality education in rural areas, through: (i) the adaptation
and upgrading of various educational models to make them available to the
municipalities for their sub-projects; (ii) the evaluation of other
innovative models for rural education used in Colombia; (iii) the
adaptation of the materials of Telesecundaria and Aceleraci6n del
Aprendizaje for their piloting and evaluation; (iv) the reform of Escuelas
Normales, the teacher training schools, on the basis of a rethinking of
the competencies and skills of rural teachers; and, (v) the training of
teachers currently in service in rural areas.
2. Institutional Strengthening: The Project will promote the
strengthening of the capacity at national, departmental and municipal
level to manage, implement, monitor and evaluate the project. The
Implementation Unit of MEN and the operational staff of the Alianzas, will
receive technical assistance and training for the design and operation of
-2 -



a comprehensive system for the monitoring of the physical, and financial
implementation of the Project.    Software programs and manuals will be
produced and the staff will be trained on their use.
3. Education for Peaceful Co-Existence: The Project aims at supporting,
from the schools, the development of peaceful coexistence and civic values
in the community. Following the general philosophy of the program, the
project will finance different sets of activities, articualted between a
national and a decentralized level.
4. Implications for a Reform of Technical Education: The Project will
promote the strengthening of an information system for technical education
in rural areas, in the view of assessing the viability of a proposal for
rural technical education with pertinence to the socio-economic conditions
of the rural areas, to be implemented in the subsequent phases of the
project.
5. Financing
Total ( US$m)
Government               14.8
IBRD                     20.0
LOCAL CONTRIBUTION       05.2
Total Project Cost       40.0
6. Implementation
The implementation scheme combines responsibilities between the public and
the private sector and between national and local level.    At national
level, the MEN will coordinate and monitor the overall implementation of
the different components of the Project. At departmental level, the
project will support the creation and functioning of at least eight
Alianzas Estrategicas (strategic partnerships of the public sector -MEN
and the departmental and the focused municipal education secretariats- and
the local productive sectors and additionally local NGOs and regional
universities). The Alianzas will: (i) coordinate the implementation of
technical assistance programs and will assist the municipalities in the
development of quality sub-projects; (ii) approve the sub-projects for
financing; (iii) coordinate and monitor the implementation of the
focalized sub-projects; and, (iv) report to the MEN on project
advances.    At municipal level, a project coordinator will act as a
liaison between the municipality and the Alianza and will assist with the
design and supervision of the sub-project in the schools of the
municipality. Project funds will be managed by an Administrating Agency,
which will receive and disburse advances of Project funds according to the
directives of the PIU and the Alianzas. The Agency will also be
responsible for: (i) drafting bidding related documents; (ii) signing
of contracts and payment to suppliers of goods and services; and, (iii)
maintaining the appropriate financial and accounting practices to allow
the supervision of its activities.
7. Sustainability
The Government of Colombia is giving priority to the development of rural
areas to respond to the poverty and violence affecting these areas.
Funding for program preparation has been provided even during severe
fiscal crisis. The National Development Plan places education as the
country's highest priority. The institutional sustainability will also be
-3 -



guaranteed by the implementation mechanism adopted by the Project. It is
hoped that the participation of the private and not-for-profit sectors in
partnerships in the Alianzas will be a key factor to sustainable and
effective education programs in the targeted municipalities.
8. Lessons learned from past operations in the country/sector
This project supports the strategy of developing an innovative education
strategy by relying for its implementation on a synergetic action between
central, local government and private sector. In defining the main
objectives to be achieved , as well as the implementation mechanisms, the
rural education project relies upon the main lessons learned from past
Bank projects, namely: clear definition of project objectives; need for
project flexibility; reliance upon new mechanisms to work with local
governments; need for an integrated management system; and, introduction
of innovative financial mechanisms.
9. Program of Targeted Intervention (PTI)     N
10. Environment Aspects (including any public consultation)
Issues     :  Since the project will not finance construction of
new schools, it is not expected tit will have a negative environmental
impact.
11. Contact Point:
Task Manager
David Harding
The World Bank
1818 H Street, NW
Washington D.C. 20433
Telephone:   (202) 4731209
Fax:   (202) 5220050
12. For information on other project related documents contact:
The InfoShop
The World Bank
1818 H Street, NW
Washington, D.C. 20433
Telephone: (202) 458-5454
Fax:        (202) 522-1500
Web: http:// www.worldbank.org/infoshop
Note: This is information on an evolving project. Certain components may
not be necessarily included in the final project.
Processed by the InfoShop week ending May 26, 2000.
- 4 -



