%,Document of
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Repot No. 8610-IN
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
MNDIA
PRIVATE POWER UTILITIES (TEC) PROJECT
FOR
|THE TATA ELECTRIC COMPANIES
JUNE 6, 1990
The World Bank
Asia Country Department rV (India)
Transport and Energy Operations Di'viqion
International Finance Corporation
Department of Investments, Asia II
Division I
M &i documenlt hs a resuRIctd diIbm and may be sed by recpient ady In hde d    o
twpfiI dtes iJts contents may not othoise be wIlsdosedd B=k
e                                 \         '.  \.~~~~~~~~



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
Currency Unit-Rupees (Rs)
Rs 1.00-Paise 100
US$1.00 Rs 17.0
Rs 1.OOUS$0.0588
Rs 1,000,OOQUS$58,823
US$ 1.OoYen 153
MEASURES AND EQUIVALENTS
1 Metr (i)                           a       89.8? inchoa (in)
1 Kilometer (km)                     3       1,000 matoro (a) a 0.0214 mlsca (ml)
1 Cubla Motor (m1)                   a       1-81 cubic yord (eu ydA  a 8.86 cubic feet (eu ft)
1 Thousand Cubic Motor (1CM)         a       1,000 cubie c eoro
1 Berrol (Bbl)                       a       0.159 cubic mater
1 Normal Cubic Rotor                 a       87.82 Standord Cubic Foot (SCF)
of intrsl Gae am8)
1 Mebric Ton of 01 I (89 API)        =       7.60 barrolo
1 MIlligram                          a       0.001 gram (a) a 0.05 ounce
1 Ton (t)                            a       1,000 Itlogramo  (kg) a 2,200 pounds (Ibs)
1 Kiloeolorlo (kcal)                 a       8.07 British Thermal Unito (DM1)
1 Ton of Oil Equivalont (too)                10 millon kilocalorios
1 Kilovolt (kV)                              1,000 volts (V)
1 Kilovolt amporo (kVA)              a       1,000 voit-ampores (VA)
1 Meyaatt (MW)                       a       1,000 kilowatto (kV) = 1 million  attes
I Kilowatt-hour (kWh)                        1,000 watt-hours
1 Mbgawatt-hour (UWh)                       14000 ki owatt-hours
1 Glgmaatt-hour (=W)                 a       1,000,000 kilowatt-hours
1 Gigaealorio (Gcal)                 *       1,000,000 colories
ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYNS
AA4R   - Avorago Annual Growth Rato                          KM      - Kilomiteoro
ACSR   - Alumlnum Conductor Stool Roinforcod                 KV      - Kilovolts
Act    - Tho Eloctricity (Supply) Act, 1948 as amended       LF      - Load Factor
AEC    - Ahmadabad Eloctriclty Company                       LSHS   - Low Sulphur Heavy Stock
Andhra - Tho Andhra Valley Pomer Supply Company Ltd.          MPC8    - Maharashtra Polution Control Board
ASTU   - American Society for Testing and Matorials          UPSEB   - Madbyn Pradoeh Stato Electricity Board
BEST   - Bombay Electric Supply and Transport                MSEB    - Mahorashtra Stato Eloctricity Board
Undertakink                                        MU      - UMoeatt
iOOT   - Build, Oen, Operato and Transfer                    NELCO   - National Radio and Electronics Company
BiES   -    Bombay Suburban Electric Supply Company          NHPC    - National Hydroelectric Power Corporation
CC     - Combined-Cycle                                      NO      - Nitrogn Oxides
CCI    - Controller of Capttal Iesues                        NPTC    - National Povwr Trsnsamlsion Corporation
CEA    - Central Electricity Authority                       NTPC    - Natlonal Thermal Power Corporation
CESC    - The Calcutta Electric Supply Corporation           0 a U   - Operotion and Maintenance
COP    - Doepartment of Power                                am4c    - Oil and Natural ans Corporation
DSC     - Debt Service Cover                                 p.o,      per annum
ERR    - Economic Rate of Return                             PCD     - Partly Convertiblo Debentures
FAC     - Fuel Adjustment Chargo                             PCR     - Projet Completion Report
FOD    - Fluo Gas Dosulphurixation                           PFC     - Poer Finance Corporation
GIs     - Gas-Insulatod Swltchgar                            Powe    - Tho Tate Power Comany Ltd.
001    - Government of India                                 PS      - Pumpd Storage
Gm      - Govornment of Maharsshtre                          SEB     - Stato Electriclty Board
COUID   - Irrlgation Department of the Cowernment            SEC     - Surot Electricity Company
of Maharashtra                                   SO>    - Sulphur Dloxide
GSEt   - GujarataState Eloectricity Board                      0     - Steam Turbino Generator
CT     - Cas Turbine                                         Tap     - Transmission and Distribution
HPP    - Hydro Powor Plant                                   TEC       The Tata Electric Companies
HRSN   - Mast Recovory Steam Gnerator                        TEDS   - Tate Electronic Data Systema
\HV     - High Voltago                                         PP     - Thermal Power Plant
Hydro  - The Tata Hydro-Eloctric Power Supply Company        IrI    - Westinghouso-tata-Indus Ltd.
Ltd.                                                         MRsB    -  Westorn Region Eloctrility Board
IPR     - Industrial Policy Roolution                        me      - Western Reglonol Grid
IRR    - Internal Rate of Return
6uarantor's and Borrower's Financial Year: Aprl 1 - March 31
(In this report FY.. would mean the Guarantor's and the Borrower's fiscal year
beginning April 1 of the previous year and ending March 31 of the indicated year; e.g.
FY90 would mean the \fiscal year from April 1, 1989 to March 31, 1990)                      \



lFO  OFFICAL USE O1JLY
INDIA
PRIVATE POWER UTILITIES (TEC) PROJECT
Loan and Project Summary
Borrower              s Tata Electric Companies (The Tata Hycdro-Electric Power
Supply Company Limited, The Andhra Valley Power Supply
Company Limited, and The Tata Power Company Limited,
referred to collectively as the Tata Electric Companies --
TEC). The three companies have generated and supplied power
in the Bombay area since the 1910s.  They pool their
resources, share their assets, costs and revenues in the
same proportion 20:30:50, and are operated as. one company
under the same 'anagement.  A majority of their shares
(51.71, 50.81 and,52.72) is held by the public.  The Tata
interests hold only about 32 of the shares.
Guarantor             s IBRD Loant India, acting by its President. The Government
of India (GOI) would charge a guarantee fee of 2.75 S p.a.
on the principal amount of the IBRD Loan withdrawn and
outstanding.
|IBRD Loan            s US$ 98 million equivalent.
Terms                 s RepSyment over 20 years, including 5 years grace, at the
IBRD's standard variable interest rate.
IFC Investment\ ,       First loan of US$ 30 million and se       loan of Yen
4,600 million.
Terms                 s Rep\syment on a 15-year balloon schedule, including 4 years
grace. Interest rates fixed at 10 718 X p.a. for the first
loan and 8 114 2 p.a. for the second loan. Front-end fee 1Z.
Commitment fee 12 p.a. on the undisbursed balance.
ForeiRn ExSchane and
Interest Risks     s The interest rate risk op the IBRD loan, a*d the foreign
exchange risk on IBRD and IFC loans will be borne by the
Borrower.
Mortgage and
Security           s IBRD and IFC loans aill be secured against first charge on
all of -TM's assets, subject to certain charges on current
assets in favor of working capital lenders. pari passu with
other senior lenders.
This docuX en_ has a\restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance
of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



'                            ~~~~~~~~~is
Project Oblectives    s The Project's objectives are to increase TEC's peak
generating capacity, reduce their dependence on the
Maharashtra State Electricity Board, reduce the average cost
of generation and improve system reliability and quality of
supply to consumers In the Bombay area.
Project Description   t The Project copprises four componentes  a) a pumped storage
unit at the existing Bhira hydroelectric station, to
generate 150 Mg of additional peak power by consuming
off-peak thermal power; b) a 220 kV transmission line to
carry this power to the license area; c) a gas based
combined-cycle unit of 180 MH at the Trombay thermal power
plant; d) a second flue gas desulphurization unit to control
the sulphur dioxide emissions from the coal and oil burning
Unit No. 5 at Trombay; and (e) review of design and
technical specifications and supervision of construction of
the Bhira pumped storage scheme and acquisition of know-how
for the extension of the FGD facility at Trombay.
Estimated Costs:
Project Components                             Local  Foreign   Total
--_--------------------------                ----     SS million--------
I. 150 MV Pumped Storage Scheme at Bbira     30.8     22.2      53.0
II. Bhira-Dharavi 220 kV Transmission System  16.2     17.2      33.4
III. 180 MV Gas Based Combined Cycle Scheme
at Trombay                           43.9     47.1     91.0
IV. Flue Gas Desulphurization Stream
at Trombay Unit 5                     5.6      5.2     10.8
Total Base Costs                          96.5     91.7    188.2
- Physical Contingencies                   6.8      6.0      12.8
- Price Contingencies                     16.7     13.0      29.7
_______  ____ _ ---- _____-
Total Contingencies                       23.5     19.0      42.5
Total Project Cost                            120.0    110.7    230.7
Interest During Construction (IDC)
- IBRD and IFC Loans                      0.0     33.5      33.5
- Other                                   9.5      0.0       9.5
Total - IDC                                9.5     33.5      43.0
______;_   ___*__ --- _____-
Total Financing Required                      129.5    144.2    273.7
1/ Including taxes and duties of about USS 18.8 million.



~~~~~~~~~~~~~ii
?inancing *Ian:s
Local   Foreign  Total
.   ---  US$million
Internal Accruals;            61.5      -        61.5
Debenture Issues
- Convertible part            26.5      -        26.5
- Non-convertible part        15.9      -        15.9
Long ?erm Loans,
IFC aJ                        -      60.0      60.0
IB2D                          -      98.0      98.0
Local Fin. Ist.            11.8      -        11.8
Total                        115.7    158.0   273.7
Estimated Disbursements:
IBRDIIPC Fiscal Year    FY91      FY92       FY93      FY94       PY95
------------- (US$ million)    ----------
IBRD Loans
AnnuaI                   1.0      18.6       37.9       32.9.     7.6
Cumulative               1.0      19.6       57.5      90.4      98.0
IFC Loan:
Annual                   3.0       6.0.      24.0       18.0      9.0
Cumulative               3.0       9.0       33.0      51.0      60.0
Rates of leturn   s    Financials 24S
Economic s 251 (1990-2000 time-slice of the Western
Region Development Program).
Benefits          s     (a) Technical:  The project will incregse TEC's peak
generating capacity and capacity utilization of
the existing thersm generating stations, and
reduce the tran mi*uon losses and the average
cost of generation and improve system
reliability. It will also limit sulphur dioxide
'emissions from coal and oil burning at Trombay
Unit 5.
(b) institutioumlS Tariff adjustments and load
management initiatives will bring the level and
structure of T@C's tariffs more closely in line.
Witi  supply costs.  The support by the Bank Group
for increased participation of She private sector
in the development of the power\sector in India,
would free equivalent public resources which
would be used for investmnts in other sectors
that cannot attract private funds.



iv
Risks                    ( (a)  Technicalt The physical project components,
which are based on conventional technology, do
not present unusual technical risks.  The Mulshi
Dam, upstream of the Bbira Hydro Power Project
will continue to be monitored and inspected
periodically by the Irrigation Department of the
Government of Maharashtra (GOM).
(b) Financial: Under the Electricity (Supply) Act
regulating power utilities in India, TEC set
their tariffs to recover their full costs,
including depreciation at 3.62 p.a., interest and
a predetermined return on the capital base.
Additional special reserves are allowed by the
GOM to fully cover the debt service and raise
internal funds for future investments.
Continuation of these appropriations is essential
for TEC to attain comfortable debt servicing.
(c) Relationship with Maharashtra State Electricity
Board (MSEB): TEC's system and operations are
closely interlinked with the State grid operated
by the MSEB. TEC purchase power from MSEB during
peak hours, and share the backdown during off
peak hours. Maintaining the present working
balance is critical for TEC's long-term
viability.
N                                                                          N~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~
N



INDIA
PRIVATE POWER UTILITIES (TEC) PROJECT
Table of Contents
i.1.   SECTORAL CONTEXT  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . ....  01
Overview    .  .  .  .    .  .  . .   .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .    .   .   .   .   . .  .    .   .  01
Organization of the Power Sector  ... .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .    ........    03
Private Utilities  ...... . . . .   . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .   03
Regulatory Framework  . . . . . . . .    .  .  .  .  .  .. . . .  .  04
Tariffs ... .. .. .   . . . . . . . . . . . . . .  05
GOI Strategy in the Power Sector  .  . .    .    .     . . . . .  05
Private Utilitiess Prospective Policy Adjustments . . . . . . . . .  06
Bank Group Strategy in the Power Sector . . . . . . . . . . . . . .  07
Bank Group Participation   .        . ....      ...    . .... .    08
II.  THE BORROQ  R. .                     . . . . . .. . . . . . . . . .  09
Corporate Structure . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .  09
Licenses  . .        .. .   . .   .   ....                    .    09
Shareholding  ..                             . . . . . .           10
Management, Organization and Training  .. . .  . . . . . . .  11
Maintenamce  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .    12
Accounting and Audit             . . . . .      . . . . .       .  12
Billing and Collections . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .  13
nsurAne Tae  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  13
tacome  Tax    .  .  .  .  .  .. .  .  .  .  .  .        .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .    13
Existing Operations and Facilities .. . . . . . . . ..  . . . .   .. 13
Clients . . . . . . . . . . . .         .. . . . .. .  14
Wheeling  . . . . . . ..................   14
sales  Growth    .  .  .  ...  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .    15
Dependence on MSEB ....... . .. ....  ........  15
Diversification . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .  16
This report is based *n the findings of a joint Bank and IFC appraisal mission to
India in January 1990. Mission members from IFC were Messrs. D. Damianos (Sr.
Investment Officer), O.' Roche (Investment Officer), D. Fenton (Sr. Engineer) and M.
Riddle (Sr. Environmental Adviser) and from the Bank, Messrs. A. Ceyhan (Sr. Power
Engineer), M. Tomlinson (Energy Economist), R. Bentjerodt (Sr. Operations Officer),
C.K. Teng (Financial Analyst), B. Baratz (Sr.\Environmental Engineer), R. Lopez-
Rivera (Power Engineer-Consultant), R.K. MaLhotra (Irrigation Engineer) and Ms. N.
Pa? had (Operations Officer).



III.  THE ROJECT . . . ... .               . . . . . . . .               17
Project Setting .        * *    * *  .  . . . . .\.  . . . .  .  17
Project Objectives  . .... . . . . .   . . .    . . .              17
Project Description .  .  .  .  .  .  .  ... .  .   .     ...     . . . .  18
Cost Estimates  .4. .       4 .  . . .        4. . .  .  44 .  . . . .  19
BasisfortheEste            ..tes -....... ... * .2.....            19
Project Financing . ' .  .  . .. . .      . . . . *.  . * .   19
Status of Engineering and Project MInageme*t  . . .  . . . . . . .  20
Project Schedule  . . . , . . . . . . ... .                         21
Procurement   ::: : :            :::                               21
Disbursements                                                       23
Security Aragement           ....          . . .. .. ... .. .  .  23
Fuel Supply for the Trambay Thermal Power Plant . . . o o  . . . o    24
Water Rights for the Bhira Pumped Storage Scheme  . . . . . . . . .  25
Land Acquisition  . . . . . . . . . ... . . . . . 2 *5
EnvironmettAspetspt a.. ....................   26
Benefits         . . . . . . . . ......  . *                       26
Risks                                                       . . .  26
Project Monitoring and Supervision  ....... .........   27
,IV.   IMNCIAL ANALYSIS  .      .........              . * * * * * . * .  28
Past and Projected Financial Performance  . . . . . . . . . . .     28
\ ~~'fSeasitivrity Aunlysis  . . . . . . .                  . . ............... '. .  29
V.   ECROMIC AXALYSIS . . . . . . . . . . . .0          * *     .. . .  30
- Elctricity Demand In the Western Region and Supply Capacity  . . .  10
-=-  .       Least-Cost Analysis . ... ... . . . . . .                           31
ProgramAnalysis  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .    . . . . . . . .   32
-Program Rates of Retum.   * * * * *        . * * * .  *. . * * . . * * *  33
Project Analyses . -  * * .   - * 4 *                . *  * *   * .     . .. . . . 34
VI.  AGREEUMiS AND               144.4....  4 **                *... \  . 35
Agreements  . . . . . . .   . . . . .                               35
Recommendation  . . . . . . .         . . . . .         . . . . .  36
- \                                                      V



ANHEES,
1.0  All-India: Electricity Supply and Demand
1.1   Comparison of 141B's and INC's Tariffs
1.2   Previous Loans and Credits to India's Power Sector
2.0   Tata Electric Companies" Organization Structure
3.0   Western Region interconnected Power Systems
3.1   Project Description
3.2   Project Cost Summary
3.3   Tata Electric Companies' Project Management Structure
3.4  Project Implementation Schedule
3.5   Procurement Arrangements
3.6   Procurement Schedule
3.7   Schedule of Disbursements for IIRD and IFC Loans
3.8 Statement of Separate and Joint Secured Borrowings
3.9   Environmental Issues
4.0   Financial Analysis:
Table 1: TIC's Income Statement
Table 2s TEC's Balance Sheet
Table 3: TEC's Cashflow Statement
Table 4s Sensitivity Tests
5.0   Economic Analysis
Table Is Western Regions Actual and Projected Power and Energy Demands
Table 2s Western Regions Electricity Consumption by Consumer Category
Table 3: Least-Cost Analysis: Comparative Analysis of System Cost with Bhira
and Alternatives
Table 4s Least-Cost Analysis: Comparison of Generation Cost From Trombay With
Alternative Base Load Options
Table 5: Program Analysis: Program costs and Benefits
Table 6S estimation of Consumer Surplus
Table 7s Program Returns
Table 8s Sumnary of Analysis Assumptions
6.0   Documents in Project File
IBRD No. 22293



INDIA
PRIVATE POWER UTILITIES (TEC) PROJECT
I. SECTORAL CONTEXT
Overview
1.01        The principal challenge facing the Government of India (GOI) as
India's power sector enters the 19908 is to improve the balance in sector
development between expansion and efficiency improvement. This will require GOI
to ensure that the sector's institutional development keeps pace with the
physical expansion of power supplies. Electricity demand is projected to grow at
approximately 92 p. a. through 2000 and to continue to be supply constrained,
though less so than at present. To meet a higher proportion of demand and
improve supply quality, GOI plans to install an additional 80,000 MW of capacity
by 2000. At a cost of about US$150 billion, (equivalent to between 251 and 302
of expected allocations under the Eighth and Ninth Plans) this would exert strong
pressures on GOI's finances and pose considerable managerial and technical
challenges for GOI and State utilities. To meet these enormous investment
requirements, GOI recognizes that it must realize more of the private sector's
potential to mobilize additional resources. Similarly, GOI is keen to exploit
more of the private sector's ability to implement major projects efficiently.
1.02        At present, India's power systems have an installed capacity of over
59,000 MW, comparable to the power system of France or of the United Kingdom or
to all the power systems in Sub-Saharan Africa combinedli. In FY89, India's
systems generated 206,000 GVh - about 702 from coal stations, 252 from hydro
stations and 52 from gas, oil and nuclear stations (Annex 1.0). Public supply
has expanded quickly: since FY82, installed capacity has increased from 32,000 MW
and generation from 114,000 GWh. Even so, India faces a shortage of generating
capacity of 27X and approximately 102 of total demand is left unserved. The
quality of electricity supplies also remains mostly unsatisfactory- interruptions
to supply and voltage reductions are common, and technical and commercial losses
have increased to 222 of net generation.
1.03        In parallel with expanding supply, the sector has made encouraging
efficiency gains. Key amongst these is that plant load factor averaged 552 in
FY90, compared with only 442 in FY81. Each 1 kW of capacity now provides 1,031
kWh (272) more electricity annually than in FY81. In addition, the rate of coal
consumption by power stations has been cut 1O0 since FY80. It now requires 720
tons of coal to generate 1 GWh, compared with 802 tons in FY80. This saves
approximately 12 million tons of coal annually - about 82 of the sector's total
consumption. These improvements reflect a strengthening of plant Maintenance and
operations and are commendable in view of the deteriorating quality of coal the
sector is receiving.  A significant institutional gain has been a 34Z cut-in -
staffing ratios: from 29 per thousand consumers in FY81 to 19 at present.
l1    Excluding the Republic of South Africa.



2
kfficiency has also improved, though more modestly, through increases in tariffs
relative to supply costs.  Between FY82 and FY89, the average tariff rate doubled
to Rs. 0.671kWh through real increases averaging 3.5S p.a..  Rates to industrial
and commercial consumers (over 601 of total coneumption) are now about 80X of
marginal cost.  The lowest rates are those to agriculture - on average Rs.
0.16/kWh - which are heavily subsidized.  These low rates inflate demand and are
a principal cause of the poor financial performance of the sector.
1.04        Notwithstanding the efficiency gains secured in recent years.
considerable scope remains for further improvements.  Key remaining constraints
are weaknesses in the structure of the sector. inadequate financial autonomy of
GOI and state-owned utilities and weak financial discipline. Physically, the
impact of these constraints is that India's power systems provide less power and
of a poorer quality than they should be able to, and at higher cost. Economic
costs of shortages and poor quality supplies are exacerbated by inefficient
end-use of power - the result mostly of a lack of conuercial incentives in many
markets and subsidized power prices.
1.05        Pinancially, the effects of remaining constraints are to undermine
sector financial performance and hold down resource mobilization.  Although
GOI-owned and private utilities financially are much stronger than the State
Electricity Boards (SEBs), it is the latter which dominate the finances of the
sector. In FY89, SEEs incurred a combined loss after interest and depreciation
of Rs. 17.7 billion (about US$ 1 billion). This corresponded to a return on net
assets at historic cost of -9.8Z.  In FY90, SEBs' losses are expected to reach
Rs. 21.6 billion (about US$ 1.28 billion) and the Boards, combined internal
resource is expected to fall to Rs. -7.7 billion (about US$ -460 million).  The
Maharashtra State Electricity Board (MSEB) - TEC's licensor - is the most
,efficient and financially the strongest of the SEBs. Recently, MSEB increased
its tariffs 20X.  As a result, MSEB expects to be the first SEB able to meet
GOI's minimum requirement for a 32 return on net assets at historic cost after
depreciation,and interest.
1.06        GOI is aware of these constraints and how they threaten  future
sector development.  Under the Seventh Plan, GOI strengthened its resolve to
address these constrlaints in a substantive way. Of particular note are GOt's
initiatives to strengthen financial discipline in the sector and improve resource
mobilization, both through direct negotiation with States and through creating
the Power Finance Corporation (PFC). The latter will provide project financing
to SEBs willing to make needed institutional reforms. GOI has also accelerated
development of the efficient central utilities, (particularly the National
Thermal Power Corporation -- NTPC) to improve cost recovery and ensure that
priority projects are implemented on schedule. to tap private sector potential
for additional resource mobilization, GOI also aims to ease financial and
regulatory disincentives to private investment in the sector.' To this end, GO0
has under review a White Paper proposing, inter alia, to increase to 15? the
return private utilities are permitted to earn on their capital base (para.
1.17). Finally, GOI is also reviewing its fuel use policy for the sector. As
well as considering fuel imports, GOI has decided to sanction wiore domestic
natural gas for power generations 8,000 KW of gas-fired plant Is to be added
under the Eighth Plan.



i~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~
Organization of the Power Sector
1.07        Responsibility for electricity supply is shared between SOI and the
States.  COX controls the Central Electricity Authority (CEA), NTPC and its
hydropower counterpart, the National Hydro Power Corporation (NHPC).  All report
to the Department of dower (DOP) within the Z4inistry of Energy.  DOP also
controls PFC and will take responsibility for the newly-created National Power
Transmission Corporation (NPTC).  CEA's task is to develop national power policy
and coordinate sector development.  Its effectiveness, however, is limited
severely by shortages of skilled staff and resources.  NTPC and NHPC are bulk
supply utilities which sell power to the SEBs.  NTPC provides about 13X of
India's total power supplies, and has a track record of efficiency and financial
strength.  NHPC, on the other hand, has not yet enjoyed the same success and is
developing relatively slowly.  PFC will mobilize additional resources for the
SEBs and pursue institutional strengthening of its borrowers through
conditionality linked to its financ,g.  NPTC will coordinate development and
operation of transmission systems, initially systems associated with NTPC's and
NHPC's power stations and later systems owned by the SEBs.
1.08        The States control the SEBs, which generate about 752 of total
supplies and provide most distribution to final consumers.  Although supposedly
autonomous, SEBs in practice are under state control as regards their
investments, tariffs, borrbwings, and salary and personnel policiis.  SEBs are
grouped into five regional systems. Activities coordinated regionally include
generation schedules, overhaul and maintenance programs, power transfers and
concomitant tariffs. SEBs also license India's private power utilities. Only
five private utilities remain: TEC, Bombay Suburban Electric Supply (BSES),
Ahmedabad Blectricity Company (ABC), Surat Electric Company (SEC) and the
Calcutta  lectric Supply Corporation (CESC). The Bombay Electric Supply and
Transport Ltd. (BEST) is a municipal corporation.  All but BSES and BEST generate
at least some of the power they distribute.  However, BSES is embarking upon a
500 Mg thermal power station, for which a second joint IBRD/IpC operation is
Ieing considered.
Private Utilities
1.09        At inoependence. private utilities and licensed local authorities
together provided 'about 801 of public electricity supply. The Electricity
(Supply) Act of 1948 created the SEBs and entrusted the Boards with primary
responsibility for public power supply.  The Act also made SEBs responsible for
regulating private utilities. The Industrial Policy Resolution (IPR) of 1956
subsequently defined aspects of generation and distribution which were to be the
exclusive responsibility of the State. All but the few remaining licensees
cosequently were taken over on the expiry of their licenses.  go new licenses
have been granted since 1956. However, the IPR did not rule out expansion of
remaining licensees, or;the possibility of joint ventures with the private sector
when these could be showh to be in the national interest. Private utilities
provide less than 51 of public supplies, though private captive generation in
industry is extensive'- equivalent to about 151 of public supplies. The latter
has ,developed in responte to poor quality and unreliability of public supplies. "
..                                          ..~~~~~~~'
I'~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~.



^                     ~~~~~~~~~4 
Re&ulatory Framework
1.10        Private power utilities in India are regulated by the Electricity
tSupp.y) Act of 1948 as amended (the Act). The Act allows them to charge through
their'tariffs to consumers their full cost, including depreciation (at 3.6Z p.a.)
and interest; plus special reserves as allowed by the State Government; plus
profit equal to a 12Z return on their remunerable capital base. The special
reserves, like depreciation, are charged on the tariffs, thus increasing the
revenues, b4t unlike cash costs, are not paid out.  Hence they help increase the
cashflow while the clear profit (after the special reserves) remains within the
reasonable return limits. The capital base comprises share-capital and free
reserves, but excludes the special reserves. The rate of return is 'currently set
at 12X p.a. (still the pre-1966 part of the capital base earns only 72 p.a.).  If
a utility makes higher profits, it can retain only 20X of the excess and
roll-overs against future losses are not permitt6d.  The private utilities are
arguing that the 122 p.a. rate of return is inadequate. Their cost of borrowing
is now 142 p.a. for long term loans and 172 p.a. for working capital.
1.11        In TEC's case, the special reserves allowed by the GOM include a Debt
Redemption Reserve, to cover the difference between depreoiation and principal
repayments; a Foreign Exchange Liabilities Reserve, to cover exchange losses on
thie foreign durrency loans; a Project Cost Res4rve, to raise funds for future
investments;  id a Deferred Tax Liability Reserve, to cover an eventual tax'
liability of shareholders for unrealised capital gains (arising from different
depreciation rates under the Income Tax Act and the Electricity Act) in the event
a utility is taken overt These reserves were allowed by the state at a time that
they did not result in an increase of the tariffs (other than the fuel adjustment
charge, which is not subject to any restriction). 'when the fifth Trombay unit2'
came into operation in 1984 and natural gas from the nearby Bombay High Oilfields
was made available at a promotional price (for taking interruptible supplies),
the average cost of generation declined. Rather than rebate the savings to
consumiers throu*h tariff reductions, TEC were able to retain them through these
reserves, to raise funds towards subsequent investments. This allows them to
finance their future projects with more internal accruals and less debt, which in
turn reduces the interest burden and therefore the future tariffs. Thus the
savings come full circle back to the consumer.
1.12        GOI has been considering in\the last 2-3 years a set of amendments in
the Act, including increased depreciation allowance and return on capital, to
improve the incentives for private sector investment in power generation (para.
1.17). While there is widespread recognition that present allowances are too low
to attract new private investment, the proposed changes are unpopular with the
States and the SEBs -- which face stiff oppos.tion to higher rates for public
electricity supplies. Because of the difficulty of building the \necessary
,consensvs with the States, progress on improving private sector incentives will
probably materialize only at a\comparatively modest pace, with the le4dership
2/    Financed under IBRD Loan 1549-IN -- The Third Trombay Project, which
co^ered the' construction of a 500 MW triple-fired (coal, low sulphur
hea:4 stock fuel oil and gas) Trombay bth unit.
'\                                                             \ 



conzinuing to be taken by States such as Maharashtra and 0ujarat that already
have a private sector presence.
Tariffs
1.13        Tariff adjustments by private utilities are permitted annually and do
not, require state approval, only 60 days notice by the licensee.  The tariffs
comprise a demand charge, a fixed component designed to recover the utility's
fixed costs, and an energy charge for actual consumption, reflecting the
utility's variable cost of generation.  The latter comprises a basic energy
charge and a fuel adjustment charge (FAC), reflecting the increases in the cost
of fuel between two successive tariff revisions.  In deciding the actual amount
and especiaily the timing of their increases, the util1ties also take into
account economic and political f4ctors, including the state of the economy in
their area and the attitude of consumers and of the authorities. Petitions by
consumers requesting stays of the increases  are common as is their rejectP;n by
the courts. TEC normally follow the M4SEB in raising tariffs. TEC's tariffs are
lower than MSEB's for the same category of high voltage consumers and also are
lower than the rate TEC pay for power  purchased from MSEB, i.e. purchases-raise
TEC's average supply cost and hence its ta riffs.  TEC's cost of generation is
lower because: (a) their newer thermal units are very efficient; (b) they use
low-cost natural gas as fuel; (c) about a fifth of their generation is hydro; and
(d) they do not have the costs associated with low voltage distribution. The
evolution of TEC's and MSEB's tariffs since 1975 is shown in Annex 1.1.  During
project preparation, IBRD and lFC have reviewed with TEC the possibilities for
improving the structure of TEC's retail tariffs to encourage further consumer
load management. TEC confirmed that they will plan to restructure the3r tariffs
to include, inter alia, options for time-of-day energy pricing and toad'
management.  TEC further agreed that, after consultation with the GOM, they will
commence implementation of the restructured tariffs in their 1991 round of tariff
adjustments.
GOI Strategy In the\Power Sector
1.14        The Five-Year Plan constitutes the only formal statement of India's
energy and power policies.  While the Eighth P.an has yet'\to be finalized,
preliminary indications suggest little change in objectives from those reflected
in the Seventh Plan. Principal energy objectives are likely to remain tot (a)
develop supplies at rates which will facilitate growth in other sectors and 'meet
particular econom*c and social objectives assigned to the energy sector (e.g.
extending irrigation pumping and meeting basic e4ergy needs of the rural poor);
(b) substitute indigenous energy for imported fuels wherever economically
feasible; and (c) promote rational and more efficient energy use. Power sector
objectives are broadly s'imilar, though within GOI there is a growing recognition
for the economic role of imported coal (and possibly imported gas) could play to
fuel supply to the p*wer sector. Over the short term, objectives are likely to
focus on easing the persistent supply shortages and improving financial
di'scipline in the sector.
1.15        Over the longer term, the organ4zational, institutional and financial
objectives are less clearly defined.  Although GOI is heavily constrained in its
abibity to act unilaterally, key initi~tives it is likely to pursue will be to:
l                                                                         A



6
(a) accelerate development of the relatively efficient GOI-owned utilities; and
(b) promote,more extensive private sector participation in power supply.
1.16        GOI's recent initiative in forming PFC is expected to begin yielding
results under the Eighth Plan. In addition, GOI's minimum 3? return requirement
for SEBs, and its appropriations from States' budgets, provide strong incentives
for States to work more concertedly to improve SEBs' resource mobilization.
Private Utilities: Prospective Policy Adjustments
1.17        As mentioned in paragraph 1.05, SEBs' combined losses in FY90
amounted to Rs. 17.7 billion, a return on net assets at historic cost of -9.8X.
In FY90, their combinud resource mobilization is expected to fall to Rs. -7.7
billion.   These serious financial problems (para. 1.05) have left GOI deeply
concerned about the difficulty it faces in financing sector investments through
the Eighth Plan. It is primarily this concern that has prompted GOI to re-assess
financial conditions under which the private sector can invest in public power
supply. Key reform included in the White Paper GOI is considering are:
Ci)      an increase in returns private utilities are permitted to earn --to
five percentage points above the Reserve Bank of India (RBI) rate
from two points at present (i.e. an increase to 15? from 12X);
(ii)      an obligation for state governments to permit private utilities a
special appropriation for repayment of loans;
Ciii)      a standard license period of 30 years with extensions, where granted,
of 20 years -- currently, licenses may not exceed 20 years and
extensions my not exceed 10 years;
Uiv)      release from the highly constraining Monopolies and Restrictive Trade
Practices Act, under which private utilities presently are required
to obtain clearances for new business ventures and major projects;
and,
(v)      streamlining of licensing procedures for new private utilities.
1.18        India's newly formed Cabinet is expected to diseuss the proposals in
the near future. However, the progress through the Government of these reforms
has been interrupted -- in our assessment only temporarily -- by the change of
administration and by the preoccupation of the concerned authorities with
revision of the Eighth Plan. It is not yet clear whether the Cabinet will also
propose increases in depreciation rates for private utilities. SEBs are keen to
secure similar concessions. Without commensurate increases in tariffs, this would
deepen SEBs' losses, possibly substantially.  It is probable, however, that the
Cabinet will require at least 60? of new investment by private utilities to come
from sources other than the main financial institutions.  This will help ensure
that private investment resulting frow the concessions does not draw heavily upon
resources that otherwise would have been available to the SEBs.
1.19        In an interim initiative prior to policy changes being announced, GOI
has approached selected private investment houses to present proposals for Build,
A



7
Own, Operate and Transfer (BOOT) generation projects. Such projects fall within
the provisions of the IPR (para. 1.09), under which SEBs may enter into joint
ventures with the private sector for projects in the national interest. Results
so far have been disappointing -- no new joint ventures have yet been launched -
since the groups approached are wary of the same financial restrictions troubling
existing private utilities.
1.20        While most in government recognize the need to extend private sector
participation in power supply, some continue to view private utilities as
profiteering at the expense of SEBs. These views are deeply held and will
continue to slow the pace of reform. New incentives therefore are likely to be
incremental in nature and are likely to be sponsored by states unevenly. The
more progressive state governments, such as in Mabarashtra, undoubtedly will take
the lead. Overall, it is difficult to predict how quickly private participation
could increase. If GO decides to allocate additional natural gas to private
sector combined-cycle projects, private participation could develop relatively
quickly -- some projects could be completed within the Eighth Plan. However, at
present, the outcome is uncertain.
Bank Group Strategy in the Power Sector
1.21        GOI's sector strategy is sound in its broad objectives and direction.
As regards public utilities, however, additional efforts are needed in
institutional development, planning, finance, pricing and load management. As
regards the ptivate sector, GOI's objectives need to be defined more clearly and
its strategy needs expression through a first round of reforms. The nature of
constraints afflicting public utilities recommends the IBRD adopt a sector-wide
lending strategy. Consequently, the IBRD is extending its inpvolvement with
central entities and in parallel is pursuing direct involvement with selected
SEBs which, together with their state government, are committed to reform. The
IBRD and IFC strategy towards private utilities is to accelerate development of
the existing suppliers and to advance thinking on lowering entry barriers for new
investors. In dealing with public and private utilities alike, the IBRD and IFC
are also promoting more comprehensive and vigorous analyses of environmental
inputs in project design and improved implementation of environmental project
components (para. 1.23).
1.22        The IBRD's support for central entities provides further
institutional strengthening these entities require to manage their rapid
development. It also helps promote efficiency in those SEBs with which the IBRD
does not have a direct relationship. PFC's lending operations, for example, will
be linked closely to institutional strengthening of its borrowers. The IBRD's
support for particular SEBs aims to organize the Boards to operate more along
commercial lines -- invariably a long process fraught with difficulty, but
essential to improve overall sector efficiency.   Recurring objectives in these
operations are to: (a) tighten financial discipline and improve financial
planning; (b) reorganize management to facilitate decision making; (c) improve
the quality and timeliness of management information; and (d) strengthen
technical abilities, particularly as regards project management.  The IBRD's
involvement throughout the sector also facilitates a dialogue with GOI on broader
issues facing the sector - for example, on utilities' need for improved financial
autonomy, ways to improve SEBEs' financial performance and options to improve



;                               ~~~~~~~~~~~~8 
incentives for private investment in power supply.  These and other issues are to
be explored in detail in forthcoming IBRD econqmic sector Work, which aims to
identify and appraise feasible reform options3' .
1.23        In addition to addressing areas where GOI's strategy requires
support, the IBRD also attempts to catalyze progress in remaining areas. Key
objectives the IBRD has adopted in this regard are to: (a) assist with
development of a strategy to address in a uniform and co-ordinated way the
environmental and sociological aspects of power development; and (b) support
developments requiring coordinated actions within and outside the power sector --
improving coal quality and transport are priority areas.
1.24        Joint preparation of the p:oposed project by IBRD and IFC underscores
the commitment of the World Bank Group to the development of private sector power
supply in India.  The association has proved key in advancing the Group's
dialogue with GOI on the regulatory and other constraints presently deterring
extended private sector participation in public power supply (para. 1.12).  Under
the forthcoming Private Power Utilities Project II, IBRD and IFC are seeking that
GOI will take the first concrete steps to lowering the existing barriers to
extended private participation in the sector.
Bank Group Participation 
1.25        The Bank Group has made 29 IBRD loans (USS 5,719 million) and 18 IDA
credits (US$ 2,307 million) for power projects in India (Annex 1.2).  In
addition, a loan of US$ 485 equivalent for the Northern Region Transmission
Project is being considered by the Executive Directors of IBRD.  Twenty-seven
projects have been completed: 20 generation; 4 transmission; and 3 rural
electrification.  Projects currently under implementation include 9 generation (3
of which are hydro); 2 transmission; and 6 which include a mix of generation,
transmission and distribution. Four of the IBRD loans have been to TEC, in 1954,
1957, 1979 and 1984. With the exception of a few notable trouble spots,
implementation of Bank power projects has proceeded broadly according to
expectations.  Loan and credit disbursements, however, continue to show large
outstanding balances (USS 3,753 million, as of March 31, 1990).  These are due
primarily to the very long construction periods of generation projects compounded
by frequent delays in procurement and foreign exchange and import licence
clearances by the various ministries and the rising number of projects under
implementation.  Balances have been increased further by frequent cost under-runs
on major equipment contracts - the result of a recent softening of international
markets and rapid real devaluation of the Rupee.
1.26        IFC has made 2 loans for power projects in India to AEC and TEC in
FY89 and is considering a loan to CESC in FY90.  Although disbursements from the
FY89 loans have not yet commenced, both projects are progressing satisfactorily.
Including this proposed project, IFC cumulative commitments in the Indian power
sector would be about USS 140 million equivalent; including about US$ 100 million
to TEC.
St   An economic sector work study entitled "Long Term Issues Facing The
Power Sector, is expected to be completed by the end of 1990.
.,.       



9
1.27        The Bank Group participation in these projects has strengthened the
financial performance of these borrowers, not only by bringing in additional
financing but more critically by encouraging regulatory improvements, e.g. the
special reserves. Also, by protecting the borrowers from adverse state
intervention it bolstered their private ownership as it enhanced their
contribution to the public.
1.28        The Project Completion Report (PCR) for the Bank's Third Trombay
Project (Loan 1549-IN; para. 1.11) notes that costs at project completion were
34X higher than at appraisal and completion was one year behind schedule.
Despite this, the PCR rates the project a success: cost increases were largely
beyond TEC's control and the replacement of an unsatisfactory contractor was
handled expeditiously. TEC's financial performance throughout project
implementation exceeded appraisal estimates and the PCR estimated the project
rate of return to be 312, compared with 142 estimated at appraisal.
Implementation of the Fourth Trombay Project (Loan 2452-IN) which covers the
construction of the 500 MW Trombay 6th unit, proceeded satisfactorily after a
slow start due to GOI's delay in establishing a fund to secure the IBRD loan.
The 500 MW unit was synchronized with the interconnected system on March 23,
1990. TEC's financial performance during project implementation again exceeded
appraisal estimates.
II. THE BORROWER
CoErorate Structure
2.01        TEC consist of three companiess
(a)      The Tata Hydro-Electric Power Supply Company Limited (Hydro), formed
in'1910;
(b)      The Andhra Valley Power Supply Company Limited (Andhra), formed in
1916; and,
Cc)      The Tata Power Company Limited (Power), formed in 1919.
In the 1950s the three companies pooled their facilities and their staff to form
a single integrated grid. Although they have not actually merged, they are
operated as one company under the same management.  They share their assets and
liabilities, revenues a*td costs in the same proportion (20? Hydro; 30? Andhra;
50S Power) and are collectively referrid to as the Tata Electric Companies.
Licenses
2.02        The three hydro-electric power stations at Khopoli, Bhivpuri and
Bhira (para. 2.18) are still separately owned by the three companiep under the
original licenses issued in 1907, 1919 and 1921. The Trombay Thermal Power
Station, the receiving stations and the transmission and subtransmission network
are owned jointly in the ratio of 20:30:50 by Hydro, Audhra and Power
respectively. The three companies operate Trombay under the jointly owned
-~~  ~                                                                        \



Trombas Thermal Rover Electric License issued In 1953 and amended in 1978, when
the fifth Trombay unit was apprbved.
2.03        The HSUB has the option to acquire, with appropriate compensation.
the assets of the undertakings covered by the licenses.  This option is
exercisable every 10 years, but not before August 15, 2004, the maturity date of
TIC's last loan from the IBRD.  GOl agreed to cause the State of Maharashtra to
extend, not later than June 30, 1991, the validity of TEC's licenses at least up
to September 15, 2010, the maturity date,of the proposed IBRD loan (para.
6.01.b.i).
2.04        The licenses are not exclusive, i.e. other utilities may also be
licensed to distribute power in the same area.  There are two such distribution
utilities in TEC's area (para. 2.20), who are supplied by TIC and retail power to
9 million consumers through their own distribution networks.  In addition, TEC
supply directly about 90 large industrial consumers.  About 70 more of these
direct consumers located in TEC's area were taken over by KSEB in 1980, because
TEC did not have adequate capacity to supply them (para. 2.22). At that time TEC
were importing about two thirds of their requirements from MSEB, an excessive
dependence that has since decreased. TEC is still in a deficit position, but the
probability that their distribution rights may be truncated again is considered
very low.  Under the terms of the License, T@C Owill be allowed to retain such
distribution rights and loads in the licensed area as may be warranted by their
surplus generating capacity". 1sE1 has no financial incentive to take over more
direct custaomrs.  GOI agreed to cause 00M not to take gay actions, including
delimiting TEC's area of supply, that would adversely affect TEC's operational
performance and financial position (para. 6.0l.b.ii).
Shareholding
2.05        TEC were founded by the two sons of Jamshetji Tata, who were granted
the initial licenses. Today the Tata group's hoJ'ding company 'Tata So0is Inc."
holds less than 2.5s of TIC's shares. The Tata family members own lesi than 102
of Tata Sons. More than 753 of Tata Sons' shares are held by Tata Trust, a
charitable institution governed by a board of trustees independent from the Tata
family. The essence of the 'Tata Group' is effectively a network of professional
mapagers, bred thro gh a long tenure in the group companies.
2.06        The three companies are private sector entities, whose coumon shares
are held as given in Table 2.li



Table 2.1:  Shareholders of the Tata Electric Companies
(As of March 31, 1989)
Hydro        Andha        Power
_------- Percent (2) ---------
Individuals                              51.7          50.8         52.7
Other Private                              4.3          4.1          4.1
Life Insurance Corporation                 9.6          9.2          7.4
Other Insurance Companies                 12.9         17.7         10.2
Unit Trust of India                       14.8         13.5         12.1
Financial Institutions                     5.6          3.6         12.5
Nationalized Banks                         1.1          1.0          1.1
100.0        100.0        100.0
Number of Private Shareholders
Individuals                            30,568        27,713       55,302
Other Private                              173          187          268
2.07        TEC's last share issue, by all three companies simultaneously, was in
1981 on a rights basis and was oversubscribed four times.  Debentures are also
issued individually but simultaneously. Each new loan agrc ,ment is signed by all
three companies.
2.08        As part of the financing for this project TEC are planning a large
issue of 5.3 million partly convertible debentures (PCD) in FY91 (para. 3.07).
Subject to approval by the Controller of Capital Issues (CCI), TEC plan to
distribute these as follows:
(a)   3.9 million (74.1* of the PCD issue) to existing shareholders on a
ll rights basis;
(b)   0.2 million (3.7Z) to employees;
(c)   0.7 million (13.2X) to other Tata group companies; and,
(d)   0.5 million (9.4?) to a private financial institution.
After the compulsory conversion on the basis of one share per PCD%  the number of
shares outstanding will increase to 9.2 million, and the private sector
shareholding of TEC will increase to over 60X.
Management, Organization and Training
2.09        The three companies are managed as one, sharing their assets and
liabilities, revenues and costs in the proportions 20X Hydro; 301 4ndhra; 502
Power.  Each has a Board of ten directors of which four, i.e. the Chairman, Vice
Chairman, Managing Director and Joint Managing Director, are on all three boards.
Each board Includes a representative of the Indian Financial Institutions. One
GOI and one GOM representatives serve on the Board of Andhra. The other
directors are representatives of leading industrial and banking institutions in
i_  __ --



12
India. The three companies hold joint board meetings and share the same
management and staff (Annex 2.0).
2.10        TEC are proessionally managed a"d have an excellent record ,of
efficient operation and technical innovation. They were the first to introduce
in India 220 kV high voltage transmission lines, and in 1984 they successfully
commissioned the first 500 MV generating unit. They have successfully
implemented the Third and Fourth Trombay Power Projects (Loans 1549-IN and
2452-IN), partly financed by the Bank.  As of January 1, 1990, TEC's human
resources strength numbered about 3450, comprising about 122 senior managers, 953
engineers and technicians, 1987 skilled and semi-skilled workers, and the balance
administrative personnel.  The staffing is commensurate with the size and scope
of activities of TEC and is adequate to carry out the proposed project.
2.11        TEC provide extensive in-house and external training, primarily for
power plant operation personnel.' Their training cenIter at Vashi, about 10 km from
Trombay provide specialized training on power system managementa Their other key
in-house training includes using computerized simulators to replicate the
responses and operating sequences of the 500 MW Unit 5 at Trombay. TEC also
offer training for SEBs' staff.
Maintenance
2.12        The maintenance of TIEC's facilities is carried out by TEC's own
staff. Well established preventive maintenance norms are applied for the
electrical and mechanical equipment. Overhaulng of units is planned in
consultation with MSEB to minimize disruption to the system. \Effective
maintenance results in high availability: io FY89, the plant load factor for
Trombay Thermal Power Plant was 67.52 overall, and in particular for the 500 MW
5th Unit 802; in FY90, the plant load factor increased to 77.22 on average and
about 94Z for Unit 5 while the all-India average was about 60X.
Accounting and Audit
2.13        The accounting functions are well managed by a few competent and
experienced officers, with a relatively sophisticated computerized system. While
the financial accounting is centralized at the headquarters, TEC are implementing
an on-line financial accounting system for the Trombay Thermal Power Station _
Which will later-tbeextended to other divisions.  The management information
system of TEC iv one of the best in the electric utility sector in India.
Financial planning and funding operations-are still done by the Joint Managing
Di ector in consu(tation with external advisers. As TEC's operations expand and
diNersify, top management plans to strengthen these functions by inducting a
senior financial executive.
2.14        The internal audit division is appropriately staffed and reports are
sattsfactory.  The\external auditors' reports are unqualified and indicate
compliance with the regulatory Acts. TEC agreed to furnish to IBRD and IFC,
latest by July 31 of each year, their audited annual accounts including a copy of
their combined accounts (para. 6.02.a).



13 
Billing and Collections
2.15        TEC send out less than one hundred bills each months one each to
BSES, BEST, the Railways and the 90 direct industrial consumers.  Industrial
consumers and the railways get a 1Z discount for prompt payment, or a 2a penalty
beyond the payment date. Defaulting consumers face disconnection. In general,
most of TEC's consumers pay within the ten'day discount period.  TEC's billing
and collection system is well established and efficient as evident by its low
receivables of less than 40 days of sales in FY89. TEC also provide consultancy
services i billing and collections to other electric utilities.
Insurance
2.16        TEC maintain fire and machinery breakdown insurance policy on their
operating plant and machinery on replacement value basis while projects under
construction are covered under a marine, storage and erection policy. TEC also
ensure that turnkey contractors provide adequate insurance for the project.
Income Tax
2.17        TEC's profit from the electricity business is n6t subject to the
minimum tax of 302 on book profits (before various deductions). Due to their
substantial new investment program, TEC project that they will not be subject to
income tax for most of this decade. The non-electricity businesses (para. 2.27)
are still at an early stage, with expenses outstripping revenue, so that no tax
is envisaged on them either.
Existing Operations and Facilities
2.18        The sixth unit at Trombay (500 MW) was completed ahead of sche4ule
and- came on stream, supplying power to the interconnected grid,--on March 23,
1990.  At present, TEC's own generating capacity is-rated-a} 1,614 MW, comprising
276 MW from three hydro statiqns (Khopol., Bhivpuri, Bhira4 ) and 1,338 MW from
one thermal station (Trombay5I) with 6 unit*.    Net of internal plant usage and
transmission losses, the units in Qperation in FY90, met about 900 MW of peak
Khopoli s 72 MW
Bhira   s 132 MW
Bhivpurit 72 MW
Total   s276 MW
5L1\    X \                     
Units-1  2 and 3s  3 x 62.5 MW
Unit 4          s       150 MW
UnitS           s       500MW
Unit 6  (a)     s       500 MW
Total                 1,337.5 MW
-    v        (a)  Synchronized with the interconnected system in March 23, 1990.



14
load61. The oldest three thermal units of 62.5 MW each were scheduled to be
retired when unit 6 was commissioned, but in view of the peak power shortage,
they are being extended until the combined-cycle unit of the proposed project
comes on stream In FY94. The fourth unit (150 MW) will be relegated to a standby
status from FY95.
2.19        TEC also own the transmission lines and switching substations,
through which they deliver power to their clients at High (HV) and Medium (MV)
Voltages. The transmission lines are at 6.6kV-220 kV and add up to a total
length of 1,141 km overhead and 434 km underground.
Clients
2.20        TEC's clients aret (a) two distribution utilities (BSES and BEST;
para. 1.08), who in turn through their own distribution network retail power to
nine million consumers; and (b) about 90 large industrial consumers supplied
directly by TEC.    The license areas of TEC, BSES and BEST are shown in Map IBRD
22293.
2.21        The HV transmission and MV subtransmission is the p-imary
responsibility of TEC. MS1B, BSES and BEST each have their owl. HV and MV lines
interconnected with TEC's. In its license area which covers South Bombay, BEST
is licenced to distribute power to consumers whose requirements do not exceed 250
KVA. For BSES, whose licence area covers north of the Bombay Metropolitan Area,
this limit is 1,000 IVA. Larger consumers whose requirements exceed these limits
may be supplied by either TEC or BESTIBSES and they choose the source that can
supply them at the least cost. BEST and BSES purchase power in bulk delivered to
them at TEC's receiving stations for onward distribution to their clients. Both
BEST and BSES supply residential, commercial and industrial consumers. The peak
load of TEC's clients was about 1,400 MW in FY90 and is growing at 8Z p.a. TEC
met around 900 MV from their own generation and imported the balance from MSEB.
With the addition of Trombay Unit 6, TEC's own peak availability increased to
about 1,300 MV. Thus, reliance on MSEB for peak power dropped to a very low
level but will rise again as the peak load keeps growing at over 100 MW each
year.
IheelinR
2.22        In addition, TIC "wheel' about 300 MV for MSEB, i.e. transmit it
through their lines to MS3B's clients. In late 19708 TEC were importing over
half of their requirements from MSEB, i.e. their direct customer base was too
large for their own generating capacity. As one of its conditions for approving
the Trombay fifth unit, msn8 took over about one third of TEC's direct industrial
customers. The physical connections for supplying these customers did not
change. Power coming from MSEB is brought to them through TEC's lines, but since
1980 they pay their bills to MSEB, which in turn pays TEC a tolling fee for the
use of their lines.
6/    Peak availability is less than the rated capacity.  During FY90, the
annual peak occurred prior to the synchronization of Trombay Unit 6.



15
2.23        MSEB's reason for the takeover was that direct industrial consumers
are highly desirable clients, because they pay higher tariffs and cost less to
supply than residential consumers. Regarding those direct clients that have
remained with T6C, MSEB has neither the grounds nor the motivation to take them
over. First, TEC's dependence on lSEB has since been reduced to a reasonable
levels imported energy was 252 of total energy sold in PY90, and is projected at
331 for FY2000. Second, MSEB is already charging the highest tariff in its book
(Rs. 1.60/kVh after the May 1990 increase, i.e. about twice the MSEB average) for
all the energy it sells to TEC, including that resold to the direct clients;
hence MSEB would not enhance its Income by taking them over, and it would
increase its administrative costs.
Sales Growth
2.24        The recent evolution of TIC's sales by category of client is shown in
Table 2.2:
Table 2.2 a Sales by Client Category
(GUdh)
Licensees                          Own Consumers
Year   BEST  BSES   Total    Textile   Rall          Other  Total        Total
FT 82  1626  1688    3314        707       353       1116   2176         5490
FY 83  1766  2043    3595        322       349       1116   1787         5382
FY 84  1695  1899    3809        859       349       1240   2448         6257
FY 85  1876  2240    4116        935       355       1250   2542         6658
FY 86  1963  2428    4391       1013       354       1311   2678         7069
FY 87  2058  2627    4686       1025       359       1200   2584         7270
FY 88  2230  2948    5178        949       374       1227   2550         7728
FY 89  2325  3072    5397        910       370       1300   2580         7977
MAAR   5.21  8.92    7.2X       3.72      0.71       2.22   2.52         5.5Z
(AAGR:Average Annual Growth Rate)
Currently, BSES and BEST account for about two thirds of TEC's sales and direct
clients for one third. BEST, who supply the south of the city and BSES, who
supply the north, have shown consistent growth over the decade; BEST at 5.22 and
BSES at 8.92. Both have a mixed consumer base of residential, commercial and
industrial, which has to some extent been changing over this period. BSES's base
remains largely static, whilst BEST's consercial consumption is steadily
increasing with the development of office and hotel complexes. On the other
hand, sales to TEC's direct clients, textiles, railways and other industries,
have been largely static in the last 6 years. The average growth rate of energy
sales, in kWh, is 5.52 p.a.
Dependence on MSEB
2.25        The average growth rate of the peak load, in kW, is much higher,
about 82 p.a. Capacity additions are driven by the peak load growth, rather than
by the energy requirement. In FY90 TIC's own generation covered two thirds of
the peak load, but three quarters of the energy requirement in its system. By
importing from the grid a larger portion of their peak load than of their energy



16
requirement, TEC enjoyed a higher utilization of their own capacity. TEC's
degree of dependence on MSEB for meeting their peak has varied between a high of
one half in the early 1980s to a low one tenth since the addition of Trombay Unit
6 in March 1990. It will increase again as the system peak load grows at 8? each
year, while the planned capacity additions are essentially to replace retiring
units. Assuming no further additions beyond the components of the proposed
project, TEC's dependence on MSEB would reach about one half of their peak load
and one third of their energy requirement by FY2000.
2.26        TEC's preferred degree of dependence on MSEB would be for about a
quarter of their peak load and about a tenth of their energy requirement. This
profile would ensure a reasonable utilization of their own capacity, without
exposing their franchise to the remote risk of erosion. To maintain this profile
in the long-term, TEC would need to increase their generation capacity in line
with the peak load growth. Assuming the required government approvals would be
forthcoming as in the recent past, financial resources, both internal and
external, would not be a constraint.
Diversification
2.27        TEC have also been exploring diversification avenues and have
invested modest amounts to date both in other companies and through TEC
divisions.  Examples of the former are an investment of about Rs. 70 million in
equity (listed shares) and loans to National Radio and Electronics Company
(NELCO), a Tata group company manufacturing radios; and Rs. 2 million in WTI
Advance Technologies Limited (Westinghouse-Tata-Indus), the computer services
company with Westinghouse and IFC (IFC's $250,000 equity investment was approved
in FY88).  The Tata Electronic Data Systems Division (TEDS) is developing and
marketing new products and services for plant operator training and defense
applications; its revenues account about for 0.4X of TEC's total revenues in FY
89. The Contracts Division has been selected to participate in the construction
of hotels by an Indian consortium in the Soviet Union.
2.28        These ventures are not substantial in cash flow terms and in any case
their costs and revenues are accounted for separately from the electricity
business and do not affect the tariffs. However, TEC regard them as an important
insurance for the companies' long term survival. Consequently, they plan to
gradually increase the level of investment and attention devoted to these
activities. Of the Rs. 2,130 million to be raised from the new PCD issue (paras.
2.08 and 3.07), about Rs. 750 millAon is intended to be used for diversification.
i~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~



17
III. THE PROJECT
Project Setting
3.01        The project will be located in the Western Region of the Indian
interconnected power system, where the major supply utilities are the Gujarat
State Electricity Board, the Madhya Pradesh State Electricity Board and the MSEB,
all of which are state-owned. The Bhira hydro power plant is located about 100
km south-east of Bombay, while the Trombay thermal power plant is located in the
metropolitan area. Bhira is at present connected to Bombay by 110 kV
transmission lines and both plants supply TEC's license area in Bombay, which is
the largest demand center in the region.  Other suppliers in the Western Region
are the TEC, AEC and SEC. A total of 17,669 MW was installed in the region as oi
March 31, 1989. Of this, private utilities owned 1,624 MW (AEC; 510 MW, TEC:
1,114 MW) i.e. 92; the contribution of GOI-owned entities was 3,150 MW cpmprising
420 MW from Tarapore Nuclear Station, 2,100 MW from NTPC Korba and 630 MW from
NTPC Vindhyachal coal-fired power plants. Thermal stations accounted for 85Z of
the capacity (78Z in 1984), hydro about 132 (18Z in 1984) and nuclear for the
balance of about 22 (Annex 3.0).
3.02        The coincident maximum demand of the Region in FY89 was estimated to
be 10,637 MW (Annex 5.0, Table 1), of which only 9,913 MW was able to be met
because of a capacity shortage. Power systems operated with a frequency below
49.8 Hz for about 22.842 of the time in FY89. In Maharashtra, power cuts
continue to be in force on certain categories of customers. In addition, due to
forced outages of thermal plants, the Region periodically faces peaking shortages
and load shedding, particularly in the evening peak hours. Moreover, the need
for thermal plant to operate at partial load during off-peak hours is shortening
equipment life considerably. To correct these imbalances, the long term
expansirn plan for the Region includes the installation of a number of peaking
plants7 (para. 5.05).
Proiect Objectives
3.03        The physical objectives of the proposed project are to:
(a)    provide additional peak generation capacity to meet more of the
increasing demand in the Bombay area and reduce TEC's dependence on
the state's grid;
(b)    increase the capaq ity utilization of existing thermal generating
units at Trombay8l and add a gas based combined cycle plant, all of
-which will reduce the average cost of generation;
7|      The existing 560 MM Koyna hydropower plant, owned and operated by MSEB
is being expanded by an additional 1,000 MW capacity, within the Bank
Maharashtra Power Project (Lu. 3096-IN), to allow the entire
installation to operate in a more peaking mode than at present.
at 8    By operating these units at a higher load factor during off-peak hours
for pumping water at Bhira PS Scheme.



(c)    mitigate the sulphur dioxide emissions from the coal and oil burning
Trombay Unit No. 5; and,
(d)    improve system reliability and quality of service to consumers.
The institutional and sectoral objectives are tot
te)    support increased private sector participation in the supply of
power; and,
(f)    encourage improved tariff structures and load management procedures
for TEC's direct consumers.
Project Description
3.04        The proposed project is part of the least-cost development program
for the Western Region Interconnected System. It consists of the following
elements which are described in detail in Annex 3.1:
(i)    Construction of a pumped storage (PS) scheme with one nominally rated
150 MV pump-turbine at the existing hydro-electric power plant at
Bhira; the scheme will benefit from the existing Mulshi dam, tail
pond and tunnel, so new civil works will be limited;
(ii)    Expansion of the transmission link to evacuate the additional power
from Bhira to TEC's licence areas upgrading of the transmission lines
from Bhira to Dharavi in Bombay to 220 kV using the right-of-way of
the existing 110 kV lines; installation of a 220 kV underground cable
-t the Dharavi end for environmenial and resettlement reasons; and,
extension of the Dharavi substation;
(iii)    Construction of a 180 MV gas fired combined-cycle (CC) unit at the
Trombay power station, with one 120 MW gas.turbine-generator, a
recovery boiler and one 60 MV steam turbine-generator and associated
auxiliaries; and,
(iv)    extension of the flue gas desulphurizatign (FGD) facility in Trombay
Unit 5: installation of a second stream9' using the Flakt sea-water
based technology, adopted successfully for the first stream and in
.         operation since March 1988; this will scrub sulphur dioxide from the
emissions of the Trombay Unit 5 to comply with the limits of the
Maharashtra Pollution Control Board (MPCB); and
;t,         (v)    review of design and technical specifications and supervision of.
ponstruction of the Bhira pumped storage scheme and acquisition of
kInow-how for the extension of the FGD facility at Trombay.
\~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~
9/      Each stream would process one quarter of the flue gases from the 500
mW unit.



cost Istiinteo
S *0O        The Ostimated cost Of the proposed project is summarized in Table
3.1. Detalls are Cilven In Annen 3.2.
Tma io 8.1 Sotc,atc PWROlCoat Cooa 
PuoJccat C.eato                              .oAaI  ForoigsL Totl       1*coDl  Foroigs  Total
aa~~              ~       ~     ~    ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ n| 
.-ao. olillos--    -USOolDI IIon -------
1. me tI PC41dtow    88s=ot0t1iro              584    870    '02M         50.0   22.2   53.0
It. abr-trv  =2" Ty)mlelo S5t                  27       9       5         10.2   17.2   88.4
UK 1     Gr=ao aECko  yl                     747     m      1640       48.9   47.1   91.0
IV. PItKi Goo 0=oslPheRlOMlw Sttr  om    Tnatsv a  84   go    102          5.0    6.2   10.8
-Phyolesl Csstloomassco                     110    10       n1o        O.      6.0   12.8
P- Pico Csonti   Ica                       2to      040    92         18.7   18.0   29.7
TOtal Coati sgosslo                          89      742   1,141       28.5   19.0    2.
Total irojast Coot                          2040   280    4841        120.   110.7  280.7
Istoroot Sr   Csaotvse04
-Z3lam IFC Lems                               0     742    742         0.0   88.5   83.5
- 98tiou                     158       0     259~~~~~~~~~~~~~~IS  9.5    0.0    9.5
Total - Iobora'c  Duwlmt Cesatrestlee        15       42     01         9.5   88.5   43.0
Total Ptomaoine QOqnlrv                     2199   804    5242        12.5  144".2  278.7
70-roalMrd-W   d    w                         -      -                   -     mal on
Basis for theEsetinates
3.06        Cost estimates for the civil works are based on available dita
from other proijects engineered by ThC's consultants (para. 3.10). Cost
,estimates for .quipnsnt and materials are baled on the budgetary offers
received from a nAmber of manufacturevs and' copred with the most recent-
quotations received tor similar projects. The estimated cost for consulting
seeV4cee is based an the already recqived quotations. Base prices were
updqted to January 1990.  Physical contingencies  of 103 on civil works (202
for civi, voths at Uhira PS Scheme) and 53 on equipment were assumed on the
'basis of experience with similar projects and amount to about 72 of the base
cost.  Price contitngencies, which amount to 161 of the base cost, are based on-
the expected annul domestic and International Inflation rates. The domestic
inflation rates used for cost estimates are as followsi 7.33 for FY91. 7.03
for Fift and  MS9, 6.63 for FY4 and 6.53 thereafter.  The International
inflation rates are assind as follows.  4.93 for FY91 and therea fter.
Prjoiet Pinancins
3.07         Vhe project is the largest component of bTECsa Investment program
ever the namt fgm years.  fhe 6oveall program also inclm;des routine capital
expenditure, diversification investments and most notably an expansion of
several Lines. nd substations to augment TiC's transmission system. Half the
i



20
cost of the latter is to be financed by a SF 60 million (USs 40 million) IFC
loanapproved in FY89.  The part of the overall financing notionally
attributable to the proposed project, if segregated from the cumulative
amounts, is shown in Table 3.2.
Table 3.2: Incremental Financing Plan for the Prolect
Local    Foreign  Total    Local    Foreign  Total
---------Rs Million-------- ---------USS million------
Internal Accruals       1,045       -       1,045     61.5       -         61.5
Debenture Issue
- Convertible part      450      -          450     26.5       -        26.5
- Non-convertible part  270      -          270     15.9       -        15.9
Long Term Loans
IFC                    -      1,244       1,244     -        60.0      60.0
IBRD                   -      2,033       2,033     -        98.0      98.0
Local Fin. Inst.       200      -         200      11.8                11.8
Total          1,965    3,277    5,242    115.7    158.0    273.7
3.08        The proposed IBRD and IFC loans of USS 98 million and US$ 60 million
equivalent, would cover about 38Z and 241 respectively of the total project
financing requirements, net of duties and taxes.
3.09        The IBRD loan would be lent directly to TEC and would be guaranteed by
GOI, which would levy a guarantee fee of 2.75? p.a. The IFC loan would be made
directly to TEC.  The interest risk on the IBRD loan, and the foreign exchange risk
on IBRD and IFC loans would be borne by TEC. The IBRD loan and the IFC loans would,
be cross effective with each other (para. 6.03.d).
Status of Engineering and Project Management
3.10        TEC would be responsible for implementing all the components of the
proposed project; with the assistance of Tata Consulting Engineers (TCE) and an
international consulting firm with specific experience on pump-turbine projects.
TEC's proposed project management structure is shown in Annex 3.3.  TEC will retain
TCE as the le#d consulting firm for all components of the project.  TCE will assist
in the engineering design, preparation of tender documents, specifications and
drawings, assistance during bidding process, preparation of construction drawings,
supervision during equipment\manufacture, erection, and civil works construction.
TCE engineered successfully all the projects realized by TEC, including Trombay
Units 5 and 6, partly financed by IBRD and the transmission system development
partli financed by IFC.  TCE's experience is acceptable to the Bank for this
project. For their part, TEC have demonstrated competence in project management
during the construction ,of the above IBRD and IFC financed projects.
3.11        The type and size of the pump-turbine and generator-motor to be
installed within the Bhira PS Scheme is relatively new in India and no substantial
experience is available in the country with equipment of similar characteristics.
Therefore, with IBRD financing under the Trombay IV Project (LN. 2452-IN) in
mid-1989, TEC and TCE initiated the selection-,process f4r a qualified foreign
consulting firm to assist in'the review of design and technical specificati\ns of



21
these major mechanical and electrical equipment.  TEC and TCE have received five
offers and they have selected Electricite de France (EdF), who are satisfactory to
IBRD and IFC. About 70 person-months would be required for these tasks,
Consultants' supervision activities would be financed under the proposed proje t.
The know-how for the expansion of the FGD scrubber stream at Trombay would be
obtained from A/S Norsk Viftefabrikk (Flakt), Norway.
Project Schedule
3.12        The project would be implemented over a period of four years (Annex
3.4). The Bhira PS Scheme would be implemented in three years from the date of
award of the contract for the main civil works, during the 1991-1994 period.
Delivery of the main plant and equipment would be within 21 months and subsequent
erection and commissioning is envisaged to be completed by September 1994.  The
transmission development associated with Bhira PS Scheme would also be implemented
in the 1991-1994 period, to be ready when the pumped storage project is
commissioned. The combustion turbine of the CC Scheme at Trombay would be
manufactured and erected within 24 months of the award, i.e. during the 1991-1993
period, and will initially be operated in open cycle. The heat recovery boiler and
steam turbine would be commissioned within 36 months of award, i.e. during the
1991-1994 period. Then the entire scheme will operate in combined cycle. The
extension of the FGD Scrubber Stream at Trombay Unit 5 would be realized during
1991-1994 period, within 24-30 months of award. The proposed project would be
completed by March 31, 1995.
Procurement
3.13        The procurement arrangements are summarized in Table 3.3 and details, as
well as major milestones of the procurement process, are shown in Annexes 3.5 and
3.6. For performance guarantee reasons, the main package for the 180 MW Gas Based
CC Scheme (120 MW gas turbine and its generator, 60 MW waste heat recovery boiler,
steam turbine and generator and auxiliaries) would be procured as a single
responsibility contract under international competitive bidding (ICB) and on a
supply-and-erect basis.  The turbine-generator / pump-motor for the Bhira PS Scheme
would also be procured under ICB, also on a supply-and-erect basis.  Among the
remaining contracts, some would also include civil works (e.g. substation structure
and transmission lines);  this would ensure better coordination during
implementation.  Civil works packages would be procured under local competitive
bidding (LCB), because the size of each package is too small (four contracts
estimated to cost a total of about US$16.1 million; the largest being US$6.7 million
for the Bhira PS Scheme) to attract interest from international contractors.  In
principle the IBRD funds would be used to finance the above mentioned main packages
for the Trombay CC and Bhira PS Schemes, and the IFC funds would cover most of the
remaining materials and equipment contracts.  It is estimated that the majority of
the latter will be imported directly by TEC, but a portion of the IFC funds may be
used to pay for locally procured items. This allocation of the IBRD and IFC funds
may be revised, in consultation with the Guarantor, during project implementation.



22
Table 3.3: Procurement Arrangemats
-----------------------------------
(US$ millions) a/
Pro3ect Element                 ICB       LCB      Other    N.A.  Total Cost
Preliminary Works                -         -        2.0      -        2.0
Civil Works                      -        16.1       -               16.1
Material and Equipment         112.8       5.0     81.9      -       199.7
I8RD:  (93.0)    ( 4.0)    1 - )   ( - )    (97.0)
IFCn * -)         (.-)   (60.0)   (-)    (60.0)
Services                         -         -        8.1     4.8      12.9
IBD*   ( _ )    C _ )      (l.0)b/   - )      (1.0)
Total                         112.8       21.1     92.0     4.8     230.7
IBRD:  (93.0)    ( 4.0)    (1.0)   C - )    (98.0)
IPC s     _)    C-)    (60.0)   C_)    (60.0)
a/ Contract values include contingencies and taxes and duties (US$ 18.8 million).
bI Consultants' services to be procured under IBRD Guidelines for Consultants.
ICB: International Competitive Bidding.
LCBs Local Competitive Bidding.
Others Direct imports and locally procured items.
N.A.: Not Applicable (Administrative Expenses)
Note: Figures in parenthesis are the respective amounts financed by the IBID and IFC
loans.
3.14        Contracts for materials, equipment and erection worth less than
US$200,000 each and vith an aggregate value of US$4 million may be procured on the
basis of local competitive bidding in accordance with procedures satisfactory to
IBRD. Bidding documents an4 recommendations for the award of contracts would be
prepared by TEC with the assistance of TCE. Contracts financed under the IBiD Loan
worth US$2 million or more would be subject to prior review by IBRD. This category
is estimated to cover about 90X of the value of all ICB contracts. The smaller IERD
financed contracts under ICB would be subject to selective post award review. Local
manufacturers would be expected to bid for most categories of equipment, and a
domestic preference of 151 or the corresponding import duty, whichever is less,
would be applied in the compatison of bids for equipment contracts. Foreign
consultants to assist TEC and TCE in the design and Implementation of the Bhira PS
Scheme have been selected in accordance with Bank Guidelines on the selection of
consultants (para. 3.11). The know-how supplied by AIS Norsk Viftefabrikk, Norway
(Flakt) will be obtained through a negotiated contract, satisfactory to the IBRD and
IFC; this contract would be financed under the IFC loan.
3.15        Procurement under ICB reduces the cost of inputs purchased from
domestic suppliers, because of exemptions from customs and excise duties.
Customs duties are not waived on imported packages. This treatment applies to
loans from certain development lenders, including IBRD but not MFC. IFC loans



23
do not qualify for the deemed export benefits, and do not entaii the GOI
guarantee fee.
Diasursemekts\
3.16        Disbursements from the proposed IBRD loan would be made againsts
(a) lOOS of the foreign currency expenditures and 1002 of the local
expenditures (ex-factory cost if manufactured in India) of equipment, and
materials; (b) 10OX of foreign expenditures and 702 of local expenditures for
the erection of plants, transmission lines anA substationsg and (c) 1002 of
the foreign expenditures on consultants. Disbursements for equipment,
materials, and erection under contracts valued less than US$200,000 equivalent
would be made against statements of expenditures (SOE), the documentation of
which would not be sent to the Bank but would be retained by TIC for
inspection by supervision missions. All other disbursements would be fully
documented. Retroactive financing, in an aggregate amount not exceeding US$2
million has been provided in the IBRD loan, for expenditures made after May
31, 1990.
3.17        To facilitate disbursements a special account would be established
for the IBRD loan with an authorized allocation of US$7 million. Annex 3.7
shows the estimated disbursemuent schedule as derived from the construction
programs of the project components (para. 3.12), assuming normal terms for
commircial payments, including retention paymients.  The aggregated
disbursement profile for the project is four years.and does not fit IBRD's
standard profiles because the components of the proposed project have
particular characteristics. The Bhira PS Scheme does not involve the
construction of any dam or tunnel, the upgrading of the transmission capacity
from Bhira would not require any clearing and development of transmission line
right-of-ay, and in the Trombay CC Scheme the equipment, which would require
the longeSt manufacture and installation time is the waste heat recovery
boiler which would be installed in about 36 months from the date of award of
contract.  The last payments are estimated to be made during the first half of
1995. Accordingly, the closing date for the loans would.be June 30, 1995.
Security Arrangements
3.18          The proposed IBRD and IFC loans would be secured by first charge
on all of TEC's assets,lsubject to Aertain prior charges on current assets in
favor of working capital lenders, shared pari passu with other senior lenders.
Annex 3.8 shows TEC's borrowing position and the priority of existing liens on
its properties as of March 31, 1989.  Partial disbursement of the IFC loan
would be permitted against hypothecation on moveable assets.
3.19,         The Bank, loans (1549- IN and 254Z-IN) for the Trombay fifth and
sixth units (500 MW each) have been secured bi mortgage, charge and floating
charge on TEC's assets at the Trombay Thermal Power Station (including the 500
KW units), the Trombay Housing Colony and the Trombay License. TEC's other
borrowings for these units are secured by mortgages, charges sad flgating
charges on all their assets and all their joint and separate licens6s.  The
other debentures bf the three companies forming the TEC are secured by a
mortgage, charge and floating charge op the respective assets and licenses of



24
each, including their respective interests in the assets and licenses jointly
owned by them.
3.20        TEC agreed to the following security arrangements for the proposed
loans (para. 6.02.b)t
(a)   A mortgage over all the immoveable properties of TEC;
(b)   A floating charge hypothecation on all moveable assets of TEC;
and,
(c)   Assignment by way of mortgage of TEC's Licenses, including
extensions and renewals thereof.
3.21        The proposed security will be shared parn  passu with TEC's
existing senior lien holders and also with the Indian Financial Institutions
and other senior lenders for the proposed project. The security will be
obtained in the form of an equitable mortgage with an assurance from TEC that
-      at the request of IBRD andlor IFC, TEC will convert such security to an
English Mortgage and for this purpose will also execute a Power of Attorney to
facilitate the conversion of the mortgage from an equitable one to the English
form.  The creation of an equitable mortgage and execution of a Power of
Attorney are conditions of effectiveness of the proposed IBRD loan (para.
6.03,a and b).
Fuel Supply for the Trombay Thermal Power Plant
3.22        The actual amount of natural gas supplied to Trombay is currently
about 2.5 million m3lday, equivalent to 748,000 tons/year. However, the
firm" gas supply committed by the Oil and Natural Gas Commission (ONGC) is
1.5 million m3/day. The 180 MV CC Scheme is estimated to operate at a load
factor of 68Z and generate 1,080 GWh p.a., consuming 630,000 m3Jday of gas.
This will be taken from the existing 'firm* commitment; i.e. the project is
not based on additional gas allocation.   The balance of the gas,will continue
to be burned in the conventionalVthermal units 5 and 6. Unit 5 (500 Mv) \also
burns coal and oil and Unit 6 is equipped to burn oil and gas only.  ONGC 4as
a gas pipeline to Trombay, and since 1978 has been supplying the existing
units with associated gas from the Bombay High Oilfields, as and when it is
available. TEC are so far the only user for much of this fuel,.which would
otherwise have to be flared. New consumers will be taking quantities of gas
for the next few years, but new oil and gas finds are made regularly.
Although ONGC can give no firm commitment today for supplie; beyond 1.5
million m3/day, it seems that for some years there may be no market except TEC
for a large part of the associated gas currently being flared offshore.
3.23\       Gas now contributes the largest share of the calorific input at
Trombay. The second is residual fuel oil, known as low sulphur heavy stock
(LSHS), supplied by small dedicated pipelines from nearby refineries. This
viscous liquid is extremely difficult to transport by heated trucks, hence TEC
are a\very convenient client for the refineries. Itdian Oil Corporation has
recently offered a further 240,000 tons/year of LSHS, which added to the
already contracted 400 000 tonslyear supplied by Bharat Petroleum Corporation



25
and Hindustan Petroleum Corporation, would take care of the complete LSHS
requirements. The actual quantities and unit costs of the fuels consumed in
FY90, and their share in the total calorific input are given in 'Xable 3.4:
Table 3.4-: Sunttico 14e Fuolo Uood ot Trombay TPP and Unit Costs
Con__u_tion       Unit Cost          Shoso of total     Sharo of total
FYilO _                         Reao              calorific InRt      SO; ouloslone
sa            829                200                  So5                 Os
Coal          122                200                  au                  B0%
oil a10                          277                 go                  70sT
3.24        Trombay TPP is equipped to receive coal by rail.  Indian Railways
now have facilities to deliver up to about 2.3 million tons of coal per year
to Trombay.  However, in order to remain within the S02 emissions limit
stipulated by the MPCB, a much lower amount (about 1.3 million tons p.a.) is
expected to be burned at Trombay.
3.25        Neither the limits to the supplies of these fuels, nor the extent
of the demand for them which may develop from other users, is yet known, but
it is likely that Trombay will burn gas, some LSHS and coal for a number of
years to come. During negotiations of Loan 2452-IN (Trombay IVth Project),
GOI un4ertook to ensure the availability of adequate supplies of suitable fuel
for the optimum operation of the Trombay TPP. GOI reconfirmed this commitment
(para. 6.0l.a).
Water Rights for the Bhira Pumped Storage Scheme
3.26        There are no pending water rights issues that could affect the
implementation and operation of the proposed Bhira PS Scheme, which will not
require additional water and which will simply recycle some of the water now
passing through the existing hydro electric power plant. Actual water usage
in the three hydro stations of TEC is within the allocation sanctioned by the
Krishna Water Tribunal.  There is no dispute o6 the water rights of Bhira and
the PS scheme has been cleared by the Maharashtra Water Authority.
Land Acquisition
3.27        At Bhira and Trombay, the proposed schemes would be located
adjacent to the existing Bhira hydro and Trombay thermal power plants,
respectively, and would be built completely within the limits of the lands
alreidy owned by TEC. No additional land therefore would be acquired;
consequently no resettlement is involved. The double circuit 220 kV
Bhira-Dharavi transmission line would use the right of way of the existing 110
kV lines; at Dharavi the lines would end through underground cables of about 5
km, which would be buried under the existing streets.



26
Envirgonmetal Aspects1o'
3.28        All &hO components of the project will comply with GOI and GOM
standards as well as with all applicable environmental policies and guidelines
,of the iorld Bank. The 8hira PS Scheme would result in expansion of the
existing penstocks and power house.  The operation of \the scheme will have
minimal effect on the environment and the water levels,of the existing
upstream (Mulshi Lake) and downstream reservoirs. One of the existing 110 kV
single circuit transmission lines between Shira and Dharavi will be dismantled
and a new 220 kV double circuit line ising the existing right-of-way will be
built. At the D4aravi end, the line will be connected to the substation by an
underground cable. The environmental impact of this component is also
minimal. With the commissioning of the Trombsy CC Scheme, Units 1, 2 and 3
(total capacity-187.5 MS) will be decommissioned. As a result, cooling water
discharges from Troambay TPP will be reduced, even though existing cooling
water discharges are within GOI and GM4 standards and Bank guidellnes. The
major air emissions of concern from the proposed CC Schemae are nitrogen oxides
(NOx), and the plant will be designed to meet GOI and GOM standards and Bank
guidelines. The proposed PGD scrubber stream will be identical to the first
FGD stream, which has been operating satisfactorily since March 1988. -Air
emissions and liquid effluents from this unit comply with GOI and GOM
standards and Bawk guideliae.. Receipt by TEC of all necessary environmental
.clearances from the GOI and GOM aut1orities is a condition of effectiveness of
the proposed IBID loan (para. 6.03.c).
Benefits
3.29       The project will increase TEC's peak generating capacity, reduce
their dependence on the supply from MSEB, reduce the transmission losses and
the average cost of generzat-- mand improve system reliability. Tariff
adjustments and load management initiatives will bring the level and structure
of TEC's tariffs more closely in line with supply costs.  The support by the
IBRD and IFC would demonstrate the Bank Group's resolve in assisting the
development of private sector participation in\ India's power sector.
Risks
3.30        The physical project components, which are basd on conventional
technology, do not present unusual technical risks, in particular when
cqnsidering.that , for the 8hira PS Scheme, water reservoirs and conduits
already exist, and therefore civil works will be minimal. ICE and EdF (para.
3.10)have been appointed as engineering consultants; both are acceptable to
the Bink for this project. The Multhi Dam, upstream of the Bhira Hydro Power
Project will be continued to be monitored and inspected periodically by the
Irrigation Department of 00M in accordance with Indian regulations.
3231Sl      The future performance and viability of TEC depend ;n maintaining
the pr sent operational balance with MSEB. First, TEC rely on MSEB to make up
its deficit in peak demand and energy requirements. Second, MSEB has a
101 Oi  Details are provided in Annex 3.9.



27
decisive input in the regulatory decisions that affect TEC, e.g. special
reserves, tariffs, approvals for new projects. Third, TIC's physical assets
are fully integrated with MSEB's in the Bombay area, as power generated in
stations owned by TEC or MSEB travels alternately through lines and
substations belonging to either, to reach the final consumer. This
interdependence has helped TEC to maintain and develop their concession, while
continuing to serve their consumers efficiently.  Ensuring the supply of power
to consumers "in the most efficient and economic manner is MSEB's main
mission under the Act, and it is fulfilled partly through TEC. In the
political climate of the late 1970's there was a tendeacy for the state sector
to take over all power generation and distribution. and the future of private
utilities seemed bleak.  Ten years later, as deficits persist, the role of the
private sector in power is being encouraged, with additional incentives being
considered. As long as TEC continue to be efficient and are able to control
their costs and consequently the tariffs, there will be little incentive and
much risk for MSEB to upset the present working balance. Consequently, the
risk of an adverse change in MSEB's relationship with TEC that might seriously
affect TEC's operations is considered remote (para. 2.04).
3.32        Increases in TEC's fuel costs or in MSEn's tariffs would increase
TEC's tariffs, i.e. would be passed on to its consumers. The debt service
coverage would not be affected, unless, in the event of sharp and sustained
increases, consumers were able to stop TEC from raising its tariffs to the
level allowed under the Act.  As long as input costs and tariffs increases are
not much steeper than general inflation and as long as power deficits persist,
this risk is considered manageable.
Project Monitoring and Supervision
3.33        TEC will submit, starting with the quarter in which the loans are
signed, quarterly reports covering the work of coniultants, physical progress,
costs, disbursements and administrative aspects of the proposed project.  In
addition annual financial and administrative reports will be submitted.
=.



28
IV. FINANCIAL ANALYSIS
Past and Projected Financial Performance
4.01         TEC's recent and projected financial performance is detailed in
AnMax 4.0 and its FY8S5-Y2000 performance is summarized in Table 4.1.
Table 4.1: Financial SDwry                       Re mlllion
Fl End Barah 81   10   108  1987 188 118  1990 101 1992 19  1994 1995 1998    1997 199  1999 2000
Rowonuo               4G02 5242  G60  682 7886 GM  O9  10856 12264 14754 1653 16405 15SM 17165 20438 24077
Coot of Fuol          2811 2406 2794 298 2984 82M  8914 4741 508  5504 5"70 012 7141 7712 8499 9179
Othor Oporating Coat    670  528  011  708  009 1025 1101 1101 1268 1862 1464 1574 1892 1020 1958 2106
Powr Purchaoo         710 16   O8 2009 2788 25o O88   8025 4104 6884 7281   6  498  5488 7825 11200
Deprmecation           114  124  120  180  184  208  880  417  440  508  679  598  000  604  609  089
Intorost              229  204  815  865  446  597  708  08S  855  ON8 1020  976  948  918  077  790
Foroign Exehago Low     7    7   SS   65   07  107  147  192  220  20?  808  882  862  82  421  444
Not Pc.tit            a82  822  688  812  451  475  422  718  85  831  821  422  401  421  448  610
Speclal Rowerveo      801  260  408  261  874  880  294  506  166   8 67  168  129  180  185  194
Distribgtoble Prefit   80   66   90   61 i?  148  158  208  228  246  284  2S4  278  291  808  828
Dividend.              62   62   6S   72   71   72  108  144  144  144  144  144  142  142  142  142
Toteal Awgot          426 5258 7080 8455 9704 10981 1254 14444 15941 17088 17467 17116 16844 16940 18804 16685
Not Uortb             16SM  192  2529 2799 8188 8    4401 5471 722 5900 6088  65  612 6691 7191 7665
Met Lo" ToCobbt    2902 8815 870 4227 409 6414 8440 7208 9879 9019 896 6489 8029 7769 7028 6993
Not LTDobt.Net torth    1.75 1.72 1.88 1.51 1.51 1.51 1.46 1.82 1.46 1.68 1.48 1.84 1.21 1.18 0.98  0.92
Oproting Cach Flow    784  719 1081  958 1120 1478 1619 2146 1941 2080 2284 2886 2817 2840 280 2401
Dobt Sorvico           m    492  O0  591  662  847 1295 1526 1561 168  17   1942 191 1379 1670 1692
Dobt Sorvice Cevor    1.94 1.79 1.74 1.01 1.69 1.74 1.25 1.41 1.26 1.27 1.24 1.20 1.28 1.25 1.26 1.27
Avorogo Toriff, Ro/hUh 0.601 0.742 0.900 0.85 0.921 1.008 1.118 1.180 1.258 1.429 1.622 1.515 1.571 1.689 1.877 2.110
4.02         As a regulated utility under the Act (para. 1.10) TEC recover their
full costs and earn a predetermined return on their capital base. They have
always serviced their debt regularly and paid dividends at 162 and, in the last
three years, at 182 of par. Despite the low depreciation rate allowed under the
Act, TEC had a comfortable cash flow because of the special appropriations
allowed by the State (para. 1.11). The cash flow raised through special
appropriations, which are charged in the tariffs, was about 1.8 times the amount
of depreciation during the MYSS-MYOg period. The majority of TEC's debt (over 702
in PY89) is In foreign exchange, hence subject to revaluation in Rupee terms.
This revaluation, charged through a special appropriation, has increased tariffs
by less than 22 to date.
4.03         The cash costs of generation have been contained, mainly due to the
use of competitively priced gas as the main fuel, as well as the high plant load
factor and overall operating efficiency. The cost of purchased power increased
sharply in the past 5 years, to currently about twice the full cost of TEC's own
generation. 1iSEB's tariff to TEC is now significantly higher than TEC's average
tariff: Rs. 1.60/kVh since May 1990 vs. TEC's 1.00.
4.04         TIC's financial condition is projected to remain solid, with a long
term debt: net worth ratio of 1.5 maximum and a current ratio of 1.2 minimum.
Cash flow will remain strong, with a debt service coverage (DSC) of 1.25 average
through PY2000 and a mini=w= of 1.20 in FY96. About 202 of total new investment,



29
including normal capital expenditures is expected to be covered by internal
resources (self-financing). To yield the return allowed under the Act, after the
various appropriations allowed today, tariffs will need to increase from Re.
1.00/kWh average In FY90 to 2.11 in FY2000, i.e. at an average rate of 7.7? p.a..
4.05        These projections include the effect of fuel cost increases, assumed
at 82 p.a., and imported power cost increases, assumed at lOZ p.a., which are
passed on to the consumers through automatic tariff rises. They also assume a
68.52 load factor of the newer thermal units, which is lower than the actual
historic level, but much higher than the average in MSEB. The impact of adverse
changes in these key assumptions on the tariffs and the DSC is quantified in the
sensitivity analysis (para 4.08). The key assumptions for these projections are
detailed in Amnex 4.0, Table 5.
4.06        TEC's ability to service their debt depends both on their maintaining
an efficient operation and cost position relative to MSEB and also on their
continuing to charge the special appropriations allowed by GOM. The financial
projections assume that the special appropriations for project costs allowed by
GOM would continue as per existing practice. To prevent adverse change in the
existing,practice, GOI agreed to cause GOM to continue to allow TEC the current
practice of collecting certain special reserves as are permissible under the
Electricity (Supply) Act (para. 6.01.b.iii). In addition, to ensure the continued
financial strength of TEC, TEC agreed to limit their long-term borrowings such
that their long-term debt to equity ratio will not exceed 2.0 at any given time
(para. 6.02.c). To monitor TEC's financial position, TEC agreed to provide the
Bank and IFC by December of each year, with their financial projections for the
current and next four financial years (para. 6.02.d).
4.07        To compute the incremental project return,  full financial
projections were run for the case with and the case without the project, the
latter excluding all the effects of the project on the generation, costs,
revenues, investment and financing. The cash flows attributable to the project
were calculated as the difference between the two cases.  The project rate of
return (ungeared, i.e. excluding the interest on the project loans only) is the
ITR of the differential cash flow stream to TEC was computed at 23.82. This does
not include the savings accruing to consumers as a result of reduced tariffs in
the case with the project, compared to what tariffs would be without it. The IRR
of the Combined Cycle (with the FGD) project alone is 27.32 and that of the Bhira
PS Scheme (with the transmission lines) is 17.8?.
Sensitivity Analysis
4.08        Increases in the fuel or purchased power costs are charged on to
consumers in full, so TIC will raise the additional cash flow through increased
tariffs and therefore the debt service cover (DSC) will not be affected. If both
fuel costs and MSEBs tariffs increased by 13? p.a. (the other parameters
remaining unchanged) TEC's tariffs would have to increase 'by an average of 10.02
p.a. (vs. 7.7X p.a. average in the base case) to maintain the same DSC. If fuel
and imported power costs remained at today's levels the tariff increase would be
only 1.22 p.a.. MSEB1's ability to increase its current level of generation and
provide surplus energy to TEC during off-peak hours is limiteA by constraints
mainly on plant maintenance and coal supply.  If TEC's average plant load factor



30
decreased to 602 from 68.52 in the base case, the additional tariff increase
necessary to maintain the same DSC would be small: 8.58 p.a. average vs. 7.72 in
the base case. The impact of a 20S cost overrun or of a 1 year delay of the
start up on tariffs, DSC or project IiR is insignificant. This is due primarily
to the cost-plus nature of TEC's operation under the Act.
4.09        Most of TEC's debt (702 on 3131189) is in foreign currencies and a
devaluation of the Rupee would increase interest and principal payments in Rs
terms. The increase in interest costs would affect the tariffs, while inflated
principal repayments, which are not charged through the tariffs, would depress
the DSC somewhat. If the Rupee devalued vis a vis the US dollar more than in the
base case (102 p.a.), tariffs would have to increase by 8.02 p.a. and the DSC
would decrease to a minimum of 1.15 in FY96 vs. 1.20 in the base case. A summary
table of the sensitivity analysis is shown in Annex 4.0. In summary, TEC's
financial performance is projected to be quite robust, with the debt service
cover remaining acceptable under a range of possible adverse changes.
V. ECONOMIC ANALYSIS
5.01        India's power systems are planned on a regional basis.  Because of
this, the economic analysis focuses primarily upon the Western Region power
system, of which the components of the proposed project would be an integral
part. However, when prices are low (as in India), demand and investment can be
inflated above economic levels. Analysis of the Western Region power system
therefore is complemented by analysis of the Bhira and Trombay projects
separately to demonstrate that each is an economic component of the regional
investment program.
Electricity Demand In The Western Region And Supply Capacity
5.02        Electricity consumption in the Western Region and projected demand
through PY2000 are summarized in Annex 5.0, Tables 1 and 2. Between FY81 and
FY88, generating capacity increased at 7.12 p.a., but demand was not able to be
met in full: CIA estimates that in FY88, shortages were equivalent to about 92 of
the maximum load met. Through FY2000, CIA expects maximum demand will increase
on average at 8.82 p.a.. Capacity additions averaging 10.12 p.a. will meet this
increase and fully cover the existing shortage. In addition to the present
shortages at times of highest demand, scheduled maintenance and plant breakdowns
also leave small shortages of supply during some off-peak periods. Through
FY2000, CEA expects that total consumption in the Region will increase at 8.82
p.8.. Generation from new plant is expected to increase the supply in total by
8.92 p.a., and this would be sufficient to eliminate all off-peak deficits.
5.03        At present, the Region's elasticity of electricity consumption to
economic growth is approximately 2.1. This can be expected to decline modestly
with gradual improvement in industrial energy efficiencies. Even so, compared
with projected economic growth of 62 p.a. under the Eighth Plan and 52 p.a.
thereafter, generation expansions averaging 8.92 p.a. appear comparatively
modest. Nevertheless, if economic growth fell to below 4.22 p.a., the Region
could be left with an energy surplus. This is unlikely, but not inconceivable.



31
The effect of a surplus would be to reduce the utilization of base-load coal
stations located near load centers (because of their high fuel costs). Stations
generating only during peak periods (such as Bhira) would not be affected11.
Neither would combined-cycle stations (such as Trombay), whose fuel costs are
lower than those of some existing load-center thermal stationsl2i.
5.04        In practice, lower growth in total consumption is likely also to be
associated with lower growth in maximum demand. If growth in maximum demand fell
to below 7.82 p.a., the development program as presently planned would leave the
Region with surplus generating capacity.  'While again unlikely, this also is not
inconceivable.  The prospect of a capacity surplus combined with a surplus of
off-peak energy would reduce the desirable rate of adding new base-load capacity.
Load-center coal stations would be the preferred candidates for deferral because
of their relatively high costs (Annex 5.0, Table 5). It is most unlikely that
deferral of combined-cycle stations would be economic.
Least-Cost Analysis
5.05        Bhira Pumped-Storage Project.  CEA's least-cost generation planning
for the Western Region through FY98 shows a requirement for additional capacity
in excess of the 10,900 MW able to be installed during this period. Most of the
requirement is for additional base load capacity, though to improve supply
reliability during periods of highest demand, the Region also needs to install
capacity that will generate only during peak periods. The Bhira pumped-storage
project (which will concentrate generation by the existing station into 3 hours
per day) is one project option meeting this requirement. Alternatives are a small
coal-fired station or an open-cycle gas turbine. Simulations of the operations of
the Western Region power system through FY2000 show that Bhira is the cheapest
option (Annex 5.0, Table 3): present-valued to FY94 (when the station would be
commissioned), Bhira offers a cumulative cost advantage over the coal alternative
of Rs. 1452 million (US$ 85 million) and over the open-cycle gas turbine of Rs.
943 (US$ 55 million). Assessed over the whole of the station's 25-year operating
lifetime, Bhira's cost advantages are respectively Rs. 5392 million (US$ 316
million) and Rs. 3779 million (US$ 222 million),
5.06        Trombay Combined-Cycle Project.  The inclusion of the 180 MW combined
cycle project in the least-cost program for the Western Region is justified by
the cost advantage it offers compared with alternative options for additional
base load generation. Although generation from Trombay delivered into the Bombay
metropolitan area will cost slightly more than generation from a pithead coal-
fired station (Rs 0.79/kWh versus Rs 0.76tkWh), Trombay is much cheaper than
generation from a coal-fired station close to Bombay (Rs 0.91 kWh), (Annex 5.0,
Table 4). Moreover, an important factor in Trombay's favor is that it can be,
commissioned 2 years earlier (during 1994) than could either of the coal-firea
alternatives. Considered over the lifetime of the station, this gives Trombay a
111     In fact, a reduction in off-peak and load would improve the economics
of Bhira by reducing the station's cost of pumping.
12;     The fuel costs of Trombay will be about 52 paise per kWh, whereas
those of a load-center coal station are about 70 paise per kWh.



32
cost advantage over a pithead'\station, present-valued to FY93, of approximately
Rs 1190 million (US$ 70 uillion) and over a load-center station of approximately
Re 2140 million (US$ i26 million).
5.07        TEC's "firm" supply of gas at Trombay is sufficient to fuel a 410 MW
combined cycle project.  This capacity could be reached with the addition of a
subsequent combined-cysle project of 230 MV.  In the meantime it is economic, and
advantageous environmentally to proceed with the installation of the proposed 180
MW project.  It is estimated that installing 410 MW in one phase would delay
commencement of the project by at least two years. The phased approach thus
enables 180 MV of combined cycle capacity to be commissioned sooner. The
economies of scale of a single 410 MH project compared with two phases are small:
about US$30 million (152 of the investment costs), and less than 12 of the
operating costs.  These economies are outweighed by the value of advancing
incremental supply (approximately US$55 million each year 13/).  Hence the phased
approach is economically preferable.  Moreover, it is not clear that a 410 MW
project, or a second phase 230 MW, would receive the necessary environmental
clearances.  Compared with the proposed 180 MW project, the 230 MW and 410 MW
projects each entail diverting an additional 0.9 million m3/day of gas from the
Trombay thermal units.  This.would increase coal burning in these units by
800,000 tons/year, and increase particulate emissions from the power station by a
further 10 tons per day.    Although the Trombay Units 5 and 6 were cleared (12
years ago) to burn coal, background pollution levels in Bombay were then much
lower.  It is now not clear that the MPCB would agree to either the 410 MW
project, or a second phase of 230 MW.  During negotiations, TEC confirmed that
they will examine the technical and economic feasibility of installing an
additional 230 MW combined cycle project when they next require to install
additional base load generating capacity.  In the event these feasibilities are
established, TEC further confirmed that they would seek the necessary approvals
and clearances from GOM, CEA and DOP.
Program Analysis
5.08        The program analysis considers the FY90-FY2000 time-slice of the
Western Regiokh development program. This period will include the construction
and first few years operation of the Bhira pumped7storage and Trombay combined-
cycle stations, their associated transmission and the additional flue gas
desulpburization facilities on the existing Trombay station.
5.09        Program Costs.  Capital and,operating costs of the program time-
slice are summarized in Annex 5.0, Tables 5 and 9. Financi-al costs have been
converted to economic terms by excludinig taxes and duties and by applying an SCF
of 0.8 to residual local costs. Investments in generation cannot usually be
related to particular investm~nts in transmission and distribution,.  Becauase of
this,.these Investments have been imputed at a rate of 602 of generation
investments. New coal-fired stations are assumed to consume 0.61 kg/kWh of coal
and 10 ml'IkWh of oil. The economic costs of coal and oil are assumed to be Rs
13/     180 KW net of losses of 132 for 6000 hours at Re. 1.031kWh - Rs.
1.58/kVh (para. 5.12) less fuel and 0 & . costs of Rs. 0.55/kwh (Anntex
5.Q, Table 4).



33
36O/tonne and Re 2.7/litre. New gas-fired stations are assumed to consume
0.23m3/kVh of gas and the economic cost of gas is estimated to be Rs 2,200 per
thousand m3. The cost of pumping in the Bhira pumped-storage station has been
estimated as Rs 0.57/kWh. This is based on the fuel costs of a load-center coal
station (which would be the cheapest source of additional off-peak energy) with
allowances for 52 transmission losses and a 152 efficiency lose in pumping.
5.10        Program Benefits.  Benefits that will be derived from the Western
Region development program mostly will be in the form of additional electricity
consumption. Additional benefits may be realized through reducing supply costs
during off-peak periods and through improving supply quality. However, these
additional benefits are likely to be comparatively small and so have not been
included in the analysis. Incremental consumption has been valued assuming that
by FY93 - the first year of benefits from the program time-slice - the average
tariff level in the Western Region will reach Rs. 0.89/kWh (in FY90 prices) and
that thereafter, the tariff will remain constant in real terms. The corresponding
rate of economic benefit is assumed to be Rs. 0.71/kWh (Annex 5.0, Table 6).
5.11        Present excess demand (para. 5.02) indicates that consumers
willingness-to-pay for public electricity exceeds existing tariff levels.
Incremental revenues therefore reflect only a portion of consumers' benefits and
only a small portion of benefits when tariffs are relatively low, as in India.
Determining whether total benefits exceed marginal supply costs therefore
requires examination of consumers' willingness-to-pay.
5.12        Consumers' willingness-to-pay is related to the costs of private
supply, or to the costs of doing without electricity if private supply is either
infeasible or financially unattractive. This analysis conservatively assumes that
only half of consumers would be willing to pay the higher costs of private supply
and that no one need go without electricity in the event public supply is
unavailable. Rates at which consumer accrues have been estimated from the
economic savings afforded by access to public electricity compared with the
higher costs of private supply.  The latter have been estimated from an updated
review, conducted jointly with CEA, of the costs of private generation and
irrigation using diesel pumps (Annex 5.0, Table 6). The average rate of economic
benefit is estimated to be Rs. 0.871kMh. Adding this to the economic benefit of
incremental revenues gives a total economic benefit estimated to be Re. l.58/kWh
(about US 9 cents/kWh).
Program Rates of Return
5.13        Estimated rates of return of the FY90 to FY2000 time-slice of the
Western Region development program ares
(i)  72 counting as benefits only the economic value of incremental
revenues; and
(ii) 251 when allowance is made for associated consumer surplus.
With a 122 discount factor, the Net Present Value (NPV) of the program time-
slice (including the allowance for consumer surplus) is estimated to be Rs.



34
159,076 aillions, equlvalent to approximately US$ 9357 millions (Amnex 5.0, Table
7).
5.14        Sonsitivity analyses show the program time-slice could withstand cost
incressee of approximately 502 or reductions in benefits of about 352 before some
rectniguration of the progrm would be required for it to remain economic (Annex
5.0, Table 7).  Similarly, the program time-slice could withstand an
Impli  ntatlon delay of pore than 4 years and remain economic; how long in
practice would depend on the extent of associated cost increases.  In the event
some reconfiguration of the program became desirable, the deimand and least-cost
analyses (paros 5.05 - 5.07) provide assurance that the Bhira and Trombay power
stations would not be preferred candidates for deferral.
Project Anayes
5.15        Mhira Mydro Station and Ihira-Dharavi Transmission.  The estimated
rate of return of these project components is 262 and their net present value
(WV -- with a 122 discount factor) is estimated to be Rs. 1,770 million
(equivalent to US$107 million).  Capital and operating costs of the project
components, expressed in economic terms, are summarised in Annex 5.0, Table 8.
Generation by Shira will displace a portion of TiC's purchases from MSEB during
ea& periods.  Supplies thereby released will be used by MS4B to meet additional
peak demand In ksharashtre, but will require Increases in MSEB's peak
trasmisoeon and distribution capacity.  These associated investments have been
allowed for In the some way as in the program analysis (par\a 5.09).  Pumping
costs haee  been included at Rs. 0.S7/kVh (pars 5.09). As Bhira will only provide
firm supply during peak pertods, this generation (net, 203 GWh p.a.) has been
valued at the full cost of alternative supply - Rs 2.451kVh (Annex 5.0, Table 6).
Additional seasonal energy that will be provided by the station (net, 23 Gli
p.a.) ad tes avings in losses facilitated by the Bhira-Dharavi transmission
line (89 GJh p.a.) have been valued at the average rate used in the program
analysis - Rs l.5B/kh (para 5.12).
546         trombabs  Combined-Cycle and Flue Gas Desulphurization'.  The estimated
rate Of return Of these project c omont  is 272 and th"ir NPV (with a 12X
discount factor) Is estimated to ba is 2,792 million (equivalent to US$164
\ million).  Capital and oprating costs are again sumuarized in Annex 5.0, Table
8.  The Trambay combined-cycle station is expected to operate on base\load and to
supply 1026 G0h p.a.. iTe flue gas desulplurization (POD) equipment to be
installed In the existing Trombay station will ensure that emissions from Trombay
emain within pemissible limits when coal is substituted for the gas diverted to
the combned-cycle station.  The POD equipment will not significantly affect
generation from the Trombay thermal units and neither will the increase in coal
burnig change tho etation's Costs of generation. Energy provided by the
comblned-icyul station will be used to meet incremental demands from TEC's direct
coasiuiro and from the consumers of BStS and BEST, which, TEC supply in bulk. The
additiol supplies will also reduce TBC's purchases of energy from MSEB, which
will enable == to Increase supplies to,its own consumers. Estimations have
again ado allowance for associated Investments in transmission and distribution
(para 5.09). Iucrgaenteal supplies have been valued at the average rate used in
the program onalysib (p=ra 5.12).



35
VI.  AGREEM$NTS AND RECOMMENDATION
Agreements Reached between IBRD and GOI and TEC
6.0i        GOI has:
(a)   Reaffirmed the availability of adequate supplies of fuel for TEC's
Trombay Thermal Power Plant (para. 3.25); and,
(b)   Agreed to cause GOM to:
(i)   extend before June 30, 1991, TEC's license to at least up to
September 15, 2010, the maturity date of the proposed IBRD loan
(para. 2.03);
(ii)  not to take any actions, including delimiting TEC's area of
supply, that would adversely affect TEC's operational
performance and financial position (para. 2.04); and,
(iii) continue to allow TEC the current practice of collecting
certain special reserves as are permissible under the
Electricity (Supply) Act (para. 4.06).
6.02        TEC agreed to:
(a)   Furnish by July 31 of each year, its audited annual accounts
including a copy of its combined accounts (para. 2.14j;
(b)   The security arrangements for the proposed loan (para. 3.20);
(c)   Limit their long-term borrowings so that their long-term debt to
equity ratio will not exceed 2.0 at any given time (para. 4.06); and,
(d)   Provide their financial projections by December of each year covering
their current and next four financial years projected performance
(para. 4.06).
6.03        The following would be conditions of effectiveness of the proposed
IBRD Loant
(a)   Creation of an equitable mortgage in a form satisfactory to IBRD
(para. 3.21);
(b)   Execution of a Power of Attorney in favor of IBRD to enable IBRD at
its discretion to convert the mortgage to an English form (para.
3.21);
(c)   Receipt by TEC of all environmental clearances from the GOI and GOM
as shall be necessary for the construction of the Trombay CC Scheme
(para. 3.28); and
'A~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~\
L                                                                                                  \



36
(d)  All conditions precedent to disbugs    t of the NC Loan bave been
fulfilled (para. 3.09).
Agreements Reached between IFC and TIC
6.04       The terms and conditions of the Inestmet Agreet between IPC and
TEC are consistent with the above.
Recommendation
6.05       On the basis of the project justification ad the agreeouto
reached, the proposed project is suitable for an ISUD loan of US$98 million and
IFC loas of US$30 million and Yen 4,600 million to the Tuta Ulectric Companies.
I            .    \~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~



DCDIA~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~
- -                                                    IDIDA                                    R
PRIVATE P0MR UTILITES PROJECT I
ALL-NDIA: ELECTRICm Sta PLY AND DEMAND
Actual Etimotod
Annual                                 -                 Annmul,
FY62     .        FY  Incraco S -         FY9       - FYO        PY2000       Itncroso (fi
(o)-1    10oIkd CWcity a!O              82,847       54,247        9.0             59,040    108,910       105,481         9.8
(b) Oootlng Copobilty (                 20,121       26,242        5.6             31,718      61,416       09,8          10.0
(c) Pk Lood " ()                        20,121  7   89,60B         12.0-W          48,808      72,711      112,019         9.0
(d) Dotclt (M/3 of Peek Lood)            n.e.        11,418/         -             11,5s5/    11,298/       12,954/         -
28.8                          26.8        16.5        11.5
2. ID L-
(a) Iobotine CapabilIty (GMh)          118,27       197,970        6.7            205,909    881,856       09087          10.7
(6) Eno!g RoquIrcont (OW) 9/          118,92f g/  210,492         10.8 y         22,62       884,704      5,8             9.0
(a) DofPeit (OWh/M3 of lqulobt)          R.D.        22,618/         -             28,758/      2,0/        &5,814/         -
10.7          -     -         10.8        0.0          6.9
a/ Constrolnod by opply capaclty. N ootlato8 arc avotlable on tho ontont of aupproosod dmnd In FY02.
I/    *osr*, ratos aro ovoCrta*cd sO 1961/62 data rOt loct supply rotelr then domand.
C/ Total final dmand -for onorn  pluo tranomialon -and dictribution lOoo.
Estimeted by CEA.
Source: Thirtoontt Eloctria Posor Survey of India, CEA, Doembor 1987, plus Bank cotinatos.
g-
,  .~~~~~~~~0
. .-                                              9 .~~~~~~~~H~



38           ' 
38 .   .   .Annex   0
Page 2 of 2
INDIA
PRIVATE POWER UTILITIES YROJECT I
ELECTRICITY SUPPLY AND DEMAND
ALL-INDIAs ENERGY CONSUMPTION WY MAIN CONSUMER CATEGORY
Actual (2)                  Estimated (2)
Consumer Category         FY82        FY88         FY89         FY95        FY2000
1. Domestic               11.6        14.7         15.3         19.4         23.6
2. Pubic Lighting         0.9         0.9          1.1          1.3          1.5
3. Public Water            2.3         1.8          1.9          2.2          2.5
4. Agriculture'           16.9        23.8         24.1         28.1         iz.o
5. Industry               57.7        48.8         47.5         39.1         30.6
6. Traction                2.8         2.5          2.5          2.4          2.4
7. Commercial cl          7.8         7.5          7.6          7.5          7.4
Total               100.0                    100.0.       100.0        100.0
8/  Estimated by CEA.
b/ Estimated by Bank.
c/  Includes'consumption by other miscellaneous 'ategories of consumers.
Source: Thirteenth Electric Power Survey of India, CEA, December 1987.
V                                   



39                                  Anne: 1.1
INDIA
-PRIVA_TE POMEI UTILITIES PROJECT I
COnOarison of 14SEB's and TEC's Tarrifs
MSFB                              1TEC 
Demand      Energy      FAC&        DQemand     Eng          FAC&
Revision    (RS!KVA/                             (R&IRVAI
Date       Onth       (P/tuh       (P/Khl    Month)        (P/Kvh)     (PlKwh)
(Av. Rate of business)
10.16.75      15          9.5        5.015.1     16.5-20.3    9  -10.6    5.71 7
01.28.77      16         11          5.3/5.3
03.16.79                                         18.4-22.6   10.1-11.8    9 / 9
03.17.81                                         21.4-26.4  11.7-13.7  14 1 17
09.16.81      22         20          10 110      24  -27     20  -20.8   23.5/23.5
02.01.86      35         85          44/ 2       28  ,34     68  -83      50  ! 0
06.01.87      35         88           6 I 6
12.01.87                                         2f  -34      68  -85.5    3  /0.5
05.01.89b     35        108          15 i  0
a  Fuel Adjustment  harge before/after the rGevisia (the difference was
mrged in the Baskic ergy Charge).
b  Anticipated.
\Source: MSEB and TEC



40 1'
PRIVATE POMER UTILITIES PECT I
Prvio  Lanms ad Credits to Indin Poer Seetor (as of Warch 31. 1990O
IRMoulnt *n uS3 miIIon)
'  proval  Closing    LOn      Amunt
flosi:    iIboora 1                                       Date      Dls      Aount  Dijgjr         Status
1. India     First DVC - Bokao - Konar              23      4/50       2/S6     18.5       16.7   Coplete
2.  India    Second OCC - faithon - Panchot          72      1/53      6/58     19.5        10.5    Cooplete
3. Tata       Trombay Power                         106    11/54       9/66     16.2        13.9    Complete
4. Tata       Second Ttambay                       164      5/57       9/66      9.8         9.7   Cosplete
5.  India    Third OYC - Ourgapur                   203     7/58       6/65    25.0        22.0   Complete
6.  India     Koyna Pwei                           223      4/5        4/65    25.0         18.7   Complete
7.  India    Power TransRission                    416      6/65       12/70    70.0       50.0   Coaplete
8.  India    Second Kothagudem Power               417      6/65       12/70     14.0       13.8   Complete
9. Tata       mird Trombay Thermal Power           1549     4/78       12/84    105.0        .0   Complete
10. India    Ramagundam Thermal Power ()          1648      1/79       6/87     50.0       45.6   Complete
11. India    FaraRka Thermal Power (              1887      6/80       6/89     2S.0        2.5    Complete
12. India    Secofd Ramagundam Thermal Power ()  2076       12/81      6I90    280.0 A/  256.4
13. India    Third Rural Electrification          2165      6/82       6/88    304.5      295.5   Complete
14. India    Upper Indravati Hydro                2278      5/83       6/94    156.4        0.3
15. India    Central Power Transmission (*)       2283      5183       3/90   250.7        77.6
16. India    Indira Sarovar                       2416      5/84       6/92     17.4        4.9
17. India    Second Farakka Theral Power (*)    2442        6/84      12/91    300.8       97.3
18. Tata     Fourth Trombay Thermal               2452      6/84       6/90    135.4       118.9
19. India    Chandrapur Thermal Power             2544      5185      12/92    300.0      126.0
20. India     Rihand Pmer Transmission (M)         2555      5/85      12/89   250.0       165.1
21. India    Kerala State Poter                    2582      6/85      9/91    176.0       23.2
22. India     Combined Cycle ()                    2674      4/86      12/91    485.0      343.9
23. India     Karnataka Power                      2827      6/87      12/95    330.0       21.7
24. India    National Capital Power Supply (a)   2844        6/8        6/95    485.0      120.9
25. India    Talcher Thermal Power (*)             284       6/87       3/96    375.0       30.2
26. India    Second Karnataka Power                2938      5/88      12/96    260.0       20.9
27. India    Uttar Pradesh Poter                   2957      6/88      1296    350.0        26.6
28. India     Nathpa Jhakri Power                  3024      3/89      12/97    485.0       35.0
29. India    Naharashtra Power                     3096      6/89      12/96   400.0        20.0
Total                                                                     5,719.2   2,092.8
(Total Loans for  TKPC Projects)                                         (2,501.5)
it Out of original loan amount of US$300 million,
US$20 million   s cancelled.
IDA  roits
1.  India     Fourth OVC - Ourgapur                  19      2/62      12/69    21.9        19.9   Complete
2.  India     Second 1      Power                    24      8/62       9/70     21.1       21.1   Complete
3.  India     Kothag &  Power                        37      5/63      12/68    24.1        24.1   Coaplete
4.  India     Se  uipment                             9      6/66       6/74     26.6       26.3  SCoplete
5.  India     Second     r Transmission             2     2  4/71       3/77     75.0       72.9   Complete
6.  India    Third Power TransMssion                37       3/73       9/78     85.0       85.0   Complete
7.  India    Rural Electrificatio                   572      /75       1/ao      57.0       57.0   Complete
8.  India     Fourth Pouer Transmission             604      1/76       6/83    150.0      149.9   Complete
9.  India    Singraull Thermal Power (')            685      3/77       6/84    150.0      150.0   Complete
10. India     Korb& Thermal Power ()                793      4/78       3/86    200.0      199.9   Complete
11. India     Ramagundao  Thermal Poaer (*)         874      1/79       6/87    200.0      200.0   Complete
12. India    Second Rural Electrificatlon           911      5/79       3/84    175.0      171.7   Complete
13. India    Second Singrauli Theriial Power ()   1027       5/80       3/89    300.0      292.8   Complete
14. India     Farakka Thermal Power (*)            1053      6/8C      12/      225.0       25.0   Complete
15. India    Second Korba Ther=al Pow*r (l) 1172             7/81      1289    400.0       370.3   Complete
16. India    Upper Indravati Hydro                 1356      5/89       6/91    170.0      114.0
17. India     Indira Sarovar                      SF020      5184       6192     13.0        0.7
18. India    Indira Sarovar                        1613      5/86       6/92     13.2        0.0
Total                                                                     2 306.9   2.180.6
(Total Credits for NTP'Projects)                                         (1      24150)
(*) NTPC Projects



P-RWaTE POWE  UTLMES PRJEC 0 T. 
~~~~~~W                            MM
CE~Q IO I  II 
EU"~- De    ad                                                               A 1 
AC(A=4
i  ,*~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ X~~~~~~~~~oya m -diat 
cl=2    22tV                         as    ; ;i           t             Ef 
g~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~M _=(A m*R
=Tcmw*~~~~~~~
*a  ac -    tL  X                      r
sact                                         -              f
LE.. o
AW~~~~~~~~~~~~~ W.1



42
Annex 3.0
Page 1 of 3
A.   D-eails of    er ts- Anc       lator  me
1.    Essential and Service Industries           :    Nil
2.   tontinuous Process Industries and
Textile Industries                            10%
3.   Other Industries                                  15%
i Gu1aKA
After May 1988 power supply to rural loads is available only from 12-24
hours generally.
1.    Single and 2 shigt industries not to work ietween 1400-2200 hours.
2.i   Staggering of weekly offs for HT consumrs.   X
3.   M4ini Steel Plants to draw \power, from 2200 hours to 1400 hours.
"Source: VWi Annual Report 19~88-89.



43
Annex 3.0
Page 2 of 3
C.    ExIstinr-and                    in
.    iStnCaaiya  o. Marffch 3C  1
Nwubore of Units x HU
1. Koyna                4 x 65; 4 x 73; 4 x 80                     880
2. Tillari                                                          60
3. Koyna DPH            2 x 20                                      40
4. Eldari               3 x 7.5                                     22.5
5. Vir                  2 x 4.5                                      9
6. Bhatgar                                                          16
7. Radhanagari          4 x 1.2                                      4.8
8. Vaitarna                                                         60
9. Vttairna-Dam toe     1 x 1.5                                      1.5
10. Tat. Electric Cos.  Bhira         -    6 x 22  )
*                         lBhivpAri    -     6 x 12  )               276
KhopolI     -     6 x 12  )
11. Bhira Tailrace       2 x 40                                      80
12. Paithan                                                          12
13. Pench 1/3 Share                                                   53
14. Bhandardara                                                       10
15. Pawna                                                            10
1534.8
I~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~
1.tasik                 2 x 140; 3 x 210                            910
2. Trombay 1,2 and 3    3 x 62.5                                    187.5
3. Trombsy 4 and 5      1 x 150  )                                  650
I x 500  )
4. Koradi                                                          1100
5. Bhbusail                                                        482.5
6. Parn.                                                             92.5
7. Parist               2 x 30   )                                  690
3 x 210                                    3
8.Icbapetkha            3 x 30   )300
1 x210  )
9. Uran (gas)                                                       672
10. Chandrapur                                                       840
5924.5
'.                                                                '~



*44
Annex 390
Page 3 of 3
2.   R                 by      -        arnc w         h U
1. Bhatsa         15          1. Chandrapur                1000
2. Ihadakwasle   16           2. Khapor Kheda Extn II-IV    630
3. Ujjanl         12          3. Trombay 6                  500
4. Kanher          4          4. Uran Waste Heat            240
5. ph**            2          5. Dahanu                     500
6. Terwatuedh      0.2
7. Varna          16
8. Itanikodh       6
9. Surya           6
10. DiFbh.          5
11. Duganga        24
12. Bhandara 1b2   34
13. CKoyna IV    1000O
1140.2                                     2570
*  Unlikely to be cou!tissioned fully by 1994-95 and thus peaking deficits
will further increase.
:~~~~~~~~



45
Page 1 of 10
PRIVATE POWER UTILITIES PIOJECT_I
TATA ELECTRIC COMPANIES
Project Description
A. hhira Pumnned Storage Scheme
1.    The 'Ohira Pumped Storage Scheme' would form the extension to the
existing six-unit 132 HW conventional hydro power plant (HPP) which draws
water from the Mulshi reservoir lake across the Kula River. Mula River joins
the Bhima River which in turn meets the Krishna River and flows eastward,
through the States of Karnataka and Andra Pradesh, to the Bay of Bengal.
Through intakes on the Mulshi Lake the water flow is diverted westward to
Bhira hydro power scheme located at the western foot of the Western Chats, to
take advantage of the steep terrain drop.  The Bhira Hydro Power Scheme
consists of the Mulshi dam, two approach channels, two tunnels, Bhira power
house, downstream pond and Bhira Tailrace Hydro Power Project.  Except for the
latter which is owned and operated by the HSEB, the other structures are owned
and operated by TEC.  The Mulshi dam is situated about 95 km southeast of
Bombay and about 40 km east of Pune.  The Bbira power station is,situated 22
km west of Kolad which is on the National Highway No. 17, from bmbay to Goa.
2.    The original Bhira hydro power project, built from 1921 to 1927 when it
was commissioned by TEC, consists of a masonry gravity dam 50.6 m high and an
ungated spillway.' The dam is horizontally arched and the combined length at
the crest is 1,555 m.  Approach channels and the intake works are followed by
the headrace tunnel 4,335 m long with a cross sectionwl area of 13 m2 and
rated capacity of 34 m3/s.  The tunnel terminatas at the surge shaft from
which three galleries take off, feeding the six perqstocks located along the
elopes bt the Western Ghats. Each penstock is 15 nm in diameter for 1,144 m
after which bifurcates into penstocks 0.9 m in diameter for the last 620 m.
'Thus a total of tw6lve penstocks enter the Bhira power house. There are two
pelton turbines of about 11 MW each driving a generator. The power house had
initially five units of I7T.5 KW each'(total capacity: 87.5MW) with provision
for a sixth unit.  Later the generators were upgr4ded and the sixth init was
added.
3.    The Mulshi dam is thus 63 years old. After elperiencing the seismic
shock of Decemer 11, 1967 (known as the Koyna earthquake), it has not shown
Pumped storage is a method of energy storage in which electrical
energy produced during low-demand petiods is used to pump wFter
into an elevation from which water is released during high-demand
periods to supply high-value energy. A pumped storage HPP
produces power during peak-load periods by using water previously
pu^ped from a lower ieservoir to an upper reservoir duringloff-
peak periods.'                                      '
'l____,___ ,_



46
\~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~n \                      eAne  3.
Page 2 of 10
any problems.  As advised iy GOM, and as a matter of routine the stability of
the dam is being surveilled in the context of. the latest Indian Standards.
Large diameter core samples of dam masonry have been recently tested at the
Maharashtra Engineering Research Institute in Nasik. The average tensile and
comprehensive strength values measured are considered suitable. Stability
analysis of the dam, carried out by TCE, concluded that the dam is safe under
all loading conditions and that the maximum tensile and comprehensive stresses
are well within the actual strength of the masonry. The final results of the
analysis will be sent to the Irrigation Department of GOM for their review and
opinion. The dam was inspected in 1989 and the inspection form issued by GO0
Irrigation Department concluded that the dam is in good condition and it is
well maintained by TEC. A copy of the Certificate of Inspection is included
in the Project File (Annex 6.0).
4.    Mulshi Lake live storage is estimated at 523 million m3, with a
reservoir surface area of about 41.5 km2. The discharging capacity of the
spillway is 1,926 m3/s at maximum water level of 606.1 m.
5.    An approach channel has been cut in the lake bed for conveying water at
low lake levels to the tunnel intakes. An auxiliary approach channel exists
for utilizing part of the storage in the event of emergenpies such as a
delayed monsoon season.  Both channels have stop log gates and can convey
148.5 m3/s at minimum reservoir level of 59Q.1 m; both are unlined at present.
6.    The origiral tunnel, 4,335 m long with a cross sectional area of 13.0 m2
and rated capacity of 34 m3/s (equivalent to about 120 MW generation
capacity), was lined in about 9% of its length. Lining and rock falls
obstructed it gradually, forcing TEC to construct first an auxiliary reservoir
at a location called Dongerwadi and later a \new headrace tunnel, including a
new apTroach channel, intake works, surge shaft, valve house and connections
to the penstocks, because the critical power supply situation of the TEC
system made it impossible to stop the' plant for the period required to carry
the repair works. The new tunnel was completed in 1965 and the original
tunnel has been in disuse since then and is not in good condition.  Its
rehabilitation is part of the proposed project'.
7.    The new tunnel is 4,530 m long, including 405.9 m in surface steel
conduit. It is 4.25 m in diameter with 1.52 m level bottom and a cross
sectional area of about 14.2 m2. It is concrete-lined throughout its length
and is connected to the original twelve penstocks. Its rated capacity is 54.4
m3/s which would cater to a station capacity of 192 M!4. An additional stop
log gate is located downstream of the off-take channel feeding the new tunnel.
8.    Presently the total nominal installed capacity ts 132 MW formed by six,
units of 22 MW each. The maximum output' capacity of the plant is 148 KW. Its
average annual generation capability is about 850 GWh.  Water from Bhira is
evacuated to;Kundalika River. The plant production is evacuated from the
switchyard to the Rhopoli HPP and to a substation in Panvel through a \10 kV
system about 55. k  long.  The Bhira hydropower scheme is in good condition and
is well operated and maintained.
\                      -



47
Annex 3.1 \
Page 3 of 1O
9..  'The capacity of the Bhira Tailrace Hydro Power Project is 80 MW (2 x 40
MW). The discharges from Bhira are diverted by a masonry weir into a lined
diversion channel with a capacity of 90 m3/s down to a pickup pond impounded
by an earth dam across the Kundalika River.  The live storage capacity of this
pond is 1.54 million m3. Through a tunnel, water from this pond is conducted
to a forebay with a live storage capacity of 1.76 milliom m3, just upstream of
the tail race power house.
10.   The proposed Bhira PS Scheme would utilize the hydraulic structures of
the existing Bhira HPP, some of'which would be modified, $.proved or
rehabilitated to better its hydraulic and structural characteristics required
for the existing and proposed pumped storage projects. The pumped storage
scheme would utilize the Mulshi Lake as upper reservoir and the pickup pond of
the tail race project as the lower pond.
11.   The major works to be carried out are summarized in the following
paragraphs.
a.    Power Plant Civil Works.  Rehabilitation of the main and auxiliary
approach channels including removal of silt, rehabilitation of channel slopes,
reQairs to the concrete linings. These works would more than double the
cartying capacity of the channels at minimum\drawdown level.  Rehabilitation
of intake works in the original and new tunnels would include repairs and
alterations as necessary to trash screens, gates, gate guides, sill, stoplogs
and other items. Hydraulic model studies are being carried out to identify
the scope of the modifications.   'A
b.    Head Race Hydro System.  (i) Original Tunnel.  Work would consist of,
cleaning, trimming of existing rock surface, concrete lining for its entire
length, Carrying capacity of the tunnel would be increased to enable
generation of l50INW for exclusive operation of the existing Bhira HPP. X
(ii) New-Tunnel. The existing simple surge shaft would be modified to cbntain
the up and down surges within limits of the turbino operation. A concrete
slab would be built at-the bottom of the shaft which would convert single
surge shaft into an orifice surge shaft. (iii) Galleries. A new valve house
would be constructed at the Fallery No. 4 of the new tunnel at Dongerwadi to
accommodate 3.7 m diameter butterfly valve and accessories on the new penstock
to suit the operating conditions of the pump-turbine. (iv) Penstock. A new
surface penstock of high tensile steel (ASTM 517, Gr de F) between the new
valve house at Dongerwadi and the beginning oZ the piessure shaft on the
upstream side of the proposed power house would be built. This penstock would
be approximately 1,480 m long with\varying diameters of 3,7 m, 3.5 m and 3.3
m.\ (v) Pressur'e Shaft. An inclined pressure shaft 180 n long,,\3.3 m in
diameter and lined with high tensile strength steel (ASTM 517, Grade F) would
be built between the end of the penstock and power house.
c.    Power House.  A 20 m x 20 m shaft power house oval in shape, to
accommodate the 150 MW pump-turbine and generator-motor and other equipment \
would be built to the east of the existing power house.



48
\                                ~~~~~~~~~~~~Annex_3.
Page 4 of 10
d.    Tail pace Structures.  (i) Tail Race unnel.  A concrete lined.tunnel of
3.9 m diameter, 70 m long would be built at the exit of the new power house.
The\tunnel would be followed by a tail race channel. Trash screens, gates,
stoplogs, hydraulic hoist, gate house and auxiliary equipment would also be
procured and installed at the' end section of the tunnel. (ii) Forebay. A
forebay, leading to the existing pond of the tail race project, would be
constructed immediately downstream of the new tail race channel.
e.    Mechanical and Electrical Eaugpment.  One 150 KW reversible Francis pump
turbine and one 180 MVA generator-motor, both at nominal ratings, with
associated mechanical and electrical systems and auxiliaries would be procured
and installed at the new power house.  One 13.8/220 kV, 180 MVA step-up
transformer would also be procured and installed at the net4 switchyard which
would be constructed on the west side of the new power house.
12.   Geology and ToiographR.  Extensive geological and topographical surveys
and drill holes (20 diamond drill holes with an appjoximate total depth of
2,800 m) have shown that the geology of the area and the topographic features
are favorable for constructing the proposed Bhira PS Scheme. Adequate
measures will be taken to determine safe charges for blasting and blasting
pattern to protect existing structures.
B.  Expansion of the Bhira^Dharavi Transmission System
13.   With the installation of the 150 MW Bhira PS Scheme, the eflisting four
110 kV transmission lines would not be sufficient t9 evacuate tlb  total
generated power.  Furthermore, it is computed that by uprating the
transmission system to 220 kV, the losses in the TEC transmission systeivwould
be reduced by about 32 MW tt the generation mode (during the peak hours) and
16 KW at the pumping mode; total annual energy savings are computed to be
about 89 GWh. It is therefore proposed to built a 220 kV, double circuit
transmission line with twin 0.2 sq.in copper equivalent ACSR conductors per
phase. A 220 kV\switchyard would be erected at Bhira, with the provision for
two 220 kV feeders to which the new double circuit line would be connected.
At the Dharavi end of the system, an undergroundt cable would be buried under
the existing streets to avoid resettlement problems because of the
concentrated habitations around the substation, and two 220 kV feeders would
be built for the connection of the double circuit line.            I
14'  The line would be erected along the right of way of t'he existing single
circuit 110 kV lines.  The route length of the new transmission line is 110
km. The other technical parameters are summarized as follows:
- Conductor                      : Twin Panther (2x0.2 sq.in copper
equivalent); ACSR
- Ruling span                    :300 m
- Number of insulators per string: 14                A
15.   Two 220 kV feeder bays consisting of circuit breakers, isolating
4witches, grounding switches, current transformers, potential transformers,



49
\          .                 ~~~~~~~~Annex 3.1
Page 5 of 10
associated protection systems, etc. would be added to Bhira and Dharavi
switchyards, respectively. The recommended scheme for the 220 kV switchyard at
Bhtra is breaker and half scheme.  This scheme would provide high reliability
and adequate flexibily f4r future expansion. The other technical parameters
are summarized 4s follows:
- Highest syst" voltage             : 245 kV
- Short\circuit rating              :40 kA for 3 sec.
- Power frequency withstand voltage : 460 kV
- Rating of bus breakers:
- Dharavi                     : 2000 A
- Bhira                       : 2500 A
- Insulation Level
-            - for 220 kV                   :1050 kV
- for 110 kV                     550 kV
16.   A three-winding Autotransformer with delta connected tertiary would be
installed at Bhira to interconnect the 220,' 110 and 22 kV netwdrks. Its other
technical p&rameters are summarized as follows:
- Rating                    : 220/110/22 kV; 125/125/35 ?VA
- Tap.changing              : Off circuit taps with 10% range in steps
of 2.5% on 220 kV winding
- Insulation Level
- 220 kV              : 1050 kV
- 110 kV              : 550 kV
- Type of earthing          : Star winding grounded through resistance
17.   To ensure reliable communication, system operation, protection and data
transmission from Ehira, a fibre bptic communication system (composite fibre
optic groundwire system) would be installed between Bhira and Dhar#vi ana
interconnected with the already planned fibre optic systeip of the TEC grid.
C.  Gas Ba.ed Combined Cycle Scheme at Trombav TPP(Trombay 7)i
18.  The proposed Gas Based CC Scheme (Trombay 7th Unit) w?uld comprise a gas
turbine generator (GT) of 120 MW, and a \heat recovery steam generator (HRSG),
l         a steam turbine and a generator (STO) of 60 MW.  Thus the total-installed
capacity of the scheme would be 180 MW. The 120 KW GT\ would use natural gas
as the main fuel. A diesel generator of 3 MW capacity, burning diesel oil,
would also be provided to supply power for start-up purpose under black-out
conditions. When the CC Scheme would be commissioned, the oldest thr'ee units
of Trombay (3x62.5 KW - 187.5\ MW) would be shut down; the existing three
generators which were repaired/rehabilitated during the late 1970s would be
operated as synchronous condensers, to alleviate the voltage drops in the
Bombay area.
19.  IOsal jldCanacity.  The Committee of Experts, set up by the Government
of Maharashtra and including representatives from the Central Electricity \
Authority, following frequent system shutdowns (the most recent being in



50k ;
Annex 3.1
Page 6 of 10
August 1989), recommended the installation of ' gas turbine generator, with
facility for quick starting \as being .ssential for the metropolitan Bombay.
The GT part of the proposed CC Scheme would serve as an emergency source of
power supply for the essential load of Bombay city, which has been estimated
at 120 MW.  An unfired HRSG, using the exhaust gases of the GT unit, would
produce enough steam to operate a steam turbine generator of about 69 MW
capacity. Hence the capacity of the CC Scheme would be 180 MW. GT uknits up
to ratings of about 150 MW have been commercially proven.  These units can
'achieve a thermal effic'.ency of about 30-32 percent on the simple cycle mode.
Combined with a waste heat recovery steam generator unit, an overall
efficiency of about 45-50 percent 7can be obtained.  Although the proposed CC
Scheme would be operated as a base load station, the daily load pattern of'the
power grid would determine the actual generation from the scheme. The plant
capacity utilization has been'considered as 6,000 kWh/kW and the availability
of the plant is estimated at about 90 percent. V
20.   Configati.  Taking into account the performance of gas turbine units
of 130-150 MW and of the steam cycle equipment and investment and 0 & N costs,
a configuration of 1 GT + 1 HRS? + 1 STG has been adopted.
21.   Location and Land.  Trombay TPP is situated on the north-eastern part of
Bombay city near the Kurla railway station of Central Railway, at a sea coast
site.  Trombay is also well linked by road.  Heavy equipment tpuld be
transported by barges, which would be beached at the power plant site during
high tide conditions, when draft of over one meter would be available. The gC
Scheme would be installed adjacent to Unit 6 (500 MW) on the western side of
the steam turbine-generator building.  An area totalling 22,800 m2 (80m x
285m) would be required for the CT unit, HRSG and turbo-generator unit,
generator transformer yard and switchyard.  The area available west of Unit 6,
which measures 48,000 (150m x 320m) is adequate.  The proposed site is
generally level, requiring only limited amount of land development which would
include a certain amount of filling in low laying partsX From geo-technica4
investigations carried out for Unit 6, weathered basalt rock of about 2 meters
thickness, was encountered from depths between 10 to 12 meters. Below this,
sound rock was encountered. Pilipg is envisaged-for all buildings and major
equipment foundations.              i
22.   Cooling Water Supply and Discharge.  Trombay, being a sea coast site,
,sea water is used for cooling the steam turbine condensers of Units 1-6.
Units 1, 2 and 3 presently draw sea water each using two pumps located at ihe
jetty. Units 1 and 2 are connected by a 1,800 mm diameter cement lined pipe,
fed by fouripumps each with a flow rate of 4,860 cubic metrs per hour. The
cooling water requiremepts of the CC Scheme is estimated at 14,500 cubic
meters per hour includiiig auxiliary requirements aid would be supplied from
the existing three pumps of Units l and 2; the remaining pump would be for
LL         standby service.  These pumps are in good working condition.  Studies made by
the Central Water and Power Research Station at the time of engineerng of
.init 6, confirmed that recirculation would not take place under all conditions
of tide. Presently, Units 1, 2 and 3 discharge the used c6ndenser water
through the discharge channel located near the ittake structure, compared to
the discharge points of Units 5 and 6 and the,proposed CC Scheme.  Discharge



51
Annex 3.1
Page 7 of 10    -
from the latter would be substantially less compared to that of Units 1, 2 and
3, on account of lesser steam turbine capacity and higher overall efficiency.
Hence no recirculation effect is anticipated. The existing units are
operating without any adverse effect on marine life.
23.   Make Up Water Supply.  Raw water for the make-up of the steam generator
would be supplied by Municipal'Corporation of Greater Bombay. Presently 9,700
cubic meters per day are sanctioned by the corporation and drawn by TEC. The
requirement of the CC Scheme is estinate4 at about 400 cubic meters per day;
while Units 1, 2 and 3 presently consume 2,000 cubic meter per day. Therefore
the requ.rements of the CC Scheme would be supplied from the existing raw
water allocation for the Trombay TPP.
24.   Demineralised Water.  The total capacity of the'demineralised water
plants of Units 5 and 6 is 3,240 m3/d at 45 m3/h rate, with one standby
stream, while the combined requirements of these units is 21400 m3/d.  The
demirkeralised water requirement of the CC Scheme, which is estimated at 336
m3/d at 14 ml/h rate would thus be provided by the existing plants.
25.   Aviation Clearance.  The 275 m tall chimney of Unit 6 was'cleared by the
Aviation Authorities, The CC Scheme would have a bypass stack/HRSG stack of
about 45 meters, which is well within the above limit.
26.   Fuel Gas Supply. the require*ent of gas for the 180 MW CC Scheme for an
average daily generatioA of 3 GWh (1,080 GWh per annum) is 0.53 m3/d (average)
based on a heat rate of 1,748 kcal/kWh, density 0.82 kg/Nm3 and calorific
value 12,300 keal/ke2.
27.   Evacuation of Power.  There are four 110 kV and three 200 kV
transmussion lines from Trombay to Chembur, Parel, BARC, Carnac, Dharavi and
Kalwa substations. Local distribution to tndustries located nearby Trom1iay is
made with 22 kV lines. The total firm transmission/distribution capacity of
all these lines is about 2,300 MVA and is thus adequate for evacuating
generation of 1,330 MW Trombay Units 4, 5 and 6 and the proposed CC Scheme3.
28.   Staff and Staff Col2nv.  A nearby housing colony'has been constructed by
TEC for the operation and maintenance staff of Trombay TPP. This is being
continuously developed by TEC depend ng on requirements.  After de-
commissioning of Units 1, 2 and 3, adequate staff would be available for the
0 & M of the CC Scheme.      '
'  2   Gas supply for the Trombay TPP is reviewed in para. 3.22.
3 Trombay Unit 4     150 KW
Trombay,Unit 5:---  500 MW
\  Trombay Unit 6:      500 MW
Proposed CC Scheme: 180 MW
Total:             1330 MW
:! -.                                           



52
3. 1~ ~~.
Pagp 8 of 10
29.   Technical Features.  (a) The GT would essentially comprise: - a gas
turbine with a multistage axial compressor and a turbine; combustors would be
mounted on the compressor discharge casing; - an a4cessory module in which
lubricating oil system, starting motor, hydraulic system, etc. would be
mounted; - an inlet system, with a high efficiency filter to remove salt
crystals in the inlet air and an air intake silencer to supress the noise in
the intake air system;   an exhaust system which would allow the exhaust gases
escape into tie atmosphere either through a bypass stack or through HRSG, with
exhaust silencers, ducts, and dampers; and, - a generator vhich would be
driven by the GT directly at 3,000 rpm. The generator would be enclosed to
reduce the noise levels to acceptable levels. The CT and auxiliaries would be
protected with Halon 1301 fire protection systems. The OT would be started
either by a starting motor or by operating the generator as a converter fed
synchronous motor in conjunctdon with a static frequency control system. A
diesel generating set of 3 KW capacity would also be provided to supply the
gas turbine start-up and auxiliary power requirement during complete black-
outs.  (b) The HRSG would be double pressure (high and low pressure levels),
unfired, horizontal/vertical (to be optimized during the engineering) gas flow
type with self supporting stack. A condensate pre-heater would be provided to
absorb the available heat energy of the exhaust gases from the (GT to the,,
ma#imum extent. A constant pressure deaerator would be installed for feed
water beating and deaeration of HRSG feed water. (c) Steam from HRSG would be
supplied to a condensing type steam turbine through main steam piping. The
turbine control system would be of Wlectro-hydraulic type with a hydro-
mechanical system as a backup. The steam turbine would be complete with lube
oil system, hydraulic control system, safety and protections, gland sealing
steam system and jacking oil system. The turbine would also be provided with a
surface type condenser fixed below the turbine exhaust. Two 100% mechanical
I vacuum pumps would be provided for the evacuation of the air from the
'condenser. (d) The generator would have a nominal 71.5 MVA rating at 0.85
lagging power factor (60MNW). It would deliver power at 11 or 13.8 kV, 3-
phase, 50 Hz. The star point of the generator winding would be connected to
earth through a transformer having the secondary shunted by a resistance. The
generator would be air or hydrogen cooled; the coolers *ould be adequately
sized so that with one cooler section out of circuit for maintenance, the \
generator can carry two-third of the rated load continuously without exceeding
the premissible temperature rise. Air or hydrogen would be cooled in water
cooled heat exchangers with cooling water wh4ch in turn will be cooled in air.
The excitation system would be either brushless or static type and would have
automatic voltage regulator capable of maintaining stability under transient
conditions.. (e) The power from the scheme would be evacuated through a 11 or
13.8/230 kV step-up transformer which would be connected to the existing 270
ky outdoor switchyard of Units 5 and 6 (the switchya d would need to be
extended). The windings of the transformer would beMconnected in delta on low
voltage and star on high voltage side, suitableX for solid grounding. The
transformer would have ONAN/ONAF/OFAF type of cooling and would be provided
with 5% off-circuit taps in equal steps of 2.5%. The high voltage terminals
would be connected to the 220 kV switchyard by overhead lines and the low
voltage termiials would be connected to the generator terminals through
isolated phase bus-ducts. Lightning arrestors would be provided at 220 kV



l~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~
53
.~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~3 .  
Page 9 of 10
terminals of the transformer. (f) Auxiliary systems would comprise the fue1
(gas and diesel oil) supply, auxiliary cooling water, condensed cooling water,
demineralised water, service water, potable water, fire alarm and protection,
air conditioning and ventilation, control and monitoring, compressed air,
power station electrical supply, plant direct current, illumination,
communication, safety earthing and lightning protection, emergency power
supply and black start, etc. systems.
D.  Expansion of the Flte Gas Desulphurization (FGif Unit at TrombaX Unit 5
30.   laharashtra Pollution Control Board (MPCB) has stipulated the following
requirements, while giving its cleerance for the installation of Unit 6: (i)
UYnit 5 shall be provided'with an FGD plant with a minimum removal efficiency
i Qf 90% for sulphur dioxide; and, (ii) the total sulphur dioxide emission from
Trombay TPP shall not exceed 15 tons per day after the installation of Unit 6.
Keeping in view MPCB's stipulations, TEC installed a pilot FGD plant to treat
25% of flue gases (equivalent to 125 KW) from Unit 5; this plant has been-
operating successfully since its commissioning in MqLrch'1988. Taking into
account, the limited amount of gas allocated for Trombay and the savings in
fuel cost following a charXge over to coal from LSHS and/or gas, the FGD unit
would be expanded up to 50%4.
31.  The existing FGD unit u'ses the Seawater Process developed by Flakt,
Norway, and was built by TEC based on the know-how obtained from Flakt., Flue
gases from the existing ID fan discharge plant are conveyed to a concrete
scribber using a booster fan. Inside the scrubber the gases flow counter
current to seawater. Sulphur dioxide is absorbed due to the natural alkanility
of the sea water and clean flue gases leave the top of the scrubber at
approptimately 40C. They are then mixed with part of the raw gases in a reheat
mixer. The reheated gases at 570C exit through the existing 152 m tall stack
of Unit 5. Seawater required for absorbtion is provided from Unit 5 condenser
cooling water system seal well, by a siphon system to a distribution chamber.
It is then pumped to the top of the scrubber. Acidic liquor from the scrubber
flows by gravity into a mixing chamber located near the seal well, where it
mixes with excess seawater again drawn from the seal well and then overflows
into the aeration basin. In order to bring the quality of this effluent
E  4   In May 1988, prior to obtaining satisfactory oper&tional results
of the Flakt Seawater FOD technology, TEC had TCE carry an
economic comparison between Flakt Seawater System and the ammonia
process (the latter process uses ammonia liquor for scrubbing of-
flue gas and the know-how is provided by Krupp-Koppers, Federal
Republic 'of Gertany; ammonia sulphate is a byproduct produced as a
sale4ble fertilizer). TCE's conclusion was that the seawater and
ammonia systems would be comparable in net annual operating ceest
if ammonia was made available to TEC with a subsidized price as
applicable to fertilizer units. Following the satisfactory
operating performance of the.initiWl seawater based stream, TEC
opted for its expansion. The Bank agrees with this decision. *



54
Page 10 of 10
within the permissible limits, the effluent is aerated by supplying iir with
the help of aeration fans and aeration gri4. The treated effluent is then
discharged to the sea. The design basis for the installation of the proposed
FOD stream is:
- Flue gas quantity              i            : 44,420 Nm3/h
- Maximum flue gas temperature                : 153C
- Sulphur content in coal                     : 0.35%
- Coal firing rate                            : 200 t/h
- Suphur dioxide removal efficiency           : 85% minimum
- Particulate content of raw flue gas         : 157 mg/Nm3
32.   However, in order to have gases leaving the stack at higher
temperatures, resulting in higher plume rise and less condensation of acidic
water in ducts and stack, the clean gases exiting the scrubber would be heated
to 454C by using the heat content of the raw flue gas to reheat the clean
gases from the scrubber by installing a regenerative heat exchanger. The raw
gas, after being cooled in the regenerative heat exchanger, would be conveyed
to the scrubber by using a booster fan. The existing pipeline to transfer
scrubber liquor from the scrubber to the mixing chamber of the aeration basin
would be adequate for the iiicreased flow rate. The major process and
operating parameters for the proposed FGD stream are:
- Seawater flow to scrubber                   : 2,100 m3/h--
- Seawater flow into aeration basin           : 8,500 m3/h
- Quality of treated effluents   '            : To meet the requirements
of Indian Standard 2490
- Seawater temperature at inlet of scrubber  : 43VC
- Clean gas temperature at scrubber outlet   : 45sC
- Electric power of the streams (installed)  : 3,000 kV
i~~~~~~~ -,



55
Anrm 3.2\
Page 1 of 3
INDIA
PRIVATE POMER UTILITIES PROJECT I  (TATAIELECTRIC COOPANIES    TEC)
. ., . A _ _.. .. .,,._,............._._.,,a,,,_,_................................................,____,,
Project Cost Summary
! ...................
Project Coqpon2nts                           Local   Forefgn   Total                Local   Forefgn   Totat
, ~~~~...................................               .........................       .     .......................... ......... ..................__ _.................__
i ------Re. mtLtion ---------          ------SS miltion ---
1. 159 Ku Pumped Storage Scheme at Bihra
.      -          ........
* Preliminary Works                          32        0        32                 1.9      0.0       1.9
Civil Works                                142       28       170                8.3       1.6      10.0
-Equipment                                   269      345       614                15.8     20.3      36.1
- Engineering and Supervision                17         5       22                 1.0      0.3       1.3
- Adcinistrative Experses  (1)               65         0       65                3.8       0.0       3.8
i                                           .......  .......  .......  .......  ... 1   -------
Total Base Costs (2)                         524      378       902               30.8      22.2      53.1
- Physical Contingencfes                      44       24        68                2.6       1.4       4.0
- Price Contingencies                         80      116       196                4.7       4.0       8.7
Total Contingencies                          124       140      264                 7.3      5.4      12.7
Total Project Cost (2)                       648      518      1166               38.1      27.6      65.8
- Taxes and Duties (3)                        71        0        71                4.1       0.0       4.1
- transport and rection (3)                  48        0        48                2.8       0.0       2.8
It. Bhira-Dharavi 220 kV Tranmsseon
Ssyteo 
, .................................................................................. l
- Preltminery Uorks                            1        0         1                0.0       0.0       0.0
- Civil Works                                 26        0        26                 1.5      0.0       1.5
- Electrical and Iechanical Equipment        223      293       516               13.1      17.2      30.4
-Engineering and Supervision                  21        0        21                 1.2      0.0       1.2
-Administrative Expanses                      6        0         6                0.4       0.0       0.4
Total Base Costs (2)                         276      293       569                16.2     17.2      33.5
- PhysIcal  fontwingonces                     15        15       30                0.9       0.9       1.7
- Price Conitngencfes                         52       111      162                3.0       2.1       5.1
: _.......----  .......               . ...... _.......  .......
Total Contingencles                           6?       125      192                3.9       3.0       6.9
Total Project Cost (2)                       343      419       761               20.2      20.2      40.4
- Taxes and Outfes (3)                       106        0       106                6 2       0.0       6.2
- Transport and Erection (3)                  49        0        49                219       0.0       2.9



;max 3.2
Pep 2 of 3
Project Comt                                Lcol   Foroip    total               Lol   foro         Tott,
....... ............. ................................. .. ..   , ...._.......................  ...........................
.......via. QillioW....               .          ....... lu o Ittin8........
MII. 169 WI Gas Based Cwbinad C"clo
Sc~aG~ at Tr,y (trerbay 7 
- Peltionaty olq                              1        0         I                0.0      0.0       0.0
- CiviIOro1                                  9        0        79                4.6      0.0       4.6
- lectricatl nd NaChaicatl Equ|ipmt
- 00w TurbirQ                              42      59        641                R.5     35.2      3.?
- Neat Ueeower Bolter                     "O        42       241               11.7      2.5      14.2
* StemD Tubine  d Generator               216       74      28B                 2.6      4.4      16.9
-  0tter Coehaicl Lyliut4                 7Z       33       105               6.3       1.9      6.2
- Othw  Electrietl kPIinent                69       42      11                4.1       2.S       6.5
- Tools, iititllnous ywk.                  22        0        22                1.3      0.0       1.3
otatl Stec. & fech. Equipmant             610      70       140                36.3     4A.4      82.8
- Services
- Enineerirn  ed SLOArsloc                  3       1I        13                0.2      0.6      0.8
- Adnlnistratiwe Elpwsu                    47        0       47                 2.8      0.0      2.8
...........   ...-*    *...           .......  ....... ''.'''..
Totat  as costs (2)                         74?      800      1546               43.9     47.0      91.O
- Phsical Contirneoncis                      49       60       1O9                2.9      3.5       6.4                         t
- Priee ContigencJes                        135      329       463                8.0      6.3      14.3
.......    ......... .......         .......... .......    ......... .......... .............. 
Toteal Ctingines                            184      390       S74               108       9.8      20.j
Total Project Cat (2)                       931     1189      2120               34.8     56.9    111.6
- Tam e d Outfoc (3)                        109        0       109                6.4      C.*       6.4
- Trnport I  Erectlon (3)                    94        0        94                S.S      0.0       5.5
IV. FPu1  es G esulphuritlon Strom
at Tr@Amy Unit 5
.           ~~~~................... *.....................
- C1vil tifs                                 23        0        23                1.3      0.0       1.3
* Etectefcat and fedaicat Eupm               66.:     65       131                3.9      3.8       7.7
- kgineerfne and Stpervision                  0       23        23                0.0      1.4       1.4
- Acbinistative Eases                         5        0         5                0.3      0.0       0.3
Totl           caSQosts t2)                  94       BB       162                $.6      5.2      10.7
-Phsical Contirnecis                          a        3        11                0.5      0.2       0.7
- Price Continenies                          16       33        50                1.0      0.6       1.6
..........  .......  ..... ...   . ..  .  .......  ... .........  .......
Total ContingenRies                          25       3?        61                IA       0.8       2.2
.                                          -4----v  -----t-  -------~~~~~~~~~~......  ..... ... .....   .......
Totl Project Cost (2)                       119      12S       243                7.0      6.0      13.0
- Texas d Outles (3)               3|                  0        34                2.0      0.0       2.0
- Trensport e   Erctimn (S)                  12        0        12.   0.7                  0.0       t.7



57
Annx 3.2
|Pa   3 of 3
ProJect Components                            Local   Foreign   Total                Local   Forifgn   Total
. . . .. .. ,...................................     ..................  .. *,_.......       ...........................
*-....Re. million ........-US8 .                   millionr-------
TOTAL PROJECT COST
.................
- Preltminary  erkb                           33         0        33                 1.9       0.0       1.9
- Civil Verks                                269        28       297                15.8       1.6     17.4
- Equipment                                 1176      1493      2669                69.2     G7.8    157.0
- Engineering aid Supervision                 41        38        79                 a.4       2.2      4.6
- MAninistrative Expenses                     124        0       124                 7.3       0.0       7.3
.......  .......             .      ...... ......... ..... ....._  ... ...... , . . 
Totat Base Costs (2)                        1641      1559      320                 96.6     91.7    188.2
- Physicat Contingencies                      116      102       218                 6.8   1  6.0      12.8
- Price Contirgenies                         283       589       873                16.7      13.0     29.7
.... ,,,,,...  .......  .......        .....  .......  ......
Totat Contingencies                          399       691      1091                23.5      19.0     42.5
. . . .... ........... . . ....... ............. . . 
Total ProJect Cost (2)                      2041      2250      4291               120.0    110.7    230.7
- Taxes and Duties (3)                       32D         0       320                18.8      0.0      18.8
- Trpnswprt and Erection (3)                 203         0       203                12.0       0.0     12.0
Total  asne Costs excl. Taxes S Duties    1322        1559      2881                77.8      h1.7    169.4
total Cntinrgencies                          399       691      1091                23.5      19.0    '42.5
Total Project Cost,excl. Taxes & out.    1721         2250      3971               101.2    110.7    211.9
(1) Including expenses for the cmaron facilitfes uith the Bhfra-Tafirscm Project.
(2) Including Taxes and Duties and Trawsport and Erection expenses as given below.
Ci) Includ$ed In the Base Costs.
,                                      -  ,



58                 ~~~~~~~~anniex 3,3
-t~'                             
_~~
.                                  I
.2~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~
vw
.    i~~~~~~~*
| I _ _ _ J I + g J~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~



. o                                  .'.   
. ~ ~ ~ ~  ~    ~     ~    ~    ~ ~ ~ - _                *
3            -*                                                                .    _
--    - -- -- -- -- D-- |-- -- ---*- *- -----------------3 3E 3
-"--- ------|--l-l-------l----g--                             *-                      33
S -W_ _              _    ~0a-                    __    -                 __--
3 .0~-.   ..                                      .- - -  - - - - -  -  - - - - - -
3 _                 _ ------    - _ _ -   -  ______             * --_
*                                      _                                           ** _a.XD**   ** *** *0 tt*    
3                              [                                               .   * 
-     *--------       -       *-  - - ----   -----                              a    ..-  -
- ____         _-- _-------  -----                   -         - -   -           ,  - -
-    *-- - -   -   -   - -        -   -     -- --        -     - - -  - -
----                   - ---  -------- ~
j _ _ _ _    ,_,N j
-----------               -                                                    W
------------  -                -       -       --                -       -
"0~~~~~0   a                                                     *l-* *3l  * *1r     -
t@S~~~~~~~ ~~~~~    ga : :asa f
6S-- - - - -        --   --- -5
- -- -- - - -- - - -- ---- - - - ---- - --- ---- - -- - -
U                              Nt SP    f
ifi                             *st  r 



INDIA
PRIVATE POWER UTILITIES PROJECT I
........ !................
FMMRM19' AR_AIOTS
-1-                 -                .IS millns)(Use                   a, of
ICB               LCB             Other         ZI.A.       TotaL Cost
Contract  tIU    Contract   18       Cntrat-  IBRD   Contract Contract   ISR
Project El1ant                              Value   Firnc    Value   Finne   Valuei  Finance   Value    Value   Firm=_c
.b......................., .....    .....                       ....        . .... . .....    .....    .....    ..... .....
A. 1hire Pmpad Storage Scheme
...... .............
- PreLiminary  eriks                       .        .         .        -          2.0     -                   2.0      0.0
Civi  "Wks 1                                      - .                - .       .        .        .6.?                0.0
- Equipment
-        3usa Construction Equipe.    -                                        8.0                          8.0     10.0
-Patock an  Pressure shaft               .   -               0.0               7.1                          7.1     '0.0
- Pup Turbina aM  onerator-Notor,
incLuding control equoipment          28.4      25.2      a        .        -         -                 28.4      25.2
Genwrator transformer                   .        -         -        -         2.2      .                   2.2      0.0
- Bus Duct                                                                     0.7                          0.7      0.0
-Otbr Equipment                          -                   2.0      1.7      3.5       -       a          5.5      1.7
Services
- Enhlneerisng and Superision            .        -         .        -         1.3        -.    -           1.3      0.0
*  Other Ser5tic                         -        -         -        -        -         -         3.6       3.8      0.0
..... .....                          ..... ..... ..... ..... .....
Project Total Cost  b/                     28.4     25.-2      8.7      1.7      24.8      0.0      3.8      65.7     26.9       --
~~~~~=                                                   .u        ;=                 3s    _0           3=        _     =       
S. shira-Dharovi 220 kV Transmission System
Civil Vowks                              *        *          1.9     *         *        *                   1.9      0.0
Equipment
-Towers and Accessories                  a        -                  .         5.9      *        -          5.9      0.0.
Conductors                                 -                  *      --      3.4-                         3.4      0.0
-Bus Bars, tnsulators; ICTs              -        -         -        -         3.8      -        -          3.8      0.0
- Feeder B     at Dharav i                       - .                -         2.0      -        .          2.0      0.0
-Fibre Optic Coamanlcations                                                    3.8      .        *          3.8      0.0
-220 kV Cable                       -     .       -         -                  14.2     -        -         14.2      0.0
Other Equipment                        -        -          1.0      0.7      2.8      .        -          3.8      0.7
- Services
- Engineering and Supervision             .       -         -        -          1.2      O.S     -          1.2      0.5
-Other Sevfices                          .        -         -       -         *         -         0.4       0.4      0.0
.....,........... ................ ..... ... a;. _    .
Project Total Cost                          0.0      0.0       2.9      0.7      37.1      0.5      0.4      40.4      1.2
0.



Ice    -          LCB           Other        lI.A.        Total Cost
i ........~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~.... ................ _ _ .... ... ...... _  , .............. ... .... ,...... ................ ... ...
.Contrast  138R   Contrct  1680   Contract  1810.  Contract Contrat   610R
Project Elepast                           Valus  Fianc   Vatue   Firnnce  Value   Fine   Value   Value   Flnanso
...........................,   .....    ....      .....   .....     .....   ....      ....     ..  .
C. 1804W Cobt12d Cyclo ScheMe Ot Trombay
-Cilfoft_                                                   5.7     -        -                           5.7      0.0
W as T".olNeft Racov. stem Gen.#
Steem TurblSnGrator                  84.4    67.8                    -        -                     86.6    67.8
-Control and Instrutntotion            *        -        -        -         2.2                        2.2      0.0
* Do{sm Generator Sot                           -                 -         2.2     -        -         2.Z      0.0
j! - Oter  IdVIncOt E*lpmant           -                 -        .         3.2     -        -         3.2      0.0
* Trnsfonws           -                                                     2.0     -                  2.0      0.0o
1  *am   Du ts                                                              0.5                        0.       0.0
* Otber Ilectrical Eqs2nt        -..                      2.0      1.6      3.5     -                  5.5      1.6
- Toola, Cfsclltanc                                      -        ^         1.6     .        -         1.6      0.0
* S-rvices
- Enaerl attd Supervision         -   -         -                 -         0.       0.5     -         0.8      0.5
- other    yf                              -         *        -     -s      3.3     -         0.2      3.S      0.0
...  ..       .. ....          ....
.~~~~~~~~~~T ,,,,6                                                 11, ,,,,,,,,,   .,   ,,,,,,6,, 
Project Tott ;Cast                       84.6      7.8      7.7  -   1.6    19.3                0.2    111.6    69.9
D. 1ptimn of t lD Scrt er Unit
at Tr=bw Unft 5
^Civlllork                               -        -         1.8     ^        ^        .        -         1.8      0.0
--  RO MWertive lSet Exdher-           -        -        *                  64.2    -                  4.2      0.0
- Boter Fan                            ^        ^        -        *         1.3     *        ^         1.3      0.0
-Other Etupmant.                       -        -         0.0     *         3       .S       -         3.8      0.0
- Srvs
- Eirruing ad  Uprdfsan                -        -        -                  1.5              .         1.5      0.0
O ther Srvices                                                                                0.4      0.4      0.0
ProJect Total Cost                        0.0      0.0      1.8      0.0    10.8       0.0      0.4    13.0       0.0
ma      _:,   anu          anm       mu      a          m         m     a
01
-.-                    -0.I
1,~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~a



ICe               LCB            Other          NA.        Total Cost
Contract  IBRD   Contract  IPRD   Contract  18RD   Contract Contract   IERD
Project Element                            Value   Financ    Valtue   Ffnance  Value, Firnce   Value   Vaue   finare
.......................................   .....    .....    .....    .....    .....    .....    .....   .....    .....~~~~~~~~~~~~*  *--.... * .... ...
PROJECT TOTAL
- Prelimnary works                         0.0 -              0.0-                                  .0      2.0      0.0
- Cvitl Works                              0.0      0.0      16.1      0.0      0.0       0.0      0.0     16.1      0.0
- Equipent                               112.8     93.0       5.0      4.0     81.9       0.0      0.0    199.7     9r.0
- Servces                                  0.0      0.0       0.0      0lt      8.1       1.0      4.8     12.9      1.0
Project Total Cost                       112.       93.0     21.1      4.0      92.0      1.0      4.8   230.7       98.0
IFC Finnw                                                           60.0                        IFC:    60.0
a/ Contract values include contifrencies and taxes wnd duties CUSS 18.8 million)
0h
[CS:i International Competitive Bidding.
LCB: Local CoMetitive Bidding.
Othprs D1rect imports and Localy procured items.
[.A.: tht ApplicabLe CAdmninstrative Expenses)
Cr o
0.
-         ,               ts.n.,, .....    .  .,    .,.,..,.,..



INDIA
PRIVATE POWER UTILITtES PROJECT I                     -
.... .....^.......................................... .
-         (tATA EUCtRtC COPANIES - tEC)
.................................
....................
... .....................................-..--.........        CONTRACT
SpecIfications   tIwitation        Opening       Evaluation         ALARD
Project Elemnt                                      Ready
A.  Shira Pkipad Storage Scheme
Civil tork,
- Penstock end Pressure Shaft               September 90      October 90      January 91       March 91          May 91
- Other Civil Works                         Septaber 90       October 90     January 91        Narch 91          NWay 91
* Equlpment
- Pump Turbine and Genrrator-notor,
including control equipment                 October 9-    January 91         March 91          aoy 91         Junm 91
- Generator trwtsforaar                       October 90      January 91       March 91          May 91         June 91
- Bus Duwt                                   December 90    February 91        Aperl 91         Jurn 91       August 91
- Other Equlpment                            Deceaber 90    february 91        Aprit 91         Juia 91       August 91
- services
-- Engineering and Supervision                           October 89 (A) December 89 (A) April 90 CA)             Gay 90
J. ShireOPharavi 220 kV Transmission System
...........................................
- C vil  borks
- Equipment
- Towers and Accessories-                     woembar 90    Oecesk2r 90    FebrUarY 91         April 91         JuMa 91
* Cond4ctors                                 November 90    Decemer 90    February 91          April 91         Juna 9t
- Busbars; Insulators; ICTO                  November 90    December 90    February 91         April 91         Juna 91
Feeder-gays at Oharavi                     November 90    December 90    February 91         Ap4er  91        Junie 9
Fibre Optic Corsamicationm                 December 90      January 91       March 91          May 91         July 91
* 2POkV Cabe -                               Detember 90      Janary 91        March9t           May91          July91
* Other Equipment
services
- Engineerirn  and Supervision                                                                                 (B)
'I' 



............................. _.,.---..--*- -                      C&STRAC
Specificatios   Invitation          qxenrg        Evatuation         AWARD
Project Elemen                                       Readv
.......................................         ..................................................... I.............................................................
C. 180 NW Combined Cycle Schem  at Tr                                                                                   --y
............................ ..............
Civil Works
*Equipment
-aS Turbineeaet Revry Steam Gen.-
Stem  Turbine4eneratorAuxiliarfes         September 90    Decembpr 90          warch 91          Nay 91         July 91
* Control and lnstruntatien                      Apr11 91         June 91       Augut 91      October 91    Decear 91
Oies   Gener tor Set                        Decesber 90      January 91        Nareh 91          Key 91         July 91
other Mechnicat Equipment                      Aprfl 91         June 91       August 91      October 91    DOeosber 91
- Transformers                                  April 91          Jiue 91       August "      October 91    December 91
O Bus Ducts                                      April 91         June 91       August 91     October 91    Deceer 91
- Other Electrical Equpmsnt                      April 91         June 91       August 91      October 91    December 91
- EngIneerfng and Suervsion                                                                                      (B)
0. Expans0on of FGD Scrufber Unft
at Troebs  Unit 5
Ci vil Works
- Equipment
- Regenerative Neat Exchanger                Noveober 90    February 91          April 91         June 91         July 91
- Booster Fan                                 November 90    Februery 91         Aprl 91          June 91         July 91
- other Equipment                            December 90       January 91        )arch 91          "ay 91         July 91
Services
* Basic Engineering (Knew-Now)
and supervision                                                                                            SepteU*. 90
(A) ltplemented.
(B) Corsultants selected.
./ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~~~0



INDIA
PRIVATE POE UTILITIES PROJECT I
. ...................... .........
.CM          OF Dt_BR  S FM tMR AIID tfC LWIS
(USSeIot5n)
030 LOWi                         IFC Lemn
taart,,er ,En ,a    ,         DI ,,            es;,stIwF FI  ,,,,,,a    emtavo
Sept~e:w30, "OD
Daeei~ 1   9. j
DGCre 31.  1WO91                                                 1,0               -.0
JAm. 30, 1991                  -.m              1.000            13M0             3.000
FM2
11embeer 30. 199               5720               r 67           1*00             4.000
Decr 31. 1991                 3.S       6     10.50             1i20             5.200
rch 31, 992                    5.530           16.030            1900             7.100                                                                  0
Am  30, 1992                   3.560           19.610            1 900            9.000 0
F193
Septeer 30, 1992               4.310           23.920            4J00D           n.eoo
kror 31 1992                   7.100           31.020            7e000           20.000
mach 31, 1493                 tS.420           46.440            74000          2V.000
m  30. 993                    11.100           57.540            64000           33.000
FY94
septer30, IM993               10.250           67.M90            400             3T.000
Dec3et. 31, 1993               9.490           77.280            5,1000          42.000
March 31, 1994                 7.630           84.910            500D            47.000
June 30, 1994                  S.#60           90.470            4.000           51.000
Septawr 30, 199                2.630           93.100            3,000           54.000
0ee_er 31  1994                1.800           94.900            400           - 58.000
March 31. ti95                 2.300           97.200            1.S00           59,"0
am  30, 1995                   0.800           98.000            0.500            .000
CLosing Date of tho t1M  aid IFC Lcw, am 30, 1990



-..  .                                -                                      --
;;-  t                                     - s -    - - -
i  t     a,                       a- i   s'  f  fsf12 
s        --                                         1 --
p   p ~     ~       
14                                                                                                     0%0'~~0 
.     -    -         - -  -   -
# # P 1 E  t    :r ;  :e  j t g
,i  ^        w  w  P  i          w  P              .       1 l g    X   . *                                     o~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~*p
/~~~~~~ '  _                                                                                                                 w        ii  .., 
1  1* t|  "gp                   |                     P    |UIe  
|        @4  ~-.0  .        Ir            .   ___4f uf   



N   _    *     7     i     _   _   r3  f  et   Eml>e=mle >'4afjXjg   -!s:uS,          M : =   1IK!1               :   I _o   M  lM           e si ri R
*0~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~i
.1e                            
E  O               *                          t~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~f
'; ~  ~       ~ ~ c *                                  1.   U}gU E!  I  3s 
@                i}      t }     t   XS S S R ES 
*0             W  e                                 - 
*1                       -L                          I U      
.~~~ -                                                                                             -  -                g-..!-



68
Annex 3.9
Pagel1of 3
EhirA Pu-mned StoaeShg
.,. The Bhira PS Scheme involves upgrading and expansion of existing
facilities. The I4ulshL Lake reservoir (40 1bj?) will serve as a bea" pond for
the project, w$ile the pickup pond can be conveniently used to store water for
the pump storage unit (as the taLl pond).\ There will be no Lncreased overflow
(water lose domwntream) at either the Bhira Dam or from.the pickup pond as a
result of this project, thus this project will not adversely effect downstr4#AM
water usors. The existing units at Mhira (6 x 25 1W and 1 x 23 NW '173 1()
use 40.5 m3/sec of water for full load operations, while the pr'oposed project
"will use 40 *O/secK for generation (150 NW) and 30 ui'sec during puipping.
During the generation cycle, the maximum drawdown of the reservoir as a result
of this project will not exceed approximately 10 cm. (assuig   $ousof
generation).  However, over the 24 hour generation/pumpcye there wii.l be no
change inm tihe water level1 of the reservoir (or the pickup pond) as a result of
this projec. -
2.   Given the projects planned use of existing facilities * the construction
on existing rights-of-way, and the marSinal change in water level of the
reservoir and pickup pond during the 24 hour.generation/pui* cycle, the
environmental impacts associated with this project are minimal. As required
by the GOI * TEC has prepared a proforma eu rootal saasssmet for thLs
projects, which has already received necessary GOX and GON nivirnmental
approvals.
3.   In order to bring the additional poer from Ihira to Dhiravi (Bombay), a
distance ofa~bout 100 km, the existing 110 kV transmission lines will be
upgraded to  a double circuLt.220 kV line using.the existing right-of-way.  A
number-of visual inVpectlons were made of the existing right-of-'way at
locations demed to be potentially sensitive from en Qn1ir 8   al standpoint
(e.g. at the western  piatku near area -of forestriy res   .  in the suburbs of
Bombay, etc.).  In all cases, tan  environmental impacts associated with the
transmlcsson line will be mithimal. GOI and GOr onvironi2utal approvals are
not reqsilred for this project given the use of the exis'ting rLght-of-way. At
the Dhersin end, the litn   will be connected to the substation by an
underground cable, whlch would be buried undpr the eistiang streets.



69
-Amnex 3.9
Page 2 of 3
4.   'The proposed combined cycle plant will be lcated at TEC's Trombay TPP
which currently has 3 units of 62.5 NW (Units 1, l and 3), 1 unit of 150 IW
(Unit 4) and 2 unlts of 500 MW (Units 5 -ad 6). Total capacity at Trombay is
currently 1337.5 NW, but this would be reduced to 1330-19W following the start-
'Up of the proposed combined cycle schem (180 KW) with the simultaneous
shutdown and decommissioning of Units 1, 2 and 3 (187.5 KW).
5.    TgC has completed a proforma environmental overview for this project
which has recently been forwarded to the Environment Department,- Government of
India (GOI? for review and approval. The major air emissions of concern ftom
the combined cycle plant are NOx.  TEC proposes to design the plant such that
the NOx concentration in the stack emissions wil2  not exceed 50 ppm, well
within the GOI and GO  NOx standards. The 50 ppm concentration figures is
also within the Bank stack emissions limlt of 86 nanograms of NOx per joule of
heat input. TEC is in the process of completing plume dispersion modelling to
determine the optimum stack height for achieving necessary plume mixing to
comply with ambient NOx alr quality requirements of tho 1ISPCB end the Bank
guidelines for 100 micrograms/ei3. The option of using a single stack as
opposed to the 2 stacks Lnitially proposed, is under finalization.  The single
stack layout would Improve energy efficiency by about 3%.
6.   With regard to water pollution concerns, the demineralUzed water
requirements will be provided by Trombay's existing water treatment plant and
any effluents from this plant are treated to acceptable levels prior to
discharge. Cooling water will be taken from Trombay's existing coollng water
pump house and, after use, discharged Lnto the coolLng water discharge channel
currently used by Tro Ibays existing unlts (Unlts 1-6).  Nodellinn studles by
the Central Water and Power Research Station (CluES) in Pune, ax well as data
from water quality monitoring programs, indLc*te that the existing cooling
water discharge is about 51C above ambient water temperature at the discharge
point (a GOI, and GO  and Bank requirement).  For the proposed 180 KW combined
cycle plant, the steam turbine will be rated at 60W. .  SLice 187.5 KW (3 x
62.5 KU) will be decommLissioned on start-up of the combined cycle plant, there
will in fact be a reduction in cooling water requirements and hence in cooling
water discharges to the marlne environment.
Flue GasnDemuinuzation.
7.    Currently Trombay's Unit 5 (500 KW) has a flue gas desulphurizatLon
(FGD) system on one of the four flue gas streams from t1e boiler.  This
system, which has been operating successfully for almos  2 yearsl is based on
the Seawater Process developed by A/S Norsk ViLfefabrlkk.  The system
consistently removed in excess of 854 of the SOx (approximately 6 TPD) from
the flte gas stream.                                    I



70
Annex 3.9
Page 3 of 3
8.    In order to increase the use of coal as a primary fuel In Unit S and
remain within the NSPCB daily SOx limit for the entire Trombay operation of 15
TPD, an additional FGD module on the second flue gas stream from Unit 5's
boiler will be installed. The proposed FGD module will be identical to the
existing seawater based system, wit  an SOx removal efficiency of 85%.  Total
SOx removal when the two FGD modules are in operation will be approximately 12
TPD. This will allow'TEC increased flexibility regarding the use of coal, the
cheapest fuel, while eisuring Trombay's operation remain within KSPCB's SOx
limits.
9.   The seawater effluent from the existing FGD system is treated to ensure
that the pH on discharge to the ocean is between 6 and 9 (a GOI, MON and Bank
requirement). With installation of the new PGD module, additional seawater
treatment capacity will be constructed, again to ensure that the pH of the
discharge is between 6 and 9.,                      



VNDIA
PRIVATE POR UTILIES PROECT I
TATA ELECTRIC Cl6bIUES
Fnonciol Amlyolo
Tsbl 1:  Inc   Stotsnt                                       Re million
PT Ending tUab 81           I8    18   18    1M    19   199    19    12   1998   1994   1995   19    19    19    19 
Svassao0 f NPot - -0100             4M02   5242  G608  62   78           6   9O9 I         12264  14754  1856  16405  16899  17168  20486  z40
Cstbof FPool                        2611  2406  2794   28    2684   82    8914  4741   G0M6   550    5770  6612   7141   7712   6499  9179
Othe Oporolng Eporooo                570    56    11   704   909   1025  1101   116    1266   1862   1484  1574   1992   1820  1959  2108
Por rardPoo                          716   16    2066   10   2786   2590  S8    82    4104   5964   7281  6056   4989   548    72   11
0opmclotioc                         114   124    1N    180    184   265   880   417    448    608    579   696    am    64   a0    6
Vonon Soloo                           81    as    84    87    78    76  .0             6s    89    94    99               92     92    89   lea
uoolln ChlorgooPytoblo                51    55    00    78        70    7?             es 7s         77     77    77    77       n      78    -7
ISocollonao Mrito 0Ofo                 2      2      2      2 -    2      2     1S    1S    18       12    11    11    11    11    11    it
Ime  MrSts                     1107   487   69    692    719   909   983  1411   1162   1289   1805  1379   1845   188   17    185
l a   chbroa 1100*1ablo       190   100   110    111   188    188   141   142    141    142    142   142    142    142    142   142
Ok1r Mamma                            go    48    49    54    118    1S8   1lt    165    175    188    197   209    220   281    242   254
o=  Woere Intert                     68-   688   1086   5W    90    1160   16   171    1479   18   1648  1729   1706   1781   1741   1751
Intrest                              229   264   85   86    446   597   70    918   65              986   1020   976   948   916    877   790
FPrgn bIbop Lowoo                      7      7    85    65        7    107    147   192    229   287    30   832    882    M9    421   444   s
Iac=Tox          -.                   21    89   156    es        -4      0      0      0      0      0      0      0      0      0      0      0  
8stprofit                            882    2    56W    812   461   475   422    718          9     881    821   422   401    421   448   5
1.0   2.6  1107   1650   627
Cnto noanqResot I                     18    18    19    10    12    is    22    25            29     85    87    37    3?        88    40    41
t Xwotmst  Al laco  lorv              66      8   226       0    144    105    20   250    70         6      0      0      0      0      0      0
Dhforrd Ton Llabllity FP d                           0     26     43     50    50    00       50    S0    S0    50        60     S0    s0    s0
Dbt Redcle Reoeo                             go    26      82     82      0      0      0      0      0      0     61    41      42    45   108
Project coot mo=vo                    194   212   210   151    144   160   1n    18t          17      0      0      0      0      0      0      0
AdJwmc*Wo                              a             0    84    -1
lotribkaoblo lterlt                   go    go    so   a6         n     148   165   20       226    245    234   264    278   291    808   823
blvidedo                              52    52    56    72        fl    7    108   144    144    144    144   144    142    142   142   142
Roeolanld 5ornIno                     28      4     82   -11       6    74    51    64    06    102         80    1l    181    149   I6    21
Obt 6 roe0 womcm=                      Os    96    90    55    9          9      46    65    s8    2a        25    8s      26     26    2s1    26
CS6 PM10GCHA~  O                       280   17!   285    126   145    1U5   13    18S         75S  6        55    76    as    (a        es    7G
Oro4tD eI lo n                            116o       146   103   100   112   1053   183       93    on       6    9o       s     866    96    70  5
,--one I*cw=XT L CeopIto             n226   170   25       195o   15    200   10    2o    lag    log    16g   16g    1           256   21o   245
Iatoret Cor, tW=                     2.8   2.4   8.5   2.2    2.2    2.0   1.9   2.1    1.7    1.6    1.6   1.8    1.6    1.0   1.0   2.2
'td
0..
i~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~~ ~~ ~~~~~~~~



0      0      0       0     .0       0      0       0      0      0       0      0       0      0      0       0                             10.080
go's  Ga's   gst  0ce:   all  Olt'   so'    to'    "It   w:1  so'   so'    WIl  Cole   01*0,  Go'                                           02       044"'
WO,  cr.o  sil    w:t  tilt   0o1'    all  *iw             =It  sol:   11,1   w:   trw t   cal           :1  SLIT~b~q9                           B601 
6991  9000   SOON  $Mt9  011*1  omt1  990*   8309    m00  9Wm5  Sam0  "0a   9O0   o60*   1959   0*10                                  00i11Sotl SIO
AM    WU    tm Om     6t6     mg0   Wu*   t6t   t0          MI    T              a 009 093    913    60I 105011 9q0  i5*oiIa983 98o5J
90     wi9   98       00      0       0      8       09    9*      119t   98    60*    et9        ne9e9%*   10014JMWJ0
o      o       o      *      o       *          0  *       o       0      0       so     it     0       to193   "CDLle
At,    o0       0     la      lop    *9     It      to,    At      4* o            0     0       00,    0t     so               "Ioof@  t*tDfl0 AC*z~09
So&   'tog    1og    to5    10a    t05   1t5    tin    19g    166    1og    10           06      lO     091    a"tms   x
am0   *00    00m   0on        80    19e    en9    auL    au*    060    1oo   0en    m0    8              1     gal,
@081   081 05          6       1=8 98               00     *0       01 10          3      *       6      9      9
am0     am9 16    501    068    081       59    n0o    8t89   1860  5I1S   00*    an1   990    60*    *91OO1OSu03
9t9*   181*   100    C10t   W9u   6O0    006L   33*9   Om0   10op   *091,  O0m    68*5   gm9   0591   9961                     9A00U 1  SQ'M8s o.ao
869 93     V89     09s   l6a      at0   Ca0    699       05    008    661    as1   00        D*     9       *OJOIUUjP~d
an8    88     880    cog    get,   a"8    0*        00     60  -  90       9     00      91      a5    O01    0                       OAJOOO3 gal  9SiiU.
0*33   8805   8T801            Mt*1 190     M99 t801  981   9051   too    19      No,   s*. 0*S    561    06                               OAJ0Ot t0oWtO
0      0       0      0       0      S1     81      at     at      ST     at      81     51      51-   51      at                        COOJQqIS m"UdOJa
au.  au*    au*    au*    au*    au*    au*    0           0       on9    0       06    0an    06       Ot 011  1                             OJq 6
=   =     3=       =     3=   3= 3=              3= 20:  Mt   = COC    C3=          3=IU   3=X3       =
90     911 9009    @9601  9909    011*1  * out 880*   1909    90 019691  1160   gm*   g9m    Wu0    am5   Ono,                          O3V oV i.6
o      11      8- 90             99 6       to*    OA      90      to6a01a                       Os151 0  01   01                     WOCP016J"68
0t091    B   M01   93 1 9*1   3551   *Att   Mt1  9t0    010    810691    Ott    99              05      a3     to             -cw=v)*z CA
cue   Gm0   306    900    *08    amt  9Om    6105   101   -09             901    80t   051    901    68tf    OPt01                                    w
MsI   M0--  091    091    991   6on         091    8991 ac    6M1    00          093    *0      *3      01     "1                            "Wino ~'   awn9
936?   Got1    Mt9  M0t   09n1   698    am5   O00    as6   93             60     89      08     09     05      06                              0I8A0S08I
0901  9801   08151  8a13   59m   9001 92            51     6001T @960  199    au0   189   -Lt    am9 3*   991                          09      PONU 989
MID  0910-  "999-  0)69-  1989-  99*-4619- 9G-        6M6- 91S38- 931-  Mt9-  2*t1  t901- 010-  @0-  *0t'                        800194W60J80 POWIR3S
*000   =801  *089   59191  *1081  3001  9990   09*1   MN6  9gm    190    low0  900    am   -606    0188                                 om   PO*t Om 0
-                                                                                      10q~~~~~~~~~~~~~~0  V0$ Oqi
I IWOW  SIUYIIA*           319dIVAMU



1554
PVAlE P.a01 UTfLE  PFROJECT I
TATA 6LS C CM?ANI
i                                                                  FI"Da(s~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~Pomlol Anslpolo
ToblD 8a coo Flolea Stoomt
-_                                                                Ro Mtilleos.
PV ESding Mrh  1             1M5   136  1It7   198    1         190m  199    1992   1998   l94   1995  196   1997   199    1999   20I
ct= a3e0ro UteR48 Tax                                      SW 1   980   1180   I5   1719   1479   166    1643   1729   1766   1781   1741   11
IN       Ta x                         -21    -89  -156    -a5       4      0      0      0      0      0      0       0      0      0      0      0
o-proaslti.                           114   124    12      1N0   184    2       880    417    448    58    579   686       0     O04    as        9
W"loeoloacoo urlto O4f                  2      2      2      2      2      2     18     18      18     12    11      1t    11      11    11      11
Operatine Cook Flea                     4    71   1061    658    1120   1471   11    2148   1941   2080  2234  2886   2817   2846   230   201
Yet Corlkng Caoptal In.r/fter)               212  -156 -. 4       -9     187   62        28      4     32    s0   100       67     64    4B      30
Coo_ Avollablo bo Sorvle Dol          570   607   1210   1001   1220   1841   99a   212    1997   2049   2203   2286   2250   2292   2         271
I.        ,orelI  E        L          100   U17    I00    248    281    S67   469    541    621    72        792    m       72    m 7 7  617   M65
. Ia0ct son RcL                       128   247   12f    142    198    220    248    m        285    242   287    200    218    24a   260    2
Pim),l              PFX Loowo                 50    100    140    1       101    298    89     429    499   601    780    609    840    072      0
Prinlcpl  -           /O LaO          149    so   10        so     64      65   28e   $81      aa    1       176    168    129    12    122   1tO
bOTo  Oek O 8Debt                     8      4      6      5      602    947   1296   1629   1651   188   1798   1942   181   I7  1070  1892   W
Cook Afo, beb    lo                   168   105    609    410    5       408   -8    589              414   407    204    869    412    442    47
F                                        l0 27    6     10     64     71     67   17    824    827    281        87     89     89     se  80        02
52     se     60     72     71     72   109    144    144    144    144    144    142    142    142    142
a   a AdJuto                      23      0      0     84      0      0    112      0      0      0      0       0     0       0      0      0
Ce oobrpltof(Wicls)                    OIL   47   684 281    410    865  -68            182    -4      S8    176     61    18    1i1    210    246
Addibtlos  0to FPici AwooQ            120   409  1264   121O   1104   105I   1170   146    274   1225    552    262    848         01   250    140
Pnosg lteIrcos*/(8 lso       84    ay   70o    19    778   091             . t w 1887   1@6   11w  870   200    211    420    40  -105
Equty Subosriptlazo                    1      0     72                         20D    200                          -12
Ceevorsleo Pr=)=                                                                  0    8
*    I -o   L am                       50    46   6        04    608    842    6       6      162    1040   548              0      0      0      0
Orio fOt Lamo                          16      0      0    100      0    648   on7    800        0    100   t10     122    208    401    11O      0
FlwiGPol ov   Pub: Clle           -26    182      1      76     23    100      0      0      0      0      0      0      0       0      0      0
I=          M$=toeurlOU Spolto         -4      0     4       I     -1      0      0       0      O      0      0      0      0      0      0      0
BankCo Cdit.                            0     51      0     41     26    -6       0       0      0      0      0      0      0      0      0      0
OSkor Its                               4      2      5     81      8      5      6       6      5      6      5      6      5      5      6       5
?Aot Fto.elte                        42    229    21   1065      6 8         I9 0   1470   1082   1161    0       115    218    480    115       6
Cooh Imor/(Ocr) feor h Yoar             9   -127   -108    120   -116    284   -85    188   -286    -85    2n       -6       8     4            11to
Oolt Sorvico Cover                   1.94   1.79   1.74   1.61   1.09   1.74   1.26   1.41   1.25   1.27   1.24   1.20   1.28   1.25   1.28   1.27
.                                                                        ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~co



-IA
PRIVATE POMP UTILSTIES PROJECT I
TATA ELECTRIC COMPANIES
!!       9                                         ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~fleonolol Amlolyolo
Tcblo 4: SeaIttvtty Toec                                  Rs HII Ion
SEBtITRVIT  TEM                   1990   1991   1902   1093   1994   199S   1996   1997   1996   1099   2000    AAOR -
-        -                                 -                                     - - - - - - 1990-2000
Sc#oc Coca3
Avoraoo Torif, fR No/k         1.008  1.113  1.160  1.268  1.429  1.522  1.61C  1.671  1.69S  1.077  2.110    7.70
Dobt Srvl:o Covour               .74   1.25   1.41   1.25   1.27   1.24   1.20   1.23   1.26   1.28   1.27
Projoet 133                     18.65
Shliro PS S IL olono
Avorol Torift, Ro/lkib         1.000  1.114  1.178  1.295  1.404  1.6eo  1.641  1.726  t.. s  2.059  2.801    8.71          _-
DcbX; Srvico Covor              1.67   1.28   1.40   1.23   1.26   1.26   1.26   1.80   1.82   1.84.  1.84
ProJ)  mR                       17.60
CoMbed Etyo0   OD olono
Ave"    Toriff  no/km          L.O0   1.11S  1.176  1.241  1.410  1.601  1.678  1.647  1.776  1.964  2.200    9.20
DdbcSovIce Cover                1.68   1.22   1.S3   1.19   1.21   1.10   1.19   1.22   1.24   1.26   1.27
PrJoot 13       .           -   27.82                                           -
-   .   1l              ~~~~fro  a lcob    spi    co
3lilalg oat FVYO-l LovlI
Avo=   Toriff, Ro/Mk           1.00   1.     1.077  1.07   1.143  1.140  1.076  1.008  1.0"  1.101  1.135    1.22s
oDeb  Sorvico Cover             1.74   1.9   1.41   1.26   1.27   1.25   1.20   1.28   1.26   1.27   1.27
Projoet 1                      22.0
Fool a lmporto  Enorg0 Coot               -
Riolne 1o PC (SC 8-103)
Avw*owo  Torift, Ro/kh         1.009  1.189  1.2S7  1.862  1.668  1.73U  1.787  1.921  2.189  2.446  2.825   10.92
Debt Sorvico Cover              1.74   1.26   1.41   1.26   1.27   1.24   1.20   1.28   1.25   1.28  '1.26
Projoot DR      _               28.8            --
Lood Footer 603 (K 66S1
Avoropo TerMft, Re/hU          1.009  M.168  1.264  1.831  1.611  1.60   1.6831  1.710  1.846  2.036  2.274    6.625-
Ddet Sorvico Cover              1.74   1.25   1.41   1.26   1.2    1.24   1.20   1.28   1.25   1.26-  1.27
Project Cot Ovoirun 201
-  AvOrogoTov'19, Re/kgb       1.011  1.121. 1.196  1.26S  1.441  1.68   1.ES*3  1.689  1.709  1.990  2.121    7.71:
Sdc TItSoule"o Co,er      -    I."  . 1.27   1.44   1.26   1.80   1.27   1.20   1.28   1.24   1.26   1.27
P-roect R-    24.70
SA Tp fl I t
ASoraD  terdff,   /kWlb        1.00   1.116  1.190  1.2S8  IM2   1.616  1.646  1.571  1.693  1.877  2.110    7.73,
--     vi ce Cov,6              1.74   1.26   1.41   1.26   i.27   1.24   1.20   1.28. 1.26   1.28   1.27
Project DRU                     28.6-
Ro/0 Dovolustl i 1G1 pc
A"c7aoTbrifft, to/rO,          1.006  1.119  1.100  1.269  1.e42  1.542  1.64S  1.616  1.748  1.940  2.179    6.02 
Dobt S IGceO Covor              1.74_  1.26   1.41   1.24   1.26   1.21   1.15   1.1G   1.17   1.17   1.17                           e4
ProJoct TRR                     40.20
o0o
-0.
Iio



ENERY GEEATION a SALES, Oh          1990   1991 _ 12            1994   1995   19    1997   1998   19"   20
GQnorortiofl Units 1-2-8              690   500   500    500    500
- Oonerlon Unit 4                     920   700   700-   ?00    700   700   700   700    700    700    700
Oenorvtion Unit 6                    4100  8000  8000  8000  8000  -8000  828   8263  8268   8268   8288
Gonoratlon Unit 6                           2000  8000  a800    8000   8000   8000   3000   8000   8193  8198
ftnoratlon Combined Cyclo                                                720   1060   1080   1090   1080   1080
- -           - -, - --  - --             - -  
Total Thermal Sonoratlon             6810  6200 -77200   200   7200   7420  6048  6043  6048   8286   92U8
Hydro bnorotion                      1156   1800  180   1800   1800   1300   1621  1521   1521  1-66  -166
Stotion:Uoo bnd L1es                 -822   -778  -840  -624  -1112 '-1182  -1129  -1104  -1105  -1324  -1362
Ptavchoeo from                  -   2056   2091  1629  2115   2940  "831    2895   1657   1677  2811   3144
Eneorgy Solo, In GUi                 8200   8818  9289  979   1082   10901  10980  10117  10186  108oS   11693
BSES RouIrcmonts, Ih                 8298  857a  8677  4206   4564   4952  s572  5629  6826   6862   7445
ISES Not Geioratlion                                                    --      684  2052   2786   2786  273s
USES Purcaoo fron TEC                3298   8678  887    4200  4504   4952   466   87m    8690   4127   4710
gEST                                 2817   2417  2521   2629  2742   2860   298   8111   8246   8894  8$60
Diroet Zuduetriol ClIoot            2040   2272  2829   2867  2447  2560   2571   2685   2701   2168   2687
Roai t ay                            650   56W    51    567    572    578    684   590   56;    602    0
CASH OPERATDM COSTS                  1990  1991  192   199    1994   1995   1996   1997   1998   1999   2000
Total Calorific Input, Tco1         14482  1S580  179830  1790  17930  17401  16880  1880  19690 19184  19184
LS*  Coecuptlon, It                   610   640   640   640   840   640   640   640    640   640    640
Go  Coneumption, kt                   829   748   748    599    599   449    449   449   449    449    449
-  Coal Coneumption, kt                  122_  272  860   1246   1245   1499   1618   1618  1618   1981   1981
LSIS Prlco, Rs/t                     2985   8170  8428   869?  899    4812  4857   5080   5482  5867   6838
GOs Price, Re/t                      20    2226  2408  2696  2808   8027   8269   880   "IS  4118   4447
Cool Prio, Rs/t                      760   810   67       945   1020   1102   1190  128E   1.      1499   1619
-          Totol Fuel Cot, Re I               8290  8914  4741   S09M  6604   5770  6812   7i2   8499  9179
Solorloc A Stoff Expens               848    870 0   40    482    467    504   644   588    685   68        741
Ropair. &Holntononco                  241    260   281    804    626    864   882   418    446-- 482    620
Inouronco                             87      40    48     47      60    64      69    a8      6      74    80
Othor Operational Expense              99   107   116    124   184    145    167   169    168    199    213
Othor Adminiotrativo Expenses         218   281   249    269    290    814   839   666    895    427    461
Xnodaic)blo Expenoe.                   92    98    9a    98    98    98    98           93     98     9i    93
Total Othor Operoting Expponoe     1025  1101   1161   1268  13862   1464   1574  1692   1620  16    2109
Noxious Demand Purchad, WA            500    w0   600   600   500    500   600   SW0   500    500    500
DOond Chorge, Ro/VA/month              85   100   110   121    186   148   101    177    195    214   286
B80lc Enoty Chor, Ro/kCh             1.08   1.20   1.82   1.45   1.60   1.78   1.98   2.18   2.84   2.57   2.83
Fool Adjustmnt CThrgo, Ro/kUh       0.06   0.12   0.18   0.15   0.16   0.16   0.19   0.21   0.28   0.26   0.29
00
o
U'
.  . ~ ~ ~ ~ ~     ~     ~      ~     ~     ~      ~     ~    ~     ~    0
I0



'I
PROJECT RElUNS                       1990  191   1992  1998   1994  1995   19         1997   199   199   -00
con oltIbt the Projoct
C4oratIng Coo Flea, Re U           179  1)8    042  1609   1059  175   147   1080   1809  1694   1747
Inurofto o 11            t597   700    778   714    0                 059      7    597    691   571    608
AvorWo turlFQ   Ro/kh             0.998  1.112  1.108  1.225  1.38  1.578  1.088  1.784  1.985  2.184 2.382
AddltIoo t Fixd Aoo                1084   742   001    205   140   140    202    848   001   250    140
Cooo U1th tho Projet (all 4)
Opor,lng Coh l Flog, ne            1470  1019   2148   1941  2080  2234  2880   2317   2840   280  2401
Entoroot, Re U                     597    7      el8    ON  -- 9    1020   976    948    918   877    70
Avoron   Toalrff RoMh             1.008  1.118  1.40  1.261  1.429 1.622  1.516  1.571  1.098  1.877 2.110
AddrtO  to  Fived AoOOt            1056   1176  1409   1764   1225   652    202    848  a01   250   140
Cup4 Cc 0 eTL*F0D            -      -22  -48    -6   -1619  -1085 -412         0      0       0     0      0
Inc0c.Opor.Cooh Fle                 s      5     108    272   492   47    0         067   077   00       654
Enerc=nut lotercot                   0      7- 7   5    141   280   860    87    N4         2    80-    3
CooI F to9 0TEC  RBE                77  -874  -727  -110   -84    426   1WO   1038   1004   972    987
Projc% IM  (Q                      28.86
bon  sol In GMGM                         70_  1  7 788   7       8 7 0 9 OM 001         194  1,0e 2      e4 L0  _
TorXif DVfforonco, Re/h3          0.012 0.006 0.011  0.029 0.041 0.01 -0.178  0.212 -0.248 -0.257 -0.272
Sonofit to  conmrov No U            -80   -4B    -6    -214  -824   420   1520   1972   2874   25    24
CneJloo to TECConumro               -a  -428   445  -1401  -9         406 2214   2         802  O8  -.IS
Project Z   (grooc)                80.40
oQ
.,  a  .                                                                                                    a~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~



77                                    Annex 4.0
Page 7 of 8
MAIN ASSUMPTIONS FOR THE FINANCIAL PROJECTIONS
Project Completion 'by 3/31/95. Startup from FY96, except for some generation
from the CC unit on open cycle from FY95.
Sales Volume: Energy sold to BEST increasing at 4.3% pa; direct industrial
customers at 2.5% pa; railways at 1.0% pa. Energy sold to BSES calculated as
the difference between its requirements, increasing at 8.5% pa, and its own
net generation from the planned 500 MW station at Dahanu, starting in FY96.
TEC's Own Generation: Units 1-2-3, rated capacity 180 MW, to be relegated to
standby status only, with zero generation, from FY95 as the new CC unit comes
in. Units 5 and 6 generating 3,000 GWh p.a. (68.5% load factor) plus the
off-peak energy consumed by the planned pumped storage units at Bhira from
FY96 and Bhivpuri from FY99. The Combined Cycle also operating at 68.5% LF.
Sensitivity test done for 60% LF.
Purchased Power: The difference between sales and own generation is purchased
from MSEB.
Fuel Mix: Oil at 640,000 t pa; gas at 2.5 million m3/day in FY91 and FY92,
declining to 2.0 in FY93 and FY94 and to 1.5 Mm3/d thereafter; the balance of
the calorific requirement for the total generation provided by coal.
Fuel Prices increasing at 8% pa from the actual current level in the base case.
Sensitivity tests done for 0 % and 13% pa increases.
MSEB's tariffs paid by TEC increasing at 10% pa from the level to which they
were just raised in May 1990 (the demand charge increased from 35 to 100
Rs/kVA per month and the energy charge from 1.16 to 1.32 Rs/kWh). Sensitivity
tests done for O and 13% pa increases together with fuel prices (if fuel
costs increase, tariffs will have to follow).
Other Operatina Costs, i.e. wages, maintenance etc., escalated at 8% p.a, in
the base case.
TEC's tariffs are calculated in accordance with the provisions of the Act.
Depreciation is taken at 3.6% p.a.
Interest at the actual rates per the respective loan agreements.
Exchange rate Rs/$: Consistent with the IBRD projections, the Rs is assumed
to devalue vs. the $, 10% in each of FY91 and FY92 and 3.8% p.a. thereafter.
Sensitivity test is done for devaluation remaining at 10% p.a. after FY92.
Reserves:
Contingency Reserve and Investment Allowance Reserve as providpd by the
Act. The other special appropriations were allowed by the state of
Maharashtr4 ad hoc. The application of these reserves by TEC has not been
audited by the State since 1984.
Debt Redemption Reserve is taken at the difference between depreciation and
principal repayments due each year.



Annex 4.0
78      '                              Page 8 of 8
Project Cost Reserve charged when it does not result in a tariff increase
in the year charged, up to a cumulative amount of Rs 580 million sanctioned
by the State.
Deferred Tax Reserve charged similarly at Rs 50 M each year. This is to
cover the capital gains (arising from the different depreciation rates
under the Act and for income tax) that shareholders would have to pay in
the event the State bought out TEC. The funds raised through this reserve
must be Invested in specified Government securities.



Annex 5.0. Tab11 1
-IDIA
PRIVATE-PER UTLITIES PROJECT I
Economic Analysis
!estrn Region: AtlI and Projected PoEor and Enemy DOmand
- -             Avormo                                   Averoao
Actuol               Growth              Projectod            Growth
FY88                         JYJkI  P.D.)E!
--                     (P~~~~~~~revisional)    (W p.o.)4(   ..
1.      LO   (W)
!Gujo,O g/f                  1,824          2,881          8.8         2,978            0,88         7.8
UDhAY  Pradoh                1,10?          2,178         11.9         2,453            7,808       10.4
Maharaohtro y/               2,290          4,890          7.8         6,208           18,006        8.7
Total                    ll            9.529          8.8         10o.07          268.70        8.8
Maximum Lood Ablo                      -_
To So Mo                     5,611          6,786          7.1         9,918           28,618       10.1
_-    ,   O d Uclt                  - /@764                                     724             0
2. ENERGY REQUIREMENT (Gbh)
Gujarot gf/                  9,460         17,419         10.7         18,578          80,449        6.8
-        -        Modhyc Prodost               5,892         18,494         14.8         14,894          42,721       10.4
m-haroahtra fl              17,186         29,111          9.2        81,899           80,285        8.8
Total                  ao7            ao.024         12.0        $4,872          168.328        8.8
Totol Supply                80,878         59,587         11.9        68,407          183,328        6.9
Deficit                  -               ,487                     1.465              0
On Doto for FY829oefloot consumption rather than poser and mnoray demands. No date are ovallablo on tho oxtont of
unoet load or the amount of unserved energy.
f Actua- data for FY89 ore not yet avealable from CEA.
c Including Dodro and toagr Novell.
Including Gea, Oman and Diu
Source: Thirteenth Electric Power Survey of India, CEA, December 1987, updated by CEA, April 1990, plus Bank estimates.



Annex 5.0. Table 2
INDIA
PRIVATE POWER UTILITIES PROECT I
Economic AmaIeis
Wootorn RoAton: EloctricitV Conoeumtion By Consumer CotoDory
ActuoI                  Avoragq Groth                 Projoctiono              Avorago Growth
FT2               FYO0             112/f8|               FY88 bl           aL20ZX         FY81420
wh)  (s5)    {~(h)     (            i 2-       ()X(a)                            t%        S  ..
CGMU CATEY
1. Dometic            8,257   11.2       0,912   14.8           18.4           7,878   14.7      26,294   21.6          12.6
2. Cos;raIol          1,089    5.0       2,701    5.0            8.7           2,910    6.6       0,800    4.9           7.4
8. Znduotrlbl:
LV ond WV        2,0       0.9      8,T89    7.7            6.2            4,196    8.1     10,8    8.0             6.6
w               15,489   58.1      22,807   46.1            0.8           22,700   48.8      54,820   41.8          8.
Total Indutrial   16,066   02.1      28,047   63.9            0.8           26,69    51.7     84,703   49.8           s.8
4. Pub 1t Litrlngl      808    1.0         452    0.9            6.9             487    0.9       1,220    0.9           9.8
S. Traction           1,088    8.7       1,272    2.8            8.0           1,878    2.8       4,218    8.2          10.7
S. Agriculturo        8,767   18.0       9,448   19.5           18.5          11,020   21.1      20,90    10.1           6.0
7. PubilIc aotor        786    2.5       1,229    2.5            6.9           1,278    2.5       8,0s      2.9         10.1
6. Balk Suplioe         259    0.9         80    0.7             8.0             482    0.9         408    0.4          -0.4
:i01~e #/       29.140    8        46.871  L.0                            52Q105   20.0       9Me    100.0
Averono: 8.8                                           Avoran:.7
o/ DMfforomcoo sth figures for onorgy oval lobilIty In Tablo I refloct technicol ond non-tochnical loo1ss.
F/ AoaI dto for FY99 aor not yt oval lablo frm CEA.                                                                             '-3
&08: Thi rteonh Elsctric Powr Suroy of India, CEA, 0occ2bor 1987, updatod by CEA, April 990.
| v t    YY .rba   . f.U. fat> tig_ .Sr/_ -vlf .S wi vvi{   .W.Jf  _ >> .X1:a _ZEr :Sx. sv_E   w   s _ _ _ _ ,__ 



81                      Annex 5.0. Table 3
IUDIA
PRIVATE POUER UTILITIES PROJECT I
Least-Cost Analysis
I. Comparative Anallsis Of System Cost
With Uhira And Alternatives
Billions of Rupees
Bhira                Coal                Gas
Year                  150W               150M                150 KW
FY94                  10.237              10.355              10.301
FY95                  19.784              19.983             1i.900
FY96                  29.071              29.343              29.236
FY97                  38.263              38.597              38.472
FY98                  47,432              47.804              47.683
FY99                  561767              57.169              57.056
FYiO00                66.417              66.888              66.756
Tv at 112            174.278             175.730             175.221
1Y200011Y2019         1195.506            1203.984            1201.608
PV at 122            729.908             735.300             733.687
I~~~~~~~~~~
!I



Annex 5.0. Table 4
82
INDIA
PRIVATE POWER UTILITIES PROJECT I
Least Cost Analysis
II. CoMPariSon Of Generation Cost From Trambgy
With Alternative Base Load Options
1. Trombay  - Met Generation 1080 GlWh per annum
Re Per kWth     Notes
a. Capacity Charge       0.23       Re 10,5901kW, 25-year lifetime
b. Fuel                  0.52       0.207m3JkW, Rs 2.5l2Im3
c. O&S                   0.03       2.52 total capital cost
d. Transmission            -        None required
e. T&D Losses            0.01       12
Total            0.79
2. Load-Center Coal Station - Net Generation 1080 Glb per annum
Ru perklWh      Notes
a. Capital Charge        0.41       Rs 19,4601W, 25-year lifetime
b. Fuel                  0.37        0.59 kg/kWh, Ru 630 per tonne
c. Oil Support           0.03        10 mlIkWlh, Rs 2.7 per litre
d. 0&11                  0.07       As l(c)
e. Transmission          0.02        52 station cost
f. TiD Losses            0.01        12
Total            0.91
3. Pit-Head Coal Station  - Net Generation 1080 GO per anum
Rs per kWih     Notes
a. Capital Charge        0.41       AS 2(a)
b. Fuel                  0.11        0.59 kglkWclh, Ru 190 per tonne
c. Oil Support           0.03       As 2(c)
d. OtW                   0.07        As l(c)
e. Transmission          0.12        302 station cost
f. TiD Losses            0.02        32
Total'           0.76



d                                                              . Annex S.0. Table 6
INDIA
PRIVATE POWE UTILITIES PROJECT- I
Program Analysis: Proaroam Coot. and Benefits
tRuoeJ MII on)                                   (00)               (Rugeoo Mi Mlon)
TRANSMISSIONAN
GENERATION                      DISTRIBUTION                                           IneremsenaI
, ___________________    ___________                                                      .        Revonuo end
.1 / _  Cooti1sl CoZs                Capitol            Total      Incrcentot    Inerwento I  Conoumr
_             3I Hydro   OaN   Fuel    Cotot    O0         Coost        SuPnl3        Rovenues    Surolus
FY91        I  2248   *2       71                                           6761
FY92      I    5988  '444    922          60    1217                       12511      i. 1              1419         316w
FY98          18808   5124   2888        264   585                         28940        87GM            6248        1im
FY94          16919   li40  B1871               7259                       808          11972,          80          189
_FY95         21185             4782       920   761 -1046                   46014        18280           9429        20982#-                   00
FY9'  28581                   6270     188    9013    15699        -      546         19619           18929        8097
FY97          21717           652       180   11172    15699    419    67859           26818           188          41576
F-T9         IS 188           5128      2658 I8806    20982    628    56421            8405            24165        63775
FY99           55M4           2744      8402   10872    20982    687    498            44790           81801        70768
FY2000         1815           1076     M881   19740    1046        942    37484        6971            40449        90014
FY2001                                  8891   21806    10466   1047    87211          688S            44988       100114
FY2002                                  8891   22481              1117    27469        86591           40427       108817
I,                                                                                                             .
i1 .~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~S.
1k"~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~-
11~~ ~~ ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~L
!
-       I   I



84
Anne: 5.0. Table 6
Page 1 of 3
INDIA
PRIVATE POVn UTILITIES PROJECT I
Estimation of Consumer Surplus
1.  AGRICW TURAL CONSUERS
The economic value of consumers' villingness-toepay for public
electricity for irrigation is estimated as the electricity rate which
equates' the economic costs of diesel and electric irrigation pmping.
Estimated Costs of Diesel and Electric Pumpin
Electric           Diesel
IMotor/Engine Size (H.P.)                    5.0 a/            7.0
Pump Lifetime (years)                       15.0              10.0
Pump Capital Cost (Rs)                     4,440            11,365
Annual Charge (Rs)                           652             2,011
OUM Costs (Rs)              I              1,017             2,857
Costs of Diesel Fuel (Rs/br) b/               -                8.8
Annual Diesel Costs (Us)                                     7,000
Cost of Electricity (piiseikVh)              XXX                -
Annual Electricity Cost (Rs)           2,984(mX) C              -
Total Annual Cost             1,699 + 2,984(XX)             11.868
Electricity rate at which electric and diesel pumping costs the seams
Paise XXX/kVh - (11,868 - 1699)/2,984
-Paise 3411ckh
a/ 1 H.P. - 0.746 W.
bJ Assuming an economic price of high speed diesel of Rs 3.5 per litre,
consumption of 2.5 litros per hour and operation for 800 hours
per year.,
c/ 2,984 - 5 xO0.746 x #09.
.~~~~~~~~~~~~~.



85
Annex 5.0, Table 6 (contd.)
Page 2 of 3
INDIA
PRIVATE POWER UTILITIES PROJECT I
Estimation of Consumer Surplus
II.  OTHER CONSUMERS
Consumers' willingness-to-pay for public electricity is related to
the additional financial costs that would be incurred through private
supply. Correspondingly, the economic value of this willingness-to-pay is
related to the economic costs of private supply, which are estimated below.
Estimsted Costs of Autoaen ration
~-       Cost per kW of Capac ty (Rs)
50 kW Machine    200-400 kWVMachine
1. Fixed Costs
Capital Cost a/                    6,300              4,420
Annual Charge b/                     925                649
Silaries                             668                449
Maintenance                          134            'x  92
Total Annual Fixed Costs           1,727             1,190
Colt per kWh Generated (Paise)
2.  Variable Costs
Diesel Fuel cl                       140                112
Lubricant                              4                  4
Total Variable Costs                 144                116
31. Fixed Costs at 152 Load Factor dl   131                  91
4.  A"erage.Cost of Generation           275                207
a/ C.I.F. price, plus handling and installation.
bI Assuming a 15-year life and 12? discount rate.
N (tAssuming an ecouoi  cost of high speed diesel of Re 3.5 per litre
-, id m specific           of 0.4 lItre 4r-kWh and 0,32 litre per kWh
respecti-ieiy in the 50 kV--and Z0O-4G- kV iischines. _     -
-1 CE's estimate of the average load factor of pivate gener4tors.



II|  y  .  ( )   I86
Annek 5.0, Table 6 (contd.)
Page 3 of 3
INDIA
PRIVATE&POWER UTILITIES PROJECT I
Estimation of Consumer Surplus
III. AVERAGE RATE OF CONSUNER SURPLtiS
To the economic value of the average tariff rates for each
consumer category has been added half the additional economic costs of
private supply.  This conservatively assumes that the price elasticity of
demand is unit', i.e. that demand would-cont7ract in proportion to the
add4itional cost of private- supply., In practice, price elasticit.es at low
levels of electricity consumption usually are well below unity, Implying
that more than half of consumers would pay the additional costs of private
suppiy. Rates of surplus for each consumer category have been wvighted
into an overall average using expected consumption shares.
Estimated Rates Wf Consumer Surplus (For FY93),8/
Consumption Autogeneration       Est1i;ated         Surplus
Consumer            Share         Cost          Average Tariff        Imputed
'Categor        .   (Z1        (paise/Mh) .(paiteIkUh)              (Raise/kWh), /
Financial Economic        di
*           Domestic            174            275            52         42         117
Comimercial          5.f           275            87        70          103
Industry (LV+mv)     8.3           207            99        79           64
Industry (HV)      -46.3           207           121        97           5S
Agriculture         16.4           341 el         19         15         163
Other f/             6.6           207           122        98           55
100.0
Average            89        71          87-
a/ The first year of increment4 supplies from proj.ects include'd in the
program time-slice.          -
bl Estimated oni the basis of FY88 actuals increased by 4.7t per annum -
-  !  .the average annual real .ncredse in tariffs in the Western Region
between FY85 and FY88.
cl Financial rates multiplied-by=SCF of 0.8.                                     .,
-i . dl Surpl-us iqputed at half the difference between the economic value of
terav$age-ttriff level'and the estimated,sost. of autotene:ation
e/ The electricity hate eqtingithe eceomic cost8 of dlesel an-d
lelectric pumping.
. f Comprises: public lighting, public water pumping and bulk Pases.
I~~~~~ ..>                           ,      , .')
l~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~     -



Annex 5.0, Table 7
87
IWDIA
PRIVATE POVER UTILITIES PROJECT I
Program Returns
NPV at 122
IRR (1)       Rs. Million     US$ Million
(Rs 17/US$)
i)   Base Case                24.88        159,075.67         9,357.39
ii)   Costs +52                23.18        144,758.19         8,515.19
Lii)   Costs +102               21.8A        13t,440.72         7,672.98
iv)   Costs +201               18.94        101,805.76         5,988.51
v)   Costs +30a               16.65         73,170.81         4,304.17
vi)   Costs +402               14.66         44,533.86         2,619.76
vii)   Costs +501,              12.90         15,900.91           935.35
viii)   Benefits -5             23.09        136,804.41         8,047.32
ix)  Benefits -10              21.#        114,533.15         6,737.24
x)   Benefits -202            17.75         69,990.63         4,117.lo
xi)   Benefits -302            14.13         25,448.11         1,496.95
xii)   Benefits -3S2            12.27           3,176.85          186.87
xiii)   2-Year Deray!            18.34          94,529.10        5,560.54
Xiv)   3-Year Delay             16.68         70,613.08         4,153.71
zv)   4-Year Delay             15.12         47,939.40         2,819.96



Annex 5.0. Table S
INDIA
PRIVATE POER UTILITIES PROJECT I
Project AnalgEes
I. 8KA HYP  STAW  *
Rs Millions
Assec.      8h1ir-       Cspex.      Opor. A                                 Nt
Year        Rhiru       T   D       Olhamvi      To6%l      Mtnt.         sng          enf)be     Bm0fits
FY91        i02.6        61.5         ".8        232.3                                              -282.3
FY"2        170.9       102.6        113.9        8.8                                               -387.3
FY93        273.8       164.0        182.3       819.6                                              4119.6
FY94        186.7        02.0         91.1       309.8        16.5         69.3        337.2.        -57.4
PYCFY Y2019                                                   16.5        138.5        674.4         620.4
ERR .28      NPY at 125  Rs .770 MtIIon
Dt. MRv '-M                      MS 'K-'-' -M
Rs Mliong
Ageoc.                   Cope.    opor.                                         Not
Year  . Trowb           T A  DP0                 Total        ant.        Fuel       sonefIt       BewMe
FYs9        211.3       12t.8         21.9       360.0                                              -880.0
FY92        422.8       265.6         43.8       720.0                                              -720.0
FY93        493.1       2.9           51.0       B40.0                                             -840.0
FY94        287.8       169.1         29.2       480.1       47.4         280.8        713.8        -90.2
FYO/FY2019                                                   47.4        561.8        1427.0        -60.0
IRR          WsN  tlPV a 12%  R2.792ml IItone
/ Not of transmission and distribution losses of 12B.
UF.
VIL~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~-
WI
s    em ~ ~ ~ ~ ~~ ~~~~~~~~
^  11i_g..t ." .............. 9L ... E . .!. -



89
Annex 5.0, Table 9.,
INDIA
PRIVATE POWER UTILITIES PROJECT I
4                                Summary of Analysis Assumptions
-Analysis has focussed on the FY91 to F~'2000 time-slice of
investments, including only those projects that would be' Azplemented
fully dur4ng the period. Construction periods-assumed are:
coal-fired stations -5 years; hydro stations.- 8 years; and
gas-fired stations -3 years.
-Station capital cost~s (in economic terms and January 1990 prices)
are estimated to be: coal stations - Rse 13.146 million/I(W (bated on
Talcher); hydro stations   R s 10.365 million?II  (based on Nathpa
Jhakri); and gas stations -Rs 6.0 million/MW  (based on Trombay).
-Associated transmission and distribution investments assumed to be
equivalent to 602 investments in generation.
-Annual operating ~nd maintenance costs are assumed,ast coal-f ired_
anmd gas-fir-ed stations - 2.5? of station capital costs; hydro
stations - tl? of station capital costs; -ad trmnsmission\and
distribution - 1? of capital costs.
-Average fuel'consumptions of new stations are assumed as:
coal stations - 0.61 kg/kWh of coal and- 10 mlIkWh of oil; and gas
stations - 0.23 m3IkWh (an average of open-cycle and combined-cycle
consumption rates). 
-Economic fuel costs are assumed as:'coal - Rs 360 per tonne (an
average of costs at pithead and load center stations); oil - Rs 2.7
Per litre;, and gap - Rs 2,2C0P per thousand in3. For pumped-storage
projects, fuel costs-are based on coal at Rs 520 per tonne (the cost
at a load center station).
-Annual *eneration by new stations is assumed asi,coal - 1,000 hrs in
first yeaLr, 3,500 hrs in second year, and 6,150 hrs per y4ar
thereafter; gas - 6,000 hr. per year; hydro - 2,600 hr. per,year,
and pumiped-storage (excludiug Bhira) 1,2200 hrs per year.
Consumption by station auxiliary equipment is assumed as': coal - lOZ
.of gross generation;, gas - 2? of gross generation; an\d hydro - 12.
-Transmission .mnd'\ distribution losses are assumed as 20? in FY90
K     ~declining to 15? by FY2000.



90
P    T PE    UILITIES PRJECT I
Doguments in ProMect File
*1.   Feasibility Report for Gas Turbine Combined Cycle Power Plant, Tata
Consultvng Engineers, Bangalore, November 1988.
2.    Feasibility Report - 180 MW Combined Cycle Power Plant at Trombay
Thermal Generating Station, Tata Consulting Engineers, Bangalore,
December 1989.
3.   Project Report - Dhatavi Switching Station Extension, Tata Consulting
Engineers, Bombay, Nove&iber 1989.
4.    Supplement to Detailed Project Report - Bhira Generating Station
Extension, 150 MN 7th Unit (Pumped Sto*-age), Tata Consulting Engineers,
Bo6bay, September 1988.
5.   Summary Information on Combined Cycle Schemes, Tata Consulting
Engineers, January 1990.
6.   Fluo Gas Desulphurisation, Relevance in Indian Context, Bombay Suburban
Electric Supply Ltd., 1989.
7.    Project Report - Flue Gas Desulphurisation Plant for Trombay 500 MW Unit
5, Tata Consulting Engineers, Bombay, May 1988.
8.    Project\Report - Flue Gas Desulphurisation Plant for Troubay 500 MW Unit
5, Tata Consulting Engineers, Bombay, November 1989.
9.   Copy of the Certificate of Inspection by the Government of Maharashtra
Irrigation Department for the Mulshi Dam, dated March 29, 1989.
B



-~~~~~~~~~~~w-
>  ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ ~~~~~INDIA
TATA ELECTRIC COMPANIES
POWER GENERATION AND TRANSMISSION SYTEX .
PROtJECT COMPONENTS:
fr   - -- 220KV TRANSMISSION LINE
< . <POWER STATIOI.
3o    SUBSTATION
O,     COMBINED CYCLE
)BOM                                                                                                 DUEXSTING SUPPLY AREAS:
- I_EZ  , TEC
. Ar ~   BEST
-        11TtMBA \     t0kv TRANSMISSION JN5ES
i)   J  B0TEC IttW22kV RECEIVING STATION
1PA tRNVEL+ M^lt +PowerSton z_ + MSEB POINTS OF SUPPLY TO TEC
f.,A, ,; 4 ~ {  > /ar dtn dl 7 0  TEC POINTS OF SUPPLY To MSEB
-kz f  \  \f cuJi                     POWER STATION
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~1.  AuI A, /, 
a(i
-or Detail see Inset
0    5   10   S    20                                                  Ponr .I i  . Sutton
I                      .                       I                                   D
9 ^ > 7S' 10U)METERS ' / ._
C                    1f                                          



