Document of
The World Bank
Report No: ICR00002854
IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION AND RESULTS REPORT
(IBRD-7560-DO)
ON A
LOAN
IN THE AMOUNT OF US$ 42 MILLION
TO
DOMINICAN REPUBLIC
FOR A
ELECTRICITY DISTRIBUTION REHABILITATION PROJECT
February 28, 2014
Sustainable Development Department
Caribbean Country Management Unit
Latin America and the Caribbean Region


﻿CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
(Exchange Rate Effective: February 9, 2014)
Currency Unit = Dominican Republic Peso (DR$)
DR$$1.00 = US$0.02311
US$1.00 = DR$42.0920
FISCAL YEAR
January 1   -    December 31
ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS
CDEEE              Corporacion Dominicana de Empresas Electricas y Estatales
CNE                Comision Nacional de Energia
CRI                Cash Recovery Index
EDEs               Empresas Distribuidoras de Electricidad
EdeEste            Empresa Distribuidora de Electricidad del Este S.A.
EdeNorte           Empresa Distribuidora de Electricidad del Norte S.A.
EdeSur             Empresa Distribuidora de Electricidad del Sur S.A.
GDP                Gross Domestic Product
IPP                Independent Power Producer
LAC                Latin America and Caribbean
OC                 Organismo Coordinador del Sistema Electrico Interconectado
PIU                Project Implementation Unit
PROTECOM           Oficina de Proteccion al Consumidor de Energia Electrica
SIE                Superintendencia de Electricidad
TA                 Technical Assistance
Vice President:      Hasan A. Tuluy
Country Director:      Sophie Sirtaine
Sector Director:   Ede J. Ijjasz-Vasquez
Sector Manager: Malcolm Cosgrove-Davies
Sector Leader: Maria Angelica Sotomayor
Task Team Leader:       David Reinstein
ICR Team Leader:        David Reinstein


﻿DOMINICAN REPUBLIC
ELECTRICITY DISTRIBUTION REHABILITATION PROJECT
TABLE OF CONTENTS
Data Sheet
A. Basic Information
B. Key Dates
C. Ratings Summary
D. Sector and Theme Codes
E. Bank Staff
F. Results Framework Analysis
G. Ratings of Project Performance in ISRs
H. Restructuring
1. Program Context, Development Objectives and Design......................... 9
2. Key Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcomes  ............................. 14
3. Assessment of Outcomes           ....................................... ...... 22
4. Assessment of Risk to Development Outcome                    .......................... 28
5. Assessment of Bank and Borrower Performance                   ......................  30
6. Lessons Learned .................................................... 33
7. Comments on Issues Raised by Borrower/Implementing Agencies/Partners .   ......... 35
Annex 1. Project Cost and Financing       ................................... ..... 37
Annex 2. Ouputs by Component                              .......................................... 38
Annex 3. Economic and Financial Analysis..................................... 40
Annex 4. Bank Lending and Implementation Support/Supervision Processes    ........... 41
Annex 5. Beneficiary Survey Results    ............................................ 43
Annex 6. Stackeholders Worshop Report and Results................................ 44
Annex 7. Summary of Borrower's ICR and/or Comments on Draft ICR ........... ..... 45
Annex 8. Comments of Cofinanciers and Other Partners/Stakeholders  ............... 47
Annex 9. List of Supporting Documents                       ..................................... 48
1


﻿A. Basic Information
Country:                Dominican Republic  Project Name:Electricity Distribution
Rehabilitation Project
L/C/TF Number(s):
Project ID:                 P089866       7560-DO
7560-DO
ICR Date:                  15/02/2014     ICR Type:                 Core ICR
Lending Instrument:          IBRD         Borrower:           GOVERNMENT OF DR
Original Total        DOP 1,804,950,210.00 Disbursed Amount:   DOP 1,781,586,502.58
Commitment:
Environmental Category: B
Borrower:
CDEEE, Dominican Republic
Implementing Agency:
EdeNorte, EdeSur, EdeEste (Dominican Republic)
Co-financiers and Other External Partners:
Borrower and other financiers (not specified)
IB. Key Dates
Process           Date            Process       Original Date   Rvsd/Ata
Date(s)
Concept Review:     03/07/07       Effectiveness:     18/06/09
Appraisal:       04/02/08      Restructuring(s):
Approval:        05/20/08      Mid-term Review:
Closing:        12/31/2012      09/30/2013
C.1 Performance Rating by ICR
Outcomes:                                            Moderately Satisfactory
Risk to Development Outcome:                               Moderate
Bank Performance:                                    Moderately Satisfactory
Borrower Performance                                 Moderately Satisfactory
1C.2 Detailed Ratings of Bank and Borrower Performance (by ICR)
Bank          ~~Ratings           Broe                   aig
*5liyt   nr.                saifS         mmeS ** -
Quality at Entry:    Moderately Unsatisfactory Government:     Moderately Unsatisfactory
Quality of Supervision:    Satisfactory  Implementing Agency /       Satisfactory
Agencies:
erall Bank                             Overall BorrowerR
Pe rformance:         Moderately Satisfactory Pefrac:Moderately Satisfactory
Performance     iany)
PotntalPrble PojctatYes          IQuality at Entry (QEA):     None
any time (Yes/No):
Problem Project at any time    NoQuality of Supervision               Nn
(Yes/No):                                 (QSA):
DO rating before           Satisfactory
2


﻿D. Sector and Theme Codes
Closing/Inativnastatus
Sector Code (as % of total Bank financing)
Transmission and distribution of electricity           100%            100%
T heme Code (PrimarylSecondary)
Infrastructure services for private sector development  100%           100%
E. Bank Staff
Positions                  At ICR                     At Approval
Vice President:       Hasan A. Tuluy               lPamela Cox
Country Director:     Sophie Sirtaine              Yvonne M. Tsikata
Sector Manager:       Malcolm Cosgrove-Davies       Philippe Benoit
TTL:                  David Reinstein               Lucio Monari
ICR Team Leader:      David Reinstein
ICR Primary Author:   Gabriela Elizondo-Azuela
F. Results Framework Analysis
Project Development Objective (from Project Appraisal Document - PAD)
The original project development objectives were: (a) increase the Cash Recovery Index (CRI) of the three
EDEs, and (b) improve the quality of electricity service.
The PDO was not modified during the life of the loan.
3


﻿PDO Indicators
Original Target                Actual Value
Formally
Values (fromAcivda
-W .                                 civda
Indicator       Baseline Value                      RvsdTre
Indicator        Increase percentage of people satisfied with electricity ec by distribution
Quantitativeeo
ualitative)l
No baseline provided at
entry.                                           TBD
Values (ISR 3 March                 Vales   srviThe Gallup survey to
Values (ISR 3 ~~~~March    Vaue (IR30  fTh0alu)sreyt
2 2009):                            March 2, 2009): assess progress in
EdeNorte: 62%      No target values  EdeNorte: 75%  the rehabilitated
(Quantitative or  EdeSur: 62%      provided at entry.  EdeSur: 75%  circuits will be
EdeEste: 75%  launched 6 months
after the completion
of rehabilitation
ISR 9 (July 2012)                  ISR 9 (JulyQ2 of 2014).
. 2012) provided
confirmed baseline
an end target of
value at 62%75
75%
Date achieved    3/2/2009           12/31/2010      12/31/2010    08/23/2013
The progress on this indicator has been measured at the level of rehabilitated circuits.
A Gallup survey on consumer satisfaction at the level of circuits intervened will be
Comments        launched in Q2 of 2014, a few months after the full completion of rehabilitation works
(inl. %          to ensure satisfaction is not affected by the disruptions associated with construction.
achievement)     Consumer satisfaction at the level of circuits (as reported by EDEs for some of the
intervened circuits) has remarkably improved as follows: i) between 200 and 633 % in
Edeste, ii) 414 and 455 % in EdeNorte, and iii) between 327 and 436% in EdeSur.
Indicator 2      Average service availability index (ASAl) in each EDE as a whole (and per circuit
with Project investments)
No formal
revisions
Original Values:                                 EdeNorte: 74.2%
Value            EdeNorte: 73.35%   No target values  Target values  EdeSur: 85.0%
offered at entry.  (introduced in
(Quantitative or  EdeSur: 74.9%                     ISR No.4 of   EdeEste: 91.5%
Qualitative)     EdeEste: 75%                       November,
2009):
EdeNorte: 75%
EdeSur: 75%
EdeEste: 75%
Date achieved    4/18/2008          11/14/2009      11/14/2009    30/09/2013
Comments         Baseline values were ratified before the signing of EPC procurement contracts and
the start of rehabilitation works (between August, 2010 and Q2 2011).
acieemt          On average the three EDEs achieved 111 percent of the target. EdeNorte reached 99
achievement)     percent, EdeSur 113 percent, EdeEste 122 percent.
Indicator 3      Audited increase of Cash Recovery Index (CRI) in each EDE as a whole
Value                               EdeNorte: 71%                 EdeNorte: 62%
(Quantitative or  Original Baseline:  EdeSur: 75%                 EdeSur: 67%
4


﻿Qualitative)      EdeNorte: 56%       EdeEste: 75%                     EdeEste: 59%
EdeSur: 58%
EdeEste: 62%
Adjusted Baseline:
(Based on data
adjusted in December
2010 after full revision
and update of EDEs
data bases)
EdeNorte: 63%
EdeSur: 53%
EdeEste: 62%
Date achieved     4/18/2008           12/31/2010                       30/09/2013
On average the three EDEs reached only 85 percent of the target.
EdeNorte attained 87 percent of the target, Edesur 89 percent, and EdeEste 79 percent.
Compared to the baseline, EdeSur registered an increase of 26 percent. The CRI in EdeEste
decreased in 5 percent and in EdeNorte it decreased in about 2 percent. Thus, the CRI
Comments          declined in 2 out of 3 EDEs from the adjusted baseline.
(incl. %          To some extent, the decrease in CRI in both EdeEste and EdeNorte can be attributed to the
achievement)      fact that the PRA areas (National Program for the Reduction of Blackouts, created to service
the urban poor with a subsidized tariff) had to be redefined when the Program was phased
out in 2011. Also, the data used to estimate the baseline in 2010 was less reliable than the
data used in 2014 to estimate the progress, as the EDEs had gone through a process of
improved data management (cleaning of existing data bases) and reporting.
Intermediate Outcome Indicators
Original Target
Formally    ActalVuAcivdt
Values (from
Indicator      Baseline Value                   Reie     agtCompletion or Target
approval
Values             Years
documents)
Indicator 1      Rehabilitation of selected circuits
No formal
revisions.
Adjustments
Vlue            EdeNorte: 0       :EdeNorte: 37   introduced in ISR::EdeNorte: 4
quantitative or  EdeSur: 0        :EdeSur: 5        of May 2012.  EdSr4
Qualitative)    EdeEste: 0        :EdeEste: 18                   :EdeEste: 5
EdeNorte: 5
EdeSur: 12
EdeEste: 18
Date achieved    4/18/2008         123/0005/31/2010                3/921
Originally the Project was expected to reach 60 circuits (20 circuits with Bank support).
Comments         The overall target was adjusted to 35 (ISR of May, 30 2012) as follows: 5 in Edenorte,
(incl. %         12 in EdeSur and 18 in EdleEste.
achievement) With the Bank support (42 million), ultimately 13 circuits were rehabilitated (the
remaining circuits are being rehabilitated with resources from the IADB ($42 million),
5


﻿OPEC Fund ($38 million) and GoDR ($20 million)). Total project cost was $152 million.
In terms of the number of circuits rehabilitated, the IBRD Project reached 65 percent of
the "original" target. However, the total number of customers reached was higher in the
13 circuits rehabilitated than expected with the original target. The original 20 circuits
were expected to reach 81,489 customers; the 13 circuits rehabilitated reached
101,197 customers. Thus, although the "original" target was not reached, the number of
beneficiaries was ultimately 24.2 percent higher than expected
The rehabilitation works of remaining circuits (those being financed by IADB, OPEC
Fund) are expected to be completed at the end 2014.
Indicator 2     Increase of CRI by circuit intervened
EdeNorte
LVEG-1 03: 97%
LVEG-1 05: 93%
WAS-101: 101%
EdeNorte: 9%-56%  EdeNorte: 64-75%            CVTU-101: 94%
37circuits identified  37circuits identified   COTC-102:94%
by code in PAD   by code in PAD  No formal
EdeSur: 25%-65%  EdeSur: 34-84%  revision took  EdeSur
Value                                            place during  CUAR102: 102.8%
Vuauitaive  or   5 circuits identified by 5 circuits identified  Plac   C AH 010 2.8%
quantitative or  code in PAD     by code in PAD  Project      COHE103: N.A.
Qualitative)                                     implementation to KDIE102: N.A.
EdeEste: 28%-76%  EdeEste: 84%   adjust baselines BAYO102: 96.8%
18 circuits identified  18circuits identified  and targets.
EdeEste: 84%
by code in PAD   by code in PAD                LM38-CO5: 97%
LM38-CO1: 93%
LM38-CO2: 101%
CAPO-CO2: 94%
Date achieved   4/18/2008        12/31/2010      12/31/2010   30/09/2013
The circuits selected for intervention at appraisal were not necessarily the same (in
classification and/or scope) as the circuits intervened during project implementation due
to changes in population density, discovery of unregistered customers, demand side
needs and other technical considerations (number of polygons and borderlines
changed, some of the rehabilitations supported by the Project only covered polygons as
opposed to whole circuits).
Comments        No formal revisions took place during Project implementation to adjust original
(incl. %        baselines and targets of this indicator; the value ranges provided in the original results
achievement)   framework were maintained and assumed to be relevant.
All the circuits intervened achieved a CRI above the maximum original target
established for the circuits selected at appraisal.
On average, the CRI of intervened circuits in EdeNorte, EdeSur and Edeste reached a
value of 28, 19 and 14 percent above the original targets, respectively.
Indicator 3     Increase average availability index ASAI by circuit intervened
EdeNorte: 50-87%                              EdeNorte:
37 circuits identified EdeNorte: 87.5%12:9.8
by code in PAD   EdNre875SAC0:.8
In all 37 circuits  No formal  LVEG103:97.36
EdeSur:revision took                          LVEG15:87.83
Value                            EdeSur: 87.5%   place during  WAS101: 99.80
quantitative or  5 circuits identified by In all 5 circuits  Project
Qualitative)    code in PAD                     implementation to EdeSur:
EdeEste: 87.5%  revise baselines CUAR102:100.0%
EdeEircutstdentified In all 18 circuits  and targets.  COHE103:97.0%
18 circuits identified                        KDIE12:98.0%
BAYO102: 68.0%
6


﻿EdeEste:
LM38-CO5: 74%
LM38-C01: 99%
LM38-CO2: 74%
CAPO-CO2: 64%
Date achieved   /18/2008         12/31/2010      12/31/2010    30/09/2013
The circuits selected for intervention at appraisal were not necessarily the same as the
circuits intervened during project implementation due to changes in population density,
discovery of unregistered customers, demand side needs and other technical
considerations (number of polygons and borderlines changed).
Comments        No revisions took place during Project implementation to adjust original baselines and
(incl. %        targets provided at entry on this indicator; the value ranges provided in the original
achievement)    results framework were maintained and assumed to be relevant.
On average, EdeSur reached an ASAI of 90.75% in intervened circuits (above original
target), EdeNorte reached 96.32% which is also well above original target, but Edeste
reached 78% which is below original target.
Indicator 4     Control of operating costs of the EDEs
TOCi < TOCi.1xk
TOCSep2013s<TOCSep2012XK
EdeNorte:
3,621 MCOP < 3,756
MCOP
Value           No baseline values  No target values  Target Not
quantitative or  provided at entry  provided at entry  Revised  EdeSur:
Qualitative)
 a3,832 MCOP > 3,503
MCOP
EdeEste:
2,809 MCOP < 3,528
MCOP
Date achieved   /18/2008         12/31/2010                    30/09/2013
Baseline values were estimated before the signature of EPC procurement contracts and
Comments        the start of rehabilitation works.
(incl. %        The Results Framework provides a condition based on a formula for assessing
achievement)    progress. Data available includes the comparison between total operating costs (TOC)
of September 2012 and September 2013 (TOCSep2013<TOCSep2012 * k). In this case, the
established condition was met in EdeNorte and EdeEste, but not in EdeSur:
G. Ratings of Project Performance in ISRs
Date ISR                                                Ata    ibreet
N.  Archived                                                   (USD millions)
1     13/06/2008       Satisfactory           Satisfactory                   0.00
2     16/12/2008       Satisfactory           Satisfactory                   0.00
3     03/02/2009       Satisfactory           Satisfactory                   0.00
4     11/14/2009       Satisfactory           Satisfactory                   0.00
5     06/06/2010       Satisfactory      Moderately Satisfactory             0.00
6     02/02/2011       Satisfactory      Moderately Satisfactory             2.75
7     06/08/2011       Satisfactory      Moderately Satisfactory             5.34
8     12/25/2011       Satisfactory           Satisfactory                  15.42
7


﻿.07/10/2012       Satisfactory           Satisfactory                   28.98
10 01/22/2013        Satisfactory           Satisfactory                   32.74
11 10/11/2013        Satisfactory           Satisfactory                   35.93
H. Restructuring (if any)
Restructuning
Approved      Restructuring     Restructuring     Rsrcuig&
Date(s)
PDO Change     DO       IP       (in US$ million)  Key Changes Made
N.A.
8


﻿SECTION 1: PROJECT CONTEXT, DEVELOPMENT OBJECTIVES AND DESIGN
1.1 Context at Appraisal
Over the last twenty years, the Dominican Republic has experienced a sustained economic growth,
with an annual average increase of GDP per capita of 4 per cent against 1.8 per cent for Latin and
Central America and the Caribbean. A low-income small island economy-GDP per capita was below
USD 1,000 in 1960-the Dominican Republic attained upper middle income status in 2011, a
performance well above most other countries in the region and resembling the experience of the
successful globalizers of East and South-East Asia. The Dominican Republic is now the second largest
economy in Central America and the Caribbean and one of the most affluent, with per capita GDP levels
just below Costa Rica and Panama'.
In spite of this remarkable macroeconomic performance, the Dominican Republic has been unable to
address its main development challenges. GNI per capita levels quickly rose in the aftermath of the
temporal economic and financial domestic crisis provoked by the Baninter banking scandal in 2003, from
US$ 2,600 in 2000-2004 to US$ 5,200 in 2011, but the economic expansion has not been accompanied
by a substantial reduction in poverty and inequality. The crises pushed around 1.4 million people into
poverty, and moderate poverty incidence has not been brought back to previous levels. Extreme poverty
levels in October 2011 were similar to those of October 2000 (9.2%), and moderate poverty affects
34.3% of the population, which significantly higher than a decade ago (28.2%)2.
The DR Electricity Distribution and Rehabilitation Project was approved in 2008 during the years of
recovering macroeconomic stability.
In electricity, despite the attempt of a gradual reform the sector has historically struggled with the
governance and performance of its main utility (Corporacion Dominica de Empresas Electricas
Estatales, CDEEE).
Throughout the 1990s, the Government gradually introduced a classic power sector reform; first
allowing IPP participation and later on unbundling the generation, transmission and distribution
segments of the State owned monopoly (CDEEE). The July 2001 Electricity Law introduced a modern
legal and regulatory framework along with new institutions including Comision Nacional de Energia
(CNE) in charge of formulating energy policy, Superintendencia de Electricidad (SIE), the regulatory
agency; Organismo Coordinador (OC) the dispatch center, and the Oficina de Proteccion al Consumidor
(PROTECOM) a consumer protection entity.
1 IMF (2013); "Growth, Employment and Social Cohesion in the Dominican Republic", ILO Background Paper
2 World Bank (2013); "Patronage or reform? Political Economy of Policy Performance in the Dominican Republic:
Institutional and Governance Review", Washington DC
9


﻿Although this reform created a modern, competitive sector structure, serious problems remained,
including institutional weaknesses and inconsistencies in the legal framework. Most seriously, the sector
remained plagued by the problems that had undermined its financial sustainability: (a) a tradition of
illegal connections and non-payment of bills (less than 60 percent of all energy provided was paid for
through tariffs), (b) the government's unwillingness to adjust tariffs to fully reflect changes in fuel prices
and the exchange rate, and (c) inadequate fiscal resources to cover the resulting gap between costs and
revenues. An adverse oil shock in 2002 highlighted system deficiencies and, as a result, EdeNorte and
EdeSur electricity distribution companies were renationalized.
At the time of project appraisal, market liberalization had been partially achieved and the technical and
managerial performance of the sector was extremely poor. These issues were historically the result of a
combination of poor governance, lack of investment and mismanagement.
In 2008, almost half of thermal power generation capacity exhibited very low technical efficiency (more
than 40 percent of total installed capacity) and technical and commercial losses in the distribution
segment were extremely high (or the order of 30%). The three distribution companies (EDEs) were
financially unsustainable due to low revenue generation and recurrent debt. It was in this context that
the Project was prepared and justified.
The performance of the electricity sector has represented a structural challenge to the country
historically and despite gradual improvements the sector continues to contribute to the Central
Government's primary deficit. The persistent gap between tariffs charged and the operating cost,
exacerbated by the widespread theft and poor collection of bills, has placed severe financial strain on
the electricity sector and limited its ability to invest in improved services. The major consequence of the
limitations in revenue generation is the need for external resources in order to close the resulting
financial gap. In 2012, the electricity sector deficit still absorbed 2.3 percent of GDP in public subsidies
and overall losses have required Government transfers as high as 10 percent of the national budget.
Today, the DR's electricity sector still stands out in LCR for its poor performance. Although coverage has
increased over the past twenty years to around 95 percent of the population and black-outs have
declined in duration since the early 1990s, the DR continues to have more than six times as many
outages per month (18) as the average for LCR (2.5). Also, more than one-third of the energy generated
in the country (35%) is still not billed, around 5% of billed energy is stolen, and total losses are estimated
in the order of 27-30%, still far above the average level in the region which is in the range of 12-15%.
Theft of energy occurs not only among poor neighborhoods but also among large enterprises and in the
internal wiring of middle class apartment buildings (and the theft practice signifies a risk that has led to
several hundred deaths over the past decade). Numerous government agencies have in the past also
accumulated unpaid bills, although the Medina Administration has taken steps to regularize payments
by national government agencies. The DR's three electricity distribution companies (EDEs) continue to
be strikingly inefficient, employing 11 times more workers than the electricity utility of Santiago, Chile,
for a given number of megawatt hours of service, and seven times more workers than the utility of Lima,
Peru, to serve a given number of clients.
10


﻿At appraisal, entire neighborhoods were not paying, with broken or absent meters, and with utility
workers unable to fix meters or attend maintenance works because of conflict with consumers.
Investments in rehabilitation were short-lived because communities would quickly vandalize meters,
and did not pay their bills. The persistent lack of payment in the sector and other external factors -such
as high fuel oil prices - led to a vicious circle of black outs and fiscal losses. Attempts to address these
problems through programs like the PRA (National Program for the Reduction of Blackouts) failed
successively.
Even if technical and non-technical losses were brought down significantly, the average tariff of
US$0.20/kwh would be insufficient to cover costs. The average indexed tariff calculated by the
Superintendence for Energy is US$0.30/kwh; however over the last years the Government has refused
to adjust tariffs upwards to reflect the steep rise in the cost of fuel that has been registered since the
mid-2000s. The imbalance between the cost of electricity production and the effective tariff charged
(and collected) has resulted in a deficit at 1.6% of GDP on average for the past seven years and
burdened the overall public finance.
An additional challenge is the fact that -despite the existence of a diversified capacity based - around 48
percent of contracted generation is indexed to the price of HFO#6 and another 11 percent is purchased
in spot markets at marginal prices determined by inefficient thermal generators.
To lower the demand-supply gap the system has seen the rise of 2,700 MW of mainly polluting and
expensive diesel based generation. Still, supply remains largely unreliable and many consumers (both
households and companies) have opted to install their own electricity generation devices to compensate
for frequent power outages.
Successive Government administrations have supported ambitious reforms while at the same time
approving the transfer of large subsidy volumes to CDEEE.
Over time, successive governments have established a variety of transfers and subsidies to the
electricity sector at more than 1% of GDP every year since 2005; in 2008, the spike in world oil prices
raised this figure to 3% of GDP. The amounts transferred since 2005 have exceeded public spending on
health most of the years. In practice, the transfers do not take place separately but as a lump sum to
CDEEE, the public electricity holding, which then allocates the funds to the electricity distributors.
This practice places large quantities of money in the hands of the CDEEE which has historically had a lack
of transparency and low levels of accountability, creating opportunities for frequent mismatches
between the intended and actual uses of the funds, as reported by several national media.
The Fernandez government embraced an ambitious reform program in the last years of its second term
(2008-2012), including the professionalization of senior management of the distribution companies,
better targeting of the subsidies, the revival in investments to rehabilitate the energy grids, and the
strengthening of regulations. The service improved with an increasing number of clients receiving
11


﻿electricity 24 hours (around 791,000 or 35% of the market). At appraisal, the DR Electricity Distribution
and Rehabilitation Project was aligned with the objectives of the Government and the pressing needs of
the sector.
1.2 Original Project Development Objective and Key Indicators
The original project development objectives were: (a) increase the Cash Recovery Index (CRI) of the
three EDEs, and (b) improve the quality of electricity service.
The original indicators proposed were the following:
1. Increase the CRI in circuits with project investments and in each EDE as a whole
2. Control of operating costs of the EDEs
3. Increase in consumers' perception of the quality of electricity services
4. Increased hours/day availability of power in the circuits with project investments and in each
EDE as a whole
1.3 Revised PDO and Key Indicators and Reasons/Justification
The PDOs and key indicators were not revised during the implementation stage.
1.4 Main Beneficiaries
The main beneficiaries are the distribution companies (EDEs), through a higher cash recovery index, and
ultimately, consumers through a more reliable and extended service.
1.5 Original Components
The original components included the following three:
1. Rehabilitation and upgrading of medium and low voltage circuits (US$121.8 Million excluding
contingencies, US$37 Million financed by IBRD).
2. Outreach to communities (US$9.2 Million excluding contingencies, US$3 Million financed by
IBRD).
3. Technical assistance and training (US$2.5 Million excluding contingencies, US$2 Million financed
by IBRD).
1.6 Revised Components
There was no revision of components.
12


﻿1.7 Other Significant Changes
With the phase out of the PRA Program (and dismantling of the PRA zones) in 2011 and after the Mid
Term Review, the Project Team considered restructuring as an option to overcome the significant
changes in the original project design. The idea however was rejected as it would have entailed
significant delays in project implementation due to the need of obtaining Congress approval on the
restructuring proposal.
Instead, the Project Team decided to focus more intensely on supervision. This was challenging
considering changes in EDEs' management (which signified the cancelation of performance contracts
already signed and the renegotiation of new ones with the entrance of a new administration in August
2012), but nevertheless proved appropriate, as disbursements picked during the last 18 months of
project implementation.
13


﻿SECTION 2: KEY FACTORS AFFECTING IMPLEMENTATION AND OUTCOMES
2.1 Project Preparation, Design and Quality at Entry
The analysis of the background and rationale presented at appraisal were appropriate and relevant.
Indeed, one of the most critical challenges confronting the sector was -and continues to be- the
financial sustainability of distribution companies and the overall quality of service.
The Project's design was robust in that its objectives and components simply focused on two of the
most critical problems of the distribution sector: (i) the lack of billing collection and cash recovery and,
(ii) poor reliability of service and low consumer satisfaction.
The Project objectives were consistent with a comprehensive sector plan launched by the Government
for the period 2006-2012. In the short term, the plan focused on streamlining the subsidy design and
volume, improving distribution infrastructure, controlling operating costs, increasing investments in
transmission, and diversifying the capacity mix with introduction of renewable energy. In the longer
term, the plan aimed at achieving financial sustainability of the sector and addressing its structural
problems (for example, controlling EDEs' debt, revision of existing programs, ensuring competition at
the generation level, and strengthening institutions across the board).
The implementation of this plan was being supported at the time by other World Bank initiatives: the
Programmatic Power Sector Reform Loan (US$150 Million) and the Energy Sector Technical Assistance
Loan (US$7.3 Million). The Electricity Distribution Rehabilitation Project was complementary to these
efforts and focused on accelerating the previous efforts and success emerging under the "24 Hours of
Light Program".
In particular, the Project sought to enhance the design and leverage the implementation of the
community outreach component launched under the "24 Hours of Light Program". The improved design
was innovative in that few Projects at the time had considered -and demonstrated- the effectiveness of
participatory approaches to establish trust between the consumers and distribution companies with an
aim to increase billing and promote demand side management. Ultimately, this component proved
instrumental to the success of the Project. The new approach focused on social compacts with selected
communities and the entry of social workers before the start of rehabilitation works. The Social
Management Plan, which is at the heart of this innovative approach, introduced a seven step process
which included; i) review of commercial and social characteristics of selected circuits, ii) sensitization
and community organization to formulate and implement the 24 Hour PrOgram, iii) diagnosis of the
socio-economic characteristics of neighborhoods and status of service, iv) definition of the strategy for
inter-institutional coordination, v) implementation of 24 hour program, vi) monitoring and evaluation,
vii) sustainability of social network.
The institutional arrangements were adequate as they simply relied on one counterpart (CDEEEE) which
could effectively coordinate the implementation of different components with the three distribution
companies targeted (EdeNorte, EdeEste and EdeSur). The Project Implementation Unit (PIU) at CDEEE
demonstrated a high level of commitment during the preparation and implementation of the Project.
14


﻿In terms of the decisions regarding the social and environmental safeguards, the Project was
appropriately categorized as B (partial assessment).
The assessment of risks was also appropriate in that it identified the key threats with corresponding
mitigating measures, and provided a ranking aligned to the realities of the country and sector. A few of
the risks have in fact materialized, including the unresolved debt overhang problem and uncertainties
regarding the introduction of tariffs reflective of costs, including fuel price increases.
2.2 Implementation
The factors that contributed to the success of Project implementation were the following: (i) simplicity
of Project design and arrangements, (ii) the corporate office at CDEEE (Project Implementation Unit)
recruited qualified professionals and had the appropriate technical knowledge and analytical tools to
manage the Project; the PIU was extremely committed to progress and achievement of results, (iii) EDEs
were also committed to the Project across the spectrum of activities, (iv) the introduction of a well-
designed and extremely innovative community outreach component which was supported by 20
trained social development specialists and 96 community workers; this component was ultimately
instrumental to the success of the Project, and (v) strong coordination among the technical, commercial,
and social units in the three EDEs, and with the PIU at CDEEE; indeed the Project contributed to
integrate and align the operation of various different units within the EDEs and between CDEEE and the
EDEs.
During implementation, trained social workers approached the communities and launched activities to
improve the general understanding of the service at the community level (training on demand side
management provided in schools, training on debt reduction provided to small businesses). The social
workers together with the community have established community monitoring committees which are
politically balanced, mitigating conflicts over electricity via active community management teams and
the signing of social compacts which have provided an incentive for the community members to work
together, ensure payment and reduce vandalism of meters.
The success of the approach convinced the new administration to continue supporting the model; and
the CDEEE and EDEs have been able to expand the service to new areas. In fact, the results in the ground
have led to strong demand from the population and thus the Government has requested additional
support from the Bank and other development partners to further replicate the approach and achieved
a more systematic impact.
The Project design did not undergo any formal restructuring or revisions during implementation 3;
however, the implementation activities faced a few challenges, including the following:
3 The only formal restructuring during implementation was requested by the Hacienda on August 2010 to amend
the loan agreement, first to recognize the corporate office of CDEEE at the project executing unit (PIU), and second
to extend closing date by 18 months. Congress approval of the amendment took more than a year.
15


﻿+  Initial delays mainly due to the time it took the Government to approve the loan and reach
effectiveness4 (13 months); and the period of time it took CDEEE and the EDEs to complete the
procurement processes necessary to select the companies and commission the rehabilitation
works (18 months after effectiveness).5
+ The establishment of the community outreach team at the level of the EDEs also experienced a
slight delay mainly due to the time it took to select and hire specialists and involve community
workers.
+  The proposed results framework had to go through a series of adjustments throughout the
implementation period in terms of scope, baseline, and target values in part due to delays in
effectiveness and procurement process (this is discussed in more detailed in sub-section 2.3).
+ In particular, the choice of the Cash Recovery Index (CRI) as an indicator reflecting financial
sustainability was not necessarily appropriate in the context of the DR power system. This is
because the CRI may be positive despite negative consolidated balance sheets at the level of
EDEs.
The lack of financial sustainability of EDEs has stemmed mainly from the fact that tariffs do not reflect
costs; the cost recovery is partial due to technical inefficiencies across the value chain as well as high
fuel oil prices. Indeed, CDEEE and EDEs receive frequent cash transfers from the Government to
compensate for these problems and to cover the debt service associated with loans issued to purchase
fuel oil.
During implementation, the World Bank team took several actions to address the emerging challenges:
(i) strong and close supervision focused on the continuous revision of implementation, disbursement
and procurement plans, (ii) continuous revision and strengthening of operational manual (for example,
to update organization structures and to include standardized formats for performance reporting), (iii)
strong support to the counterpart during the bidding process with a revision of the evaluation of "pre-
qualified" firms and recommendations to ensure competition in the process, (iv) continuous review of
results framework to adjust scope as well as baseline and target values of some of the proposed
indicators due to circuit network transformations over time; among others.
2.3 Monitoring and Evaluation (M&E) Design, Implementation and Utilization
i)   M&E Design
The original Results Framework included three outcome indicators and five intermediate outcome
indicators. The framework did not undergo any formal revision; however, adjustments in scope, baseline
and target values were necessary during implementation.
4 The team processed two extensions to effectiveness in the year after Project's approval. Effectiveness was
achieved on June 18 th, 2009, when the DR's Congress ratified the loan.
s This delay was attributed to managerial changes in CDEEE's PIU and the three EDEs which eventually delayed the
preparation of technical specifications necessary to finalize the preparation of bidding documents. The first set of
rehabilitation contracts was signed between November 2010 and January 2011.
16


﻿The choice of indicators was consistent with the Project Development Objectives (PDOs) which focused
directly on increasing the Cash Recovery Index (CRI) of EDEs and improving the quality of service
(expressed as ASAI in this case).
However, it is important to note that the CRI did not necessarily reflect progress in the financial
sustainability of distribution companies due to contextual factors characteristic of the power sector in
the DR.S Indeed, EDEs financial sustainability is affected by a number of other variables including the
debt service associated with the loans issued to purchase fuel oil and direct cash transfers from the
Government to cover this debt. Thus, the CRI -as it is defined in the Project-may be positive despite
the lack of financial sustainability at the level of the EDEs.
In theory, the CRI should reflect the extent to which power purchased is billed and bills are paid, and
provide a good measure of improvements in technical and commercial losses. However, when
companies do not bill 100 percent of their customers or when cash inputs other than bills paid are
included (for example, reconnection fees or fines) as has happened with the three EDEs, the result is
distorted.
As an intermediate outcome the Results Framework proposed the monitoring of the evolution of total
operating costs (TOC). Together with the CRI this indicator contributes to better reflect improvements
in the managerial performance and financial sustainability of EDEs, albeit only partially.
In terms of the collection methods, EDEs were in charge of supplying the data on CRI, average service
availability index (ASAI), number of circuits rehabilitated, the CRI and ASAI in each of the rehabilitated
circuits and evolution in the control of operating costs. Additional activities, including surveys on
consumer satisfaction and third party audits, supported the data collection and evaluation of progress.
However, one of the issues faced by the PIU at CDEEE regarding data collection is the fact that
information was supplied by EDEs to external auditors but the auditors did not have any means of
verifying primary data to evaluate the quality and reliability of information supplied. This aspect has to
be improved.
The progress reported on CRI, ASAI and consumer satisfaction at the level of EDEs reflected
improvements in overall EDE performance, but not necessarily the impact of the Electricity Distribution
Rehabilitation Project, as the initiative ultimately only covered the rehabilitation of a very small
percentage of the total number of circuits in each of the EDEs.
Overall, the design of the M&E platform was not particularly strong; and the M&E system can still be
substantially strengthened.
The CRI formula is: (energy billed by distribution companies/energy purchased by distribution companies)
multiplied by (electricity bills paid by consumers)/(total electricity billing issued to consumers)
The Project called for TOCs increasing less than the rate of supply expansion and inflation.
17


﻿ii)  M&E Implementation
The Bank closely monitored progress under the Project through Bank supervision missions. The PIU at
CDEEE and UERS conducted effective overall M&E of the activities targeted under the Project, collecting
data needed from the three EDEs and other parties tasked with the collection and reporting of specific
performance indicators (third party auditors and surveyors). Yet, as explained before, external auditors
did not have access to primary data and could not verify the quality of data supplied by EDEs.
During implementation most of the indicators in the Results Framework had to be adjusted either in
scope or in baseline and target values. A description of adjustments is provided below:
Outcome Indicators
Percent of People Satisfied with Service at the level of EDEs:
No baseline data was included in the Results Framework at entry. Target values were defined at entry as
"improvement from baseline".
It is important to note that the surveys launched have only covered the circuits targeted for
rehabilitation under the Project; in this respect the data available and reported does not correspond to
satisfaction at the level of the whole EDE. The baseline was assessed just before the start of the
rehabilitation works (2011) in some of the circuits selected for intervention through a Gallup survey and
reported in the 9th ISR (July 2012). A Gallup survey will be launched to assess final progress after the
completion of rehabilitation works (expected in early 2014).
It is important to note that EDEs have launched their own surveys in the circuits targeted under the
Project, so there is available data to show progress with customer satisfaction.
ASAl at the level of EDEs: Original baseline values were maintained and ratified before the signature and
implementation of EPC procurement contracts. At entry, the Results Framework did not include target
values due to lack of data; targets were estimated later on and included in the fourth ISR of November
2009.
CRI at the level of EDEs: the baseline values proposed at entry had to be modified to account for the
facts that i) each EDE was regulated under different tariff structures and ii) the data base system went
through an exhaustive update to eliminate obsolete data (for example, registered but not active clients);
in this case revised data of December 2010 was reported as baseline. The adjustment was not significant
and original target values were maintained. In particular, one of the legal covenants was to ratify the
targets for each EDE by May 25 th, 2009 (along with targets for increases in total operating costs, one of
the intermediate indicators). The targets on CRI at the level of EDEs were ratified as expected.
18


﻿CDEEE in coordination with EDEs has monitored and adjusted the three outcome indicators described
above following appropriate collection methods (surveys before and after rehabilitations) and ensured
the quality of data through third party technical audits.
Intermediate Outcome Indicators:
Rehabilitation of Selected Circuits: Originally the Project was expected to reach 60 circuits. During
Project preparation (2008) the team and counterpart identified the circuits that would be intervened for
rehabilitation. The implementation of the Project however was delayed by the time it took to reach
effectiveness9 (13 months) and complete the procurement processes necessary to select and issue
contracts to the companies in charge of rehabilitation works (18 months after effectiveness).10 By 2011,
the network of circuits in each EDE had gone through a natural transformation due to changes in
population density, discovery of unregistered customers, demand side dynamics and other technical
considerations (for example, the overall number of circuits, polygons within each circuit and borderlines
changed, which meant that some circuits were merged and other divided). For this reason, the number
of circuits intervened during implementation differed from the number of circuits identified for
intervention at appraisal."
Originally the Project was expected to reach 60 circuits (20 circuits with the Bank support). The overall
target was adjusted to 35 (ISR of May, 30 2012), however CDEEE expects that 42 circuits will be
ultimately rehabilitated (the rehabilitations financed by IADB, OPEC Fund and GoDR are yet to be
completed).
Increase of CRI by circuit intervened: Although the circuits selected for intervention were not
necessarily the same as the circuits identified at entry12, no formal revision took place during Project
implementation to adjust original baselines and targets of this indicator; the value ranges provided in
the original results framework were maintained and assumed to be relevant.
The Bank support (USD 42 Million) was expected to support 20 of these circuits. The rest would be financed with
resources from the IADB, OPEC Fund and the GoDR.
The team processed two extensions to effectiveness in the year after Project's approval. Effectiveness was
achieved on June 18h , 2009, when the DR's Congress ratified the loan.
10 This delay was attributed to managerial changes in CDEEE's PIU and the three EDE which eventually delayed the
preparation of technical specifications necessary to finalize the preparation of bidding documents. The first set of
rehabilitation contracts was signed between November 2010 and January 2011.
1 In some case, the Project only supported the rehabilitation of part of these circuits (polygons) considering that a
higher population density and number of registered customers required a higher amount of resources (additional
material and labor). For this reason, scope of number of circuits intervened was reduced substantially during
implementation. It is important to note however, that in some cases the EDEs complemented the financing
required for the remaining polygons or areas to cover the rehabilitation of complete circuits. According to the PIU,
this additional financing resources are estimated in about US 13-14 Million.
12 It is possible that some of the circuits were the same; however, the transformation of the network meant that
EDEs redefined borderlines and reclassified circuits. In some cases, the Bank support only covered the financing of
a few polygons or areas and not complete circuits.
19


﻿Increase of ASAI by circuit intervened: Although the circuits selected for intervention were not
necessarily the same as the circuits identified at entry, no formal revision took place during Project
implementation to adjust original baselines and targets of this indicator; the value ranges provided in
the original results framework were maintained and assumed to be relevant.
Control of Operating Costs at the level of EDE: At entry, the Results Framework did not provide baseline
and target values. The ISRs reported that baseline values would be estimated and ratified before the
signature of EPC procurement contracts in August, 2010". In particular, one of the legal covenants was
to ratify the targets on operating costs by May 25 th, 2009.
The data collection methods used -direct reporting from EDEs and surveys conducted before and after
interventions- were appropriate. The quality and reliability of data was validated through third party
audits.
In general the achievement of target values has been better realized one year after the completion of
rehabilitation works. For example, improvements in consumer satisfaction depend on the full realization
of community outreach activities and consumer understanding of the benefits of bill payment and
demand side management. The impacts on CRI and ASAI also depend on the gradual reduction of
technical and commercial losses through the rehabilitations and community outreach activities. CDEEE
has recommended the final measurement of indicators within a year of completing the rehabilitation of
targeted circuits.
iii)  M&E Utilization
The CDEEE (PIU) and EDEs have used the monitoring and evaluation platform to analyze progress at the
level of the distribution sector. The results have encouraged EDEs to increase the scope of the
community outreach activities and include other circuits not directly targeted by the Project. EdeNorte
for instance has invested an additional 13 USDM in rehabilitation projects following the WB Project's
concept. The continuous monitoring of progress in performance will allow the Government, and EDEs in
particular, increased access to additional financial and concessional resources to continue the
rehabilitation needs of the sector. The M&E platform is already established and functional.
2.4 Safeguard and Fiduciary Compliance
During implementation, the CDEEE (PIU) and EDEs complied fully with the requirements established in
the Bank's policies and procedural requirements associated with procurement, social and environmental
safeguards, financial management and disbursement.
The operation fully complied with the prescriptions included in the Project's Operational Manual.
20


﻿Except from an extension of closing date necessary to finalize rehabilitation works and fully disburse the
loan, there were no significant deviations or waivers from Bank's safeguards and fiduciary policies and
procedures. The IADB and OPEP Fund also rely on the Bank's safeguard conditions in their interventions.
2.5 Post Completion Operation / Next Phase
The PlU at CDEEE as well as EDEs and their social management units are now fully qualified to undertake
the extension of distribution rehabilitation works following the same concept across the spectrum of
fiduciary, safeguard and technical activities. The design of the M&E framework is appropriate and all
indicators still relevant.
The three EDEs in fact have already gradually extended the operation of community outreach activities
to other circuits. EDEs are also evaluating a full migration from conventional to smart metering to
further enhance billing collection.
To continue supporting the Government in improving the financial sustainability of the power sector,
the World Bank is now in the process of preparing a new investment project following the same basic
design of this project to intervene a wider set of circuits (80 USDM), and it is also implementing an
analytical sector work focused on the introduction of a commodity risk management strategy to manage
fuel price volatility.
21


﻿SECTION 3. ASSESSMENT OF OUTCOMES
3.1 Relevance of Objectives, Design and Implementation
The operation's objectives, design and implementation are still relevant and fully consistent with the
country's development priorities. Today, the financial sustainability and performance of the electricity
sector still represents a structural challenge to the country. In 2012, the electricity sector deficit still
absorbed 2.3 percent of GDP in public subsidies and overall losses have required Government transfers
as high as 10 percent of the national budget.
The current National Development Strategy (END or Vision 2030) -approved by Congress in March 2012-
explicitly prioritizes the development of a reliable, efficient and environmentally sustainable energy
sector under its Pillar No. 3 (Productive Development) with two specific objectives: (i) ensure a reliable
supply of electricity at competitive prices as well as financial and environmental sustainability, and (ii)
ensure a reliable, diversified supply of fuels in a competitive and environmentally sustainable manner.
The END calls for three major pacts on education, electricity and fiscal balance, to be agreed in the
(ambit) of the multi-stakeholder Economic and Social Council (CES). In the medium term, the END
specifically focuses on reducing electricity sector losses and cutting generation costs by adding publicly
owned coal generation capacity and negotiating new capacity additions with existing private generators,
among others.
The operation's objectives, design and implementation are also relevant and fully consistent with the
current and forthcoming Bank's Country Partnership Strategy. Under its Pillar 2 (Promoting Shared
Prosperity and Broad-Based Growth through Institutional and Productive Development) the FY14-FY17
CPS offers to continue supporting the electricity sector with both the rehabilitation of transmission and
distribution infrastructure, and the implementation of an emergency recovery loan under the proposed
Electricity Sector Management Project.
The original objectives of the Project today reflect a high overall relevance considering that the design
reflected a proper diagnosis of a development priority that remains relevant. Indeed, the operation
remains important to achieving the country's and Bank's development objectives.
3.2 Achievement of Project Development Objectives
In strict terms, and despite the remarkable success of the Project at the level of the circuits intervened,
the Project Development Objectives (PDOs) were partially achieved.
Percent of People Satisfied with Service at the level of EDEs: No baseline data was included in the
Results Framework at entry. The baseline was assessed just before the start of the rehabilitation works
(2011) in the circuits selected for intervention through a Gallup survey and reported in the 9th ISR (July
2012). Target values were defined at entry as "improvement from baseline". A Gallup survey will be
launched to assess final progress after the completion of rehabilitation works (expected in Q2 2014). It is
22


﻿important to note that there is no baseline data available on consumer satisfaction at the level of EDEs,
and that surveys launched have only covered the circuits targeted for rehabilitation under the Project.
The results of these surveys at the level of circuits however show extremely positive results; with
consumer satisfaction increasing substantially in the areas actually intervened by the Project.
Consumer satisfaction at the level of circuits (as reported by EDEs for some of the circuits intervened
with Bank support) has improved substantially: i) between 200 and 633 percent in Edeste , ii) 414 and
455 percent in EdeNorte, and iii) between 327 and 436 percent in EdeSur.
The causal link between increases in reliability (ASAI) and consumer satisfaction is adequate.
ASAl at the level of EDEs: At entry, the Results Framework did not include quantitative targets due to
lack of data (the result frameworks offered "improvements from previous year"); a quantitative target
for the three EDEs was later on estimated and included in the third ISR of March 2009 (as 75 percent).
EdeNorte reached 99 percent of the target and both EdeSur and EdeEste surpassed the target attaining
113 and 122 percent respectively. On average the three EDEs achieved 111 percent of the target.
Compared to the baseline data, all companies increased their ASAL. Thus, the Project achieved the PDO
of "improving the quality of service" at the level of distribution companies.
The causal link between the operation and proposed benefits was adequate (in that the rehabilitation of
infrastructure directly affect reliability levels).
Cash Recovery Index (CR)) at the level of EDEs: When compared to the adjusted baseline EdeSur
registered an increase in CRI of 26 percent. The CRI in both EdeNorte and EdeEste decreased in 2 and 5
percent respectively.
To some extent, the decrease in CRI in both EdeEste and EdeNorte can be attributed to the fact that the
PRA areas (National Program for the Reduction of Blackouts14, created to service the urban poor) had to
be redefined when the Program was phased out in 2011. Also, the data used to estimate the baseline in
2010 was less reliable than the data used in 2014 to estimate the progress, as the EDEs had gone
through a process of improved data management, cleaning of data bases, and reporting.
On average the three EDEs reached only 85 percent of the target. EdeNorte attained 87 percent of the
target, Edesur 89 percent, and EdeEste 79 percent. Thus, the PDO was partially achieved by the fact that
two of the three EDEs did not register an increase in CRI when compared to the baseline, and the targets
where not fully attained.
Ultimately the Bank intervention only supported rehabilitation in a small percent of the total number of
circuits in the distribution segment and therefore -although the CRI in the circuits rehabilitated did
reach the targets- its impact on the CRI at the level of the EDEs was small. The causal link between the
operation and proposed benefits was adequate in that rehabilitation and outreach to communities
directly affect the CRI. However, the scope of the Project being lowered from 11 to 5 percent (in terms
13 For example, in circuit LM3801, consumer satisfaction increased from 45% (before rehabilitation) to 95% after
rehabilitation; in circuit LM3801, satisfaction increased from 9 to 57%.
14 The National Program for the Reduction of Blackouts (Programa Nacional de Reduccion de Apagones) was
created in 2001 to provide limited electricity service for a minimum flat tariff to poor urban areas, to address the
social unrest caused by widespread blackouts.
23


﻿of the percent number of circuits rehabilitated) over the course of implementation reduced the
potential magnitude of the impact.15
The intermediate outcomes (as defined in the PAD) were also partially achieved.
Rehabilitation of Selected Circuits: Originally the Project was expected to reach 60 circuits.16 However,
as explained before, the distributions network experienced a natural transformation with time that
forced the team to redefine the number of circuits for intervention. The original target was adjusted to
35 circuits (5 in EdeNorte, 12 in EdeSur and 18 in Edeste). Ultimately the rehabilitation of circuits under
the Project only reached 13 (the remaining circuits are being rehabilitated with resources from the IADB,
OPEC Fund and GoDR).
In terms of the number of circuits rehabilitated, the Project reached 65 percent of the "original" target.
However, the total number of customers reached was higher in the 13 circuits rehabilitated than
expected with the original target. The original 20 circuits were expected to reach 81,489 customers; the
13 circuits rehabilitated reached 101,197 customers. Thus, although the "original" target was not
reached, the number of beneficiaries was ultimately 24.2 percent higher than expected.
Increase ofCRI by circuit intervened: In this case, the targets were fully met: all the circuits intervened
achieved a CRI above the maximum original target established for the circuits selected at appraisal. On
average, the CRI of intervened circuits in EdeNorte, EdeSur and Edeste reached a value of 28, 19 and 14
percent above the original targets, respectively.
Increase of ASAI by circuit intervened:
On average, EdeSur and EdeNorte reached an ASAI of 90.75 and 96.32 percent respectively in
intervened circuits (above the original target, set at 87.5 percent for all circuits intervened); Edeste
reached 78 percent which is below original target. EdeSur and EdeNorte surpassed the target in 3.7 and
10 percent respectively and EdeEste was below the target in 11 percent.
Control of Operating Costs at the level of EDE: At entry, the Results Framework did not provide baseline
and target values. The measurement and evaluation of progress was defined in terms of an algorithm as
follows:
is When considering the total number of circuits to be rehabilitated under the Project (that is, including also the
circuits intervened or to be intervened by IADB and the OPEC Fund), the scope of the Project lowered from an
expected 11 percent (at the time of approval, 2008; which considered 60 circuits) to 5 percent (in 2014). The
Bank's intervention covered about 1.8 percent of total number of circuits in 2014.
16 The Bank support (USD 42 Million) was expected to support 20 of these circuits. The rest would be financed with
resources from the IADB and other financiers.
24


﻿Formula for assessing progress with "Control of Operating Costs":
For each year TOCi<= (TOCi-1 * k)
Where:
k= [(0.5 *(VE/jEi-, -1)+1)*Infl ii-11
Infl is the distribution inflation index in Dominican Republic
VE is energy sales (GWh) (audited for CRI calculation)
TOC is the yearly audited total operation costs
Data available includes the comparison between total operating costs (TOC) of September 2012 and
September 2013 (TOCSep2013<TOCSep2012 * k). In this case, the established condition was met in EdeNorte
and EdeEste, but not in EdeSur:
*   EdeNorte:    3,621 MCOP < 3,756 MCOP
*   EdeSur:      3,832 MCOP > 3,503 MCOP
*   EdeEste:     2,809 MCOP < 3,528 MCOP
3.3 Efficiency
The benefits selected for the economic analysis at appraisal included: i) reduction in system technical
losses, ii) reduction in theft (through both illegal and unmetered connections, and by not paying bills)
and, iii) increased hours of power availability.
At appraisal the ERR was estimated in 73 percent with a NPV of US$428 Million (discounted at 10
percent and based on a 10 year stream of benefits).
At closing, the NPV is estimated in US$110.95 Million with a corresponding ERR of 63 percent when
considered the same benefits (discounted at 10 percent and based on a 10 year stream of benefits).
It is important to note that despite the fact that scope of the intervention lowered in terms of the
number of circuits, the actual hardware (equipment, materials) was ultimately aligned to the original
scope.
Annex 3 describes in more detail the assumptions and results of the economic analysis.
25


﻿3.4 Justification of Overall Outcome / Rating
The overall outcome rating proposed is moderately satisfactory.
The original objectives of the Project today reflect a high overall relevance considering that the design
reflected a proper diagnosis of a development priority that continues to be critical.
The development objectives were partially achieved mainly due to i) the natural transformation of
distribution networks in the three different EDEs that occurs with time (in terms of changes in
population density and energy demand) and the reclassification of circuits and circuits' areas which
required a redefinition of the scope of the Project (in terms of the number of circuits intervened), ii) the
assumption at entry that the Project would have a significant -or at least noticeable- impact on
indicators at the level of EDEs (and not only specifically on the circuits rehabilitated).
These aspects can be regarded as moderate shortcomings considering that the CRI at the level of circuits
rehabilitated surpassed the targets established and the population (or beneficiaries) reached was higher
than originally expected. Also, the increase of consumer satisfaction at the level of circuits was
remarkable, proving that the interventions were extremely successful.
The ASAI targets were met at the level of EDEs, but partially met in the circuits rehabilitated. This is in
part explained by the fact that in some cases the Project only supported the rehabilitation of a few
polygons within circuits, and not the whole circuits. On the other hand, the EDEs did not have in place
the number of meters and reporting system necessary to perform reliable measurements in the areas of
intervened circuits.
The data for indicators in consumer satisfaction at the level of EDEs is still pending as the survey has to
be launched within reasonable period of time after the completion of rehabilitation works and
community outreach efforts to avoid the impact of the perception during and soon after the
construction works (6 months to a year).
3.5 Overarching Themes, Other Outcomes and Impacts
i)   Poverty Impacts, Gender Aspects, and Social Development
The community outreach component was extremely effective not only in enhancing customer
understanding of the service (cost of service, reliability, demand side management) and directly
contributing to increase billing collection in the areas intervened by the Project, but also in delivering
other co-benefits or unintended effects.
First, the rehabilitation of circuits brought public lighting to the areas intervened which had an impact
on citizen safety and on the reduction of crime. Second, the areas illuminated created an interest for
additional improvements such as the organization of street sport and cultural activities and the setting
26


﻿of green areas or parks. Third, small business and households experienced less accidents associated with
the use of electrical installations (less fires and explosions). Fourth, the energy bill of the customers in
the intervened circuits was substantially reduced due the increase in the number of hours of service (24
hours), and the elimination in the use of liquefied petroleum gas (LPG) and additional electricity to
charge the inverter-battery systems at the household and commercial levels. The impact of this
Component on Community outreach was outstanding. Proposal for this project was prepared with focus
on this Component and won a prize in Shared Prosperity Days).
Most importantly, the rehabilitation of circuits focused primarily on areas with predominance of lower
income communities, thereby enhancing their overall electricity access and quality of service. The
Project has improved the standard living conditions of poor urban communities as well as the capacity of
small businesses to improve their income and efficiency through extended access to the electricity
service and improved reliability.
ii)  Institutional Change / Strengthening
Although the Bank intervention ultimately only supported the rehabilitation of a small percent of the
total number of circuits, the model established -which also promoted better management at the level
of EDEs and a more dynamic and informed consumer participation- was effective and replicated in the
rehabilitation of all other circuits not directly supported by the Bank. Indeed, the Project brought to the
three EDEs the first challenge in massive rehabilitation and has left a strong managerial and technical
system capable of following up with new stages in the rehabilitation of circuits.
Ultimately, the improvements in governance at the level of CDEEE and EDEs for managing technical and
commercial losses can be directly attributed to the Project. The Project contributed to the organizational
and managerial strengthening of EDEs (including the creation of new units to improve data management
and reporting and manage the community outreach activities), to increased consumer awareness
regarding the service and to the creation of a strong system of social workers and community leaders.
One of the issues however that have to be improved in the short term is the formalization of the
employment status of social and community workers, who do not have a permanent staff status or earn
benefits.
iii)  Other Unintended Outcomes and Impacts
None
iv)  Summary of Findings of Beneficiary Survey and/or Stakeholder Workshops
No beneficiary survey or stakeholder workshop has been launched so far.
27


﻿SECTION 4. ASSESSMENT OF RISK TO DEVELOPMENT OUTCOME
4.1 Risk to Development Outcome
Rating can be considerated Moderate
The sustainability of development outcomes in the long term depends on several factors, including the
following:
*  Appropriate operation and maintenance of distribution lines to maintain technical losses at a
minimum level
*  The continuous implementation of the social management and commercial strategies to
maintain a high levels of billing collection (for example, through the activities conducted by the
Comites de Seguimiento y Enlance, COSEs)
*  Continuous strengthening of the M&E framework
*   Increased capacity in the execution of implementation, disbursement and procurement plans
and the implementation of turn-key projects to continue with rehabilitations and extensions of
the network.
The project has successfully introduced these elements and has acquired a high level of capacity and
experience in the implementation of technical, social, procurement and fiduciary activities. The
organizational structure created to manage the Project has continuously evolved and is considered
strong (the structure includes today new units attending the commercial, social and environmental
aspects of rehabilitation and service provision; all these activities are well aligned and integrated). The
model introduced under the Project has already been replicated in the rehabilitation of circuits not
directly supported by the Project. Indeed, the Project brought to the three EDEs the first challenge in
massive rehabilitation and has left a strong managerial and technical system capable of following up
with new stages in the rehabilitation of circuits.
The operation is not facing any major uncertainties over its expected remaining useful life. The risks that
the long-term flow of benefits in the circuits rehabilitated (lower commercial and technical losses and
maintained reliability and quality of service) will not be realized is low.
The flow of benefits however could be affected by increased constraints on the financial sustainability
front (which could in turn affect the flow of resources to maintenance and community outreach).
Indeed, the risk that GODR breaks the social compacts and fails to supply 24-hour electricity even with
high repayment due to cash flow problems is plausible.
However, the Government and CDEEE are taking steps in the right direction. As described before, the
current National Development Strategy (END or Vision 2030) -approved by Congress in March 2012-
explicitly prioritizes the development of a reliable, efficient and environmentally sustainable energy
sector under its Pillar No. 3 (Productive Development) with two specific objectives: i) ensure a reliable
supply of electricity at competitive prices as well as financial and environmental sustainability, and ii)
ensure a reliable, diversified supply of fuels in a competitive and environmentally sustainable manner. In
28


﻿the medium term, the END specifically focuses on reducing electricity sector losses and cutting
generation costs by adding publicly owned coal generation capacity and negotiating new capacity
additions with existing private generators, among other.
The risk that the development outcome will not be maintained is therefore considered moderate.
29


﻿SECTION 5. ASSESSMENT OF BANK AND BORROWER PERFORMANCE
5.1 Bank Performance
The rating of the overall Bank performance can be considered moderately satisfactory.
i)   Quality at Entry
In general terms, the operation was well designed and appraised. Indeed, the team included the key
components necessary to increase the Cash Recovery Index (CRI) and improve the quality of service in
the areas where circuits (feeders) were rehabilitated. The Project's design as well as the preparation and
appraisal were also aligned to the Bank's fiduciary role.
However, the PDOs were not appropriate and consistent with the scope of the intervention. This means
that even with the rehabilitation of 60 circuits (as offered at entry), it was unlikely that the Project could
have had an impact on the overall CRI at the level of distribution companies. In addition, and as
explained before, the CRI at the level of EDEs was affected by factors which were not under the control
of the proposed intervention (e.g.; absorption of PRA areas, changes in the number of registered
customers, total number of customers billed, etc.). It was also unlikely that an intervention only
affecting a small percent of the total number of feeders could have had an impact on the overall
consumer satisfaction at the level of EDEs.
During preparation and appraisal the team missed to assess the possibility that the scope of the Project
-in terms of the number of circuits- could change with time for the reasons explained before and that
the Project's impact could be limited only to the circuits rehabilitated under the operation (and not
necessarily affect the overall distribution network and EDEs). The risk assessment and Results
Framework proposed at entry did not reflect these considerations.
However, it is important to note that the Project has indeed been extremely successful in the areas
where the circuits were rehabilitated. Also, the Project has had an impact on the overall management
and implementation of circuit rehabilitation at the level of EDEs, and the concept and practices
introduced -especially the innovative community outreach component- have been further replicated
which is expected to have  a more generalized impact over time. In particular, the Project has
contributed to prepare the companies for the next stage, which includes automation and the
introduction of smart metering.
The Bank's performance in ensuring quality at entry can be considered moderately unsatisfactory.
ii)  Quality of Bank Supervision
As described before, during implementation the World Bank team took several actions to address the
emerging challenges: i) strong and closed supervision focused on the continuous revision of
implementation, disbursement and procurement plans, ii) continuous revision and strengthening of
30


﻿operational manual (for example, to update organizational structures and to include standardized
formats for performance reporting), iii) strong support to the counterpart during bidding processes,
including revisions of the evaluation of "pre-qualified" firms as well as recommendations to ensure
competition in the process, iv) continuous review of results framework to adjust scope, define baseline
values and confirm target values of some of the proposed indicators due to circuit network
transformations over time; among other. The team made a special effort to continuously adjust to
contextual changes: i) managerial and organizational restructuring of EDEs, ii) managerial changes in the
executing agency, iii) continuous changes in personnel responsible for the operation at the level of EDEs.
In addition, considering that baseline and target values in some of the indicators were not in place or
trusted at entry, almost all of the M&E had to be defined in the first year of Project supervision.
In particular, the experience with similar Bank operations over time has demonstrated the difficulty in
defining quantitative baselines in the performance indicators of underperforming distribution
companies. It is now widely recognized that it is critical to set targets at the outset and much less
important -and feasible- to define baselines from the start, especially in cases were the quality of data is
poor (as it was the case in the DR). During the supervision, the team supported all efforts necessary to
measure baselines (despite the challenges of the context where frequent changes were registered
including the redefinition of circuit categories and geography), and of course achieve targets.
The changes in the geography of circuits described before were difficult to predict during supervision, as
these modifications were introduced gradually in a relatively short period of time between 2011 and
2013. During supervision, information on the changes in the geography of circuits was not clear until
after the signing of EPC contracts and beginning of rehabilitation works. The rehabilitation of circuits
also took place very gradually during the period 2011-2013. In reality, the final number of rehabilitated
circuits has been a "moving target".
In addition, during Project implementation there were 3 different Government administrations which
led to a stop-and-go situation as well as multiple delays. This meant that most of the rehabilitation
works took place in the last 18 months of Project implementation.
During supervision the team considered a restructuring of PDO and project outcome indicators (to
reflect increase in CRI only at the level of rehabilitated circuits), but this action would have entailed
additional and long delays (due to the requirement of Congress approval) at a time when disbursements
were actually starting to flow. Indeed, it is remarkable that the Project was able to disburse most of the
resources in the last 18 months of implementation.
The Bank's performance in ensuring quality at supervision can be considered moderately satisfactory.
5.2 Borrower Performance
The rating of the overall Borrower performance can be considered moderately satisfactory.
31


﻿i)   Government Performance
During loan preparation, the Government and the implementing agencies demonstrated strong
commitment and ownership by actively participating in the design of the project, including technical
background information and discussion on project formulation. Nevertheless, the project had a slow
start, mainly due to delays in Congress approval of the lending operation as well as in achieving
effectiveness.
Borrower commitment and ownership varied over the course of implementation, reflecting changes in
administration. The project slowed during a period of political transition. After considering the project's
relevance, the new administration showed commitment to the project's PDO and it became at the end
more supportive. The new administration proved to be an advocate for improved corporate governance
of state-owned utilities and for increased sector efficiency.
ii)  Performance of Implementing Agencies
The implementing agency (CDEEE) demonstrated strong commitment in the fulfilling of PDOs and
provided adequate internal staff and resources to ensure implementation success despite the difficult
enabling environment and changes outside of its direct control. CDEEE complied with all Bank
covenants, produced regular progress reports and discharged its fiduciary duties in a highly satisfactory
manner.
CDEEE played an important interagency coordination and project management role. The major
shortcoming of CDEEE during project implementation was the slow pace of procurement processing
which in part was due to external factors and the time needed to finalize the detailed engineering of the
circuits to be rehabilitated. Despite the numerous challenges and shortcomings, the PlU at CDEEE
managed to conclude the project in a satisfactory manner and achieve the targeted values in most of
the outcome and output indicators.
The overall Borrower performance rating is deemed moderately satisfactory.
32


﻿SECTION 6. LESSONS LEARNED
The lessons learned in the design and implementation of the Project are described below.
Procurement and Contract Design
i)     The PIU at CDEEE learned that is necessary to reduce the scope of bidding processes (or to
set a cap on the maximum number of areas that a single company can win) to increase the
number of participating contractors and reduce the risk of no delivery; without this
provision very large companies tend to win the bids increasing the Project's vulnerability to
delays and low quality of service.
ii)    The experience of the PIU is that the contract design needs to be adjusted to include
penalizations against delayed delivery and/or low quality of service during the service period
as opposed to the very end, when nothing can be done to steer the planned works back on
track. For example, in the "supply and installation" contract, payments are delivered in 80
percent against disembarked material and 20 percent against installation. The PIU has
suggested to make adjustments so that the highest proportion of payments are delivered
against actual installations.
Project Design
i)     One important lesson learned is that the basic and design engineering have to be conducted
when the resources are available to pay for the rehabilitation works, considering that long
delays in the Project (including in reaching effectiveness and in the launching of bidding
process) render the engineering work outdated as the system changes with demand growth
and other modifications. In the case of the Project, the engineering conducted in 2008 was
not adequate when the actual works started in 2011.
Design of Results Framework
i)     The choice of CRI as an indicator that reflects progress in the financial sustainability of
distribution companies was not necessarily appropriate in the context of the power sector in
the DR.'7 Indeed, EDEs financial sustainability is affected by a number of other variables
including the debt service associated with the loans issued to purchase fuel oil and direct
cash transfers from the Government to cover this debt. Thus, the CRI -as it is defined in the
Project- maybe positive despite the lack of financial sustainability at the level of EDEs.
1 The CRI formula is: (energy billed by distribution companies/energy purchased by distribution companies)
multiplied by (electricity bills paid by consumers)/(total electricity billing issued to consumers)
33


﻿In theory, the CRI should reflect the extent to which power purchased is billed and bills are
paid, and provide a good measure of improvements in technical and commercial losses.
However, when companies do not bill 100 percent of their customers or when cash inputs
other than bills paid are included (for example, reconnection fees or fines) as has happened
with the three EDEs, the result is distorted.
As an intermediate outcome the Results Framework proposed the monitoring of the
evolution of total operating costs (TOC). 8 Together with the CRI this indicator contributes to
better reflect improvements in the managerial performance and financial sustainability of
EDEs, albeit only partially.
Monitoring and Evaluation
i)     The main lessons learned in M&E is the need to impose third audit access of EDEs' primary
data as condition for concessionary support to ensure the quality of M&E results. Today,
external auditors have to rely on data supplied by EDEs, but there is concern regarding the
quality and reliability of this data.
Circuit Rehabilitation Works and Consumer Satisfaction
i)     The PlU has learned that it is important to include the installation of meters and other
accessories (commercial infrastructure) in the works associated with the rehabilitation of
circuits to avoid delays in service provision and the regularization of billing. These delays
also affect consumer's perception of the quality of service and impact the baseline
information in surveys launched soon after the meters are installed.
Community Outreach
i)     The design of the social component, which included a strong Social Management Plan that
introduced a seven step process as a strategy for community outreach was extremely
successful in both bringing the community on board and substantially improving the
revenue collection of the utilities as well as quality of service to consumers. The social
activities also derived in multiple benefits and co-benefits, as described before.
ii)    The PlU has learned that it is critical to formalize the employment status of social and
community workers in order to maintain stability in the community outreach activities.
Today, most social and community employees work under temporal employment status and
do not earn benefits.
18 The Project called for TOCs increasing less than the rate of supply expansion and inflation.
34


﻿SECTION 7. COMMENTS ON ISSUES RAISED BY BORROWER / IMPLEMENTING AGENCIES /
PARTNERS
Positive Aspects
The CDEEE (PIU) and EDEs believe that the DR Distribution Rehabilitation Project marked the beginning
of a new vision for the Electricity Sector authorities to confront serious energy losses which have
affected for many years the electricity distribution sector.
The design and conceptualization of the project were appropriate, especially with regards to the model
and methodological process necessary to reach consumers and build a constructive and sustainable
relationship between the supply and demand. The project had a high degree of success in improving
performance indicators at the level of rehabilitated circuits. At this level, the project successfully
implemented the actions necessary to gradually achieve financial recovery of EDEs and improve the
quality of service to users.
Considering that for many years the power distribution sector of the country has lacked consistent
investment and managerial actions focused on measurable results, the Project brought improved
practices in Project execution as well as improved supervision/monitoring mechanisms and streamlined
practices across the three EDEs.
Through implementation of component 2, the Community Outreach and Social Management Strategy,
which focused on building a bridge between service users and EDEs, has created an unprecedented
milestone in the history of the Dominican electricity sector, which has been highly valued by other
sectors of the country.
The Project strategy was accompanied by an extensive process of communication and training to service
users on both user rights and EDEs's responsibilities, which resulted in a high level of public awareness
and understanding of the electricity sector. When processes are performed on technically well designed
platforms, as was the strategy used in Community Outreach and Social Management Component
introduced for the implementation of the Project, the results are qualitatively superior.
The impact of the model and actions introduced have gone beyond the scope of the Project, since the
EDEs have replicated the experience learned in the rehabilitation of other circuits, with its own
resources and financing from other multilateral institutions.
Negative Aspects
The lack of clear baseline values for the measurement of results as well as the uncertainty in the
detailed engineering and technical specifications, made the execution of the Project challenging and
impacted efficiency of the processes.
35


﻿General Recommendations
Improve the accuracy of baseline information in future projects and the definition of specific indicators
for sub-projects to be impacted in order to meet the proposed goals and targets.
Consistency is essential in investment support to this type of projects; our observation through the years
is that the lack of continuity in investments creates even greater problems and distortions in the
electricity sector.
36


﻿Annex 1. Project Costs and Financing
(a) Project Cost by Component (in US$ Million)
Appraisal Estimate  Actual/Latest Estimate
Newrscomponents              (U$ilo)(Smlin                      Percentage of Appraisal
(US$million)        (US$million)
1. Rehabilitation of Distribution        37.0              38.38              103.73%
Networks
2. Outreach to Consumer                   3.0               1.88              62.67%
Communities
3. Technical Assistance                   2.0               1.09              54.50%
Total Project Costs     42.0               41.35              98.45%
Front-end fee                            ---               0.105
Total Financing Required      42.0              41.45              98.70%
(b) Financing
Appraisal       Revised     Actual/Latest
Source of Funds          Estimate       Amount         Estimate    Percentage of
(USD                          (USD        Appraisal
millions)                     millions)
Borrower                            10.50           --.--         60.28        574.10%
International Bank for Reconstruction and  42.00                  42.00        98.70-%
Development
Other Financiers                    99.60           --.--          70          70.28%
Total  152.10         --.--          172.28       113.27%
37


﻿Annex 2. Outputs by Component
The table below presents the project's outputs by the closing date
Objective/Output         Indicator           Baseline         Target *     Actual (% accomplished)
Increase the Cash    Increase the CRI in each  EdeNorte: 56%  EdeNorte: 71%  Actual:
Recovery Index CRI of  EDE as a Whole      EdeSur: 58%      EdeSur: 75%      EdeNorte: 62%
the three distribution                     EdeEste: 62%     EdeEste: 75%     EdeSur: 67%
companies (EDEs)                                                             EdeEste: 59%
% Accomplished:
EdeNorte 88%
Edesur 90%
EdeEste 79%
Average EDEs: 85%
Improve the quality of  ASAI: Average Service  EdeNorte: 56%  EdeNorte: 75%  Actual:
electricity service  Availability Index    EdeSur: 58%      EdeSur: 75%      EdeNorte: 74.2%
(Indice de            EdeEste: 62%     EdeEste: 75%     EdeSur: 85.0%
Disponibilidad                                          EdeEste: 91.5%
Promedio del Servicio),
per circuit with project                                % Accomplished:
investment and in each                                  EdeNorte 99%
EDE as a whole                                          Edesur 113%
EdeEste 122%
Average EDEs: 111%
Increase percentage of  EdeNorte: 62%  EdeNorte: 75%    EdeNorte: TBD
people satisfied with  EdeSur: 62%     EdeSur: 75%      EdeSur: TBD
electricity service by  EdeEste: 62%   EdeEste: 75%     EdeEste: TBD
:distribution companies
Intermediate Outcome Indicators
Rehabilitation of     EdeNorte: 0      EdeNorte: 37    Actual:
selected circuits     EdeSur: 0        EdeSur:         EdeNorte: 4
EdeEste: 0       EdeEste: 18      EdeSur: 4
EdeEste: 1
% Accomplished:
EdeNorte: 10.8%
EdeSur: 80.0%
EdeEste: 27.3%
Increase of CR by    EdeNorte: 9%-    EdeNorte: 84%    EdeNorte
circuit intervened    56%              37circuits       LVEG-103: 97%
37circuits       identified by code  [VEG-0S: 93%
identified by code  in PAD        VVAS-101: 101%
in PAD                            COTU-102: 94%
EdeSur: 84%      SALC-102TENA: 94%
EdeSur: 25%-65%   S circuits
E circuits       identified by code  EdeSur
38


﻿Objective/Output         Indicator           Baseline         Target *      Actual (% accomplished)
identified by code  in PAD        CUAR102: 102.8%
in PAD                            COHE103: N.A.
KDIE102: N.A.
EdeEste: 28%-    EdeEste: 84%     BAY0102: 96.8%
76%              18circuits
18circuits       identified by code  EdeEste: 84%
identified by code  in PAD        LM38-CO5: 97%
in PAD                            LM38-C01: 93%
LM38-CO2: 101%
CAPO-CO2: 94%
% Accomplished:
On Average:
EdeNorte: 128%
EdeSur: 119%
EdeEste: 114%
EdeNorte: 50-    EdeNorte: 87.5%  EdeNorte:
87%              37circuits       LVEG-103: --
37circuits       identified by code  LVEG-105:
identified by code  in PAD        VVAS-101:
in PAD                            COTU-102:
EdeSur: 87.5%    SALC-102TENA: --
EdeSur: 62%      5 circuits
5 circuits       identified by code  EdeSur:
identified by code  in PAD        CUAR102: 100.0%
Increase averageinPDCH13970
availability index ASAl  nPDCH13                                  70
avalablit inex SAIEdeEste: 87.5%               KD1E102: 98.0%
EdeEste: 50%-    18circuits       BAY0102: 68.0%
75%              identified by code
38circuits       in PAD           EdeEste:
identified by code                LM38-Cn5:t74%
in PAD                            LM38-CO: 99%
LM38-C02: 74%
CAPO-C02: 64%
EcIeNorte: --TOCi < TOCj-,xk
EdeSu r: --                       TOCep....<TOCSeP2du2xK
EdeEste: --
EdeEste:
3,621 MCOP < 3,756
M COP
Control of operating
costs of the EDEs                                       EdeSur:
3,832 MCOP > 3,503
M COP
EdeEste:
2,809 MCOP < 3,528
COUP
39


﻿Annex 3. Economic and Financial Analysis
Cost Benefit Analysis
The economic analysis at closing considers a total cost of US$ 42 Million. The benefits are the following:
i) reduction in commercial and technical losses, ii) increase in the availability of electricity service to
consumers (hours per day), which displaces the use of alternative sources of electricity (e.g.; batteries,
other fuels, etc.). The results are summarized in the table below:
Reduction in
Technical Losses  Increase in Power
(GWh)         Availability (Gwh)   ERR       NPV (US$ million)
EdeNorte           13.7              17.0            59.7%          $34.45
EdeSur             41.4              17.1            84.6%          $56.42
EdeEste            27.6               9.8           41.5%           $20.08
Total              82.8              43.8            62.8%         $110.95
Sensitivity Analysis
NPV (US$
Benefits From                        ERR       million)
Reduction in Technical Losses                              29.0%         $33.7
Reduction in Technical Losses and Increase In Power Availability  62.8%  $110.9
Key Assumptions:
> Discount rate: 10 percent
> Energy Price: Purchase Price (applied to EDEs)
> Increase in energy consumption: At appraisal it was assumed that the overall energy
consumption in the rehabilitated circuits would increase in 10 percent due to the increase in the
number of hours available to consumers. The analysis at closing is considering the same
conservative assumption (although in some circuits the increase in consumption has reached 25
percent).
> The costs of alternative uses of energy (batteries, other fuels) are taken as twice the cost of
electricity to consumers. This is the same assumption considered at appraisal.
40


﻿Annex 4. Bank Lending and Implementation Support/Supervision Processes
(a) Task Team members
Names                             Title                    Unit       Responsibility/
Specialty
Lucio Monari               Task Team Leader                          LCSEG
[David Reinstein           Sr. Energy Specialist                     LCSEG
Maritza A. Rodriguez       Financial Mgmt Specialist                 LCSFM
Jayme Porto-Carreiro       Energy Specialist                       Consultant
Stephen Ettinger           Economist                               Consultant
Vladimir Jadrijevic        Power Engineer                          Consultant
Catherine Abreu            Procurement Analyst                       LCSPT
[Pedro Antmann             Power Engineer                          Consultant
[Elena Correa              Sr. Social Dev. Specialist                 SDV
Alejandro Deeb             Environmental Specialist                Consultant
[Fabiola Altimari          Counsel                                   LEGLA
Mariana Montiel            Sr. Counsel                               LEGLA
Miguel-Santiago da Silva   Finance Officer                           LOAFC
Oliveira
Alma Domenech              Program Assistant                         LCSEG
Robert Taylor              Peer Reviewer                             EASTE
Malcolm Cosgrove-Davies    Peer Reviewer                             AFTEG
iSarah Keener              Senior Social Development Specialist    LCSSO
Alonso Zarzar Casis        Sr Social Scientist                    LCSSO
Zoila Catherine Abreu Rojas  Procurement Specialist              LCSPT
Fabiola Altimari Montiel  Senior Counsel                          LEGLE
David Reinstein            Senior Oil and Gas Specialist, TTL     SEGOM
Pedro Antmann              Senior Energy                          SEGEN
Specialist
Maritza A. Rodriguez De    Sr Financial Management Specialist     LCSFM
Pichardo
Janina Andrea Franco       Energy Specialist                      LCSEG
Salazar
Sergio Augusto Gonzalez    Senior Energy Specialist               LCSEG
Coltrinari
Frederic Verdol            Power Engineer                         LCSEG
[Davide Zucchini           E T Consultant                          LCSPS
Andrea Maria Castro Astudillo  Program Assistant                  LCSEG
Sandra Solano Couce        Consultant                             LCSEG
Juan Carlos Cardenas Valero  E T Consultant                       LCSEG
Vladimir T. Jadrijevic     Consultant                             LCSEG
Mary Louise Gifford        E T Consultant                         LCSEG
41


﻿Elena Correa               Consultant                                SDV
Alma Domenech              Senior Executive Assistant                 SEG
James Victor Pannett       Operations Officer                      LCSEG
[Laura Wendell Berman      Consultant                                LCSEG
Suzanne Casolaro          Consultant                                LCSHH
Jayme Porto-Carreiro      Energy Specialist                       Consultant
Alejandro Deeb             Environmental Specialist                  ECSAR
Stephen Ettinger           Economist                               Consultant
Gabriela Elizondo Azuela   Senior Energy Specialist                 SEGEN
(b) Staff Time and Cost
It is pull up by the system
42


﻿Annex 5. Beneficiary Survey Results
Not Available.
43


﻿Annex 6. Stakeholder Workshop Report and Results
Not available.
44


﻿Annex 7. Summary of Borrower's ICR and/or Comments on Draft ICR
Positive Aspects
The CDEEE (PIU) and EDEs believe that the DR Distribution Rehabilitation Project marked the beginning
of a new vision for the Electricity Sector authorities to confront serious energy losses which have
affected for many years the electricity distribution sector.
The design and conceptualization of the project were appropriate, especially with regards to the model
and methodological process necessary to reach consumers and build a constructive and sustainable
relationship between the supply and demand. The project had a high degree of success in improving
performance indicators at the level of rehabilitated circuits. At this level, the project successfully
implemented the actions necessary to gradually achieve financial recovery of EDEs and improve the
quality of service to users.
Considering that for many years the power distribution sector of the country has lacked consistent
investment and managerial actions focused on measurable results, the Project brought improved
practices in Project execution as well as improved supervision/monitoring mechanisms and streamlined
practices across the three EDEs .
Through implementation of component 2, the Community Outreach and Social Management Strategy,
which focused on building a bridge between service users and EDEs, has created an unprecedented
milestone in the history of the Dominican electricity sector, which has been highly valued by other
sectors of the country.
The Project strategy was accompanied by an extensive process of communication and training to service
users on both user rights and EDEs's responsibilities, which resulted in a high level of public awareness
and understanding of the electricity sector. When processes are performed on technically well designed
platforms, as was the strategy used in Community Outreach and Social Management Component
introduced for the implementation of the Project, the results are qualitatively superior.
The impact of the model and actions introduced have gone beyond the scope of the Project, since the
EDEs have replicated the experience learned in the rehabilitation of other circuits, with its own
resources and financing from other multilateral institutions
Negative Aspects
The lack of clear baseline values for the measurement of results as well as the uncertainty in the
detailed engineering and technical specifications, made the execution of the Project challenging and
impacted efficiency of the processes.
General Recommendations
Improve the accuracy of baseline information in future projects and the definition of specific indicators
for sub - projects to be impacted in order to meet the proposed goals and targets.
45


﻿Consistency is essential in investment support to this type of projects; our observation through the years
is that the lack of continuity in investments creates even greater problems and distortions in the
electricity sector.
46


﻿Annex 8. Comments of Cofinanciers and Other Partners/Stakeholders
Not available.
47


﻿Annex 9. List of Supporting Documents
ABC Consulting Group, Quantum and CNEEE. Informes Auditoria T6cnica del Proyecto de Rehabilitaci6n
de Redes de Distribuci6n de Electricidad
CDEEE. Informes de Avance Proyecto de Rehabilitaci6n de Redes de Distribuci6n de Electricidad
(Financiamiento BM/BID/OFID)
World Bank. Aide Memoire for the Project's Preparation and Supervision Missions
World Bank. Project Implementation Status Reports (ISRs)
World Bank, 2008. Project Appraisal Document on a Proposed Loan in the Amount of US$42 Million to
the Dominican Republic for an Electricity Distribution Rehabilitation Project.
IMF; 2013. Growth, Employment and Social Cohesion in the Dominican Republic, ILO Background Paper
World Bank; 2013. Patronage or reform? Political Economy of Policy Performance in the Dominican
Republic: Institutional and Governance Review, Washington DC
48


﻿7T W                      71°W                      7 W
DOMINICAN
ATLANTIC OCEAN                          REPUBLIC
20°N                                                                                   0  SELECTED CITIES AND TOWNS
e  PROVINCE CAPITALS
Moneo Cristi      Luperon
®  NATIONAL CAPITAL
älls PÖqQ MO  JE-bl"                                                       RIVERS
villevo             E~fSPAUlATRvES
Sk "s J1pUERTO PATA                                                     MAIN ROADS
RAJLROADS
PROVINCE BOUNDARIES
T". 4  SÁNCHEZ<-              -  INTERNATIONAL BOUNDARIES
"AMAn FrNnciAo                   ThNagua
H AI TI                        ven                      A  AN A
SDAJN  T                 TA GOmse                  SS5iI50  Onf O ul bjdru
P9(N                            7   L  AiV  E  G  A             5. F9° N
>MONTE LAO
sankar        aM~Son om                          Crilr  O  noM
{283          m)-  Yi,o    Mn      oygoe  H
ECra o l                               PlatPE A    MaAorvvEl Seibeo
corrorsoNnbao                                                                   IsUAlan
ded o c aI
~     taa        a   . VAl Vj
18NAeera          BARANA                                                                            18°NNT  LAÅ
Son        HERMANAS MIRABALU                    D
Ca9i beanSe
SSÄNCHEZ RAM REZ                       R
°"* 6. MONSENOR NCUE L
7, SAN JOSÉ DE OCOA
isla                 8. S AN CRIS TOBA L                               0   20    4 kioorws
Bea a 9. S ANTO DOMiNGO
0-, 02 UG0                                                     AJIkleACI
DOMIN  -00   e  ~ri
49.  AO20
7TPVJ WFnt 71°å70W 6°
49lc


