 IEG
                                                                                                Report Number: ICRR14820

                   ICR Review
                   Independent Evaluation Group




        1. Project Data:                                       Date Posted: 10/30/2015

               Country: Dominican Republic
             Project ID: P089866                                                 Appraisal                     Actual
          Project Name: Do Electricity                Project Costs (US$M):        Not Available:            Not Available:
                         Distribution                                          The ICR does not         The ICR does not
                         Rehabilitation Project                               provide information                    provide
                                                                            on Borrower financed            information on
                                                                                  activities. See         activities paid for
                                                                               section 2.d below.                     by the
                                                                                                          Government and
                                                                                                        the implementing
                                                                                                            agencies. See
                                                                                                         section 2.d below

  L/C Number:              L7560                       Loan/Credit (US$M):                         42                 41.35
      Sector Board:        Energy and Mining           Cofinancing (US$M):

           Cofinanciers:                               Board Approval Date :                                    05/20/2009
                                                              Closing Date:               12/03/2012            09/30/2013
          Sector(s):       Power (100%)
          Theme(s):        Infrastructure services for private sector development (100% - P)


Prepared by:               Reviewed by:            ICR Review                  Group:
                                                   Coordinator:
Richard L. Berney          Peter Nigel Freeman     Christopher David           IEGPS1
                                                   Nelson

2. Project Objectives and Components:

 a. Objectives:
 The Loan Document states that the objectives of the Project are: (i) to increase the Cash Recovery Index (CRI) of
the Borrower’s three Electricity Distribution Enterprises (EDEs), through the rehabilitation of distribution networks in
selected areas; and (ii) to improve the quality of electricity service in the Borrower’s territory. (Page 5)
The PAD uses the identical language (page 7)

b.Were the project objectives/key associated outcome targets revised during implementation?
No

 c. Components:
 1. Rehabilitation and upgrading of medium and low voltage distribution networks (Appraisal - US$37 million; Actual
US$38.4 million).
2. Outreach to communities (Appraisal US$3.0 million; Actual US$1.9 million).
3. Technical assistance and training (Appraisal US$2.0 million; Actual US$1.1 million).

The original project design also included parallel funding by IADB/OPEC for an additional 40 distribution networks.
The IADB/OPEC project was approved in 2009, about a years after the Bank project. In 2012 this target was reduced
from 40 to 22 distribution networks. The ICR states that the rehabilitation of these distribution networks is expected to
be completed by the end of 2014.
 d. Comments on Project Cost, Financing, Borrower Contribution, and Dates:
 Total Project Cost at Appraisal was US$152 million for the combined IBRD/IADB/OPEC project, of which IBRD’s
project components at Appraisal were to be US$42. The IBRD program was implemented independently from the
IADB/OPEC program. At the time the ICR was written, the program financed by IADB/OPEC had not yet been
completed.The ICR estimated the actual cost of the combined IBRD/IABD/OPEC programs to be US$172 million.
The ICR reported that the IBRD project cost US$41.2 million, but this amount is not the total project cost, since it did
not include the expenditures of the Government and the implementing agencies.

Financing and Borrower Contribution: In addition to the IBRD financing of US$42 million through a specific Investment
Loan, the Appraisal included parallel financing by IADB and OPEC of US$100 million. The GoDR was projected to
provide another US$10 million for the combined three investment programs, but the ICR did not provide information
on the Borrower's financing related to the IBRD project alone. At project closing, Bank funding was US$41.2 million;
US$0.8 million was cancelled. The ICR estimates that total IADB/OPEC financing will be US$70 million, and that the
Borrower would provide US$70 million for the combined IBRD/IADB/OPEC projects (which appears quite unlikely).
The ICR does not provide information on the Borrower's specific financial contribution to the IBRD project.

Dates: The project was approved on in May 2008, and was expected to become effective in December 2008,
Effectiveness was delayed by six months until June 2009. The project closed at the end of September, 2014 after a
nine month extension of the closing date.

3. Relevance of Objectives & Design:

 a. Relevance of Objectives:
In the electricity sector, the sector has historically struggled with the governance and performance of its main utility
CDEEE. The 2001 Electricity Law introduced a created a competitive sector structure, and a modern legal and
regulatory framework. However, the sector remained plagued by the problems that had undermined its financial
sustainability, including a tradition of illegal connections and non-payment of bills (less than 60 percent of all energy
provided was paid for through tariffs), an unwillingness on the part of the government to adjust tariffs to fully reflect
changes in fuel prices and the exchange rate, and inadequate fiscal resources to cover the resulting gap between
costs and revenues. In 2008, power was available for most consumers only eight hours a day and commercial losses
in the distribution segment were on the order of 30%.

The project’s objectives were highly relevant to the energy needs of the Dominican Republic, and remain so today.
They are relevant and fully consistent with the Country Assistance Strategy approved in 2005 and the CAS Progress
Report of July 2007, as well as the current and forthcoming Bank’s Country Partnership Strategy. Under its Pillar 2
(Promoting Shared Prosperity and Broad-Based Growth through Institutional and Productive Development) the Bank’s
FY14-FY17 CPS proposes to continue supporting the electricity sector with both the rehabilitation of transmission and
distribution infrastructure, and the implementation of an emergency recovery loan under the proposed Electricity
Sector Management Project. Relevance of the project objectives is judged as HIGH


 b. Relevance of Design:
The Project's design was robust in that its objectives and components focused on two of the most critical problems of
the distribution sector: (i) the lack of billing collection and cash recovery; and (ii) poor reliability of service and low
consumer satisfaction. At the time of project appraisal, the quality of service (i.e. the number of hours electricity was
available and the number of “brown outs” due to fluctuating voltage levels) was extremely poor. In addition, entire
neighborhoods were not paying for the electricity that they did receive. Utility workers were unable to fix meters or
attend maintenance works because of conflict with consumers. Investments in rehabilitation were short-lived because
communities would quickly vandalize meters, and did not pay their bills. To begin to resolve these problems, the
project supported “24 hours of light” program that the GoDR had initiated.

The design was clear, innovative, and focused. In addition to a straightforward investment program to upgrade service
on selected networks through a comprehensive rehabilitation program, the project designed and financed an
innovative community social coordination program the purpose of which was to establish trust between the consumers
and distribution companies. The program included campaigns of information and communication about the electricity
services, and the ultimate implementation of Social Agreements (Pactos Sociales) with communities to achieve higher
levels of payment in exchange for system rehabilitation that would substantially improve the quality of electricity
service (both less voltage fluctuation and significantly more hours of availability.

Although the quality of the project’s design was high, the associated Results Framework was flawed, as discussed in
Section 10, below. The overall relevance of the project design is therefore judged as SUBSTANTIAL.
4. Achievement of Objectives (Efficacy):

    The PDO of improving the quality of electricity service in the Borrower’s territory : Substantial

Outputs:
Rehabilitation of selected distribution networks:
The original target was for the Bank project to rehabilitate 20 distribution networks, with some 81 thousand customers.
At project closing, the Bank project had supported the rehabilitation of 13 distribution networks (only 65% of the
original target), but these distribution networks had 101 thousand connected customers, an increase of 24% over the
project’s original target.

Outcome:
Target Indicator 1: Increased hours/day availability of power, in the circuits with project investment, as measured by
the average service index (ASAI):
The baseline (starting) ASAIs for the 13 distribution networks included in the Project’s final investment program
ranged from 50% and 87%. The target ASAI was 87.5% for all circuits. The ASAI was over 98% in nine networks, but
averaged only 70% in the remaining four networks. Thus the project investments led to significant improvements in
the availability of electricity services, even though not all circuits reached the target level.

Target Indicator 2: Increase in consumers' perception of the quality of electricity services:
Shortly before loan effectiveness (10 months after Board approval), the baseline satisfaction levels was estimate to be
62% for all of the three EDEs. An ex-post satisfaction survey was not completed before the ICR was produced.
However, such a comparison would, in any event, be irrelevant for evaluating this efficacy issue. As pointed out in the
ICR, even with the rehabilitation of 60 circuits (as established at entry), it was unlikely that an intervention only
affecting a small percent of the total number of feeders could have had an impact on the overall consumer satisfaction
at the level of EDEs.

The ICR does provide some information on the level of satisfaction for those consumers associated with the
rehabilitated circuits. The EDEs did, however, report significant improvements for most of the intervened circuits. The
four networks rehabilitated in EdeNorte, showed increases in satisfaction level ranging from 414% to 455%. The four
networks rehabilitated in EdeSur, showed increases in satisfaction level ranging from 327% to 436%. The four
networks rehabilitated in EdeEste, showed increases in satisfaction level ranging from 200% to 633%. If these figures
are correct, the baseline levels for these circuits were far below the 63% average levels for the distribution companies
as whole. But with neither baseline levels nor initial improvement targets for these circuits, it is not possible to judge
how well the project performed on this target indicator. In evaluating this outcome, this review takes the view that
percentage improvements suggest that the benefits to the consumers were significant.

    The PDO of Increasing the Cash Recovery Index (CRI) of the Borrower’s three Electricity Distribution
     Enterprises (EDEs), (through the rehabilitation of their distribution systems ): Substantial

Target Indicator: Increase of CRI by circuit intervened
Outputs:
In addition to the rehabilitation of 14 networks described above, which provided additional billable power to local
communities, the project enhanced the design and supported the implementation of community outreach program,
based on a Social Management Plan (SMP). This SMP trained social workers to implement activities that improved
the general understanding of the electricity service at the community level, including, most importantly, the creation of
social compacts that provided incentives for the community members to work together, ensure payment and reduce
vandalism of meters. It also established politically balanced community monitoring committees that mitigate conflicts
over electricity via active community management teams. This enhanced participatory approaches established a new
level of trust between the consumers and distribution companies.

Outcome;
 Although the circuits selected for intervention at appraisal were not completely the same as those actually
implemented under the project, the original framework and targets were maintained. All the project supported circuits
achieved a CRI above the maximum original target established for the circuits selected at appraisal. On average, the
CRI of intervened circuits in EdeNorte, EdeSur and Edeste were, respectively, 28%, 19% and 14% above the original
targets. This is a significantly positive outcome.

It must be noted that remaining indicators have not been included here because they have no relevant for the
evaluation of the project’s expressed development objectives, in that they refer to the EDEs, rather than the specific
activities (and circuits) that were included in the project funding. More specifically, they are not consistent with the
causal chain supported by the projects (the project’s inputs and outputs) and the observed intermediate outcomes for
each objective. These irrelevant indicators are: Increase percentage of people satisfied with electricity service for
each ECE as a whole; Average service availability index (ASAl) in each EDE as a whole; Audited increase of Cash
Recovery Index (CRI) in each EDE as a whole: and Control of operating costs of the EDEs.


 5. Efficiency:
  Modest:
 The benefits selected for the economic analysis at appraisal included: i) reduction in system technical losses; ii)
reduction in theft (through both illegal and unmetered connections, and by not paying bills); and iii) increased hours of
power availability.

As with all rehabilitation projects, where there is no need to build the basic infrastructure, the economic rate of return
is normally quite high. If only the reduction in technical losses is taken into account, the ERR would be a healthy 29%.
Taking into account the value of increase in the hours that electricity is available, and using the same conservative
assumption of the Appraisal of a 10% increase in the overall energy consumption in these circuits although in some
circuits the increase in consumption has reached 25 percent), and a cost of alternative energy of twice the current
consumer tariff, the ICR states that the ERR about doubles to 63%. However, IEG has for many years questioned the
process of establishing the economic value of newly available energy using a hypothetical alternative cost, rather
than the price consumers actually pay, unless it can be demonstrated that consumers are actually shifting from high
cost electricity alternatives.

Although the ERR for rehabilitation was high, the implementation process was plagued with inefficiencies. There was
a delay of about two years between Board Approval and the beginning of network rehabilitation. During this time, the
distribution network circuits to be rehabilitated were substantially redrawn. This led to a need for redoing the detailed
design engineering, at a considerable cost.

 a. If available, enter the Economic Rate of Return (ERR)/Financial Rate of Return (FRR) at appraisal and the
    re-estimated value at evaluation :

                                 Rate Available?                          Point Value                        Coverage/Scope*

    Appraisal                        Yes                                      25%                                     63%

    ICR estimate                     Yes                                      29%                                     95%
                                        * Refers to percent of total project cost for which ERR/FRR was calculated.



 6. Outcome:
   The relevance of the project’s objectives was High, and its design was Substantial. The objectives were highly
relevant for both the Bank’s and the Government’s development objectives. The design of the investment components
was innovative, and focused, but the target indicators were poorly designed to measure the success in achieving the
project’s PDOs. The overall project Efficacy ratings is judged to be Substantial, reflecting the rating of both PDOs as
substantial. Efficiency is rated as Modest, because, although the economic return was high, as should be expected
for a rehabilitation project, implementation was delayed and more costly than needed.
  a. Outcome Rating: Moderately Satisfactory


 7. Rationale for Risk to Development Outcome Rating:
   The operation of the project’s physical components is not facing any major uncertainties over its expected
remaining useful life. The organizational structure created to manage the Project is considered strong. The risks that
the long-term flow of benefits in the circuits rehabilitated (lower commercial and technical losses and maintained
reliability and quality of service) will not be realized is low.

The sustainability of development outcomes in the long term depends on the appropriate operation and maintenance
of distribution lines to minimize technical losses and on the continuous implementation of the social management and
commercial strategies to maintain high levels of billing collection. The project has successfully introduced these
elements into its ongoing programs, and has acquired a high level of capacity and experience in the implementation of
technical, social, procurement and fiduciary activities. The EDEs are now fully qualified to undertake the extension of
distribution rehabilitation works following the same concept across the spectrum of fiduciary, safeguard and technical
activities. The model introduced under the Project has already been replicated in the rehabilitation of circuits not
directly supported by the Project.
However the EDE’s lack of financial sustainability could affect the level of resources available for maintenance and
community outreach. In light of this need for continued substantial of Government subsidies due to cash flow
problems, there is a significant risk that GoDR will be unable to maintain its financial commitment its program aimed at
supplying 24-hour electricity to all.

   a. Risk to Development Outcome Rating : Significant

 8. Assessment of Bank Performance:

 a. Quality at entry:
    The innovative community outreach programs essentially designed by Bank staff, were strongly supported, and
played an important role in project success. The principals in which the design of the physical investment program
were well established but the initial program was based primarily on guesswork, which proved to be far from
accurate. In addition, the appraisal failed to recognize that the Project's impact would be limited only to the circuits
rehabilitated under the operation and not the overall distribution network and EDEs. As a result the Results
Framework used inappropriate PDOs and output targets, as described in section 10 below.

The Appraisal identified most of the key project risks, including that the long-term sustainability of the project
requires that the EDEs be restored to a sound financial footing, reducing sharply their large debt overhang, and
being able to collect tariffs commensurate with costs. However, the Appraisal did not indicate how the project
would support the resolution of these issues. On the debt overhang problem, the project was to include a
consultancy on how to handle this issue, which, it was hoped would lead to a comprehensive plan for addressing
the problem. The ICR does not mention whether this consultancy was implemented.
The Appraisal did identify the risk that since elections were to be held a month after Board presentation, a new
administration might not support the project. The appraisal team considered the risk to be only moderate, because
it believed that there was a strong political consensus in for the project. However the Appraisal failed to consider
the possibility of delays in project effectiveness due to the new administration's unfamiliarity with the project, which
did occur, and the effect this could have on project implementation.


   Quality-at-Entry Rating:                        Moderately Satisfactory

 b. Quality of supervision:
    Close Bank supervision focused on the continuous revision of implementation, disbursement and procurement
plans in line with the changing network configurations. This included strong support during bidding processes,
including revisions of the evaluation of “pre-qualified” firms as well as recommendations to ensure competition in
the process.

During supervision the team considered a restructuring of PDO and project outcome indicators (to reflect increase
in CRI only at the level of rehabilitated circuits). The ICR claims that the Bank decided against this action because
changing the PDOs as defined in the legal agreements would have required Congressional approval, which would
have entailed further long delays at a time when disbursements were actually starting to flow. It is not clear,
however, why the Development Indicators were not revised, since this would not have involved the need for
Government approval.


   Quality of Supervision Rating :                 Moderately Satisfactory

   Overall Bank Performance Rating :               Moderately Satisfactory


 9. Assessment of Borrower Performance:

 a. Government Performance:
        During loan preparation, the Government and the implementing agencies demonstrated strong
commitment and ownership by actively participating in the design of the project, including technical background
information and discussion on project formulation. However, the project had a slow start in achieving
effectiveness, mainly due to delays in Congress approval of the lending operation. During the course of
implementation, borrower commitment and ownership varied with changes in administration, slowing during a
period of political transition. After fully grasping the project’s relevance, the new administration became more
supportive. As a result most of the rehabilitation works took place in the last 18 months of Project implementation.

   Government Performance Rating                               Moderately Satisfactory

 b. Implementing Agency Performance:
      The implementing agency (CDEEE) demonstrated strong commitment to the project’s objectives and
provided adequate internal staff and resources to ensure implementation success, despite the difficult enabling
environment and changes in Government administrations. It played an important interagency coordination and
project management role. CDEEE complied with all Bank covenants, produced regular progress reports.

   Implementing Agency Performance Rating :                    Satisfactory

   Overall Borrower Performance Rating :                       Moderately Satisfactory



10. M&E Design, Implementation, & Utilization:

 a. M&E Design:
   Although the quality of the project’s design was high, the associated Results Framework was poorly designed in
terms of its usefulness in tracking and evaluating benefits associated with project that the Bank financed. Instead, all
three PDO indicators focused on the improvements in the total performance of the EDEs, rather than the performance
of the networks that were rehabilitated. These were: (1) Increase percentage of people satisfied with electricity
service by EDEs; (2) Average service availability index (ASAI) in each EDE as a whole; and (3) increase of Cash
Recovery Index (CRI) in each EDE. The performance of the EDEs was clearly outside the scope of the project. There
is no causal chain from the project inputs to the total performance of the EDEs since this outcome would be a function
of the combined investment programs supported, in parallel, by IBRD, OPEC, IADB and GoDR, as well as the
Government’s electricity pricing policy.

Two of the Intermediate Outcome Indicators (IOIs) partially resolved this problem, in that their target indicators
focused primarily on the circuits that the project rehabilitated. However, the other two were poorly specified. One was
based on the number of network circuits, which was not useful for judging project output, since individual networks
were of greatly varying size. A more appropriate target would have been the number of consumers affected by the
rehabilitation. This would also have allowed for a much more meaningful comparison with the final outcome when the
number and configuration of the rehabilitated networks was substantially modified. The other was designed to
measure achievements in controlling total operating costs of the EDEs, which the ICR claims could be used to “reflect
improvements in the managerial performance and financial sustainability of EDEs, albeit only partially.” The problem
with this indicator is that, in addition to attempting to measure the performance at the level of the EDE, when the
project covered only a small percentage of the operation of the EDE, it was unrelated to the project’s development
objectives.

The Appraisal called for the IBRD to finance the rehabilitation of only 20 of the 60 networks to be rehabilitated, with
the remaining 40 to be financed by IADB and OPEC. Improvement in performance at the level of the EDE was,
therefore, going to depend to a large extent on the success of the projects financed by these other two agencies, and
it would be impossible to disaggregate these benefits and allocate them among the three financing agencies. While
the increase in the CRI and the ASAI at the network circuit level was included as intermediate output indicators, but no
method was provided to aggregate these numbers into a meaningful whole.

The final Development Output Indicator, control of operating costs at the EDE level was an add-on that was not
relevant to the project's reported development objectives. It may have helped the Bank team to focus on this issue
during supervision missions, but it was not included in the project’s financial covenants and was not supported by any
of the project’s investment component

 b. M&E Implementation:
   The Bank closely monitored progress under the Project through Bank supervision missions. The PIU at CDEEE
and UERS conducted effective overall M&E of the activities targeted under the Project, collecting data needed from
the three EDEs and other parties tasked with the collection and reporting of specific performance indicators (third
party auditors and surveyors).

During implementation most of the indicators in the Results Framework had to be adjusted either in scope or in
baseline and target values. Baseline data for the percentage of people satisfied with the service was assessed
through a Gallup survey just prior to the start of the rehabilitation works (2011) in some of the circuits selected for
intervention.

 c. M&E Utilization:
     EDEs have implemented their own satisfaction surveys for the circuits targeted under the Project, and a Gallup
survey will be launched to assess final progress after the completion of rehabilitation works (expected in early 2014).
Presumably these surveys will provide additional guidance for improving the outcomes of future rehabilitation
programs.

M&E Quality Rating: Negligible




11. Other Issues

 a. Safeguards:
The environmental safeguard (OP/BP 4.01) was triggered and an environmental assessment was carried out. The
ICR states that during implementation, the implementing agencies complied fully with the requirements established in
the Bank’s policies and procedural requirements associated with, social and environmental safeguards.

 b. Fiduciary Compliance:
The ICR states that the implementing agencies complied fully with the requirements established in the Bank’s policies
and procedural requirements associated with procurement, financial management and disbursement. However, there
was no requirement for independent financial audits of the three EDEs. The project auditors had to accept the data
provided by the EDEs, since they had no authority to audit the EDE’s books. While it was not mentioned in the ICR,
the project’s last Task Manager explained that an audit of all the EDEs was undertaken in the third year of project
implementation. Although the Audit results had many exceptions, it was accepted.

 c. Unintended Impacts (positive or negative):
The Government eliminated a subsidy program that was initially designed to support the cost of electricity for low
income families, but had greatly distorted demand by allowing commercial users to take part (the RBA program).

The community social coordination program demonstrated an effective way to gain financial acceptance of distribution
rehabilitation, and is being duplicated in several countries in Latin American and Central European countries.

d. Other:
None


12. Ratings:                               ICR                   IEG Review                    Reason for
                                                                                        Disagreement/Comments
                     Outcome: Moderately                    Moderately
                              Satisfactory                  Satisfactory
          Risk to Development Moderate                      Significant           The continued lack of financial viability
                     Outcome:                                                     of the EDEs puts the long term outcome
                                                                                  at risk.
           Bank Performance: Moderately                     Moderately
                               Satisfactory                 Satisfactory
       Borrower Performance : Moderately                    Moderately
                               Satisfactory                 Satisfactory
               Quality of ICR:                              Satisfactory

NOTES:
- When insufficient information is provided by the Bank
  for IEG to arrive at a clear rating, IEG will downgrade
  the relevant ratings as warranted beginning July 1,
  2006.
- The "Reason for Disagreement/Comments" column
  could cross-reference other sections of the ICR
  Review, as appropriate.
13. Lessons:

    Detained design engineering for the rehabilitation of electricity distribution networks should be conducted close
     to the time that the resources become available to pay for the rehabilitation works. If there are long delays,
     changes in the pattern of demand can make the original engineering work outdated, and require redoing of the
     process. However, the establishment of broad parameters, such as the number of consumers on each circuit,
     should be undertaken before appraisal, at least on a broad stroke basis, so that surprises leading to a doubling
     of the number of connections in the average circuit can be avoided.

    The financial covenants should include the condition that external auditors have automatic access to the
     primary data of the implementing agencies, rather than, as in this case having to rely on data supplied by
     implementing agencies (the EDEs).

    A Community Outreach and Social Management Strategy that focuses on building a bridge between the
     service users and the distribution companies, is extremely import for bringing the community on board and
     substantially improving quality of service and revenue collection.

14. Assessment Recommended?                  Yes      No




15. Comments on Quality of ICR:

The ICR provides an excellent summary of the problems of the Dominican Republic’s electricity distribution system at
the time of the appraisal, problems which the project was focused on addressing. However, there are a number of
important shortcomings. It could have used a more focused approach on the project issues, and avoided discussion of
electricity generation and problems, as well pricing structures problems, and the sector’s overall financial weakness,
none of which were relevant to the project design or objectives.

The ICR closely followed the approved format, and answered all the standard questions for these documents. But it
failed to provide significant insight into the project’s problem areas. The ICR acknowledges the lack of a relationship
between the CRIs and ASAIs at the circuit level and at the level of the individual EDEs. However, it then fails to
recognize that without these causal relationships, indicators designed to reflect outcomes at the EDE level had no
relevance for the evaluation of the project’s outcomes (all of which are achieved at the level of the individual circuits
rehabilitated under the Bank financed project). Instead of rejecting these indicators out of hand, it spends
considerable time and effort measuring them.

Several key pieces of information are missing from the ICR, including the Disbursement Table and the Project Cost at
Appraisal and at Project Completion (the Actual Cost). Instead of this information, the Project Financing data (Annex
1b) reports the combined financing for the Bank, IADB and OPEC projects, Since it does not provide information on
the Government contribution to the project costs,

 It also states that the GoDR’s contribution increased from US$10.5 million for the combined projects to US$ 60
dollars, which is highly unlikely. The method used to weight the results of the individual ERRs of the 13 network
circuits financed under the project is not discussed, in assessing the economic rate of return or the average outcome
for ASAI or CRI. There is no discussion of whether there were (or should have been) audits of the individual EDEs.

The section on lessons should include the lessons the Bank has learned, not the lessons that the implementing
agency (the PIU) learned.
a.Quality of ICR Rating : Satisfactory
