Document of
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Report No: 17462
IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
INDIA
TALCHER THERMAL POWER PROJECT
(LOAN 2845-IN)
March 9, 1998
Energy Sector Unit
South Asia Region
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the
performance of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without
World Bank authorization.



COUNTRY EXCHANGE RATES
Currency Unit       =   Rupee (Rs)
Rs I                =   Paise 100
RUPEE (Rs.)/US S EXCHANGE RATES AND CPI (Yearly Averages)
Fiscal Year              RupeesUSS
FY90191(SAR)             21.43
Average Rate during project implementation period: US$ I = Rs. 29.7
NTPC and POWERGRID Fiscal Year: April I - March 31
MEASURES AND EQUIVALENTS
I Ton (t)                        = I metric tonne = 1,000 Kg = 2,204 lbs.
I Kilovolt                       = 1,000 volts (V)
1 Kilovolt ampere (kVA)          - 1,000 volt-atnperes (VA)
I Kilowatt-hour (kWh)              1 l,000 watt-hours
I Megawatt-hour (MWh)              1,000 kilowatt-hours
i Gigawatt-hour (GWh)           = 1,000,000 kilowatt-hours
ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS
BHEL                                     Bharat Heavy Electricals Limited
BPSA                             =        Bulk Power Supply Agreement
CA                               =        Central Authorities
CCEA                             =       Cabinet Committee for Economic Affairs
CEA                              =       Central Electricity Authority
DOE                                      Department of Environment (previous to establishment of MOEF)
EMG                              =        Environmental Management Group
ER                               =       Eastern Region
EREB                                      Eastem Region Electricity Board
ERIS                             =        Eastern Regional Interconnected System
GOt                              =       Govemment of India
000                              =       Govemment of Orissa
GT                               =       General Transformer
HSO                                       Homestead Outstees
HVDC                             =        High Voltage Direct Current
IBRD                             =        International Bank for Reconstruction and Development
ICB                                       Intemational Competitive Bidding
ICR                                       Implementation Completion Report
IERR                             =        Intemal Economic Rate of Retum
IFC                              =        Intemational Finance Corporation
IPP                                       Independent Power Producer
LAA                                       Land Acquisition Act
MGR                                       Merry-go-round
MPAFs                            =        Marginally Project Effected Families
NER                              =        North Eastem Region
NERC                                      North American Energy Reliability Council
NGO                              =        Non-Governmental Organizations
NR                               =        Northem Region
NTPC                             =        National Thermal Power Corporation
O&M                              =        Operation and Maintenance
OSPCB                            =        Orissa State Pollution Control Board
PAFs                             =        Project Affected Families
PIB                                       Public Investment Board
PLF                              =        Plant Load Factor
PMI                              =       Power Management Institute
POWERGRID                        =       Power Grid Corporation of India, Ltd.
PPA                              =       Power Purchase Agreement
R&R                              =       Resettlement and Rehabilitation
RAP                              =       Rehabilitation Action Plan
RBI                              =       Reserve Bank of India
SEB                              =       State Electricity Board
SLAO                             =       Special Land Acquisition Officer
SPAFs                            =       Substantially Project Affected Families
SR                               =       Southem Region
TPP                                      Thermal Power Plant
WR                                       Westem Region
Vice President:                Mieko Nishimizu
Country Director:              Edwin R. Lim
Sector Manager:                Alastair J. McKechnie
Task Leader:                   Argun Ceyhan



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
INDIA
TALCHER THERMAL POWER PROJECT
(LOAN 2845-IN)
IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
TABLE OF CONTENTS
Page No.
PREFACE
EVALUATION SUMMARY.i
PART I: PROJECT IMPLEMENTATION ASSESSMENT.1
A. Project Objectives..1
B. Achievement of Objectives ............................................... 3
C. Major Factors Affecting the Project ...............................................5
D. Project Sustainability ...............................................                          13
E. Bank Performance ..                                                                             13
F. Borrower Perfonnance .............................................. .                           16
G. Assessment of Project Outcome .............................................. .                  17
H. Future Operations, Summary of Findings ............................................... 18
I. Key Lessons Learned .............................................. 18
PART II: STATISTICAL TABLES
Table 1  - Summary of Assessments
Table 2  - Related Bank Loans/Credits
Table 3 - Project Timetable
Table 4 - Loan Disbursements: Cumulative Estimated and Actual
Table 5  - Key Indicators for Project Implementation
Table 6  - Key Indicators for Project Operation
Table 7  - Studies included in the Project
Table 8A - Project Cost
Table 8B - Project Financing
Table 9 - Economic Costs and Benefits
Table 10 - Status of Legal Covenants
Table 11 - Bank Resources: Staff Inputs
Table 12 - Bank Resources: Missions
APPENDIX -A  :    Aide-Memoire of the ICR Preparation Mission
APPENDIX -B- 1:    Project Review from Borrower's Perspective - Contribution by NTPC
APPENDIX -B-2:    Project Review from Borrower's Perspective-Contribution by POWERGRID
APPENDIX -C  :    Environmental Impact Issues
APPENDIX -D  :    Land Acquisition, Resettlement and Rehabilitation Issues
APPENDIX -E  :    Financial Overview (NTPC)
APPENDIX - F  :   Recent Actions by NTPC and POWERGRID to Improve the Performance of the Power Plants in
ERIS
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the
performance of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without
World Bank authorization.



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
INDIA
TALCHER THERMAL POWER PROJECT
(LOAN 2845-IN)
IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
Preface
This is the Implementation Completion Report (ICR) for the Talcher Thermal Power
Project in India, for which Loan 2845-IN in the amount of US$375 million equivalent was
approved on June 17, 1987 and made effective on March 21, 1988. The Borrower was India, acting
by its President. At approval, the Implementing Agency for the whole project was the National
Thermal Power Corporation (NTPC). The project comprised a generation component and an
associated transmission component, as well as the installation of communication links between
NTPC's power plants and corporate headquarters in New Delhi. During the implementation of
project, the responsibility for implementing the transmission component was transferred to the
Power Grid Corporation of India, Ltd. (POWERGRID). The loan closed on March 31, 1997, after
a one-year extension of the loan closing date. There were substantial savings in the project cost due
to continuous devaluation of the Indian rupee vis-a-vis the US dollar during the project
implementation period. Disbursements were completed on September 2, 1997. A total of
US$102,201,149.35 from the original loan was canceled. The balance of the loan amounting to
US$272,798,850.65 was disbursed. Financing to the tune of US$100.2 million equivalent was
obtained from French commercial banks. The balance was met by contributions from the
Government of India (GOI), domestic and international loans by NTPC and POWERGRID, and
from NTPC and POWERGRID's own resources.
This ICR was prepared by Mihir Mitra (Consultant) and Argun Ceyhan (Task Leader),
Energy Sector Unit, South Asia Region (SASEG), and reviewed by Alastair McKechnie, Sector
Manager, SASEG.
Preparation of this ICR started during a Bank ICR mission in November 1996, and was
finalized during a follow-up mission in July 1997. It is based on material in the project file and
site-specific information collected during the ICR mission. The Implementing Agencies, NTPC
and POWERGRID, contributed to the preparation of this ICR for their part of the project by
providing timely input for the statistical data. NTPC and POWERGRID's comments are given in
Appendices B-1 and B-2 of this ICR.
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only im the
performance of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without
World Bank authorization.



INDIA
TALCHER THERMAL POWER PROJECT
(LOAN 2845-IN)
IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
Evaluation Summary
Introduction
1.   Continued power shortages throughout the 80's prompted the GOI to adopt a policy of
accelerating the exploitation of indigenous energy resources in the generation of power. The
Eastern Region, comprising Bihar, West Bengal and Orissa, three of the poorest states in India, was
particularly suffering from severe power shortages. Although GOI had embarked on a planned
program of plant rehabilitation in an effort to maximize the utilization of existing capacity, addition
of new generating capacity had become critical. The project at Talcher, to be built by NTPC, was
proposed as the first phase of development of a coal-fired 3,000 MW power generation complex in
the Eastern Region as a part of a least-cost power development program for that region, to meet the
challenge of continuing power shortages.
2.   The power plant was designed to be served by the Talcher coalfields, cheap to exploit but,
typical of Indian coals, containing highly abrasive, high ash-content coals that cause accelerated
erosion of boiler components. There was a need, therefore, to explore the application of new
technologies that could potentially minimize and reduce the wear and tear on boiler parts and
increase plant availability.
3.   By the mid-80's, NTPC had installed several power plants, most of them with Bank
assistance, which were located generally in remote areas where communication facilities were
inadequate. NTPC's project implementation and operational capabilities were thus seriously
hampered by the absence of instant communications between the corporate headquarters, where the
load control center is located, and the various generating plants. There was an urgent need for
setting up real-time communication links between all stations and the control center.
Project Objectives
4.   The principal objectives of the project were to:
(a)   increase power generation capacity and hence alleviate power shortages in the
Eastern Region;
(b)   introduce to India the technology of "tower boilers" which were suited for the
abrasive high-ash coals prevalent in India; and
(c)   improve the operational performance of NTPC by providing on-line
communications between NTPC's power stations and its headquarters in Delhi.



- ii -
5.   The project, as part of the least-cost development program for the Eastern Region
Interconnected System (ERIS), included the following physical components:
(a)   the first stage (2x500 MW) of a 3,000 MW coal-fired power station in Talcher,
Orissa;
(b)   construction of about 230 km of double-circuit 400 kV transmission lines to link the
power station with ERIS at Rengali and Rourkela, as well as about 40 km of 220 kV
transmission line from Rengali to Talcher to bring start-up power from the grid to
the plant;
(c)   installation of earth stations, microwave links and data processing equipment for a
dedicated satellite-based data communication network to connect NTPC's corporate
offices in New Delhi with its thermal power plants; and
(d)   consulting services for the review of engineering and design of the power plant.
6.   Loan 2845-IN was for US$ 375 million equivalent, approved on June 17, 1987, signed on
December 21, 1987, that became effective on March 21, 1988. GOI and NTPC obtained loans
from French commercial banks. The balance costs of the projects were provided by NTPC, and
following the transfer of responsibilities for transmission to POWERGRID, by the latter
Corporation.
7.   Although the Project was completed with substantial delays (para. 9, below) objectives (b)
and (c) have already been fully achieved, while objective (a) is expected to be fully achieved by
February 1999 when the most important of the additional transmission lines being built by
POWERGRID are completed (Part I; para. 6).
Implementation Experience and Results
8.   Major factors affecting the Project were:
(a)   difficulties experienced by NTPC in obtaining the formal environmental clearance
from GOI's Department of Environment (DOE) and GOI's final clearance for the
construction of the Project (Part I; para. 8);
(b)   lengthy procurement by NTPC (Part I; para. 9);
(c)   suppliers and contractors' inability to timely supply the equipment and complete the
works, and first time manufacture of the boilers in India (Part I; para. 10);
(d)   the accidents which occurred in the generator of Unit 1 and generator transformers
of both units (Part I; para. 11); and



- iii -
(e)    difficulties experienced by GOO authorities in:
(i)    acquiring and handing over to NTPC, the land for the power plant, including
the ash disposal area, the township and the merry-go-round (MGR) railway
system for the transportation of coal from the mines to the power station,
and connection to the Indian Railways mainline (Part I; paras. 12 and 13);
and
(ii)   acquiring the land to be submerged by the Samal Barrage, from where the
make up water for the power project was to be supplied (Part I; para. 14).
9.   The Project was completed with substantial delays, which included the forced shut down of
eleven months of Unit 1 due to the cooling fan accident in its generator (Part I; para. 11). Unit 1
was synchronized for the first time on February 19, 1995, with a delay of 20 months with regard to
the date projected at appraisal. The delays with regard to the re-synchronization of Units 1 and 2,
following the cooling fan accident, were 39 and 29 months, respectively (with regard to the
appraisal dates). A comparison of actual dates vis-a-vis the dates projected is given in Part I; para.
16. The availability of the units was also substantially affected by faults which occurred in
generation transformers. The transmission lines and associated substation extensions were
energized and commissioned in February and April 1995, respectively, with a delay of about 15
months with respect to the dates projected at appraisal.
10.   Project Costs. Project cost estimates were prepared, at appraisal, on the basis of
international prices of various plant components. Due to the high domestic inflation levels which
occurred in 1989-1992, costs in Rupee terms increased by about 52 percent. The actual cost of the
Project was Rs. 26,872 million compared with the appraisal estimate of Rs. 17,877 million (Part II;
Table 8A). However, because of the devaluation of the Indian Rupee with regard to US dollar and
other currencies under which part of the contracts were awarded, the total financing requirement for
the project were US$903.4 million, compared with an appraisal estimate of US$1,375.5 million
(Part I; para. 17).
11.   Savings and Cancellations. Due to the above mentioned devaluation of the Rupee, costs in
US Dollar terms were significantly lower than the estimates. Although part of the loan was utilized
for the procurement of urgently needed spare parts and other items, large savings occurred and they
were canceled in due course (US$79.9 million' -- Part I; para. 18).
12.   Rate of Return. At appraisal, the internal economic rates of return (IERRs) for the
investment program of ERIS, of which the project is part, were estimated to be about 4 percent and
10 percent, respectively, without and with consumer surplus. Taking into account current
projections of incremental generation and sales from and current bulk supply tariff for energy
generated at Talcher TPP (Rs. 1.45/Kwh), and actual investment, current operational and
I  US$8 million as of May 1, 1993, and US$71.9 million as of March 15, 1996. This amount does not include
US$22,301,149.35 remaining undisbursed in the loan account at the completion of disbursements, and cancelled
as of September 2, 1997.



- iv -
maintenance (O&M) and fuel costs, the IERR for the Project was computed to be about 16.65
percent (Part I; para. 20, and Part II; Table 9).
13.   Sustainability. The Project is highly likely to be sustainable when the current power
evacuation constraints are resolved2. Supply of coal of proper quality and in required quantities is a
requisite for the Talcher TPP to operate at its full capacity in a sustainable manner. Institutionally,
NTPC has grown much stronger, leading to its increased self-reliance as the largest, and the most
modem public utility in India (Part I; para. 21).
Summary of Findings, Future Operations, Key Lessons Learned
14. Bank Performance. The performance of the Bank for project identification and preparation
assistance was satisfactory -- GOI, the Bank and NTPC identified and prepared a good and
sustainable project. However, the Bank's performance at appraisal was deficient. The project was
presented to the Board prematurely and there were local steps that were incomplete, e.g. land
acquisition, procurement, environmental analysis, and some of the appraisal work was deficient,
e.g. market analysis, assessment of complementary investments and policies, especially in
transmission, and analysis of risk. The Bank's performance in supervision is assessed as
satisfactory (Part I; paras. 22-24).
15. Borrower Performance. GOI and NTPC's respective performances for the whole
preparation phase, which covers the period up to the start of implementation, were deficient
because they took an inordinately long time in granting and obtaining the formal environmental and
final GOI clearances. Consequently, the start up of the project was delayed by more than one year
and a half, from June 1987 (approval of the Bank Loan) to January 1989 (sigriing of the first
contracts). GOI and NTPC's performances in project implementation were marginally satisfactory.
Because of NTPC's non-compliance with the accounts receivables covenant for most of the
implementation period, covenant compliance is assessed as deficient (Part 1; paras. 25-27).
16.  Assessment of Outcome. The results of the project are satisfactory. The physical
components of the project are installed, but problems with the generator transformers3 and absence
of transmission outlets4 have, so far, prevented the plant from achieving satisfactory availability
and Plant Load Factors (PLF). However, as soon as the HVDC back-to-back systems and other
transmission lines under construction to facilitate transfer of power from the Eastern Region to the
other regions are completed, this project would qualify to be deemed as fully satisfactory.
17.  Future Operation. For the short periods since they have been declared in commercial
operation5, the availability of both units has been relatively low (Part II; Table 6). This has been
due to the faults which occurred in the generation transformers. Furthermore, the power plant has
2   Para. 17, below; Part I; para. 26; and Appendix F.
3  Part I, para. 11.
4  Part I, para. 28.
5  Units I and 2 were declared in commercial operation as of January 1 and July 1, 1997, respectively.



been working with one unit in operation at a very poor PLF, except for a few hours during peak
load periods. This due to the fact that during the ten years since the finalization of the SAR, the
demand in ERIS did not increase as projected at appraisal, and many of the investments (in
particular in transmission and distribution) were not made. When the transmission facilities being
built by POWERGRID and other recent actions taken by NTPC in accordance with both
Corporations' strategy to export power from ERIS to the other regions are completed, the PLF of
the Talcher TPP will rise to an economically viable level. However, availability of coal of adequate
quality must be assured through commercially enforceable contracts.
18. Key Lessons Learned. Major findings of the project implementation experience and
important lessons for future projects are summarzed as follows:
(a)   In a time of great power shortages, it took so long for GOI to grant the clearances
for the Project. This suggests some disconnect between the development objectives
of 001 and the officials responsible in various ministries. Moreover, the lengthy
clearance process didn't seem to work. After all the delays, insufficient transmission
and distribution capacity existed to take the power to the markets. It is
recommended that during its review of the effectiveness of its project approval
processes, GOI should take into account the lessons from the implementation of the
Project.
(b)   Project preparation and appraisal should assess the risks of the plant capacity not
being utilized, and should include the development of strategies for mitigating
these risks. In particular, investment plans for transmission and distribution of the
power from the power plants should be confirmed.
(c)   The project experienced serious difficulties getting started because of lack of
environmental clearance from GOI. Currently, the Bank requires that the formal
environmental clearance be obtained before presenting a project to the Board.
(d)   NTPC's procurement process cycle from bid issue to contract award should be
significantly shortened by the evaluation committees endeavoring to complete their
work at shortest possible periods and NTPC management giving priority in
reviewing the evaluation reports.
(e)   A complete survey of PAFs should be made at the project preparation stage to
include not only PAPs of the primary project site (i.e., the main power plant), but
also those affected by all associated sites, such as, transmission line corridors,
railway lines for coal transportation, resettlement colony, etc. The Resettlement and
Rehabilitation (R&R) Plans should thereafter be developed in full consultation with
the PAFs in a transparent and open manner.
(1)    The Talcher TPP should receive coal of proper quality and in required quantities in
order to operate in a sustainable manner at its full capacity. To this end, NTPC
should sign with the Eastern Coalfields of Coal India, a commercially enforceable
contract, where the parties would not act as monopoly supplier and sole buyer.



- V1-
(g)   A sound financial health is a key element to the success of a utility. NTPC's new
commercial practices introduced under the NTPC Power Generation Project (Ln.
3632-IN) have greatly improved its financial position. GOI/BanklNTPC dialogue on
NTPC's financial situation and its application of the commercial policies (in
particular, cutting off supply to non-paying customers) should be continued.
(h)   GOI intervention through the Central Appropriations helped NTPC resolve its
accounts receivable problem, although for a limited period of time. However, it is
doubtful whether GOI's actions have led to the SEBs improving their operational
efficiency and their billing and collection procedures and practices. In order to
ensure that the project is financially viable, a successful central power project needs
to be part of a well conceived sector assistance strategy that also addresses the SEB
level issues.
(i)   Energy conservation on the customer (SEBs) side and demand management by the
utilities through the adoption of appropriate tariffs and tariff structure at SEBs and
through end-use efficiencies, are important other aspects to improve efficiency in
the power sector. GOI/Bank/ States with a number of States dialogue and recent
approvals of the state power sector restructuring operations in Orissa and Haryana
are important steps forward and should be continued.
'j)    Failure by reputed local manufacturers to deliver critical equipment on time has
caused the project long delays, as was the case for the suppliers of the ash handling
plant and control and instrumentation package. The bid documents should make it
very clear that before awarding a contract, the manufacturing capability and the
order portfolio of the bidder whose bid is evaluated as the least cost bid, should be
reviewed by NTPC to determine whether the bidder would be capable of performing
the contract on schedule. During evaluation, this provision should be applied with
courage. There are already provisions for just such an evaluation in Clause 13,
International Tender Bidding (ITB) for Goods, however, this requires some thought
as to an appropriate set of qualification requirements being crafted for the Bid Data
Sheet, and good record keeping of ongoing contracts as well. Corresponding
information to evaluate such provisions would be necessary for these provisions to
be useful and effective.
(k)   Subcontracting by contractors was also another cause for delays. NTPC should
assess more closely the suitability of proposed sub-contractors.
(1)    Land acquisition was a major hurdle and as such, in future NTPC should plan to set
up projects only when land is acquired and made available to NTPC in the initial
stages of the project.



- vii -
(rn)   Power utilization within the Eastern Region proved to be a bottleneck. The project
was designed and executed with the assumption that the transmission and sub-
transmission systems in the region would also be planned and implemented.
Subsequently, projects to export power to other regions were developed. In future,
NTPC should ensure that similar bottleneck situations do not appear. This could be
achieved by NTPC by converting the existing bulk power supply agreements
(BPSAs) into commercially and financially binding contracts with the SEBs or its
other customers (similar to the Power Purchase Agreements (PPAs) signed by the
SEBs with the independent power producers (IPPs) for private sector projects) and,
then utilizing the inter-regional tranmission links to reach the paying consumers.



IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
INDIA
TALCHER THERMAL POWER PROJECT
(LOAN 2845-IN)
PART I. PROJECT IMPLEMENTATION ASSESSMENT
A. PROJECT OBJECTIVES
1.    In the 1950s and 1960s, the responsibility for power development in India was entrusted
almost entirely to the states. This led to sub-optimal development planning as each state strived
to serve its own interests, as well as inadequate investments in generation, transmission and
distribution facilities, which resulted in acute shortages of power in most parts of India. The
situation prompted GOI, in the 1970s, to change the thrust of its power policy to focus on least-
cost regional development, emphasizing construction of central power stations close to
indigenous energy resources, rehabilitation of non-performing power plants, along with a liberal
policy towards captive generation, as well as improving the quality and reliability of coal
supplies. In 1975, GOI established NTPC making it responsible for the design, construction and
operation of large thermal power stations and high-voltage transmission lines, and for the sale of
the power generated to the SEBs in bulk. NTPC's responsibilities and assets in transmission
were transferred to POWERGRID as of April 1, 1992 . The Bank has supported GOI's actions
under 6 IDA and 10 IBRD operations to fimance 15 NTPC power plants (usually with their
associated transmission facilities) and two transmission projects, implemented by NTPC (Part II;
Table 2). Twelve thermal power plants and the two transmission projects have been
satisfactorily completed. These projects have assisted NTPC to expand at least cost and also
helped enhance NTPC's institutional capabilities.
2.    At the time the project was appraised in February 1986h, power shortages prevailed in
India. This was despite the fact that GOI (through NTPC and other GOI-owned entities) and
State Governments had built a number of hydro and coal-fired thermal power stations. GOI's
strategy for the power subsector, outlined in the Seventh Plan (FY86-FY90), called for the
accelerated exploitation of indigenous energy resources to alleviate these shortages. In
I   POWERGRID was incorporated on October 23, 1989, under the Companies Act, 1956, as the National Power
Transmission Corporation and changed its name to the Power Grid Corporation of India on its third
anniversary on October 23, 1992. POWERGRID assumed the management of the transmission assets and
projects of NTPC under a contract signed between the two corporations on August 16, 1991. An Ordinance
for the transfer of the transmission assets, retroactively from April 1, 1992, was promulgated by the President
of India on January 8, 1993.
2   For reasons given in paragraph 24, the Bank kept the processing of the loan in abeyance for more than one
year. The Staff Appraisal Report was updated as of May 28, 1987 (Report No. 6402-IN). The expression "at
appraisal" used in this ICR means the statements made and data given in the SAR.



-2 -
particular, the Eastern Region, comprising Bihar, West Bengal and Orissa, three of the poorest
states in India, suffered from chronic and heavier shortages. This had led to substantial pressures
upon the SEBs in the region to postpone maintenance of equipment in order to keep plants in
operation. Consequently, plant availability in the region was substantially lower than in any
other part of the country. The SEBs in the region were implementing a rehabilitation plan
prepared by the Central Electricity Authority (CEA) of GOI, to improve the efficiency and
increase the output of the existing plants. However, based on the demand forecasts made at the
time, the Eastern Region still needed substantial new generating capacity. The least cost
development plan for the region, also prepared by CEA, included the development of the 3,000
MW Talcher Thermal Power Plant (TPP) in Orissa. The power station would utilize coal from
the extensive reserves in the nearby Talcher coalfields3.
3.     In 1985, GOI requested Bank assistance to support the construction of the first phase
(1,000 MW) of the Talcher TPP and the transmission system development associated with the
power plant, which would ease the gap in the supply-demand situation in the Eastern Region
with the addition of new capacity. The executing agency would be NTPC, which would be less
subject than the SEBs to pressures to maximize present generation at the expense of future plant
performance. As the coal from the Talcher coalfields, in common with many other coals in
India, has a rather high and abrasive ash content, GOI and NTPC proposed to install steam
generators of a special design known as "tower boilers" in order to minimize abrasion of boiler
components. GOI also proposed to have the tower boilers technology transferred to one of the
domestic manufacturers of such equipment4. In addition, as the lack of instant communication
between NTPC's corporate headquarters in Delhi and the individual power plants, scattered in
remote areas all over the country, was causing serious operational problems, the project would
also include the installation of a satellite-based telecommunication system.
3   The power plant site is located at a distance of approximately 34 km from the Talcher Coalfields in the Angul
District of the State of Orissa. The distance to the nearest road and rail heads from the site are approximately 7
and 25 km, respectively. The site is located on the south-western bank of the Tikira River, a few kilometers
upstream of the Samal Barrage Reservoir on the River Brahmani. The ground elevation is 80-90 meters,
which is above the highest flood level. The entire area was at appraisal, rural in nature and sparsely populated
with a population density of about 157 persons/sq.km. The make-up cooling water would be supplied from the
said Samal Barrage Reservoir. Coal would be transported to the plant through a closed-loop MGR railway
system to be built by NTPC. The MGR railway would also be connected to Indian Railways' mainline.
4   The power-grade coal from the Talcher Coalfields is a high-ash coal (up to 45% ash) and this ash has a high
silica content (up to 60%). By 1986, the experience with the "tower boilers" world-wide had confirmed their
suitability for handling abrasive ash. GOI had decided that Bharat Heavy Electricals Ltd. (BHEL), the major
Indian manufacturer of power plant equipment, should acquire this technology in view of its potential future
application in India, given the poor characteristics of Indian coals. GOI had therefore indicated that NTPC
would negotiate directly with BHEL for the supply of the boilers, and that BHEL would in turn enter into a
technology transfer arrangement with a foreign manufacturer experienced in the tower boiler technology. The
proposed arrangement made procurement through the Bank's ICB procedures inappropriate for the boiler
package. The Bank did not object to GOI's above proposal but stated that the tower boilers procured through
direct negotiations would not be funded under the Bank Loan. GOI and NTPC then obtained commercial
loans provided by French Banks and guaranteed by COFACE of the Government of France, to finance the
boilers and auxiliaries package. BHEL and a French manufacturer (Stein Industries) built the boilers.



-3 -
4.    Against this backdrop, the objectives of the project were to:
(a) increase power generating capacity and hence alleviate power shortages in the
Eastern Region;
(b) introduce to India the technology of "tower boilers" which would be suited to the
abrasive high ash coals prevalent in the country; and
(c) improve the operational performance of NTPC by providing on-line communications
between the NTPC's power stations and its corporate headquarters in Delhi.
In addition to the physical objectives, it has been an objective of the Project to ensure that NTPC
would be financially viable. These objectives were fully consistent with GOI and the Bank's
strategies for lending in the Indian power sector.
5.    The physical components of the project were consistent with the above project objectives:
(a) construction of the first stage (2x500 MW) of a 3,000 MW coal-fired power plant at
Talcher, Orissa;
(b) construction of about 230 km of double-circuit 400 kV transmission lines5 to link the
power station with ERIS at Rengali and Rourkela, as well as about 40 km of 220 kV
transmission line from Rengali to Talcher to facilitate availability of start up power
for the plant;
(c) installation of earth stations, microwave links and data processing equipment for a
dedicated satellite-based data communication network to connect NTPC's corporate
offices in Delhi with its thermal power plants; and
(d) consulting services for the review of the engineering of the proposed power plant6.
B. ACHIEVEMENT OF OBJECTIVES
6.    Overall Results. The objectives of the project, including the financial objectives for
NTPC, have been substantially achieved. While objective (a) is expected to be fully achieved in
February 1999 (see below), objectives (b) and (c) have already been fully achieved, as
summarized below:
ObjectiveA: The two generating units have been installed, albeit with major delays. Unit 1 has
been declared in commercial operation, as of January 1, 1997, while trial runs on
Unit 2 are still under progress. The transmission lines and substations have been
5   Actually 215 km of 400 kV transmission lines have been built.
6   As NTPC had not designed tower-type boilers before, it required the services of consultants to review the
boiler design and assist in the preparation of the specifications. NTPC retained the services of reputable
international consultants.



-4 -
constructed and are in operation. Due to the low absorptive capacity of the ERIS,
and delays by the SEB's in the region in building their transmission, sub-
transmission and distribution facilities to evacuate and distribute power from the
Talcher TPP, the power plant is being requested by the load dispatch of the
Eastern Region Electricity Board (EREB) to operate at 250-300 MW7. When
additional transmission lines being built by POWERGRID are completed (the
most important project is expected to be completed by February 19998), this
problem will be resolved and the Talcher TPP would be operated near its design
capacity of 1,000 MW. Thus, it is concluded that objective (a) will be fully
achieved by February 1999.
Objective B:  An Indian and a French manufacturer have built the two tower-type boilers.
Boilers have passed the tests. Objective (b) has been fully achieved.
Objective C:  The satellite-based on-line communication network has been successfully
installed and is functioning satisfactorily9. Communications between the
headquarters and the power plants have substantially improved. This objective
has been fully achieved.
Financial objectives for NTPC: Through all Bank-financed NTPC projects, including this
project, the Bank has endeavored, through constant policy dialogue and discreet financial
covenants, to advance NTPC towards a sound financial footing. At Board presentation, NTPC's
7   The project is being operated with a plant load factor (PLF) of about 11 percent. This PLF is unsatisfactory
and unacceptable. After the project was built, it was found that there were severe bottlenecks in evacuating the
power from the power plant. The power to be generated by the Talcher TPP was allocated among the States of
Orissa (26.2%) and Bihar (23.9%), as well as other entities, such as the Damodar Valley Corporation (9.8%),
and Sikkim (1.8%), while the balance (38.3%) remained unallocated. Because the demand in the region did
not grow as fast as was projected at appraisal, the offtake of power by the allottees fell far short of the
appraisal expectations. NTPC is currently awaiting the completion of additional lines which would provide an
alternative outlet for the power from the Taicher TPP to be wheeled to another regions.
s   The lines in question are: (i) the high voltage direct current (HVDC) back-to-back link between Jeypore
(Orissa; Eastern Region) and Gazuwaka (Andhra Pradesh (AP); Southern Region) - the capacity of the link
would be 500 MW, and it is expected to be completed by February 1999; (ii) 132 kV single circuit (2nd
circuit) Dehri-Karamnasa line between Eastern and Northern Regions - the capacity of the line would be
around 150 MW; expected completion by end- 1999; and (iii) 220 kV single circuit (3rd circuit) Badhipadar-
Korba line between Eastern and Western Regions - the capacity of the line would be around 200 MW;
expected completion by end-1999. In addition to the above, a 500 MW HVDC back-to-back link is planned to
be built between the Eastern and Northern Regions, at Susaram. Its planned completion date is March 2001.
However, the above HVDC links and 132 kV and 220 kV lines are being built for transfer of power from the
Eastern Region to the other regions, and not exclusively for the Talcher TPP. NTPC's further actions in this
respect are given in Footnote 31.
9   The communication facilities comprise six INSAT Type-B satellite earth stations at Singrauli, Korba,
Ramagundamn, Farakka, Kahalgaon and Talcher TPPs, communicating with a central INSAT Type-A satellite
earth station located in the Delhi region. The combined cycle power plants at Anta, Auraiya and Kawas have
since been added to the network. In addition, the communication network includes two long-haul terrestrial
microwave links to interconnect the Rihand and Vindhyachal TPPs with Singrauli in the same region, which is
connected to the main center in Delhi.



- 5 -
overall financial position was generally satisfactory, but accounts receivable already imposed a
heavy burden on its finances (para. 24). By project completion in 1997, improvements in
collection and accounts receivable had helped NTPC achieve retums well in excess of the rates
required under the financial covenants (Appendix E).
C. MAJOR FACTORS AFFECTING THE PROJECT'.
7.    The project was implemented satisfactorily but with substantial delays which were
principally due to:
*  difficulties experienced by NTPC in obtaining the formal environmental clearance
from GOI's Department of Environment and GOI's final clearance for the
construction of the Project (para. 8);
•  lengthy procurement process by NTPC (para. 9);
*  suppliers and contractors' inability to timely supply the equipment and complete the
works, and first time manufacture of the boilers in India (para. 10);
*  the accidents which occurred in the generator of Unit 1 and generator transformers of
both units (para. 11);
-  difficulties experienced by GOO authorities in:
*    acquiring and handing over to NTPC, the land for the power plant, including
the ash disposal area, the township and the MGR railway system for the
transportation of coal from the mines to the power station, and connection to
the Indian Railways mainline (paras. 12 and 13); and
*    acquiring the land to be submerged by the Samal Barrage, from where the
make up water for the power project was to be supplied (para. 14).
Other factors which affected the Project were: (i) high inflation levels during the first years of
implementation, which resulted in costs in Rupee terms higher than the estimates by about 52
percent (para. 17); and, (ii) depreciation of the Rupee vis-a-vis the US Dollar which resulted in
large savings under the Loan which were canceled (para. 18).
8.    Difficulties Experienced By NTPC In Obtaining the Formal Clearances. The Project was
presented to the Executive Directors with an "in principle" environmental clearance, given by
DOE. The formal environmental clearance for the Project was made a condition of effectiveness
of the Loan. This clearance was granted by the DOE in March 1988, nine months after the
10  On the day Loan 2845-IN for the Talcher TPP Project was approved, the Executive Directors also approved
Loan 2844-IN for the National Capital Power Project. This latter project comprised an NTPC component for
the construction of the coal-fired Dadri TPP. The National Capital Power and Talcher TPP Projects were
implemented during the period from 1988 to 1995/1997, and were affected by similar problems. The ICR for
the National Capital Power Project was issued on September 16, 1996 (Report No. 16003).



-6 -
approval of the Loan11. NTPC obtained the final clearance of GOI, from GOI's Cabinet
Committee for Economic Affairs (CCEA), for the construction of the Project on November 25,
1988. Until this latter clearance was granted, NTPC could not make a commitment, thus sign a
12
contract under the Project . It is noted that GOI's final clearance (CCEA clearance) was granted
17 months after the Loan was approved by the Executive Directors of the Bank. Furthermore,
clearances for the proposed alignment of the raw water piping from the river to the plant, the
13
MGR system, about 33 km long, and the transmission lines were obtained with further delays
9.     Lengthy Procurement Process by NTPC. NTPC's procurement process cycle, between
bid issue and contract award has been endemically too long. The turbine generator bid package,
for instance, took close to 17 months. Although tenders were issued on September 4, 1987, to 12
manufacturers which were pre-qualified in 1985 for a similar package under another Bank
11  The main reason for the delay in DOE granting the environmental clearance was the failure of the management
of the coal mines in submitting a detailed environmental management plan. On March 21, 1988, GOI
informed the Bank of the issuance of the formal environmental clearance. The same day the Bank declared the
loan effective.
12  After the techno-economic clearance by CEA and environmental clearance by DOE (currently the Ministry of
Environment and Forests - MOEF) are obtained, NTPC has to submit its project proposal to GOI's Public
Investment Board (PIB). To initiate a procurement action, NTPC had, at the time the Talcher TPP was
reviewed by GOI, to obtain PIB's clearance after the "pre-PIB meeting". To make a commitment, and thus
sign a contract under a project, NTPC has to show to PIB and later to CCEA that it has finalized the financing
plan for the project and obtain CCEA's final authorization. Only after that authorization is granted can NTPC
proceed with the implementation of a project. However, the process is different for private utilities. After
CEA's techno-economic and MOEF's environmental clearances, the board of directors of a private utility have
the authority to proceed with procurement and commitment decisions. In summary, while shareholders of a
private company can authorize their board to make decisions committing the company, GOI as the owner of a
public enterprise keeps that authority within a committee of its Cabinet. Recently, GOI has decided to give
enhanced power to approve capital expenditures to the Board of Directors of NTPC after the Board of
Directors is restructured. The Board is being restructured. In practice, this will mean that NTPC's Board of
Directors will have the authority to take decisions on proceeding with a project after the techno-economic
clearance by CEA -- NTPC will no longer be required to obtain PIB and CCEA clearances.
13  Final environmental clearances for the Talcher-Rengali and Talcher-Rouerkela transmission lines were granted
by GOI on January 12, 1993, and January 17, 1994, respectively -- almost five and six years, respectively,
from the date of application. Details are given in Part II, Table 10.



- 7-
loan 14, an award could not be made until January 31, 1989. For the other three major contract
packages, viz., those for the cooling water system, coal handling plant (in two packages) and ash
handling plant, the times taken to complete procurement were 15, 13, 11 and 10 months,
respectively. Typically, the procurement cycle from bid issue to contract award should have
taken no more than 6-7 months15. There were, in total, 91 contracts of which 58 were procured,
managed and completed by NTPC for the Talcher TPP, satellite communication system and
other items subsequently agreed by the Bank to be included in the project. Thirty three contracts,
most of which were procured by NTPC prior to the transfer of responsibilities to POWERGRID,
were for the transmission facilities; completion of their implementation was managed by
POWERGRID. Major contracts financed by the Bank were procured through ICB procedures,
based on supply-and-erect basis, some of which also included civil works to ensure better
contract coordination during implementation. A domestic preference of 15 percent, or the
corresponding import duty, whichever was less, would be applied in the evaluation of bids for
16
equipment contracts. However, there was no case to apply this provision  . Most of the
contracts were won by Indian bidders. But, the Indian contractors and manufacturers had to use
imported machinery, materials, equipment or instruments (para. 10).
10.    Delays Caused by Contractors and Suppliers. Contractors and suppliers caused
significant delays in project implementation by failing to complete on time some critical civil
works and to deliver on time critical pieces of plant equipment. Most of the construction and
manufacturing work was carried out in 1989-1992 during which period India experienced an
economic and financial crisis. GOI put restrictions on imports, made permission of the Reserve
14  Under Ln. 2442-IN for the Second Farakka Thermal Power Project.
15  Allowing for 4 months for actual bidding on such complex procurement, and another 2 months for bid
evaluation. Summary data about the principal contracts is as follows:
Bids Issue Date    Bank No Obj. Date   Contract Award Date    From Bid Issue
to Contract Award
Turbine Generators        August 25, 87     September 9, 88       January 31, 89     17 months
Cooling Water System         July 18, 88   September 29, 89      November 6, 89      15 months
Coal Handling Plant       August 14, 89    September 13, 90     September 20, 90     13 months
(Package A)
Coal Handling Plant        October 9, 89   September 13, 90     September 20, 90     11 months
(Package B)
Ash Handling Plant          April 24, 90     February 15, 91     February 22, 91     10 months
a) Boilers were procured under financing from French commercial banks.
b) It is noted that NTPC had to await for GOI (CCEA) clearance (granted on November 25, 1988) before signing the
Turbine-generators contract.
16  Comparisons with taking into account the above domestic preference were made in only two cases. In both
instances, the bids by the foreign suppliers were least-cost. However, due to reasons of unsatisfactory
performance in an earlier contract in one case, and the supplier raising major post-bid and post-award
deviations during the finalization of the contract, bids by these suppliers were rejected in both cases aid the
contracts were awarded to the next least-cost bidders, which happened to be Indian suppliers. In both cases,
the Bank had no-objection to NTPC and POWERGRID's proposals.



- 8 -
Bank of India (RBI) mandatory and increased the margins for opening a letter of credit, first to
50 percent (in October 1990), then to 110 percent (in March 1991). To arrange such high
margins for the LCs and to obtain RBI's permission, contractors had to devote more resources
and much longer time. Import restrictions were further aggravated with the steep devaluation of
the Rupee by almost 26 percent in two stages in 1991 and 1992. In July 1991, GOI withdrew
some of the deemed export benefits which were previously provided for contracts awarded
under the Bank's ICB procedures. GOI's decision in March 1992 to liberalize steel prices
resulted in a steep rise in the price of steel which could not have been foreseen when the
contracts were awarded. Since the contracts were covered under the general escalation formula,
compensation to contractors for such high price increases had to be separately discussed and
negotiated. Thus, further delays were experienced. NTPC's actions dealing with the contractors
and suppliers were satisfactory. Otherwise, delays could have been much longer. Local
manufacturing capability, cheaper labor, deemed export benefits and the provision for domestic
preference in accordance with Bank guidelines for procurement, weigh in favor of local bidders
enabling them to win contracts over foreign competition. It is important to strictly evaluate the
existing backlog of the winning bidders vis-a-vis their manufacturing capability to determine if
they would be capable of performing the contracts on schedule, if awarded through the bidding
process. Failure by reputed local manufacturers to deliver critical equipment on time has caused
the project long delays, as was the case for the suppliers of the ash handling plant and control and
instrumentation packages. In this respect, i.e., evaluation of the manufacturing capacity and
existing order portfolio of the winning bidder, NTPC's performance could have been better. Out
of the above mentioned 91 Bank-funded contracts, 40 have so far been closed. NTPC has
applied total liquidated damages in one case, due to the contractor's unsatisfactory performance.
In 15 other cases, NTPC has applied partial liquidated damages. Furthermore, the tower-type
boiler structures required a much higher number of high quality welding operations at the site
during erection. This was not anticipated at the time of drawing project schedules by the
contractors and reviewing them by NTPC and its engineer, and caused delays while the main
supplier-contractor and its welding sub-contractors became conversant with this type of boiler.
11. Accidents in the Generator of Unit 1 and Generator Transformers of Both Units. Unit 1
was synchronized on February 19, 1995, and by early-October 1995, it had met all the
requirements for commercial operation. While NTPC's application for declaring the unit in
commercial operation was being reviewed by the Ministry of Power, on October 4, 1995, the
cover disc of the hydrogen cooling fan on the rotor of Generator 1 disintegrated into pieces and
damaged the core of the generator. While investigations about the cause of the failure were
carried out, Unit 2 was synchronized on March 26, 1996, using the spare rotor fan and was tested
under controlled conditions. NTPC hired international consultants to provide further opinions.
Based on the analysis of the data on Unit 1 just before the accident, and on that obtained during
the controlled runs of Unit 2, the cause of the failure was determined as insufficient air gap
between the blades of the fan and the stator core. Investigations, repairs and modifications took
about eleven months and Unit 1 was re-synchronized only on September 3, 1996. Thus, the unit
remained shut down for almost eleven months, causing substantial further delays (para. 16). Unit



-9-
2 was re-synchronized on October 16, 1996, following completion of similar modifications.
Both units have suffered forced outages due to failures of the generator transformer units'7
12.   Land Acquisition, Resettlement and Rehabilitation. Acquisition of private land, and R&R
of the project affected families (PAFs) were carried out by the Government of Orissa (GOO), not
by NTPC. A total area of 3,684 acres was acquired for the entire project of 3,000 MW, including
the power plant, ash disposal area, MGR railway system and resettlement colony. Out of the said
18
amount, 1,497 acres were private land. The balance 2,187 acres was owned by the GOO  . The
private land was acquired under the provisions of the Land Acquisition Act, 1894 (LAA), and its
subsequent amendments, after paying due compensation. GOO took an inordinately long time to
complete the acquisition and release the land to NTPC, and consequently, contributed to the
delay of the start of power plant construction. The notifications for land acquisition under the
LAA were issued from May 1987 onwards and continued up to June 1995. The compensations
for the land and structures were decided by GOO; then the amounts were deposited by NTPC to
the Office of the Special Land Acquisition Officer (SLAO) of GOO, prior to the acquisition of
the land and well before the)PAFs needed to surrender their land. Payments to the PAFs was
carried out by the officials of GOO, outside NTPC.
13.   Base-Line Surveys and R&R Plans. As part of the project preparation, NTPC carried out
surveys of the population to be affected by the project and prepared Land Acquisition and
Resettlement Plans. However, these surveys and plans had to be redone and improved in the
course of implementation of the project. At negotiations, GOI, the Bank and NTPC agreed that
NTPC would bring minor revisions to the these plans and furnish them to the Bank by December
31, 1987. Revisions were made in 1988, 1991 and 1994. The original survey and plan
identified 1,750 PAFs, out of which 816 families which would lose more than one third of their
land holdings (Substantially Project Affected Families - SPAFs), who would be eligible for
rehabilitation. The remaining 934 families, which would lose less than one third of their land
holdings would only be eligible for financial compensation19. However, this plan which was
signed by the Collector of GOO on November 5, 1986, did not include the land-for-land option
as a possible means of rehabilitation. It gave emphasis on employment by NTPC of one person
from each SPAF. The SPAFs who were losing their homes were identified as Homestead Land
Oustees (HSOs) to be resettled in a colony to be developed by NTPC. The 1988 revision
included the land-for-land option. In the 1994 revision, the eligibility for rehabilitation of "major
married sons" belonging to the said SPAFs was included. In accordance with the final list of
17  The generator transformers (GT) installed at the Talcher TPP are single-phase units, of which a seventh unit
was purchased as spare. During tests, rising trends of fault gas levels in five of the seven units were observed.
The first fault occurred on October 11, 1996, on a GT unit of Unit 2. As Unit 1 was under maintenance, one
GT unit from that Unit was transferred to Unit 2 and the latter was resynchronized. Later the spare unit was
installed on Unit I and this Unit was brought back into service. The second incident occurred on July 3, 1997,
in a GT unit connected to Unit 1. As there was no spare, NTPC was obliged to shut down Unit 1. At the time
of finalization of this ICR both damaged GT units were being repaired at the manufacturer's factory in Bhopal.
18  GOO, non-forest land: 1,046 acres; GOO, forest land: 983 acres; and GOO, Irrigation Department land: 158
acres.
19  The latter category was called Marginally Project Affected Families (MPAFs).



- 10-
SPAFs approved by GOO on March 14, 1996 (about nine years after the approval of the loan),
20
the number of families to be rehabilitated is 1,632 in 27 villages . This number covers 1,160
SPAFs and 472 beneficiaries as major married sons belonging to these SPAFs. 1,160 SPAFs
include 114 HSOs to be resettled. Rehabilitation schemes provided to the above families are:
employment by NTPC, employment under maintenance contracts, purchase of land, shop
allotment, support for self employment, cash deposit assistance, and training at the Industrial
Training Institute (ITI). HSOs are being resettled at a resettlement colony at Takua, where
NTPC has developed 114 plots and infrastructure facilities. The HSOs are given a construction
assistance of Rs.16,000 per family. However, GOO and NTPC have agreed that NTPC would
pay an additional Rs.10,000 to each family who do not shift to the resettlement colony. This
additional compensation would be in lieu of the allotted plot at the Takua colony. Details and
the status of GOO and NTPC's R&R activities are given in Appendix D. Some of the PAFs have
taken NTPC to Courts. Only one Stay Order was passed by the Court on September 24, 1991,
relating to cutting of a road inside the acquired area. The Order was canceled by the Court on
December 16, 1991. The imposition of the Stay Order did not affect the general implementation
of the project. As of September 30, 1997, 1,124 SPAFs out of the total of the above mentioned
1,632 SPAFs had been rehabilitated. NTPC and GOO continue the R&R activities in accordance
with the rehabilitation plan and list of eligible SPAFs approved by GOO in March 1996. NTPC
has requested financing of the Talcher Phase II (4x500 MW Talcher II) under the ongoing Ln.
3632-IN for the NTPC-Power Generation Project. A draft Rehabilitation Action Plan (RAP)
covering the balance of rehabilitation activities for people affected by Talcher Phase I (the
Project) and those to be affected by Talcher II was prepared by NTPC and submitted to the Bank
in March 1997. NTPC is still in the process of incorporating the Bank's comments of April
1997, but the implementation of the RAP is already underway. The Bank's involvement and
implementation review of the balance R&R activities for SPAFs under the Project, is expected to
continue under the Talcher II Project.
14.   Difficulties Experienced by GOO in the Construction of the Samal Barrage. This barrage
was built by GOO (outside the Talcher TPP Project). NTPC states that about three months was
lost by the time the required level of water could be maintained in the power project's intake
channel. This was due to delays by the Barrage Authorities in acquiring the submergence land in
the surrounding area which prevented them from raising the poundage level.
15.   GOI and NTPC's Financial Difficulties in 1991-1992. In 1991-1992, GOI experienced
substantial balance of payments problems which made it difficult for NTPC to arrange foreign
exchange for the import of spares needed for O&M of its power plants. The Bank agreed upon
GOI and NTPC's requests that the said spares and other items be funded under the loan. This
was done in the broader context of the Bank's strategy of helping NTPC's development, instead
of restricting narrowly to the individual project. Thus, in March 1991 and January 1992, the
Bank agreed to fund: (i) the procurement of urgently needed spares for NTPC projects built
20 The number of MPAFs is 2,742. Thus PAFs amount to 4,374, as compared to 1,750 PAFs identified in the
original survey.



21
under previous Bank assistance ; and (ii) expenditures made by NTPC for civil works contracts
awarded under NTPC's local competitive bidding procedures22.
16.    Implementation and Results. In the SAR, contracts for main plant equipment (boilers and
turbo-generators) were planned to be awarded by June 1988 and Units 1 and 2 to be
synchronized by June 1993 and June 1994, respectively. Implementation from award of
contracts to synchronization was foreseen as five years. This period is too long. In reality,
contracts were awarded in end-January 1989 (seven months of delay with regard to the SAR). At
contract award, synchronization dates for Units 1 and 2 were projected as April 1994 and April
1995; meaning an extension of the implementation period from award to synchronization of Unit
1 by three months. Delays in implementation began to show very early. However, until mid-
1993, NTPC was confident that it would catch up. As noted by the May 1994 supervision
mission, in 1994, NTPC had to slow down the erection activities and tests because of lack of
appropriate control and instrumentation equipment. Unit 1 was synchronized for the first time on
February 19, 1995, with delays of 20 and 8 months with regard to the dates projected at appraisal
and contract award, respectively. The delays with regard to the re-synchronization of Units 1 and
2, following the cooling fan accident (para. 11), were 39 and 29 months, respectively (with
regard to the appraisal dates). Units 1 and 2 have been declared in commercial operation as of
23
January 1, and July 1, 1997  . Performance guarantee tests on Unit 1 were completed in March
1997. However, those on Unit 2 and auxiliary plants and systems are planned to be carried out in
24
the first half of 1998. The coal supply system has been in place since September 1996  . A
comparison of actual dates vis-a-vis the dates projected at appraisal and at contract award is as
follows:
21  At the time, NTPC was operating 22 coal-fired units, 200 MW and 500 MW each; 7 gas turbines and 3
combined cycle units, all built under previous Bank assistance.
22  In addition to the above, the Bank also agreed to fund under the project, technical assistance for NTPC's
Power Management Institute (PMI), and construction and installation of an additional ash disposal system at
NTPC's Korba TPP (funded under earlier IDA Credits and Bank Loans). The latter agreement was "in
principle" only as NTPC had not obtained the environmental clearance for the ash system. During
implementation, NTPC obtained grant funds from bilateral sources for PMI and did not need to use funds
under Ln. 2845-IN. With regard to the additional ash disposal facilities in Korba, due to the substantial delays
in obtaining the said environmental clearance, the funding agreement was withdrawn and savings canceled.
The system would be funded under Ln. 3632-IN for the NTPC Power Generation Project.
23  As no dates were shown in the SAR for commercial operation of the units, no comparison can be made.
24  NTPC agreed with Coal India that the rapid loading system at the coalfields would be built for Phase 2
development (additional 2,000 MW). Wharf walls which have been built are sufficient to load coal for the full
capacity operation of Units 1 and 2.



- 12-
~~~~~P  =                                              _q  w ;
Delay     Delay                            Planned at
Planned            w/r to    w/r to                             Contract
at     Actual    SAR      Award                               Award
SAR   Contract    (**)  (Months)  (Months)  SAR   Actual   SAR                     Actual
Award
Unit I  6/93    4194     9/96 1   39         29    NIS    2/95        N/S       10/94       1/97
Unit 2  6/94    4/95     10/96     28        20      N/S    5/96      N/S       9/95        7/97
N/S  Not shown in the SAR.
(*)  In early-1989.
(**)  Unit I was first synchronized in 2/95, but due to the accident (para. 11), it was resynchronized in 9/96.
The same was true for Unit 2, which was synchronized and tested under controlled conditions in 3/96. It
was resynchronized in 10/96.
The 400 kV Talcher-Rengali and Talcher-Rourkela transmission lines and associated substation
extensions were energized and commissioned in February and April 1995, respectively, with a
delay of about 15 months with respect to the dates projected at appraisal25. POWERGRID states
that it rescheduled the implementation of the transmission facilities in accordance with the
completion dates of the Talcher TPP.
17.   Costs. Project cost estimates were prepared, at appraisal, on the basis of international
prices of various plant components. Due to the high domestic inflation levels which occurred in
1989-1992, costs in Rupee terms increased by about 50 percent. The actual cost of the Project
was Rs. 26,872 million  compared with the appraisal estimate of Rs. 17,877 million (Part II;
Table 8A). However, because of the devaluation of the Indian Rupee with regard to US dollar
and other currencies under which part of the contracts were awarded, the total financing
requirement for the project were US$903.4 million, compared with an appraisal estimate of
US$1,375.5 million17.
18.   Savings and Cancellations. Due to the above mentioned devaluation of the Rupee, costs
in US Dollar terms were significantly lower than the estimates. Although part of the loan was
utilized for the procurement of urgently needed spare parts and other items, large savings
occurred and they were canceled in due course (US$79.9 million28 ).
19.    Closing Date and Disbursements. In order to complete the implementation of the project,
the closing date of the loan was extended by one year. Despite GOI, NTPC and POWERGRID's
25  in Annex 3.5 of the SAR, it is projected that these lines would be completed in December 1993.
26  NTPC Components: Rs. 25,430 million; POWERGRID Component: Rs. 1,442 million.
27 At appraisal, the exchange rate between Rs. and USS was Rs. 13/USS1. At loan closing in 1997, the rate was
Rs.35/USS 1. The average rate for the implementation period is calculated as Rs. 29.745/US$ 1.
28  US$8 million as of May 1, 1993, and US$71.9 million as of March 15, 1996. This amount does not include
USS22,301,149.35 remaining undisbursed in the loan account at the completion of disbursements, and
cancelled as of September 2, 1997 (para. 19).



- 13 -
request for a second extension of one year, the loan was closed on March 31, 1997. Disbursements
were completed on September 2, 1997. In total, US$272,798,850.65 were disbursed and
US$22,301,149.35 remaining undisbursed in the loan account was canceled as of September 2,
1997. Thus total cancellations with regard to the original loan of US$375 million amounted to
US$102,201,149.35.
20.   Rate of Return. At appraisal, the IERRs for the investment program of ERIS, of which
the project is part, were estimated to be about 4 percent and 10 percent, respectively, without and
with consumer surplus. Taking into account current projections of incremental generation and
sales from and current bulk supply tariff for energy generated at Talcher TPP (Rs. 1.45/kWh),
and actual investment, current O&M and fuel costs, the IERR for the Project was computed to be
about 16.65 percent (para. 20, and Part II; Table 9).
D. PROJECT SUSTAINABILITY
21.   The achievements of the project are highly likely to be sustainable when the current
power evacuation constraints are resolved (para. 26, and Appendix F). Supply of coal of proper
quality and in required quantities is a requisite for the Talcher TPP to operate at its full capacity
in a sustainable manner. Operational plans to ensure the sustainability of the project have been
discussed and agreed with NTPC management. These plans are presented in Part II, Table 6.
Institutionally, NTPC has grown much stronger, leading to its increased self-reliance as the
largest, and the most modem public utility in India.
E. BANK PERFORMANCE
22.   The performance of the Bank for project identification and preparation assistance was
satisfactory -- GOI, the Bank and NTPC identified and prepared a good and sustainable project.
However, the Bank's performance at appraisal was deficient. The project was presented to the
Board prematurely and there were local steps that were incomplete, e.g. land acquisition,
procurement, environmental analysis, and some of the appraisal work was deficient, e.g.
market analysis, assessment of complementary investments and policies, especially in
transmission, and analysis of risk. Process-wise, the Project was presented on the basis of an
"in principle" environmental clearance, and an "approval" which was not GOI's final
clearance 9. In the Project Files, there is no mention of the fact that GOI's final clearance
which permits NTPC to make commitments for a project is granted by CCEA of GOI Cabinet.
It appears that at the time the Bank did not understand clearly GOI's pre-PIB, PIB and CCEA
29  Following the completion of the appraisal in February 1986, the Bank kept the processing of the loan in
abeyance for more than one year, before inviting GOI and NTPC for negotiations, due to delays in NTPC
obtaining the required formal environmental clearance from the DOE and thus final approval by GOI. Then,
in May 1987, after being informed that DOE had provided an environmental clearance "in principle" and that
the PIB approval would follow shortly, the Bank accepted an unconvincing reason, such as reducing travel and
staff expenses on the part of NTPC, and agreed to negotiate the loan for the project consecutively with the one
then proposed for the National Capital Power Project. An approval called "the PIB approval" was granted on
June 1, 1987, after the negotiations had been completed.



- 14-
30
review and the clearance process given in Footnote 12  . In retrospect, it is questionable
whether such preemptive actions were helpful because GOI and NTPC took an inordinately
long time to grant and obtain the formal environmental and final GOI (CCEA) clearances31. At
the time of presentation of the Project to the Board of Executive Directors of the Bank, GOI
wanted the Project, but the Project was not ready for implementation. The Bank failed to
recognize that the quality of entry was not good.
23.    During project implementation, the Bank successfully maintained a good working
relationship with GOI and NTPC (and subsequently with POWERGRID for the transmission
projects), assisted NTPC and POWERGRID in completing procurements under the project, and
supervised the project over a ten-year period. During this period, a total of twenty one (21)
supervision missions were fielded. Problems encountered were identified, solutions were
developed, action plans were agreed and advice on problems were provided to those concerned.
Suitable follow-up actions were taken as needed and mid-course corrections were made as
project implementation progressed. When, in 1991-1992, GOI and NTPC faced economic and
financial difficulties, the Bank assisted them in accepting their proposal of funding of some civil
works and procurement of urgently needed spares.
24.    There were periods of tensions between the Bank and GOI and NTPC during the period
actions were taken by GOI and NTPC to remedy NTPC's accounts receivable problems and to
comply with the accounts receivable covenant which had been agreed under the ongoing Rihand
Power Transmission (Ln. 2555-IN; FY85) and Combined Cycle Power (Ln. 2674-IN; FY86)
32
Projects. The covenant was repeated in Ln. 2845-IN  , but until March 1993, NTPC was not
able to fully comply. The Bank's actions in this respect are summarized as follows:
30  There may have been some confusion in the information given by GOI to the Bank. On June 4, 1987, three
days after the PIB meeting of June 1, 1987, and about 13 days before the presentation of the project to the
Executive Directors, the Bank representative in New Delhi sent the following message to Bank Headquarters:
"No final formal EFW [Environment, Forests and Wildlife] clearance given for Talcher prior to PIB meeting.
However, EFW Ministry representative in PIB meeting raised no objection to clearance of project. Given this
and preliminary forestry clearance available for Talcher power plant, DEA [Department of Economic Affairs]
and DOP [Department of Power] consider the project fully cleared". Subsequently it was proven that the
clearance provided in the PIB meeting of June 1, 1987, was not the final clearance which would permit NTPC
make financial commitments for the project. The supervision mission which visited India in September-
October 1988, reported in its Aide Memoire dated October 20, 1988, that "final government clearance for the
project [had] not been confirmed yet".
31  For the Talcher TPP Project the dates were as follows:
- Pre-PIB meeting:       December 14, 1984
- PIB recommendation:    June 1, 1987 (given on the basis of an "in principle" environmental clearance)
- GOI (CCEA) clearance:   November 25, 1988
32  The clause was also repeated in Ln. 2844-IN (National Capital Power Project) approved the same day by the
Executive Directors (Footnote 10).



- 15-
*  when the project was presented to the Executive Directors on June 17, 1987, NTPC
was not in full compliance with the accounts receivable covenant it had agreed under
the ongoing Rihand Power Transmission and Combined Cycle Power Projects33
*  when at the end of NTPC-FY90 (March 31, 1990), NTPC's level of accounts
receivable had risen to seven months of sales equivalent, Bank management decided
not to exercise the remedies available under the loan agreement such as suspension of
disbursements, partly because of concern about jeopardizing India's ongoing
development program. Other non-power reasons might be that the Bank was also
worried about the impact of such a suspension of disbursements on the overall India-
Bank relations and on the level of disbursements to India, when India was
experiencing an economic crisis;
*  however, the Bank decided to cancel in mid-1990, the processing of a new loan of
US$375 million to NTPC after completion of negotiations34;
*  following many drastic measures taken by GOI and NTPC35, NTPC was, as of March
31, 1993 (end of NTPC-FY93), in compliance with the modified36 accounts
receivable covenant. Then, based on this data, the Executive Directors approved on
June 29, 1993, Ln. 3632-IN for the NTPC Power Generation Project;
-  when the Bank realized that, during the first three months of NTPC-FY94 (April to
June 1993), NTPC bill collection performance had dropped again to about 72 percent
and there was little evidence that NTPC was applying the newly adopted commercial
policies by regulating power to defaulting SEBs, on October 21, 1993, the Bank
advised GOI that unless NTPC's level of accounts receivable was brought down to
two months of sales equivalent by January 15, 1994, the Bank would, in effect from
that date, suspend India's rights to make withdrawals from Ln. 2844-IN (National
33  It is stated in para. 4.05 of the SAR dated May 28, 1987, that "the outstanding receivables .... have recently
dropped further to about 2.8 months in May 1987 .... After the remaining amounts are paid to NTPC in 1987
[through central appropriations], the overall level of accounts receivable would be below the equivalent of two
months sales."
34  The project would include the construction of a new 500 MW coal-fired unit at the Farakka TPP. One of the
reasons for the Bank to cancel the processing of the loan was its awareness of the low absorptive capacity of
ERIS.
35  During the 1990-1993 period, GOI allowed NTPC: (i) to recover over a period of four years through the
Central Appropriations (CA) the arrears accumulated as of the end of May 1990; (ii) to acquire the Unchahar
power station from the Government of Uttar Pradesh in lieu of arrears accumulated by the Uttar Pradesh SEB;
and, (iii) to shut-off or restrict supply of power to the SEBs in case of non-compliance with agreed terms of
supply.
36  As part of conditionality of the then proposed NTPC Power Generation Project, the Bank agreed that for the
purpose of monitoring compliance with the two months accounts receivable covenant, the amounts still due
under the central appropriations were to be excluded.



- 16-
Capital Power Project) and Ln. 2845-IN until NTPC was in compliance with the
agreed receivable covenant;
*  the Bank also informed NTPC that Ln. 3632-IN would not be declared effective until
NTPC was in compliance with the receivable covenant;
*  on February 2, 1994, the Bank agreed to keep the formal suspension in abeyance up
to May 1994, in recognition of NTPC's progress in dealing with its bill collection
problems and its applications of the new commercial policies, while GOI and NTPC
agreed to refrain from submitting withdrawal applications under Ln. 2844-IN and Ln.
2845-IN from March 1, 1994; and
*  following further actions by GOI and NTPC, in early June 1994, NTPC was in
compliance with its commitments. On June 6, 1994, the Bank lifted the above
mentioned informal suspension of disbursements and declared Ln. 3632-IN effective.
Although relations between the Bank and GOI and NTPC were tense at times, the Bank's
persistence on commercial behavior by NTPC has led to positive results and is, in fact, much
appreciated now by NTPC. Supervision missions gave sufficient priority to the revision,
approval and implementation of the resettlement and rehabilitation action plan37. Based on all
the above, the Bank's performance in supervision is assessed as satisfactory.
F. BORROWER PERFORMANCE
25.   GOI and NTPC prepared a good, economical and sustainable project. NTPC utilized the
experience it had acquired in the area of design and engineering of 500 MW thermal units and
400 kV transmission lines and substations, by the successful design and engineering of the
Talcher TPP and its associated transmission facilities38. However, GOI and NTPC's respective
performances for the whole preparation phase, which covers the period up to the start of
implementation, were deficient because they took an inordinately long time in granting and
obtaining the formal environmental and final GOI (CCEA) clearances39. Consequently, the start
up of the project was delayed by more than one year and a half, from June 1987 (approval of the
Bank Loan) to January 1989 (signing of the first contracts). At the time the project was
prepared, POWERGRID was not established yet.
26.   GOI and NTPC's performances in project implementation were marginally satisfactory.
Except for NTPC's lengthy procurement (para. 9), the delays caused by the various reasons given
in paragraphs 8 and 10-14, and in particular the substantial delay caused by equipment failure
37  R&R activities are not completed (para. 13). The Bank will follow the implementation of the remaining R&R
activities under the Talcher II Project, proposed by NTPC to be funded under Ln. 3632-IN.
38  Thermal power units design and engineering capacity and experience was gained through the 500 MW units at
Singrauli, Korba and Ramagundam TPPs. NTPC's transmission engineering capacity was transferred to
POWERGRID, which successfully completed the transmission facilities.
39  At the time the Talcher TPP project was prepared, POWERGRID was not established.



- 17-
were beyond NTPC's control. NTPC used the knowledge it had transferred from consultants and
experience it had gained during the implementation of the previous projects. Limited support
from consultants was utilized. However, NTPC's failure to plan adequately for the evacuation of
power from the power plant, once it noticed that investments in transmission and distribution by
the SEBs were far too short, and that the demand in the Eastern Region was not growing as
projected at appraisal, would not reduce the marginally satisfactory project implementation
40
rating . POWERGRID's performance was satisfactory. POWERGRID rescheduled the
implementation of the transmission facilities in accordance with the expected completion dates of
the thermal power plant.
27.   Compliance with the covenants of the loan was satisfactory, except for the one requiring
NTPC to reduce its accounts receivable to within two months of equivalent monthly billing. It
was only towards the end of the implementation of the project, and after a period during which
GOI and NTPC refrained from submitting disbursement applications, that GOI and NTPC
realized that sound financial health is a key element to the success of a utility that NTPC was
finally in compliance with this covenant. NTPC's willingness to follow commercial practices
has greatly improved its financial position. GOI's intervention through the central appropriations
helped NTPC avert financial crises and resolve, for limited periods, its accounts receivable
problem. These interventions aimed at having NTPC operate efficiently and thus keep the
energy supply in the country at an adequate level. However, because of NTPC's non-compliance
with the accounts receivable covenant for most of the implementation period, covenant
compliance is assessed as deficient. It is also doubtful that GOI's actions have resulted in
improving the operational efficiency as well as the billing and collection practices and
procedures of SEBs which buy power from NTPC. The need for energy conservation on the
customer (SEBs) side and demand management through the adoption of appropriate tariffs and
tariff structures and through end-use efficiencies are equally important. This is being done
through State Power Sector Restructuring operations of which the Orissa and Haryana SPSR
projects have already been approved.
G. ASSESSMENT OF PROJECT OUTCOME
28.   The results of the project are satisfactory. The physical components of the project are
installed, but problems with the generator transformers and absence of transmission outlets4'
have, so far, prevented the plant from achieving satisfactory availability and PLF. However, as
soon as the HVDC back-to-back systems and other transmission lines under construction to
facilitate transfer of power from the Eastern Region to the other regions are completed, this
project would qualify to be deemed as fully satisfactory. This is expected by February 1999
(para. 6, Footnote 8).
40  Recent actions by NTPC and POWERGRID to improve the performance of the power plants in ERIS are given
in Appendix F.
41  Part I, para. 11.



- 18-
H. FUTURE OPERATION
42
29.   For the short periods since they have been declared in commercial operation , the
availability of both units has been relatively low (Part II; Table 6). This has been due to the
faults which occurred in the generation transformers. Furthermore, the power plant has been
working with one unit in operation at a very poor PLF, except for a few hours during peak load
periods. This due to the fact that during the ten years since the finalization of the SAR, the
demand in ERIS did not increase as projected at appraisal, and many of the investments (in
particular in transmission and distribution) were not made. When the transmission facilities
being built by POWERGRID and other recent actions taken by NTPC in accordance vvith both
Corporations' strategy to export power from ERIS to the other regions are completed, the PLF of
the Talcher TPP will rise to an economically viable level. However, availability of coal of
adequate quality must be assured through commercially enforceable contracts. Thereafter, the
plant's performance will be monitored against the standards of the North American Energy
Reliability Council (NERC) for coal-fired power stations, as indicated in Part II; Table 6.
However, availability of coal of adequate quality must be assured.
I. KEY LESSONS LEARNED
30.   Several specific lessons can be drawn from this project that have both operational and
strategic implications for the design of similar projects in the future:
(a)   In a time of great power shortages, it took so long for GOI to grant the clearances
for the Project. This suggests some disconnect between the development
objectives of GOI and the officials responsible in various ministries. Moreover,
the lengthy clearance process didn't seem to work. After all the delays,
insufficient transmission and distribution capacity existed to take the power to the
markets. It is recommended that during its review of the effectiveness of its
project approval processes, GOI should take into account the lessons from the
implementation of the Project.
(b)   Project preparation and appraisal should assess the risks of the plant capacity
not being utilitized, and should include the development of strategies for
mitigating these risks. In particular, investment plans for transmission and
distribution of the power from the power plants should be confirmed.
(c)    The project experienced serious difficulties getting started because of lack of
environmental clearance from GOI. Currently, the Bank requires that the formal
environmental clearance be obtained before presenting a project to the Board.
(d)   NTPC's procurement process cycle from bid issue to contract award should be
significantly shortened by the evaluation committees endeavoring to complete
42  Units I and 2 were declared in commercial operation as of January 1 and July 1, 1997, respectively.



- 19-
their work at shortest possible periods and NTPC management giving priority in
reviewing the evaluation reports.
(e)   A complete survey of PAFs should be made at the prolject preparation stage to
include not only PAPs of the primary project site (i.e., the main power plant), but
also those affected by all associated sites, such as, transmission line corridors,
railway lines for coal transportation, resettlement colony, etc. The R&R Plans
should thereafter be developed in full consultation with the PAFs in a transparent
and open manner.
(f)    The Talcher TPP should receive coal of proper quality and in required quantities
in order to operate in a sustainable manner at its full capacity. To this end, NTPC
should sign with the Eastern Coalfields of Coal India, a commercially enforceable
contract, where the parties would not act as monopoly supplier and sole buyer.
(g)   A sound financial health is a key element to the success of a utility. NTPC's new
commercial practices introduced under the NTPC Power Generation Project (Ln.
3632-IN) have greatly improved its financial position. GOI/Bank/NTPC dialogue
on NTPC's financial situation and its application of the commercial policies (in
particular, cutting off supply to non-paying customers) should be continued.
(h)   GOI intervention through the Central Appropriations helped NTPC resolve its
accounts receivable problem, although for a limited period of time. However, it is
doubtful whether GOI's actions have led to the SEBs improving their operational
efficiency and their billing and collection procedures and practices. In order to
ensure that the project is financially viable, a successful central power project
needs to be part of a well conceived sector assistance strategy that also addressee
the SEB level issues.
(i)    Energy conservation on the customer (SEBs) side and demand management by
the utilities through the adoption of appropriate tariffs and tariff structure at SEBs
and through end-use efficiencies, are important other aspects to improve
efficiency in the power sector. GOI/Bank/ States with a number of States
dialogue and recent approvals of the state power sector restructuring operations in
Orissa and Haryana are important steps forward and should be continued.
(j)    Failure by reputed local manufacturers to deliver critical equipment on time has
caused the project long delays, as was the case for the suppliers of the ash
handling plant and control and instrumentation package. The bid documents
should make it very clear that before awarding a contract, the manufacturing
capability and the order portfolio of the bidder whose bid is evaluated as the least
cost bid, should be reviewed by NTPC to determine whether the bidder would be
capable of performing the contract on schedule. During evaluation, this provision
should be applied with courage. There are already provisions for just such an
evaluation in Clause 13, ITB for Goods, however, this requires some thought as to
an appropriate set of qualification requirements being crafted for the Bid Data



- 20 -
Sheet, and good record keeping of ongoing contracts as well. Corresponding
information to evaluate such provisions would be necessary for these provisions
to be useful and effective.
(k)   Subcontracting by contractors was also another cause for delays. NTPC should
assess more closely the suitability of proposed sub-contractors.
(1)   Land acquisition was a major hurdle and as such, in future NTPC should plan to
set up projects only when land is acquired and made available to NTPC in the
initial stages of the project.
(m)   Power utilization within the Eastern Region proved to be a bottleneck. The
project was designed and executed with the assumption that the transmission and
sub-transmission systems in the region would also be planned and implemented.
Subsequently, projects to export power to other regions were developed. In
future, NTPC should ensure that similar bottleneck situations do not appear. This
could be achieved by NTPC by converting the existing BPSAs into commercially
and financially binding contracts with the SEBs or its other customers (similar to
the PPAs signed by the SEBs with the IPPs for private sector projects) and, then
utilizing the inter-regional transmission links to reach the paying consumers.



-21 -
PART II: STATISTICAL TABLES
Table 1: Summary of Assessments
A -. -,i ~rn.o    jtie             -     ,     u.,t,,-.E antial    Patia  T ;,,  eg1ii-,
Macroeconomic policies                       O              03              0
Sector policies                              a               v              a                     O
Financial objectives                         0                '             O                     O
Institutional development                    0                              0                     0
Physical objectives                           '              O              01                     0
Poverty reduction                            a1             0               0                     El1
Gender issues                                O              a               o                      IU
Other social objectives         O3                           n               o
Environmental objectives                     Ele            O3 O3
Public sector management                     O              EV              a                     Cl
Private sector development                   O              O3 O 
Other                                         3                                        0U
a3               0
...............,   .'  .   .. .. .. ..
Identification                        O3                                     3 O               O
Preparation assistance                O                                     a O3
Appraisal                             O                a3                   a                  m
Supervision                           a                                     a Da
Preparation                           a                a                    O                  .1
Implementation                        0                O                   .2                  a
Covenant compliance                   a                a                    a                  SW
Operation (if applicable)             a                                     a                  O
E~~tw.w Ass.en..uco..                  Uypisatr              -     .    heor          Diqn. .,'', ,--
1/ The objectives did not include any specific action for microeconomic policies, poverty reduction, gender concem issues and privat sector
development
2/ Sector policy, public sector management and institutional development objectives were partially achieved through financial and insttutional
strengthening of NTPC.
l/ Physical and environmental objectives were substantially achieved with the completion of the construction of the Talcher TPP and
transmission projects.
J There were no special social objectives in the project. However, satisfactory resettlement and rehabilitation of the people affected by the
Talcher TPP was an objective and has been partially achieved. Follow up would be carried out under the NTPC Power Generation Project
(Ln.3632-lN) in case Talcher TPP Phase 1 (4 x 500 MW) is financed under this Loan.
J Parm. 21 and Appendix F - Sustainability will be achieved when current power evacuation problems are resolved. Availability of coal of
proper quality and required quantities must be ensured.
fit Parm. 22.
21 Paras. 23 and 24.
A/ Para. 25 - Borrower's performance during preparation covers only GOI and NTPC, as at the time the project was prepared, POWERGRID
was not established yet
2/ Par. 26 - Marginally satisfactory for GOI and NTPC; satisfactory for POWERGRID.
12 Because of NTPC's non-compliance for most of the implementation period with the accounts receivable covenant, covenant compliance is
assessed as "deficient" (para. 27).
IV Parm 21 and Appendix F - After the current power evacuation problems are resolved, the operation of the power plant will be fully
saisfactory.
12/ Para. 28 and Appendix F - As soon as the transmission lines under construction to facilitae transfer of power from the Eastem Region to
the other regions are completed, this project would qualify to be deemed as fully satisfactory - expected by February 1999.



-22-
Table 2: Related Bank Loans/Credits
L0a*~/Cr0dit i~t.    Pr                              Yea-: - - -:r of Approval  Stat
-                                                              B D,L - n   " . ":-   ................. j . : - ---: ... .:: : ':.-': . '. :- .. ... .~~~~~~~~~.   .   . .   . . . . . . . .
:1BR 1D `L o n    ......_                        _  __  _  __  _  __  _  __
Preceding Operations
Ramagundan Thermal               3x200 MW                      January 1979      Complete
Farakka Thermal                  3x200 MW                      June 1980         Complete
Second Ramagundam Thermal        3x500 MW                      December 1981     Complete
Central Power Transmission       400kV+220kV transmission      May 1983          Complete
Second Farakka Thermal           2x500 MW                      June 1984         Complete
Rihand Power Transmission        500kV HVDC+400kV AC tr.       May 1985          Complete
Combined Cycle Power             413 MW (Anta)                 April 1986        Complete
652 MW (Auraiya)
652 MW (Auraiya)
Capital Power Supply             4x2 10 MW (Dadri)            June 1987          Complete
Talcher Thermal                  2x500 MW                      June 1987         Complete
Foloin Oprtin
NTPC Power Generation            Improve commercial discipline,  June 1993       Under
environmental and R&R                           construction
management capability, increase
generation capacity (as of date of
this ICR, the following TPPs
have been declared eligible for
funding under this project: (a)
2x500 MW coal-fired
Vindhyachal II TPP; and (b) 400
MW Kayamkularn naphta-based
combined cycle TPP)
Total IBRD Loans: 10
Preceding Operations
Singrauli Thermal                3x200 MW                      April 1977        Complete
Ramagundam Thermal               3x200 MW                      January 1979      Complete
Korba Thermal                    3x200 MW                      April 1970        Complete
Second Singrauli Thermal         2x500 MW                      May 1980          Complete
Farakka Thermal                  3x200 MW                      June 1980         Complete
Second Korba Thermal             3x200 MW                      July 1981         Complete
Total IDA Credits: 6
Sec oral Objective Common to tlwe Above Project
In addition to the above project-specific objectives, the sectoral objective was to assist NTPC in becoming a model
utility for the poorly performing SEBs.
The Singrauli, Ramagundam, Korba, Farakka, Dadri and Talcher TPPs are all coal-fired projects. The projects for
these TPPs included the associated transmission line and substation development.



-23 -
Table 3: Project Timetable
.S*~~~ps i~~~.pr~~~jea cy4~~~~:.::    > ~ ~~             ........   ....... .... .. .........
Identification                                                                                                                 1985
................................................................................................ .......... ..................................................... .............................. ..........................
Preparation                                                                                                                   1985
Appraisal.                                                                   April 1986 ()                            Feb          1986 
......~~~~............................................................................... ..................... ...........................................I.................... ................................................
Negotiations                                                              September 1986 (1)                          May 26, 1987 (3)
..................................................................................................... ............................................................... ..........................................................
Board presentation                                                        November 1986 (1)                             June 17, 1987
igning                                                                                                             December 21, 1987
...................................................................................... ..................... ...........................................I.................... ................................................
EfRfectiveness                                                                                                         March 21, 1988
.......................................................................................................... ...............................................................  ...........................................................
Project completion                                                        March 31, 1995 (4)                      November 30, 1997 (5)
Loan closing                                               .......        March 31, 1996 (4)                           March 31, 199
(1): From the Project Brief of January 8, 1986.
(2): For reasons given in Part I, para. 22, the Bank kept the processing of the loan in abeyance for more than one
year. The Staff Appraisal Report was updated as of May 28, 1987 (Report No. 6402-IN).
(3): Technical discussions were held from May 12 to 18, 1987.
(4): From the Loan Agreement dated December 21, 1987.
(5): Unit 2 was declared in commercial operation as of July 1, 1997. However, due to the unavailability of
generator transformers, both units of the power plant were not in service together until November 30, 1997.
For Bank's purposes, the Project is considered completed on this date. The transmission facilities built under
the Project were completed in 1995 (Table SB).
Table 4: Loan Disbursements: Cumulative Estimated and Actual (*)
.~ntPik88                                  F89          FY90   - t FY9            ..........    ......  F.h.. .... .  .. .. .Y9
Appraisal Estimate             7.5          30.0         71.0        135.0        210.0        277.0        326.0        360.0        375.0
(US$ million)
Actual (USS million)            0.0         24.4         30.2         47.7        90.8         144.9        194.8        237.1        260.8       273.9       272.8
Actual as % of                  0.0         81.3         42.5         35.3         43.2         52.3         59.7        65.9          69.4
Estimate (%)                                        I            I            I                         I_I_I_I
Dae of Final                 September 2, 1997
Disbursement
(*) Cancellations:    As of May 1, 1993:                                           US$   8,000,000.00
As of March 15, 1996:                          US$ 71,900,000.00
As of September 2, 1997:                       USS 22,301,149.35
Total Canceled:                                US$ 102,301,149.35
(**) Disbursements were completed on September 2, 1997, with the reimbursement of the balance remaining
in the Special Account.



-24 -
Table 5: Key Indicators for Project Implementation
A. Procurement
;~d J:ssue              Eva)u-tt-    '      '"1''  0't"c AWa'd
__________                                              C m       lt Jt j eA- ::   - :   - -  :.    l    I  :- .  : . -pprov al.,.
Boiler and                    Planned                           09/87                                                                                     06/88
................................. ......................................................................................................................................................................
auxiliaries                   Actual                             Negotiated bilateral suppliers' financing                                                 12/88
Turbine                       Planned                           09/87                                                                                     06188
..........................  ................................. ................................. ................................. ............................................................
Generator                     Actual                            08/87                     09/88                     09/88                                 01/89
Civil Works                   Planned                           12/88                                                                                     08/89
- Foundations Actua 02i90..............  ..................................  .................................  ............ ..........   ...................................
Foundations                   Actual                            02/90             ______________10/90
Electrical                    Planned                           09/88                                                                                     07/89
Transformers                  Actual                            01/90                     01/9                       01/91                                01/91
CW System                     Planned                           07/88                                                                                     05/89
Actual                           07/88                     09/89                     09/89                                  11/89
Coal                          Planned                           08/88                                                                                     06/89
Handling                    Actual                     08/89 & 10/89                   07/90                     09/90                                 09/90
Ash                           Planned                           03/89                                                                                     02/90
Handling                    Actua                            04/90                     01/1                      .02/91                                 02/91
B. Construction and Commissioning
SAR    Revised*   Actual   S                                                         Adual    SAR    Revised   Acdual
_                                                                                 ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~*
Unit 1                           03/90             04/91            11/90            06/93            04/94           02/95**              ***             06/94            O1/97
................................. ...................... ...................... ................... .. ..................... ...................... ...................... ..................... ...............................
Unit 2                           03/91             03/92            01/92           06/94             04/95           03/96* *             ***             07/95           07/97
.................................  ...................... ...................... ................... ....................... ...................... ...................... ..................... ...............................
Transmission
Talcher-Rengali                  10/92             10/92            09/92           04/94                               02/95                                              06/95
..................................... ..................... ......................  ............ ...........   ........ ...........  .......................   ............ .............   ......... .............  ......................  .............   ... . . .......   .............
Tal.-Rourkela                    07/92             07/92            08/92           03/95                               04/95                                              08/95
...............................7i.....   ....................... .... . ........ ......... ............... i.. ......... ................... .......  ......................  ............. ...................   ............. ...........................................
Rengali s/s                      02/93                              04/93            10/94                              02/95                                              06195
..............................  .................... ..................... ............................... ..I.................... . ................................ .............
Rourkela s/s                      01/92                         1 01/93             05/95                               03/95                                              08/95
* Revised at the time of award of the contracts in January 1989.
4* Part l; paras. 11 and 16, with regard to re-synchronization of Unit 1, after the accident in the Generator of Unit 1.
** As no dates were shown in the SAR for commercial operation, no comparison can be made.
Table 6: Key Indicators for Project Operation
1-2 Years                                     3-10 Years                11-20 Years    21-25 Years
Years in Operation                    Planned                  Ut   Actual 2/                                   Planned                   Planned                   Planned
Unit I an                Unit 2
TWh/year                                        2.75                 1.208                    1.416                       3.3                      3.18                     2.84
Plant Availability, %                            70                  41.5                      79.6                       79                        79                        77
Plant Load Factor, %                             63                  27.6                      64.2                        75                       72                        65
/ Based on expected generation in accordance with NERC standard for coal-fired power plants.
2/ Calculated from the dates of commercial operation: Unit 1, from January to December 1997; Unit 2, from July to December 1997.
l/ Unit 1 was out of service from mid-June to end-November 1997, due to unavailability of the generator transformers (Part 1, para. 11).
Table 7: Studies Included in the Project
None.



Table SA: Project Costs
Local  Foreign    Tetal   Local  Foreign    Total    Local    Foreign   Total    Local                 Foreign     Total
PreHmlmiay Woik                       62      -           62      5.6      -5.                                                    56.6       -56.6
Ciil Work                           136.5        8.6    145.1     85.6       6.5      92.1j                                       85.6         6.5       92.1
~~~~~~ ~~~~~202.7                 191.2    393.9    182.5    172.2    354.71                                        182.5        172.2     354.
.          -.I.~........    ................................                     ..........     .........................     ...........
Ot0ie Mech. Equipment                40.6      36.6      77.2     45.6      40.9       65                                         45.6        40.9       86.5
ElcrclWorks                      9.4       37.6     47.0       9.1      36.6      4579.1                                                  36.6      45.7
Coal Handling                                      ..Trans.Eq..4.9  18.   6.9  3....  4  16..5....i      ..... S4.. ....... ....................... 55.9. 39.4...    .......... 16.5 ..5..9... 
Trnmnoission Line &Substn.           31.5       15.1     46.6                                     9.7        25.3      35.0        9.7        25.3       35.0
Engneering, Adminstration            56         0.       544      31         4.0      38.1341.081
and Consltacy
Pro-commissinn Epne                                                 3.5    -            3.5                                        3.5       -3.5
Total Bute Cost                     593.1     339.8    932.9
Physical Contingencies               34.2       17.4     51.6-
Price Contingmencis                 118        6.        3.
Total Project Cost                  799.1     423.2  1,222.3    456.4    277.4    733.8           9.7        25.3      35.0      466.1       302.7      768.8
Interest During Construction  52.1  10.1    15.       2.                  2.9         8.7     -87                   134.6       -13.
-TotaFl nancng Required             851.2      524.3- 1,375.5    582.. 9.31   277.4    85.f84                  53      4.7       60730.                  0.
NOTE: In tems of Indian Rupees, financing requirement was estimated at appraisa as Rs. 17,877 million. Actual cost is Rs. 26,871.72 million at an
avrasge exchange rate of Rs. 29.71US$.



Table 8B: Project Financing
Appraisal Estimate                                                                      NTPC - Actual                                             POWERGRID - Actual                                                                       Total - Actual
Soirce                                                     Local  Foreign   Total   Local  Foreign   Total   Local  Foreign   Total   Local  Foreign   Total
..............................................................................    .......................................,..........................,..............................................................
IBRD                                                                                                 -375.0    375.0                                                            -243.2    243.2                                                             -29.6                                                  29.6                 -272.8    272.8
..... ...................................................................             ............ *----------  3- ...----------------   1----------------- 7 -------- .. ..............  ...... 2      -4 ...--             ------- 24   ---6                                                               9 62                                               2.7
GOI Loan and Equity                                                                                   508.21   149.3    657.5                                                   ---
n                 Resource s                                                      343            ...........................3.                                 3 8.3                                            338.3                                                                                                3 .........      .....  ...... ............... ..... ..........3....
~~~~~~~~~..... _.................... 1..................... ..................... ..................... ..................... ............................................. ................................                                                                                                                                  .....................
French Commercial Loan                                                                                                                                                                                    100.2    100.2                                                                                                                                           100.2    100.2
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~.......... ...........  ..................... ...........  ...................I.  ..................... ..................... ......................................................................
External Commercial Borrowing                                                                                                                                                                                  7.5                        7.5                                                                                                                          7.5                         7.5
by NTPC
~~~~~~~~.....................................................................................................................................  .................... 1.................... ..................... ..................... ..................... .........
Domestic Loans *                                                                                                                                                                170.5                     -                        170.5                                                                                                170.5                     -                        170.5
..............................................................................    ....................................................................................................................................
POWERGRID Internal Resources                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   14.1                  -                            14.1                       14.1                 -                           14.1
t....-------------...............................................;... ..........951.'     ...... ;i                         J     ... f;P             9   ......... g           i .... .... ;~              9.. ..........8.. 59.7 .. .......;.  il.i.......   i;6 ........ """ ....... ,,.. '"'......3..80.5 .........03.4
* Bonds and loans from Indian Financial Institutions.
O'
NOTE: Packages awarded following ICB prodecure under Bank funding and the boilers package under the French commercial loan have been taken as foreign
component. The balance is local funding.



- 27 -
Table 9: Economic Costs and Benefits
(Rs. Million)
-Fi                                                         Total Cost       Inr  ae        NetBe
1986              0.7                                       0.7                              -0.7
1987              2.8                                       2.8                              -2.8
1988              6.8                                       6.8                              -6.8
1989             155.3                                      155.3                           -155.3
1990             939.7                                     939.7                            -939.7
1991            1069.4                                     1069.4                           -1069.4
1992            3399.3                                     3399.3                           -3399.3
1993            4794.9                                     4798.9                           -4798.9
1994            3880.6                                     3890.6                           -3890.6
1995            3355.7                                     3368.7                           -3368.7
1996            2710.3                                     2711.6                           -2711.6
1997            1805.0          239.9         89.8         2134.7           1084.6          -1050.1
1998             224.8          1444.1       538.7         2207.6           7613.3          5405.7
1999            1596.1          1444.1       598.5         3638.7           8700.9          5062.2
2000               -            1444.1        598.5        2042.6           8700.9          6658.2
2001                            1444.1       598.5         2042.6           8700.9          6658.2
2002                            1444.1       598.5         2042.6           8700.9          6658.2
2003                            1444.1       598.5         2042.6           8700.9          6658.2
2004                            1444.1       598.5         2042.6           8700.9          6658.2
2005                            1444.1       598.5         2042.6           8700.9          6658.2
2006                            1444.1       598.5         2042.6           8700.9          6658.2
2007                            1444.1        598.5        2042.6           8700.9          6658.2
2008                            1444.1       598.5         2042.6           8700.9          6658.2
2009                            1444.1       598.5         2042.6           8700.9          6658.2
2010                            1444.1       598.5         2042.6           8700.9          6658.2
2011                            1444.1       598.5         2042.6           8700.9          6658.2
2012                            1444.1       598.5         2042.6           8700.9          6658.2
2013                            1444.1        598.5        2042.6           8700.9          6659.2
2014                            1444.1        598.5        2042.6           8700.9          6658.2
2015                            1444.1       598.5         2042.6           8700.9          6658.2
2016                            1444.1       598.5         2042.6           8700.9          6658.2
2017                            1444.1       598.5         2042.6           8700.9          6658.2
2018                            1444.1        598.5        2042.6           8700.9          6658.2
2019                            1444.1       598.5         2042.6           8700.9          6658.2
2020                            1444.1       598.5         2042.6           8700.9          6658.2
2021                            1444.1       598.5         2042.6           8700.9          6658.2
2022                            1444.1       598.5         2042.6           8700.9          6658.2
Internal Economic Rate Return: 16.65 percent
At appraisal, the IERRs for the investment program of ERIS, of which the project is part, were estimated to be about 4 percent and 10
percent, respectively, without and with consumer surplus. However, during the ten years since the finalization of the SAR, the demand in
ERIS did not increase as projected at appraisal, and many of the investments were not made. On the other hand, NTPC's tariffs to the
SEBs in the region were substantially increased. The capital costs of actual investments, covering the generation and transmission
components, together with inmremental operating and fuel costs, have been quantified. The benefits of the investment program relate
mainly to the incremental consumption which they make possible. The present power evacuation constraint has been assumed to last until
early-1999, when the HVDC link to facilitate the transfer of power to the Southem region will be completed and energized. Taking into
account the current bulk supply tariff for energy generated at Talcher TPP (Rs. 1.45/kWh) and actual investment, current O&M and fuel
costs, the ERR for the Project, considering incremental generation and sales from the Talcher TPP, was computed to be about 16.65
percent.



- 28 -
Table 10: Status of Legal Covenants
.. .   .,,.........,.''-._.   .-  ..........  ......,.  
Loan 3.01(b)      GOI to relend proceeds of loan to NTPC under subsidiary Loan  In compliance.
Agreement approved by the Bank.
Loan 4.01(b)      GOI/NTPC to furnish audit on SOEs (due within 7 months of    In compliance.
FY end).
Loan 4.02         GOI to furnish audit on Special Account (due within 6 months   In compliance.
of FY end).
~~~~~~~~~~~.....                                          ..........  .....   77 7 7 7 , "'' "''
PA 2.07           NTPC shall, by December 31, 1987 furnish to the Bank a  Furnished in 1988. Further
satisfactory R&R plan for those people who are currently  improvements with regard
residing on the land acquired for the project, or shall be  to Bank and NTPC's
displaced by such acquisition and shall in cooperation with the   evolving R&R policies
concerned government authorities implement such plan.   were made. Action Plan is
being implemented.
3.03              NTPC shall take out insurance against risks in such amounts as  In compliance.
will be consistent with appropriate practice
3.04              NTPC to contract for coal supplies not later than one year prior  In compliance.
to commissioning power station under the project.
3.05              NTPC to apply to appropriate authorities by March 31, 1988 to  In compliance 1/.
obtain required clearance under Forests (Conservation) Act,
1980, in connection with constructing transmission lines.
4.01 (b)(ii)      NTPC shall submit audited financial statements and auditor's    In compliance.
reports within 7 months of end of FY.
4.02              NTPC's accounts receivable will be maintained from 3/31/86  Not in compliance until
onwards at a level of no more than the equivalent of power sales  mid-1994 (Part I; para. 24).
for the two preceding months.
4.03              NTPC shall achieve an annual ROR of not less than 7% in  In compliance.
1984/85 through 19889/90 and not less than 9.5% in 1990/91
through 1994/95 and thereafter at satisfactory levels to ensure
financial viability.
1/ NTPC applied to GOO for the said forest clearances on March 15, 1988. Thus NTPC complied with the
covenant. However, final granting of these clearances took another six years. Following the transfer to
POWERGRID of NTPC's responsibilities in transmission, POWERGRID followed up the processing, obtained the
clearances and built the transmission lines.
Ta1cher-Rorlea Line:  - NTPC applied to GOO:               March 15, 1988
- GOO applied to GOI/MOEF:           May 16, 1992
- First stage clearance by MOEF:     February 11, 1993
- Final clearance by MOEF:           January 17, 1994 (Almost 6 years from
application to GOO).
Talcher Rengali Line    - NTPC applied to GOO:             March 15, 1988
- GOO applied to GOI/MOEF:           October 26, 1991
- First stage clearance by MOEF:     May 29, 1992
- Final clearance by MOEF:           January 12, 1993 (Almost 5 years from
application to GOO).



-29 -
Table 11: Bank Resources: Staff Inputs
oofPwjtct Cycle                 Planned                 Revised                  Actu.,
Weeks        US$       Weeks        US$        Weeks   'US$
('000)
Through Appraisal               30.0                                               __
Appraisal-Board
Board-Effectiveness
Supervision                     24.0
Completion                                                                _
TOTAL                           54.0       _
Table 12: Bank Resources: Missions
,..t.~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~. ............
Through appraisal    1986       9               E,EC,FA,EN
Appraisal through    1-6/87     3               E,FA
Board approval
Board approval    6/87- 3/88    3               E,FA
through
effectiveness
Supervision 1       9/87        3        10    FA,SP                                _
Supervision 2       1/88        5        19     E,FA,SP                     I
Supervision 3       9/88       4                EC,E,FA          I          1
Supervision 4       7/89        1         2     E                1          1         Covenants+FP
Supervision 5      10/89        1        2      EN
Supervision 5       2/90       2                E                I          I            Cov.+FP
Supervision 6       7/90        1               E                I          1            Cov+FP
Supervision 7       2/91        1               -E               I          I
Supervision 8       7/91        3               E,FA,IT           1         1            Cov.+FP
Supervision 9       2/92        2               E,EN             I          I             Cov.
Supervision 10     10192        2               E,FA             I          I            Cov.+FP
Supervision 11      4/93        1        2      E
Supervision 12      6/93        4               E,FA,PR          2          1       Proj.Mgmt.+Cov+FP
Supervision 13      9/93        7               E,EC,FA,EN       2          1      PM + EN + Cov. +FP
Supervision 14      1/94        4         3     E,EN             3         -         PM+EN+Cov+FP
Supervision 15      5/94        1         3     EN(R&R)
Supervision 16      6/94        5         1     E,EN,FA          S         HS          PM+EN+FP
Supervision 17     11/94        2               E,EN             S         HS          PM+EN+FP
Supervision 18     11/95        2               E,EN             U         S         EN+FP+EN+PM
Supervision 19      3/96        4               E,FA, EN         U          S          PM+EN+FP
Supervision 20      9/96        4       _       E,FA,            S          S             R&R
Completion (*      t/1196       3         1     E                       _
Supervision 21      2/97        2               E,FA             S          S
() Short follow up missions were carried out in July and October 1997, by the Engineer (Task Leader).
Specialist.     E: Engineer, FA: Financial Analyst; EC: Economist; EN: Environmental Specialist; PR: Procurement
Specialist; IT: Infonnation Technology Specialist
-Ptrobms:       FP: Financial Performance; PM: Project Management; Cov:Legal Covenants
Rangs:          1 =No or minor problems; 2 - Moderate problems; 3 = Major problems
I Implenentaton delays; IN - Institutional Problems; PR  Procurement Delays



- 30 -
APPENDIX - A
AIDE MEMOIRE OF THE
IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
PREPARATION MISSION
An Implementation Completion Report (ICR) is re~quired by the World Bank for each of
it's lending operations, aimed at improving the quality and effectiveness of Bank loans and
reinforcing the borrower's ability to design, implement and operate projects. In light of this
requirement, an ICR mission was fielded by the Bank from November 25 to November 29. 1996
for the Talcher Thermal Power Project (Loan No. 2845-IN), the loan closing date for which is
March 31, 1997. The mission included a site visit on November 25 and 26. This aide meemoire
records the findings of the ICR mission as well as agreements reached with NTPC and
POWERGRID Corporation to facilitate completion of the ICR on time. The mission would like
to take this opportunity to thank NTPC and POWERGRID for the courtesy and assistance
extended to it to accomplish its tasks.
1.    The first 500 MW unit was commissioned in February 1995 and the second unit of
identical capacity in March 1996. Commissioning was vitiated by serious equipment problems,
causing significant delays. At the time of the mission's visit, only Unit 1 was in operation and
Unit 2 was out of service owing to suspected failure of the Generator Transformer.
2.   It was noted that the Talcher Thermal Power Plant was operating at a PLF (capacity
factor) as low as 20% because of constraints in evacuating power from the power plant. The
offtake by the SEBs in the Eastern Region has been much lower than the level projected at
appraisal. Until now, it has been possible to run one generating unit only, but that too at 230-240
MW level except for a few hours during peak periods when the unit may generate to its design
capacity.
3.    The mission was advised that this situation was likely to continue until the end of 1997
when the HVDC line between Jeypur and Vishakhapatnam was expected to come into operation
to help transport power (about 1,000 MW) to the Southern Region. In light of the fact that
Talcher had idle capacity while the Southern Region suffered from shortage of power, the
mission requested NTPC to explore the economic merit of expediting the completion of the
HVDC installation so that the proper benefits of the Talcher project could be realized as soon as
possible.
4.    The mission was also advised that NTPC was about to approach the Bank with a formal
request for extending the closing date of the loan. However, until such time as this matter was
settled, the mission requested that processing of the ICR should proceed with March 31, 1997
assumed as the loan closing date. To this end, the mission handed over a copy of the proposed
Statistical Tables (Part II) for the ICR to NTPC as well as relevant extracts of the sanie to
POWERGRID. The schedule for the flow and exchange of information was set and agreed as
follows:



- 31 -
Draft Part III from NTPC to Bank:                January 15, 1997
Part III extract from POWERGRID to Bank:         January 15, 1997
Draft ICR from Bank to NTPCIPOWERGRID:           February 15, 1997
Comments and Final Input from POWERGRID:         March 31, 1997
Comments and Final Input from NTPC,
(including Draft Part II):                       April 7, 1997
Final Draft of ICR:                              April 30, 1997
The ICR will be updated and finalized as disbursements under the loan are completed.
5.   It was agreed that the Project Cost would be shown under the same categories as in the
SAR. The mission requested NTPC to follow Annex 3.2 of the SAR as guidelines for
determining the various contract categories.
6.    Taxes and duties paid on procurements for the project are required to be shown. The
mission was assured that the figures would be compiled and included in the draft report to be
sent to the Bank on January 15, 1997, which could be updated in the final version, as necessary.
Similarly, IDC also would be indicated.
7.   It was reported to the mission that 3 out of 4 air quality monitoring stations at the site had
already been relocated to correspond to the spots of highest ground level concentrations of SOx,
NOX and SPM indicated by the stack plume dispersion modeling. The mission advised NTPC
that air quality measurements should be undertaken as soon as the plant begins operation at full
load, using the worst quality of coal, to validate the results indicated by the model.
8.    The 400 kV, double circuit transmission lines associated with the project, viz. Talcher -
Rengali (40 km) and Talcher - Rourkela (175 km) were completed and energized in February and
April, 1995 respectively, using spare conductors available with POWERGRID. The mission
noted that the procurement of replacement conductors was yet to be completed, and advised
POWERGRID to complete the procurement formalities before the loan closing date.
9.    With regard to disbursement under the loan, and based on a closing date of March 31,
1997, NTPC was advised as follows:
In accordance with the Bank's current practice, further disbursements from the loan will
be made for withdrawal applications received at the Bank's Headquarters by close of
business on July 31, 1997 (a maximum of four months after closing date) in respect of
eligible expenditures made before the closing date (i.e., payments made or payments due
for goods, works and services that have been provided prior to the closing date).
Proceeds of the loan remaining unwithdrawn after disbursements have been made in
respect of these withdrawal applications will be canceled.
It follows therefore! that the goods should have been delivered, works completed and services
rendered prior to the loan closing date and payments for such goods, works or services should



- 32 -
have been made or should have come due under relevant contracts prior to the closing date. Both
criteria must be met for expenditures under the loan to be eligible for disbursements by the Bank.
10.   Environmental Agreements: A formal environmental clearance for the Talcher project
from the Ministry of Environment and Forests was required from the Department of
Environment before loan negotiations. This requirement was met. Subsequently, NTPC was
required to formulate a satisfactory resettlement plan and thereafter implement the plan in co-
operation with the government authorities. There were no environmental management or
monitoring conditions included in the agreements of the loan. However, several envirornmental
management and monitoring measures have been voluntarily implemented by NTPC with highly
satisfactory results.
11.   Environmental Monitoring: An Environmental Management Group (EMG) has been
established at the site. The EMG is responsible for environmental monitoring of ambient air,
emissions and effluent, outfitting the environmental laboratory, and pursuing ash disposal
options. The EMG is supported by laboratory facilities for sample analysis. Ambient air quality,
meteorological conditions, SPM, SOx and NOx are monitored on a regular basis. The ambient air
quality, with the exception of the mill area within the plant, is within regulatory standards. The
EMG has monitored local surface water quality baseline conditions, and has an ongoing program
to continue. The local coal deposit is thought to be to origin of the slightly elevated metals.
Effluent monitoring is performed for pH, TSS, oil and grease, lead, cadmium and mercury. Total
suspended solids (TSS) concentrations have been high in the samples analyzed by the State
Pollution Control Board. Operation of the coal runoff settling basin, and completion of the ash
pond recycling system will address this problem. Sanitary waste water effluent from the septic
tanks currently in use is analyzed and sometimes exceeds BOD limits; this will be addressed by
the installation of the new sanitary effluent treatment system. The Talcher EMG has taken a pro-
active approach to addressing potential contamination problems associated with the new ash
pond, through a program of groundwater monitoring, to establish baseline conditions. Analyses
include heavy metals. Talcher EMG monitors local surface and well water supplies for
pathogens. Pathogens have been found in Takua village well, as well as the resettlement colony
well. While Talcher's operations are not the cause of the well contamination, NTPC is acting as a
good neighbor in the commtmity, and has installed sealed 60 - 80 m tubewells for this village.
The government has also installed some village tubewells. The wells are to be monitored by
NTPC Talcher on a continuing basis, including analyses for pathogens, heavy metals and other
drinking water standards. Talcher is completing dust suppression and extraction systems in the
coal handling plant, which will address the dust problem noted above. Talcher is to be
commended on their environmental monitoring program and should continue the good work.
12.   Environmental Management: Stack emissions were observed to be above standards
during the mission; however, site personnel state that the ESP has had start up co-ordination
problems, and these should be ironed out as of the performance guarantee test by BHEL, to be
conducted in December, 1996. A dust suppression system for the coal stockyard and bunkers of
Unit II are under construction, to be completed by the end of December, 1996. NTPC has
designed a wastewater treatment system to include recycling and reuse of wastewater in response
to the stipulations of their Consent Order for "zero discharge." The sanitary wastewater



- 33-
treatment plant contractor is mobilizing, and construction completion is scheduled for end of
March, 1997. Fuel oil loading operations were observed being carried out from trucks; the
concrete pad for the trucks has been crushed, and there is now no containment for the chronic oil
spillage in this area. The truck loading area should be provided with a spill containment pad that
drains into the oily water treatment system. NTPC's personnel should enforce proper loading
procedures. There is a physical oil/water separation system installed; however, this process will
not meet discharge limits. A secondary treatment system is required, and should be installed by
NTPC. BHEL should be required to deliver the agreed performance of the ESP's.
13.   Resettlement and Rehabilitation: The project included 3684 acres from the following
categories: private land, 1497 acres; Government (non-forest) land, 1046 acres; Government
(forest) land, 983 acres; Irrigation Department land, 158 acres. The land acquisition for the
project started in 1988 and continued until 1993 in a phased manner. Talcher has staffed it's own
resettlement and rehabilitation cell.
14.   The Government of Orissa (GOO) was involved in the resettlement and rehabilitation on
a compulsory basis from the start of the project. A number of consultation meetings were held
with substantially affected families (SPAFs), and the finalized list, confirmed by the Collector of
the Angul District in March, 1996, includes 1632 SPAFs. Photo identity cards will be issued to
all SPAFs by the DRC.
15.   The location of the resettlement colony was finalized by the District Rehabilitation Cell.
The homestead oustees from the 30 km long railway area are not interested in moving to a
colony which is far away from their previous settlement. All these 32 homestead oustees have
moved to a new location of their choice. Other homestead oustees are being counseled to either
move to the resettlement colony, or identify some private land elsewhere near their previous
settlements. They can then qualify for construction assistance for each grant in lieu of plots in the
resettlement colony.
16.   Lessons Learned: A complete survey of project affected persons in all areas to be
acquired should have been undertaken from the beginning, and the resettlement schemes
developed in consultation with the affected parties. There was a general resistance to moving to
the planned resettlement colony. The siting of the resettlement colony should be integrated into
the environmental assessment process. For instance, the soils at the Takua resettlement colony
site are alluvial and well drained, and may be less suitable for agriculture than those on the
oustees' original land. The railway oustees chose their own land and location as a preference.
This method of resettlement may prove to satisfy a greater number of persons than the
establishment of resettlement colonies, and should be considered for inclusion as an option in
future public consultation and planning stages.



- 34 -
APPENDIX B-1
PROJECT REVIEW FROM THE BORROWER'S PERSPECTIVE
(Contribution by NTPC)
A.   Project Description
The Talcher Thermal Power Project comprised the following:
a)     Construction of the first State (2 x 500 MW) of a 3,000 MW coal-fired steam
power station in Talcher, Orissa, involving boilers, turbo generators, electrical and
mechanical auxiliaries, associated civil works and switchyard;
b)     Construction of about 230 km of double circuit 400 kV transmission lines to link
the power station with the Eastern Region grid at Rengali and Rourkela and 40 km of 220
kV transmission line for the start up of the power station;
c)     Installation of the earth stations, microwave links and data processing equipment
for a dedicated satellite based data communication network connecting NTPC's corporate
offices in Delhi with its thermal power stations, consisting of six INSAT Type "B" satellite
earth stations at Singrauli, Korba, Farakka, Kahalgaon and Talcher communication with a
central INSAT Type "A" Delhi Region satellite earth station. In addition, the
communications network includes two long-haul terrestrial microwave links to interconnect
the Rihand and Vindhyachal thermal power stations with Singrauli; and
d)  Consulting services for review of the engineering of the proposed power station.
B.  Statement/Evaluation of Objectives
The main objectives of the Talcher Thermal Power Project (Loan 2845-IN) were to:
a)  Increase power generation capacity and hence alleviate power shortages in the Eastern
Region,
b)  Introduce to India the technology of "Tower boilers" which are suited to the abrasive
high ash coals prevalenlt in India, and
c)  Improve the operational performance of NTPC by providing on-line communications
between NTPC's power stations and its headquarters in Delhi.
C. Achievement of Objectives
Increase in Power Generation Capacity in Eastern India



- 35 -
The Eastern Region had an installed capacity of 7655 MW in 1987 with NTPC contributing
just 5.22 per cent. Today, the installed capacity in the eastern region is over 10,000 MW with
NTPC alone contributing 39 per cent as per the following break-up:
Project          Unit (mw)           Capacity (mw)
Farakka I        3 x 200                   600
Farakka II       2 x 500                  1000
Kahalgaon        4x210                     840
Talcher          2 x 500                  1000
Talcher TPS      4 x 60 + 2 x 110          460
a. This plant has been taken over by NTPC from the erstwhile Orissa State Electricity Board
However, due to non-availability of adequate sub-transmission system in the eastern region,
there is a need to transfer the unutilized power from this region to northern and southern regions
where there are major shortages of power. However, due to the absence of HVDC links between
the east and north and east and south, the surplus power from the region cannot be fully
evacuated till these are completed. A detailed analysis of the short-term as well as long-term
measures that have been initiated is brought out later in the report in Section I on "Plans for
Operational Phase of the Plant".
Introduction of Tower-type Technology
The objective was to try out the tower-type boilers which are more suitable for high-ash,
abrasive coal found in India. However, it is as yet too early to conclusively comment on the
effect of highly abrasive Indian coal on the tower type boilers introduced for the first time in
India at the Talcher Thermal Power Project compared to conventional boilers being used
elsewhere in NTPC plants.
Improve Communication Links
For the procurement of critical equipment required for establishing a Satellite
Communication Network (Phase I) connecting NTPC's eight power projects to the Corporate
Center in Delhi, the World Bank had sanctioned funds amounting to US$ 6 million. In the year
1988, an order was placed to M/s NEC for 3 kW HPA and 40 deg. KLNA for Muradnagar Earth
Station which is the hub of the Satcom network of NTPC. The equipment was delivered and
made operational in the year 1989.
For the expansion of Phase I network by inclusion of six more power stations (Phase II), an
amount of US$ 1.2 million was sanctioned by the World Bank in 1993 for VSAT (Very Small
Aperture Terminal) stations at Talcher, Unchahar, Auraiya, Anta, Kawas and Gandhar and
corresponding augmentation of the existing hub at Muradnagar.
The first communication link between SCOPE and Talcher was established on October 31,
1994. The total network was made operational in January, 1995 and, since then, the Satcom
network has been working with an average Availability of 99%.



- 36 -
The Phase I and Phase II Satcom networks cater to the following services:
i) Interactive Voice Communication between Delhi and project sites enables more
effective management of power projects (approx. 0.75 million calls per year);
ii) Data Communication facilities: File transfer, Application, Sharing Resource Sharing.
iii) Facsimile Transmission
D. Project Design
The achievement of self sufficiency in the design and engineering of large thermal power
stations was adopted as an organizational objective from the inception of NTPC. In this respect,
NTPC has already acquired adequate experience in the area of design and engineering of 500
MW units at Singrauli, Korba and Ramagundam. This experience was gainfully utilized by
NTPC by way of successful design and engineering of the Talcher Thermal Power Project in-
house, with very limited support from consultants in a few areas.
The technical specifications for various packages and detailed design review of the project
were similar to those followed in other NTPC stations and were also in line with the general
practice followed by other power utilities the world over.
Some features adopted in the design of the Talcher Thermal Power Project were:
v  Once through sub-critical type boiler with highly responsive tube mills.
3 Circuit breakers at generator terminals.
3 High chimney.
3 DDC - Total computerized monitoring system.
* HP bypass integrated with boiler.
* Provision of space for desulphurization.
* Ash water re-circulation system.
E.  Project Implementation
Reasons for delay
a) LAND ACQUISITION
The abnormally long time taken by the State Government authorities to acquire the land
outside the plant premises was the main factor in delay in implementation of the coal
transportation system, ash disposal system and township construction. Apart from this,
illegal encroachments also affected project implementation quite severely.
b) WATER FOR THE PROJECT
Samal Barrage authorities could not provide required level of water in the NTPC intake
channel at the required time. This was mainly due to delay by Barrage Authorities in
acquiring the submergence land in the surrounding area which prevented them from raising



-37-
the pondage level. About three months time was lost by the time required level of water
could be maintained for the commissioning activities of Unit 1.
C) POOR PERFORMANCE BY CONTRACTING AGENCIES
The delay was mainly due to poor response by most of the equipment suppliers due to
fund crisis and other changes in Government economic policies. For example, as illustrated
below, the material supply for Unit I in the C&I package was delayed by M/s Keltron by
over nineteen months:
LOA (Supply): CC-4310-405-1/LOA-1/2139 dated 30/08/90; Rs. 1634 lac
LOA (Erection): CC-4310-405-llLOA-11/2140 dated 30/08/90; Rs. 72 lac.
................~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ . ........
.B: -:.. . .. .. . . ..   ..   .. .. . .. . .. . . . .   . .. ...............-:-::::::::::: ::: : ::::
Material Supply
Unit I    Feb. 1993        July 1993        Feb. 1995
Unit II   Nov. 1993        Apr. 1995        Dec. 1995
Erection Compl.
Unit I    Apr. 1993        Nov. 1994        Apr. 1995
Unit 11    Jan. 1994       May 1995         Mar. 1996
In July 1992 Keltron requested for revised contract schedule due to their difficulty in
opening foreign LCs and also their cash flow problems and LCs limit problems. NTPC, after
discussions with Keltron agreed for the revised contract schedule indicated above.
NTPC also agreed for financial assistance to meet the increase in exchange rate
variation on import up to revised contract period, favorable escalation payment on indigenous
equipment, exchange rate protection on the expenditure from Keltron's collaborator, price
escalation on erection price without any ceiling, and funding by way of opening foreign LCs
direct payment to Indian sub-vendors. Further to expedite the material supply from Keltron,
NTPC's expediters/inspectors were posted to KELTRON works continuously for expediting the
testing, inspection and dispatch of materials.
Despite the revised contract agreement and other financial assistance in favor of M/s
Keltron, the agency has failed to supply the materials to suit the project milestones.
Reasons for Delay in Commissioning of Units:
a) POLITICAL AND ECONOMIC ENVIRONMENT
The project had to steer through times when the country faced environmental imbalance
in the areas of economy and infrastructure causing high inflation and imposing serIousa
constraints on the progress of the project.



-38 -
b) INCREASE IN MARGIN MONEY FOR IMPORTS
Due to adverse balance of trade payment prevailing in 1989, the Government imposed
conditions of 100 per cent Bank Guarantee for fulfillment of export obligation in May
1990. To put further restriction on imports, the Government prescribed 50 per cent margin
for opening of Letter of Credit in October, 1990 which was further raised to 1 10 per cent in
March 1991. Further, the Government directed that for any LC valued at more than Rs. 50
lac, permission of the Reserve Bank of India's Central Office was mandatory. To arrange
such high margins and to obtain permission of the RBI was very hard for most of the
contractors.
c) RuPEE DEVALUATION & WITHDRAWAL OF CASH COMPENSATORY SUPPORT
Import restrictions were further aggravated with the steep devaluation of rupee by
almost 26 per cent in two stages in July 1991. Simultaneously, the Government had
withdrawn cash compensatory support available for World Bank financed contracts with
effect from July 1991 which affected the performance of contractors.
d) DECONTROL OF STEEL
Steel prices in India were decontrolled from March 1992 and as a result there was a
steep rise in the price of steel which could not have been foreseen when the contracts wiere
awarded. Since the contracts were covered under the general escalation formula,
compensation to contractors for such high price increases was not covered under the
framework of the contract and had to be separately discussed and negotiated which caused
certain delays.
e) HIGH INFLATION
There was unprecedented price increase in this period which can be seen from different
published economic indices of the Government of India. These uncertainties had prevailed
up to end 1992 until the economy could stabilize. These contracts were awarded mostly
during the period 1988 and 1989. Though NTPC had extended all possible help to the
contractors, delays resulting from such changes could not be arrested.
f) CONTRACT LABOR 1UNREST AND LAW & ORDER PROBLEMS
Since June 1993, the project work was totally affected on 4 occasions of about 15 days
duration due to contract labor strike. This contributed to the overall delay of three months
in view of demobilization time taken after calling off the strike.
g) NEW DESIGN OF BOILERS
Talcher boilers are of Tower type of once through design and are being installed for the
first time in India. Also the boiler structures were of welded design and involved high
quantity of site welding. This was not anticipated at the time of drawing the project
schedules and erection strategy was to be revised by BHEL and their sub-agencies who are
not conversant with this type of boiler.



- 39 -
Reasons for Delay in Commercial Operation
Unit-I was synchronized in Feb. 1995 and had met all the requirements for declaration for
commercial operation. However, when the proposal was under consideration for declaring the
unit commercial with effect from August 1, 1995 (while under the supervision of ABB, the
equipment supplier), the generator of Unit 1 got damaged due to the failure of the cover disc
from the mainframe of the generator rotor on October 4, 1995; the cover disc of the main fan
disintegrated into tree pieces and caused secondary damages. The unit remained under shut
down for almost eleven months from October 4, 1995 to September 3, 1996 for repairs and
modification.
Based on the Unit 1 feedback, Unit 2 rotor fan was tested and found defective. Unit 2 was
synchronized on March 27, 1996 using the spare rotor fan under controlled conditions under the
supervision of ABB. Even during the synchronization of Unit 2, unacceptable stress levels have
been observed in the rotor fan and the unit was kept under forced shut down since the successful
synchronization on March 27, 1996. The unit remained under shut down till October 16, 1996
for repair and modification.
Based on the test data collected during Unit 2 synchronization, ABB had modified the rotor
fan design. The machine was rolled on July 11, 1996 with this modified design. However, high
vibration and stress levels were again noted and synchronization was suspended. Further
modification and testing was carried out by ABB after doing modification in inner seal
arrangement. After carrying out thorough checks, Unit 1 was re-synchronized on September 04,
1996. Its various parameters are under observation. Similar modifications are being carried out
in Unit 2 also.
F.  Operational Experience
Current Status
Presently, both the units are available for generation and during 1996-97, the plant
generated 929.44 MU. It has been operating at an availability factor of 31.74 per cent with a
Plant Loan Factor of 10.61 per cent. The generation from Talcher would have been much higher
but for the freak accident which took place while under the supervision of ABB just at a time
when one of the units was ready to be declared under commercial operation. Even otherwise,
due to lack of evacuation lines in the region as well as to other regions, generation of full
capacity of 1000 MW would not have been possible.
Evacuation Constraints
NTPC has a total installed capacity of 3900 MW in the eastern region. Severe Power
evacuation constraints are being faced in this region leading to gross under-utilization. This is
quite evident from the fact that for the year 1996-97, while NTPC's coal based stations
(excluding eastern region) recorded an impressive PLF of 84.5 per cent, the PLF for eastern
region projects was as low as 46.32%. The overall PLF achieved despite these constraints is 77
per cent and availability of 87.50 per cent.



- 40 -
G. Evaluation of Borrower's own Performance
Unlike many other projects of NTPC which were commissioned on schedule and, in many
cases, even ahead of schedule, the Talcher Thermal Power Project was fraught with numerous
hurdles. The problems that NTPC faced in the execution of this project were mostly beyond the
control of NTPC as brought out above in the section on project implementation. This resulted in
substantial delays in the commissioning and commercial operation of the project in spite of
adequate advance planning.
While the Integrated Project Management and Control System (IPMCS) was applied in the
case of Talcher and the major contracts were awarded to experienced contractors who had carried
out similar jobs on other projects, there were nevertheless delays in commissioning of the units.
Leaving aside the delays in completion of the project, the performance of NTPC is
considered to be satisfactory in meeting the basic objective of improving the power supply
position in the eastern region and posting a positive rate of return on investment as outlined in
the Bank's Appraisal report.
H. Performance Evaluation of the Bank
Talcher Thermal Power Project was taken up for implementation by NTPC after a series of
large thermal power projects such as Singrauli, Korba, Ramagundam, Farakka, etc. which too
were funded by the World Bank. The assistance extended by the Bank contributed substantially
in bringing the project to fruition. The project was supervised closely and an adequate number of
site visits under supervision missions were made. Excellent cooperation existed between the
Bank staff and NTPC during the implementation of the project. In fact this relationship
continues to grow, and to date, the World Bank group has extended financial assistance to NTPC
for implementation of as many as fifteen projects. This excludes the assistance provided by the
Bank for NTPC Power Generation Project under the time-slice concept.
Thus, it may be seen that after a partnership of about twenty years in which the Bank has
devoted considerable time and energy in developing the power sector in India in general and
NTPC in particular, the two have built up a relationship which goes much beyond the substantial
financial assistance extended to support NTPC's expansion plans.
I.  Plan for Operational Phase of the Plant
NTPC gives utmost importance to consistently high operational performance of its power
plants. Several performance indicators covering efficiency aspects, leading to high level of
generation are used to monitor the operations of the power stations. The heat rate, specific oil
and specific coal consumption (i.e., fuel consumed per unit generation of electricity), auxiliary
power consumption, etc., for efficiency monitoring and availability factor and plant loan factor
are used for monitoring the availability aspects. Annual targets are set station-wise and unit-
wise, and performance is monitored with respect to the targets. NTPC has been performing at
much higher levels compared to all India performance of thermal power stations.



- 41 -
In order to optimally utilize the existing installed capacity, NTPC has drawn up the
following strategy to export the surplus power from the eastern region:
Short term measures
a) POWER EVACUATION FROM EASTERN REGION (ER) TO NORTH-EASTERN REGION (NER)
NTPC has already signed a Power Purchase Agreement (PPA) and made all
commercial agreements with Assam State Electricity Board and power is already flowing
to Assam to the extent of 50 MW to 100 MW.
b) EASTERN REGION (ER) TO SOUTHERN-EASTERN REGION (SER)
Commercial arrangements have been agreed and PPA signed with Andhra Pradesh
State Electricity Board and already power to the extent of 150-200 MW is flowing through
Balimela-Upper Sileru single circuit line.
c) EASTERN REGION (ER) TO WESTERN REGION (WR)
NTPC has initiated dialogue with the Government of Madhya Pradesh for transfer of
power from ER to WR (MPEB) through 220 kV D/C Buddipadar-Korba line to the extent
of 200-300 MW.
d) EASTERN REGION (ER) TO NORTHERN REGION (NR)
NTPC has already started action for transfer of power from ER to NR via Bihar and
DVC systems in association with EREB, NREB, Bihar, DVC and CEA. Once beneficiaries
in NR are identified by CEA, 150 MW can flow radially from ER to NR.
Long term Measures:
a) HVDC back to back of the capacity of 2 x 250 MW is being constructed at Gazuwaka
in AP which is expected to be completed by May 1999. A 400 KV D/C line between
Jeypur in ER and Gazuwaka in SR is under construction and is expected to be completed in
February 1999. After commissioning of this line, additional 300 MW on radial mode can
be fed to APSEB system in SR And after commissioning of HVDC back to back at
Gazuwaka, further 200 MW can be injected in the APSEB system.
b) HVDC back to back of 1 x 500 MW capacity has been envisaged at Sasaram for
transmission of ER power to NR. The project is expected to be completed and
commissioned by March 2001.



- 42 -
J.  Key Lessons Learned from the Project
In the case of Talcher Thermal Power Project, major delays were caused by contractors and
their sub-vendors. It will be our endeavor in future to make it contractually possible to avoid
such sub-contracting.
Land acquisition was a major hurdle in the timely completion of the Talcher project and as
such, NTPC plans to set up projects in the future only where land is made available to NTPC in
the initial stages of the project. It is also as a result of this that NTPC is planning to expand its
existing project capacities where land and other infrastructure is already available.
Power evacuation from the eastern region has become a bottleneck. The project was
executed with the assumption that the transmission and sub-transmission systems in the region
would also be planned and implemented. However, this has not taken place due to various
reasons.



- 43 -
APPENDIX B-2
PROJECT REVIEW FROM THE BORROWER'S PERSPECTIVE
(Contribution by POWERGRID)
A. Project Description
1.    The project component comprised the transmission system for the evacuation of power
from the first stage of Talcher Thermal Power Project located in Talcher, Orissa. The
transmission system was implemented by NTPC/POWERGRID, and was designed by NTPC in
association with CEA on the basis of a number of detailed system and engineering studies. The
scheme, techno-economically cleared by CEA, and thereafter approved by Government of India,
constituted the following:
400 kV Transmission System                  Scope
i)    Talcher - Rourkela double circuit line      175 Km.
ii)    Talcher - Rengali double circuit line       40 Km.
iii)   Substation extension at Rourkela
iv)   Substation extension at Rengali.
B. Statement/Evaluation of Objective
2.    The loan was to Government of India in December 1987 for on-lending to the National
Thermal Power Corporation (NTPC). The objectives of the project were:
(a)   to meet the electricity demand in the Eastern Region by providing the transmission
linkage between the first stage of the thermal power generation plant at Talcher and the
remaining load centers of the Eastern Region;
(b)   to ensure the evacuation of power from these plants at least cost to the economy; and
(c)   to enable the development of the regional power systems, which will lead ultimately to a
national grid, and to assist in the development of the Indian power sector.
C. Project Design & Organization
3.    NTPC had already acquired adequate experience in the area of 400 kV transmission iines
and substation design engineering during the construction of the transmission lines and
substations associated with the Singrauli, Korba, Ramagundam and other power projects.
Detailed system and engineering studies for the project were done by NTPC in-house. When the
loan was signed, NTPC was identified as the executing agency for the Talcher-I project.
However, when the loan was transferred from NTPC to POWERGRID for the transmission
system along with the associated manpower, with effect from 16.8.91 POWERGRID has been
made responsible for the execution, operation and maintenance of this project. Though some
packages have been awarded by the NTPC by the time of loan transfer, POWERGRID was
responsible for the construction supervision for all the packages.



- 44 -
4.    POWERGRID has adopted a three-tier organizational structure at corporate, regional and
project level for the execution of this project. POWERGRID was incorporated on October 23,
1989 under the Companies Act, 1956 and is managed by a Board of Directors consisting of a
full-time Chairman and Managing Director, Director (Personnel), Director (Operations), Director
(Finance) and two part-time Directors, representing the Ministry of Power. The Directors have
broad powers to carry out their duties. In practice, however, the Board's power is confined to the
daily operations and administration of the corporation as GOI approval is required for
POWERGRID's annual budget, its capital investment programme and borrowing, tariffs, salary
structure and the appointment of key personnel. Similar to other Government-owned enterprises,
POWERGRID has started signing a Memorandum of Understanding (MOU) with the MOP and
for the past three years has gotten "Excellent" rating for its performance. POWERGRID has a
four-tier organizational structure with the Corporate Office located at New Delhi responsible for
overall corporate planning, system planning and engineering, management of transmission
system operations and projects, finance, commercial matters and personnel. For the purpose of
streamlined execution of works, O&M, the Corporation has divided the country into six regions
(Northern-I, Northern-II, Western, Eastern, Southern, North-Eastern) with their headquarters at
Faridabad, Jammu, Nagpur, Patna, Hyderabad and Shilong, respectively.
D. Achievement of Objectives
5.    The project has fully achieved its main objective of optimizing the transmission system in
Eastern Region by providing transmission linkages between thermal power plant at Talcher and
the main load centers.
6.    The project was originally scheduled to be commissioned in December 1992. The actual
completion dates were as follows:
a  S ....
Talcher-Rengali D/C 400 kV      September 1992           February 1995
Talcher-Rourkela D/C 400 kV      August 1992              April 1995
Rengali substation                April 1993             February 1995
Rourkela substation              January 1993             March 1995
7.    The estimated cost of the transmission facilities at appraisal stage and actual
disbursements made are given in Part II. Compared with the appraised cost estimate of Rs.
885.43 million (including IDC of Rs. 98.67 million), actual costs amounted to Rs. 1,441.47
million (including IDC of Rs. 286.7 million) representing 62.80% increase over the appraised
cost (these costs are for the transmission facilities component implemented by POWERGRID).
8.   In the area of transmission system, the total disbursement made under this loan until
March 1997 is US$24.24 million.
E. Project Implementation Process
9.    At appraisal the project was expected to be completed by 1992.



-45 -
10.   The implementation of the project consisted of commissioning of 430 Circuit.Kms. of
400 kV AC transmission line, extensions of 2 no. of 400 kV substation. The details including
line-wise dates of completion are included in Part III.
11.   There were considerable delays during the NTPC period which delayed completion of the
project. Major packages like transformers, towers, and conductors were awarded by
POWERGRID after taking over the assets from NTPC and completed the project matching with
the generation project, thus avoiding any bottleneck of power generated at the power project.
F. Procurement
12.   The equipment and materials financed under the loan were split into 33 packages, most of
which were procured under international competitive bidding (ICB) procedures in accordance
with Bank guidelines. Contractors who supplied transmission line tower structure were in charge
of the erection of the towers, insulators and hardware and stringing of the line conductors, on a
supply and erect basis. Suppliers of the main equipment for the substations were in charge of the
erection of the substations.
13.   All of the 33 contracts were awarded to domestic manufacturers/suppliers.
G. Environment, Resettlement and Rehabilitation
14.  In the context of transmission projects there is no significant impact on environment
except in the cases where the transmission lines involve any forest area. The impact of
transmission lines on environment is not considered as severe as in the case of thermal, hvdel,
nuclear, chemical and other power projects. This is primarily because the effect on forest due to
laying of transmission lines is reversible and can be nullified by planting more trees. With the
world-wide concern over the fast depleting forest reserves, due consideration is given to these
aspects of the planning and designing stage itself. While identifying the transmission system for
Talcher-I, detailed surveys were conducted by NTPC/POWERGRID in association with the State
Forest Authorities to identify most suitable routes having minimum involvement of forest.
15.   At the time of design of this project, it was ensured that the value of interference at edge
of the line corridor was within the limits stipulated. While selecting the routes of the
transmission lines and identifying land for construction of the sub-stations adequate care was
taken for environment and no resettlement and rehabilitation plans were required.
16.   As the land for extension of Rengali and Rourkela substations was already available in
the existing substations, no fresh land acquisition was made. As such, there is no resettlement
and rehabilitation.
H. Project Sustainability
17.   The project is clearly sustainable as could be observed from the fact that the entire
transmission system covered under this project has been commissioned and put in good service
since the commissioning of this project. The reliability of power supply to major load centers in
Eastern Region has considerably improved thereby justifying benefits of this project. Also the



- 46 -
fact that various beneficiaries of this project are paying the incremental transmission tariff points
towards its commercial viability.
I. Bank's Performance
18.   The performance of the Bank from the project preparation through project completion
was satisfactory. The Bank's involvement with the executing agency during the entire period of
execution of this project helped a great deal in successful execution apart from maintaining
cordial relations throughout.
J. Borrower's Performance
19.   The performance of POWERGRID was satisfactory to meet the expectations of the
World Bank and was in line with project guidelines outlined in the Bank's appraisal report. All
the 400 kV AC transmission lines were successfully commissioned according to the schedule
under the well-established project management.



- 47 -
APPENDIX-C
ENVIRONMENTAL IMPACT ISSUES
Talcher Thermal Power Plant
1.    NTPC conducted an environmental assessment of the project and submitted it to the
GOI's Department of Environment in January 1986 for clearance. The project was cleared "in
principle" in April 1987. The project was processed and negotiated by the Bank based on this
provisional clearance. The receipt of a formal environmental clearance was made a condition of
loan effectiveness. The final environmental clearance was obtained in March 1988.
2.    The delays were due to the fact that the Departrnent of Environment's request of further
clarifications on such issues as compensatory afforestation, ash disposal, R&R, and
environmental management plan for the coalfields. While the loan effectiveness condition was
met, which was the only legal requirement for it, there were no environmental management or
monitoring conditions included in the agreements of the Bank loan. NTPC voluntarily undertook
several environmental mitigating schemes similar to the ones included in the Environmental
Action Plan agreed with the Bank under the NTPC Power Generation Project (Ln. 3632-IN), for
NTPC's other power plants.
3.    NTPC has set up an Environmental Management Group (EMG) at the site. The EMG's
responsibilities include obtaining Consent Orders from, and submission of regular environmental
monitoring reports to the Orissa State Pollution Control Board (OSPCB). The EMG monitors
ambient air quality, emissions and effluent from the plant, outfits and uses the environmental
laboratory for the analyses of samples, and pursues ash disposal options. It also oversees in-
house plantation of trees and off-site compensatory afforestation.
4.    Air and Water Quality. The ambient air quality, meteorological conditions, solid
particulate matter (SPM), SO, and NO. levels are monitored on a regular basis by the EMG.
The air quality, according to monitoring data by EMG, is within GOI and Bank standards. Four
monitoring stations are placed at locations agreed with the OSPCB, to measure air quality at
predicted maximum ground level concentration of the said contaminants. In accordance with air
dispersion modeling results, three out of four monitoring stations were relocated to correspond to
the highest areas of concentration indicated by the model. The remaining monitor is also to be
moved as soon as some logistical problems associated with this relocation is resolved. The
dispersion model data will be validated by actual measurements after the plant begins operation
at full load. NTPC is also making provision for continuous stack gas monitoring to comply with
regulatory requirements.
5.    One of the stipulations of the Consent Order given by the OSPCB is for zero discharge of
waste water, to the extent possible. NTPC has designed a waste water treatment facility to
include recycling and reuse of waste water. It includes closed cycle condenser cooling, an ash
pond with settling basins and recycling of ash slurry water, settling ponds for coal pile run off, as
well as treatment for oily water and sanitary waste water.



- 48 -
Transmission Lines and Substations
6.    Routing of the 400 kV high voltage transmission lines involved about 407 ha of forest
land for the Talcher-Rengali alignment and about 55 ha for the Talcher-Rourkela alignment after
selecting the most suitable rights-of-way, involving minimum interference with forests. It had
been agreed that route survey for the lines as well as submitting application for the forest
clearance would have to be completed by March 31, 1988, failing which the non-compliance
could be an event for suspension of disbursements under the loan. This requirement was
complied with. However, granting of the final clearances took about six years. But it is noted
that the environmental clearances in respect of the forest land for the two transmission lines was
received in January 1993 and January 1994 for the two lines, respectively (Part II; Table 10;
Footnote 1).
7.    There was no resettlement or rehabilitation requirement for the transmission lines and the
two substations.



- 49 -
APPENDIX - D
LAND ACQUISITION, RESETTLEMENT AND REHABILITATION ISSUES
1.    LandAcquiaiin. The private land was acquired under the provisions of the Land
Acquisition Act, 1894 (LAA), and its subsequent amendments, after paying due compensation.
The notifications for acquisition under the LAA were issued from May 1987 onwards and
continued up to June 1995. Apart of the cost of the land and structures standing thereupon, an
additional 30 percent was paid as solatium. Furthermore, an additional 12 percent was paid as
appreciation from the date of issue of the notification up to the date of actual payment. The
compensations for the land and structures were decided by GOO; then the amounts were
deposited by NTPC to the Office of the Special Land Acquisition Officer (SLAO) of GOO, prior
to the acquisition of the land and well before the PAPs needed to surrender their land. Payments
to the PAPs was carried out by the officials of GOO, outside NTPC.
2.    Base-Line Surveys and R&R Plans. Surveys of the population to be affected by the
project were carried out during the preparation phase, and Land Acquisition and Resettlement
Plans were prepared. However, these surveys and plans had to be redone and improved in the
course of implementation of the project. Revisions were made in 1988, 1991 and 1994. In
accordance with the original surveys, 1,750 families would be affected, out of which 816
families would lose more than one third of their land holdings (Substantially Project Affected
Families -- SPAFs)43. During negotiations in May 1987, it was agreed that certain minor
modifications were required in relation to the Resettlement Plan. NTPC agreed to furnish to the
Bank by December 31, 1987, a satisfactory Resettlement Plan incorporating the agreed
modifications. Furthermore, NTPC agreed to implement the Resettlement Plan, as revised, in
cooperation with the concerned GOO authorities. In January 1988, NTPC completed its revised
Rehabilitation Action Plan (RAP) which was the outcome of four months of field survey by
NTPC's site team accompanied by GOO officials. The numbers of the project affected families
(PAFs) and SPAFs did not change, but the concept of rehabilitation was brought in -- SPAFs
would be eligible for rehabilitation in addition to compensations, while MPAFs would only be
paid compensation. A number of rehabilitation options, including the land-for-land option, were
generated by NTPC. Because GOO authorities insisted that the land-for-land option was not
feasible, the RAP was revised in May 1991. Although land-for-land option remained, more
emphasis was put on jobs, either with NTPC or with NTPC's contractors. Following a new
survey the numbers of the affected families were changed too: 1,025 SPAFs; 1,326 MPAFs; thus
amounting to a total of 2,351 PAFs. Out of these, 80 SPAFs who were losing their homes were
identified as Homestead Land Oustees (HSOs) to be resettled in a colony to be developed by
NTPC.
3.   In August 1993, NTPC established at the site an R&R Cell, and in 1994, upon a request
by GOO, hired competent national consultants to conduct fresh surveys. The consultants
43 The families which were going to loose less than a third of their land holdings were called Marginally Project
Affected Families (MPAFs).



- 50 -
submitted to GOO and NTPC a new list covering in total 830 SPAFs (including 114 HSOs,
eligible for resettlement) and 186 beneficiaries as "major married sons" belonging to the said
SPAFs. In addition to the SPAFs, "major married sons" would also be eligible for rehabilitation
benefits. Thus the number of families eligible for rehabilitation would be 1,016. The list was
accepted on July 5, 1995, by the Collector of GOO. However, the Collector instructed NTPC
that the list to be widely publicized among the PAFs. GOO also invited objections, if any, from
the families. In response, 1,597 objections were received and registered up to the last date of the
objection period; i.e., July 20, 1995. NTPC states that all applicants were given an opportunity
to be heard. Based on these hearings, the consultants revised the list and increased the number of
SPAFs to 1,632 families spread over 27 affected villages. This number covers 1,160 SPAFs and
472 beneficiaries as "major married sons" belonging to these SPAFs. The number of HSOs to be
resettled remained at 114. The revised list was approved by the Collector on March 14, 1996.
Rehabilitation schemes provided to the above SPAFs are: employment by NTPC, employment
under maintenance contracts, purchase of land, shop allotment, support for self employment,
cash deposit assistance, and training at the Industrial Training Institute (ITI). HSOs are being
resettled at the resettlement colony at Takua, where NTPC has developed 114 plots and
infrastructure facilities. The HSOs are given a construction assistance of Rs. 16,000 per family.
The status of GOO and NTPC's resettlement and rehabilitation activities is given in Table D-1
and D-2, respectively.
4.   In December 1994, NTPC established a Public Information Center (PIC) at the project
site. In addition, GOO has established a District Rehabilitation Cell which plays a key role in the
implementation of the R&R Plan. GOO's Rehabilitation Officer and his staff periodically visit
the project and the affected villages and interact with SPAPs and NTPC R&R Cell staff. A
Screening Committee scrutinize the candidature of SPAPs for extending rehabilitation options, in
particular, employment in NTPC, training, self-employment, shop allotment, etc. The
Rehabilitation Advisory Committee meets periodically to review issues relating to R&R
peripheral development.
5.    NTPC has developed a Resettlement Colony with necessary infrastructure facilities at
Takua. Out of the 114 HSOs to be shifted to the Resettlement Colony, so far 52 HSOs have
received the construction assistance but no one has shifted to the Resettlement Colony, Takua.
However, 38 HSOs have vacated their houses and are living elsewhere. The details are as
follows:
6.    As of December 31, 1997, 1,124 SPAFs out of the total of the above mentioned 1,632
SPAFs had been rehabilitated. NTPC and GOO continue the R&R activities in accordance with
the rehabilitation plan and list of eligible SPAFs approved by GOO in March 1996. NTPC has
requested financing of the Talcher Phase II (4x500 MW Talcher II) under the ongoing Ln. 3632-
IN for the NTPC-Power GenerationProject. A draft RAP covering the balance of rehabilitation
activities for people affected by Talcher Phase I (the Project) and those to be affected by Talcher
II was prepared by NTPC and submitted to the Bank in March 1997. NTPC is still in the process
of incorporating the Bank's comments of April 1997, but the implementation of the RAP's is
already underway. The Bank's involvement and implementation review of the balance R&R
activities for SPAFs under the Project, is expected to continue under the Talcher II Project.



Table D-1: Status of the Resettlement Activities
(As of December 31, 1997)
__                ciiyTrp                                  .civmn .                   .        R .ms
01.   Development of Resettlement   114 developed plots with    A Resettlement Colony   Balance work would be
Areas with infrastructure  infrastructure facilities  having 118 developed plots of  taken up after shiffing of
facilities                                           400 Sq. Mts. each has been  HSOs (See below).
developed at Takua with the
following infrastructure
facilities:
*   School
*   Health Centre
*   Shopping Centre
*   Community Centre
*   Pump House
*   Water Facilities
*   Roads
*   Green Belt
Achievement is assessed as
95%.
02.   Shifting of HSOs with       114                      *   52 HSOs were given       NTPC has agreed to pay
construction assistance of                               construction assistance.    Rs.10,000/- to each HSO
Rs. 16,000/- per family                              *   38 HSO vacated the area  in addition to
and living elsewhere.   construction. Assistance
*   Although 52 HSOs have   of Rs.16,000/- in lieu of
acceptep the respective    allotted plot at Takua
plots, none of them has    who do not want to shift
moved or is interested to  to Takua resettlement
shift to the colony.    colony & want to settle at
the places of their choice.



- 52 -
Table D-2: Status of the Rehabilitation Activities
(As of December 31, 1997)
SL     AciiyTre                                            ch. t   -Remarks|
1.0    Enumeration                   Through             Completed.       Revised list of 1632 SPAFs approved by
Consultant                          Collector on 14.3.96.
2.0    Economic Rehabilitation (C)   1632 SPAFs.         1209 SPAFs.      74% achievement.
2.1    Employment NTPC (CC)          245 (Revised).      217              776 SPAFs have opted (as per
._____________  Consultant's report).
2.2    Employment under Maintenance   373 (Revised).     310              As per R&R Plan 230 SPAFs out of 373
Contracts                                                         are to be engaged under sweeping cleaning
& sanitation contract but SPAFs are
._________________                      __________  hesitating to work in these areas.
2.3    Purchase of Land              Not fixed.          651              803 SPAFs have opted (as per Consultants
report). District Administration has
assured NTPC to disburse passbooks to all
eligible SPAFs at the earliest.
2.4    Self Employment               Not fixed.                           80 SPAFs are self-enployed out of which
72 are contractors and 8 have purchased
vehicles and have been deploying on hire
basis. 20 out of 80 have received
passbooks against option at 2.3. Some
have not received any rehabilitation
, _____________________________  _ _________________               benefit.
2.5    Shot Allotment                160                 9                16 SPAFs have opted so far (as per
l____l____l___  Consultant's report).
2.6    Cash Deposit Assistance       Limited to          22               32 SAPs are identified (as per
l ____________l____________  lEligibility.                         Consultant's report).
3.0    M11 Training                                      255             Initially target as per requirement. Later
decided for additional 145 SPAFs.
4.0    NGO/Consultant for Income                         Work is in       One year consultancy contract for Micro
Generating Schanes (IGS)                          progress.        Enterprise Development for SPAFs has
been awarded to Mrs. Bonani Dhar on
September 1, 1996. The contract has been
extended for another year.
(*)    Economic Rehabiliation: Out of 1632 SPAFs, 1209 have been rehabilitated so far (74% achievement).
(**) Employment in NTPC: As per RAP furnished to the Bank, the targets and achievements were as follows:
- iemtnNTPCS                           - l;;te Tsrge            Aehl met           l       ---Bala-nce-:- 
Unskilled                                   73                       5 1                      22
Skilled                                    160                       154                      6
Supervisor                                  12                       12                        -
Total                                      245                       217                      28



- 53 -
APPENDIX - E
FINANCIAL OVERVIEW (NTPC)
1.    NTPC at Project Appraisal. During 1985/86, except for its accounts receivable,
NTPC's financial perforrnance was satisfactory and financial results compared favorably with
forecasts prepared by NTPC and approved by the Bank. NTPC realized a net income of Rs.
1,830 million and earned a rate of return on historically valued net fixed assets in operation of
17.2% which exceeded the covenant requirement of 7% for 1984/85-89/90 agreed with the Bank.
The equivalent ROR on revalued assets, calculated on a proforma basis, was about 13.5%. Cash
generation measured as percentage of average annual capital investment requirements was about
10.7%. Assets in operation at the end of 1985/86 amounted to Rs. 16,047 million, representing
only about 34% of total fixed assets including Rs. 32,569 million of assets under construction.
NTPC's debt-equity ratio of 36:64, current ratio of 1.2 and debt service coverage of 5.0 times
were satisfactory. However, its overall bill collection performance was very poor and alarming.
Accounts receivable exceeded 3.5 months and large uncollected amounts imposed a serious
burden on NTPC's finances. During negotiations, NTPC agreed to maintain its accounts
receivable, arising from sales of electricity, at a level not exceeding the proceeds of its power
sales for the two preceding months.
2.    NTPC's Financial Status at Project Completion. By the end of NTPC-FY97 (ending
March 31, 1997), it is estimated that NTPC operated about 20% of India's total installed capacity
and 27% of the thermal capacity. As a part of the Bank's ongoing dialogue with GOI and NTPC,
a number of policy reforms had been introduced which aimed at: (a) improvement of generating
efficiency; (b) introduction of commercial policies; (c) entering into undertakings with foreign
and local private partners to develop power projects; and (d) introducing two-part bulk tariff,
which allowed NTPC to set its tariffs under the fixed cost part in line with the LRMC and pass
fuel price variations to the consumers under the variable part. These measures helped NTPC to
be in a relatively strong financial position. A tabulation of NTPC's actual financial performance,
as compared to SAR projections made at the time of appraisal, is given at the end of this
Appendix. The returns achieved by NTPC were well in excess of the rates required under the
financial covenants. At the end of FY97, NTPC's debt service coverage was 1.9.
3.    NTPC's operating data, summarized in the Table below, reflect the growth the
Corporation has experienced during the past several years. From FY88 to FY97, generating
capacity was added continuously at an average annual rate of 13.2% and the value of average net
fixed assets grew at an annual average rate of 22.1%. The pace of growth, however, is declining.
The level of capital investment has been stagnant since FY91 (except for an increase in FY92
due to the transfer of Unchahar



009  .l0' 1~ 4,JfOSlIIIA
*9661A3 ojdnOpOwsCm  ssu3aitOJ  VSuIj
98! 61!6                                                              i6                      0             06                 1!              01                9£             !6l               66                01                66                06£1                              19                   8             1086DOBJa2oJw PoIAfS 1600]
69  88  I 9  --         II                                 96                                                                   81                      --          V                                  66                                               %  (Ow  na( ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~) UOIIOIUISUOJ 01  11003 U!lrUIU0) 0    iuo
IL                                  66                                                         -           I9                                 16                                                                                           --          6-                                 06                                                   1    ON   IIXUSO   1)
£01.... 9....  ..... 9.... ...........  ..... 9...                                         86!.........    19.......          891........      [9........ ........ !..          19.......         £6.......  .....9....  ...........     .....9....   ...........  ......9........................ ..9...................................................m..........
666....         .     66             069........                         ...............                    08........061.                                                           6.!.006 .     061              06£.........       661....... ..0..................1.....0...............89.... I 060.....................
61O1               9691              0691               066!    016                         069!            066                0661            09L                 1!            091               0                06                  06                01               6109 II                            6691l09 sI  pj) #10                                                      o IJO1SI%00000siu01)ov
6666               WE18 06 698                         06696  -6688                        1986£    81616                     L Z6             1619              66! 19   68666                   6966 96 1       :0£                 £6686    60666                      9616            .6916t             89'66            66£6 91p    uan
..6.....9 .... ........9 ................. 9.......... ...........  ..........1   ..........  ........... .161                                                                  . ..........  ...........  ...1...-.(MN   AIOdJpo
..........I.......                                                 ...............4.............................................I........................................
............                 ....................................................I....................................   .........4............................I...................                                                                                                                                                     .............
Z966'6             666'9,   1o6!a66                     698'86   116,16                     86688    991601    06889    69666                                    080 U            10696            6669 L09119                         096 c6IL         66666V    19066    66966  £1  c6,   06869 LE0i94\nb)3)s101801,1  o111'0M loiodo
90........... ......9....   ......9 ...... ..6......... ..9...........  011111..... ..06....6 ...  66860.......  666991....6..0.                                           ! ...............96668....   ....... 0..............  £16            ...£9   .............  91..........                       ... 6....68....    8666.......  ..........                          ...................................I..
.......... .....................I.............. ....................................   ....                 .............hu........  ...................y..                                                                    .....I...........J.........ump.........                     ...........@...................................l..............
Lr)  16'ZL  9'69  ;:09.5     LL'IL         !:05gt                E8 69         :GE gt              OC             i P   iI`YS             O           0       5          z0             :l   v             s       9       : I    118116S 1119 61 191VI'                                          :Oz~ (1111'Sd    uteid
..... Z            f    l       LL. ..............................J ...........L              ..........l.......1               .....................i........   .....                                ........l........                ....................8....................66.........8........68..........................................
I 3WIX3WNIV                                                                                       13310)18 U)]AtOd 1V161113I1.I. 111311)101~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~:                                                                                                                      () iasv  !1)SH  D  npj o lu



- 55 -
APPENDIX - F
RECENT ACTIONS BY NTPC AND POWERGRII)
TO IMPROVE THE PERFORMANCE OF THE PLANTS IN ERIS
1.       The total installed capacity in ERIS is 13,600 MW, out of which the installed capacity of
NTPC's power plants is 3,900 MW (Farakka I and II: 1,600 MW; Kahalgaon: 840 MW; Talcher:
taken over by NTPC from the erstwhile Orissa SEB - 460 MW; and Talcher (the Project): 1,000
MW). Against the above capacity, the peak demand in the Eastern Region is 6,500-6,700 MW.
2.    Recently, in accordance with GOI's approval and allocations, NTPC and POWERGRID
have drawn up a strategy to export power to the other regions and have taken various actions, as
summarized below:
- ~     lo                        Agemet wih                                            : -'Statu
Northeastem Region (NER)                Assam SEB                              PPA has been signed.
50-100 MW is being exported to Assam through the
existing 220 kV Birpara (ER) - Salakati (Assam-NER)
line. The transfer began on February 28, 1997.
Southern Region (SR)                   Andhra Pradesh SEB                      PPA has been signed.
150-200 MW is being exported to Andhra Pradesh
through the existing 220 kV Balimela (Orissa-ER) -
Upper Sileru (AP-SR) and 132 kV Machkund (Orissa-
ER) - T.B. Vara (AP-SR) lines. The transfer began on
__________________________________                                             February  20,  1997.
Southern Region (SR)                    Southem Region Electricity Board       2x250 MW HVDC back-to-back system at Gazuwaka
(AP-SR) and 400 kV transmission line from Jeypur
(Orissa-ER) to Gazuwaka (SR) being built by
POWERGRID. After completion of the system in
February 1999, 500 MW would be transferred to the
Southern Region.
Westem Region (WR)                      Madhya Pradesh SEB                     150 MW of transfer to WR through the existing Dadra-
Nagar Haveli and Daman-Diu transmissior lines,
began on May 19, 1997. Discussions are under way
for the construction of a 220 kV single-circuit line
from Budhdipadar (Orissa-ER) to Korba (MP-WR).
150-200 MW is expected to be exported to Madhya
.___________________________________    Pradesh.
Northem Region (NR)                     Beneficiaries to be identified.        Discussions are under way for the construction of a
132 kV single-circuit line from Dehri (Orissa-ER) to
Karamnasa (UP-NR).
100-150 MW is expected to be exported to the
._______________________________        Northern   Region.
lxS00 MW HVDC back-to-back system is envisaged
to be built by POWERGRID in Susaram (ER) to
transfer power to NER through AC lines. The project
is planned for completion in March 2001.



