Document of
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Report No. 10703
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
BOLIVIA
URBAN DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
(LOAN 1489-BO)
JUNE 1, 1992
'~~~~~A0 ~ ~ ~   '
Infrastructure and Energy Operations Division
Country Department III
Latin America and the Caribbean Regional Office
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



FISCAL YEAR
January 1 to December 31
CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
Currency Unit      =  Peso  (Col$)
US$1               =  Col$  79   (1983)
=  Col$ 383   (1989)
Col$ 1             =  US$ 0.0127 (1983)
Col$ 1             =  US$ 0.0026 (1989)
Col$ 1 million    =  US$12,682  (1983)
Col$ 1 million    =  US$ 2,614  (1989)
WEIGHTS AND MEASURES
I meter (m)       = 3.28 feet (ft)
1 kilometer (km)  - 0.62 mile (mi)
I kilogram (kg)   = 2.20 pounds (lb)
1 ton             - 2,205 pounds
ABBRFVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS
BCH         Banco Central Hipotecario
BR          Banco de la Republica
CRC         Corporaci6n para la Reconstruccion y el Desarrollo del
Departamento del Cauca
DNP         Departamento Nacional de Planeaci6n
ICT         Instituto de Credito Territorial



FOR OFFCIAL USE ONLY
THE WORLD BANK
Washington, D.C. 20433
U.S.A.
Office of Director General
Operations Evaluation
June 1, 1992
MEMORANDUM TO THE EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS AND THE PRESIDENT
SUBJECT:    Project Completion Report on Bolivia
Urban Proiect (Loan 1489-BO)
Attached, for information, is a copy of a report entitled "Project
Completion Report on Bolivia - Urban Project (Loan 1489-BO)" prepared by the
Latin America and the Caribbean Regional Office. No audit of this project has
been made by the Operations Evaluation Department at this time.
Attachment                                          i 
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance
of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
BOLIVIA
URBAN DEVELOPMENT PROJECT (LOAN 1489-BO)
TABLE OF CONTENTS
Page No.
PREFACE       . ................... ...............   ... ...            ..$
HIGHLIGHTS ...................                                                       ii,
BASIC DATA SHEET .. ..... -.......*o..*....                   ..o ........*          iv
i.     BACKGROUND                           .......... .. ..  ...............       I
II.    PROJECT IDENTIFICATION, PREPARATION AND APPRAISAL ..........    2
Project Origin .........0............. ..................                2
Project Preparation ...... ... ...  ..........        ............ ..    2
CONAVI ................................o...        .o************        3
BSANV *#.o.*....oo......o ........ e. .o ........... togooot.....        3
Ministry of Health   o.*****..*... ***.*.... ***0*00.                     3
Coordinating Commission ....o ..........               ...........-      3
III.  PROJECT DESCRIPTION AND IMPLEMENTATION ......................            .    4
Project Objectives and Descripti.on oo......0.......... ...              4
Project Implementation  *.....00.......... ............ .......          4
HAM "V....................        *00.0 ..........                        7
BISA ....    **     **o ..*o.o*.........******................           8
Health ...nit ....................................................       8
C3ISA     io   . *.*..... ............ ** *******---*-* *******--*       8
Dealth unit                                   ....... ......             8
Coordination ooooo..oo.o* ooo..o..ooo...0.                               8
contracting 9490006*06090*96000**.....0..0 ................... 00..000..  9
Delays ..................... .#99*...............                        9
Project Costs and Financing 9e        ..............................    10
IV.    OPRATING RESULTS  *.................................                  ..    10
Project Results oo .... ...**                . ..................40...**  10
Consultants Performance and Technical Assistance .... ....   11
Community Organization ***see ... .... ..... ...    ..............    11
Operation and Maintenance .......o.......*.*.***.***** ......    1
Cost Recovery .........................                                 11
Reporting Arrangements .........1.3..         ......................    13
Cozpliance with Loan Cand±tions               .........................    13
Disbursemnets ..........................                                13
V.     BENEFITS ..........................                                         14
co-nomic and Social Benefits .............................   14
E rtloymeat        *...... .........................*.....**            14
Poverty Impact                                                          1......  4
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance
of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



TABLE OF CONTENTS (Cont.)
Page No.
VI.  OVERALL E"ALUATION .................... ********************* .................    15
General ..........       .....................................    15
Role of Project Agencies                         .............    15
The Government's Role .................................    15
The Bank's Role                                    ..........    16
TABLES
1.    Population Estimates           .........................................    18
2.    Income Distribution at Appraisal ..........         ...................  19
3.    General Indicators, 1977-1985 ......         ..........................    20
4.    Summary Project Costs  . .  ........ ... .. ........... . ... .......... .    21
5.    Description of the Project (Page 1-7)  .           .......................   22-28
6.    Project Fund Allocation ...... ....... ................  ..... ............    29
7.    HAM-BIRF Project Beneficiaries ......         .........................    30
8.    Sources of Funds          .............................................    31
9.    (a) Cost Calculation of CONAVI's Units .......  *        ...............    32
(b) Cost of Coimnercial Area ..................................    33
(c) CONAVI Basic Units Completed .....        ........................    34
10. Cost of HAM-BIRF Project Works               . . .35
11.   Recovery Sources ........................ ...... . .36
12. Index of Consumer Prices                       . . .                      37
CHARTS
1.    Bolivia Urban Development Project Implementation Schedule ....    38
2.    Actual aiad Assumed Inflation, 1975-1986.......                          39
3.    Official and Parallel Exchange Rate by Trimesters ............    40



PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
BOLIVIA
URBAN DEVELOPMENT PROJECT (LOAN 1489-BO)
PREFACE
This is the Project Completion Report (PCR) for the Urban Development
Project in Bolivia for which Loan 1489-BO in the amount of US$17.0 million was
approved on October 4, 1977. The loan was closed on December 31, 1986, two and
one-half years behind schedule. The last disbursement was on January 15, 1987,
with US$85,000 of the loan cancelled.
The PCR was prepared by the Infrastructure and Energy Operations Division,
Country Department III, Latin America and the Caribbean Regional Office.
This PCR is based, inter alia, on the Staff Appraisal Report, the Loan,
Guarantee and Project Agreements; supervision reports; correspondence between the
Bank and tbe Borrower; and internal Bank memoranda.



- il -
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
BOLIV'IA
IJRBAN DEVELOPMENT PROJECT (LOAN 1489-BO)
HIGHLIGHTS
1.        This was the first Bank-assisted urban project in Bolivia.  It was
identified in early 1976 aud prepared with active Government support during
mid-1976. It was appraised in February, 1977, and a loan for US$17 was
signed in November of that year. The loan became effective in June, 1978.
2.        The project had several goals, chief among whiCh were to:  (a)
increase access to shelter and other urban services, particularly for the
lower-income groups; (b) strengthen the institutional arrangements needed to
promote such projects efficiently, while improving the prevailing income
distribution and enviroamental conditions in urban centers; (c) demonstrate
the feasibility of providing essential services to low-income groups at
affordable costs, to increase replicability and avoid subsidies; (d) expand
job opportunities and the economic participation of artisans and small-scale
entrepreneurs; and (e) develop effective systers for the delivery of urban
services and for the rational management of urban growth through new and
existing institutions. The principal components of the project were:
(a) development of about 5,525 new serviced sites with core dwelling units
and 142 commercial plots; (b) infrastructure upgrading for about 4,500
families living in low-income neighborhoods of La Paz; (c) construction of
five new retail food markets in low-income areas of La Paz; (d) provision of
a line of credit for artisan and small-scale entervrises in the project
areas; and (e) technical assistance and training for project institutions and
for a health component. The project was to be implemented by four special
project units which were to be established within the four agencies involved
in the sector: HAM (upgrading), CONAVI (shelter), BISA (artisan lending),
and the Health Ministry. A special coordination commission was also to be
established to assist with project implementation. BANVI was initially
involved as a financial coordinator for the proje^t but it later became an
executing agency also after CONAVI had start-up problems.
3.        InsSead of the originally envisaged four years, the project took
eigIt years to complete.  Initial delays were due to start-up problems and
questions in some of the institu:ions (CONAVI and BISA) regarding the extent
of their involvement in low-income activities. As the reluctance of these
institutions became apparent, the Bank agreed with tne Government that some
project funds should be re-allocated to those agencies which were progressing
well with their components or those which showed interest in assuming a
larger role (e.g., HAM, BANVI). Before these re-allocations became fully
effective, the Bolivian economy began to move into a recession and it was
ravaged by hyper- inflation (reaching 50,000% on an annualized basis in late
1985), along with the accompanying political and socio-economic turmoil.
Within this environment it was almost impossible to implement the project in



- iii -
any systemati^ way; unit staff and heads were Changed frequently, conztractors
became bankrupt, materials were not available (those that were, were very
expensive), employees went on strikes (there were 1,043 strikes in 1984
alone), and general ^haos ensued.
4.        Those units which had some continuity of leadership and were well
sfaffed (e.g., HA.M) were able to plan ahead and avoid many of the problems of
Lyper-inflation. They stockpiled supplies and used force account prudently
and they also had reasonable adjustment clauses in their contracts. Units
which were not staffed with experienced technical people (e.g., BANVI)
suffered from both long delays and high prices. In spite of the very serious
adverse environment, HAM surpassed its physical project targets, while
CONAVI, BANVI and BISA managed to achieve satisfactory physical
accomplishments, albeit over a much longer period. The Health Unit began
well and had excellent initial success in a mother-child nutrition program.
Unfortunately, because of infighting within the Ministry and the later
economic situation, it was closed and the remain.;'g funds were used to build
a health center in La Paz.
5.        While, in physical terms, the achievements of the project are
substantial, in financial terms, Whe results are not so good. This is due
primarily to the arastic decline in real inccae throughout the country and
the use of an indexation system. As a result, although most of the project
beneficiaries legally have the obligation to pay for the benefits they
received, they do not have the resource to meet such obligations and there is
need to renegotiate their debts. The success of the HAM unit was impressive
enough for it to be used as the model for much of a second Bank operation in
Bolivip (Credit 1842-BO). In this sense, one project goal of re-integrating
the project units into their respective agencies is being fulfilled. For
CONAVI, this has not occurred to the degree which it has for HAM.
Nevertheless, the Government is presently considering consolidation of all of
its housing funds and agencies and having them focus more upon low-income
housing as those built by CONAVI. BISA has also begun to re-orient its
lending activities under a new management team and it is now giving greater
priority to artisan and small-scale enterprise. Its project unit has already
been incorporated into the parent agency. With the disbanding of the Health
Unit, no absorption into the parent agency was possible. Nevertheless, the
Health Ministry has a national program which incorporates most of the
succ-ssful elements of the mother-child nutrition program. Even with the
cost recovery problems, when assessed in light of the political and
socio-economic environment which prevailed during its implementation, the
achievements of this project are remarkable. Its urban upgrading
achievements continue to influence preparation of projects not only in
Bolivia, but in other countries (e.g., Guatemala and Ecuador).



- iv -
BOLIVIA
PRCJECT COMPLETION REPORT
URBAN DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
(.Loan 1489-BO)
BASIC DATA 9HEET
Key Project Data                          Appraitsal Estimate             Actual
Total project cost
(US$ Million)                                 2.5                    22.5 1/
Overrun (%W
Loan amount (US$ million)                         17.0                     17.0
Disbursed                                                             16.9
Cancelled                                                             o.,
Date physical cnmponents completed               12/82                    12/86
Proportion completed by above date                 50%                     100%
Time overrun (%)                                     -                     100%
Economic rate oJ' return (%)                      18%                       N.A 2/
Other Project Data                           Original Plan                Actual
First r,:_vioned in files
or timetables                                   -                January, 1976
Government application                               -                N/A
Negotiations                                         -                April, 1977
Board approval                                       -                October 4, 1977
Loan agreement date                                  -                November 30, 1977
Effectiveness date                                   -                June 22, 1978
Closing date                            June 30, 1983                 December 31, 1986
Borrower                                Government of Bolivia
Executing Agency                        CONAVI, RAM, BISA, BANVI
Fiscal year of the Borrower             January 1 - December 31
C,2mulative Actual Disbur2emezt (Bank fiscal Year)
6/78  6/79   6/80    6/81  6/82   6/83   6/84   6/85   6/86
Estimated (US$ million)   3.7  11.6    9.6    12.0  13.5   13.5   13.5   17.0   17.0 3/
Actual (US$ million)       0.0   0.3    1.1       2.5   5.1    7.0    9.1   13.0   16.9
Actual as % of estinated    0%    3%        7'     15%   30%    41%    54%    76%   100%3/
1/ There were frequent sharp devaluations of the peso during the 19e?-1986 period
and so US$ figure pravides an estimate of project costs.
2/  Hyperinflation and markst distortions preclude re-calculation of actual figure
See text for greater details.
3/ US$85,000 of the loan was cancelled.



v
MAN-     DATE       PERFORMANCE
Mo0/YR.     WEEKS        PERSONS    WEEKS    REPORT    RATINGS
Identification:   03/76         N/A           N/A       N/A        N/A        N/A
Preparation:      05/76         N/A           N/A       N/A        N/A        N/A
08/76        N/A           N/A        N/A       N/A         N/A
11/76        N/A           N/A       N/A        N/A        N/A
Appraisal:        02/77         2.0             7      14.0      09/09/77    N/A
Supervision       01/78         2.0             4       8.0      02/16/78        2
05/78        1.5             2        3.0     05/23/78        1
10/8         1.5             2       3.0      10/19/78        2
01/79         1.0            2        20.     03/19/79        2
05/79        2.0             2        4.0     06/15/79        2
09/79        2.0             3        6.0     10/05/79        2
01/80        3.0             4       12.0     12/15/80        3
04/80         2.0            3        6.0     04/29/80        2
09/80         2.0            2        4.0     10/10/80        2
03/81        2.0             3        6.0     04/10/81        2
12/81        1.0             2        2.0     01/13/82        2
04/82         1.0            2        2.0     04/28/82        2
10/82        1.0             2        2.0     10/22/82        3
03/83         1.0            1        1.0     04/08/83        3
, 05/83        1.0             1       1.0      06/10/e3       3
10/83        1.0             2       2.0      11/07/83        3
54/84         1.0            2        2.0     05/04/84        3
05/85         1.0            2        2.0     05/27/85        2
02/86         1.0            1        2.0     02/12/86        2
09/86         1.5            3        4.5     PCR



BOLIVIA
URBAN DEVELOPMENT PROJECT -- LOAN 1489-BO
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
I. BACKGROUND
1.        Despite its potential for economic growth, Bolivia is the poorest
country in Latin America.  Its GNP per capita was US$ 510 in 1983 and at
present, in the wake of an extended period of hyper-inflation and a
consequen- drop in real incomes, is estimated to be in the region of
US$200-30U. Its 1985 population was estimated at 6,400,000 (see Table 1).
La Paz, the capital city, now has &bout 993,000 people (nearly half of the
residents of the Department of La Paz) and it growing at an estimated 4% per
annum.
2.        Nearly 80% of Bolivia's population is concentrated in the Altiplano
and Valles regions. The pattern of urbanization has developed as a function
of existing population concentrations, the availability of employment
opportunities, and the existence of unusually difficult physical and climatic
conditions in large parts of the country.  Previous migration to the once
expanding mining centers has given way to increasing flows to the larger
cities, primarily to La Paz, Cochabamba and Santa Cruz. Much of the
population increase experienced by urban centers until about 1982 can be
explained in terms of the economic attractions of these expanding centers and
the expectations of the rural populations of finding better jobs in cities.
During the recent period of hyper-inflation (1982-85), worsening conditions
in the countryside drew people to urban areas.
3.        At appraisal, the Ministry of Planning and Coordination, the main
institution responsible for spatial development and urban growth in the
country, based its urban growth strategy on social, economic and geopolitical
considerations in order to generate physical expansion. A major element of
this strategy was the Government's objective to encourage the growth of what
is coasidered to be the most important development axis contaiaing the cities
of La Paz, Cochabamba and Santa Cruz. Because of its social and economic
implications, housing was considered one of the most tmportant sectors by the
Government, and the housing investment goal for the sector during the period
for the five year plan was $b997 million (US$49.5 million). For other urban
construction, it was $b950 million (US$47.5 million).
4.        Though the size and urban growth rate of Bolivia are not unusual by
Latin American standards, the Government was not able to match growth with
appropriate levels of urban services and adequate .iousing programs. In 1977,
less than 57% of the country's urban population had access to piped water
supply, and less than 23% to any type of sewerage facilities. Average life
expectancy at birth was 47 years, infant mortality was more than 147 per
thousand, and malnutrition among pre-school children was about 22%. Almost
one quarter of the population of La Paz had monthly household incomes of
under $bl,500 (US$75) and about half earned less than Sb3,500 (US$175): see
Table 2. In marginal areas, almost 40% of all households had income below
$bl,000 (US$50); and 93% of the residents of such settlements on the slopes
around La Paz were estimated to have incomes below the 43rd percentile of the
citygs income distribution.



-2 -
5.        The total number of housing units built annually in Bolivia by
public agencies and the formal and informal private sector was about
15,000-23,000. However, an estimated 10,000 additional units per year were
required to provide everyone with at least minam um shelter solutions. The
average cost of the public and formal sector units, estimated at
US$7,000-8,600, made them clearly inaccessible to a majority of the urban
population. Although the Government took steps to improve housing conditions
in both urban and rural areas, its ability to serve the urban poor was
severely constrained by both relatively high construction standards and very
low incomes of these target groups, and by the costs of traditional schemes
for provision of urban services. The Government was unable to provide
services efficiently and in sufficient quantities partly because of poor cost
recovery and public subsidy limitations. It therefore, decided to inLcrease
its financial support to the Banco de la Vivienda (BANVI) to establish new,
more appropriate layout and design standards for low cost housing and
infrastructure schemes; and to increase the eff±iciency and capa^ity of
institutions in charge of coordination, promotioa and implementation of such
programs.
6.        La Paz.  The city of La Paz is located on the western slopes of the
Andean mountains at an altitude ranging between 3,500 and 4,000 meters. The
city itself, including most residential areas, the business district and all
government offices, is located in a narrow valley surrounded by steep slopes
that fall  ff the eastern edge of the Altiplano plateau.  Most of these
slopes consist of extremely unstable geologicali layers of very loose
materials which, when saturated by rainfall and the water carried by some of
the more than 200 rivers and streams that criss-cross the city, collapse and
cause massive mudflows and landslides, which primarily affect the lower
income groups living on such steep slopes. The very establishment of
marginal settlements on these slopes, and their lack of appropriate sewerage
systems have significantly increased the amount of water that filters into
the ground, thus aggravating pravailing conditions. The city's expansion
possibilities are thus very limited, with one of the few available options
being on El Alto, the Altiplano area which has become an extension of
metropolitan La Paz.
II. PROJECT IDENTIFICATION, PREPARATION AND APPRAISAL
7.        Project Origin.  Early in 1976, the Government requested Bank
assistance for an urban investment prog-am and the project was identified in
the course of a mission in February-March of that year. It was prepared with
active Government support during three missions in the period May-August
1976. A pre-appraisal mission followed in Octobor-November of the same year,
and an appraisal mission was undertaken in February 1977, with the SAR being
issued in September 1977.  A loan of US$17 million was approved and signed in
November 1977 and became effective in June 1978.
8.        Project PreDaration.  The project was based on plans prepared by
the Government with participation of what later became the five main project
implementation agencies; HAM, CONAVI, BISA, BANVI and the Ministry of
Health. A brief description of each agency is given below with greater
details presented in the appraisal report of this project.



9.        HAM.  The La Paz Municipality (The Honorable Alcalde Municipal),
has increasingly devoted its attention to the plight of the urban poor, and
devised innovative measures to assist them. It developed Accion Comunal, a
well organized department to coordinate and assist communities in
establishing infrastructure and other urban services, carried out in close
cooperation and with the full participation (via mutual aid) of the affected
communities.  HAM has steadily in_reased its coverage and improved its cost
recovery procedures and its revenues with the help of a value-added tax on
property (plusvalia).  Its planned responsibilities under the project were
the urban upgrading and markets components.
10.       CONAVI.  The Consejo Nacional de la Vivienda (CONAVI) is the main
national agency involv.d in the construction of low-cost public housing.
CONAVI is a semi-autonomous agency dependent on the Ministry of Urbanization
and Housing and is in effect the implementing arm of the Ministry in the
housing sector. CONAVI has a steady source of income from a 2% tax on wages
and salaries paid directly by public and private sector employers.  Its
projeCt components as planned at appraisal were the sites and servi:es,
community facilities and industrial sites.
11.       BANVI.  Created in 1974 as a housing bank, Banco de la Vivienda
(BANVI) was to promote and coordinate the financial aspects of low-cost
housing and infrastructure schemes through the technical secretariat of the
Coordinating Commission; and through the flow of project funds via the
Central Bank. In addition, it was to set up an evaluating and monitoriag
system for the project.
12.       BISA.  The Banco Industrial (SA), BISA, is a Drivate development
bank engaged mainly in financing industrial and mining ventures. It was
given the task of implementing the Artisan Credit Program under the project.
In order to reduce its administrative costs and more efficiently use HAM's
staff, its was expected that HAM's staff would publicize the Artisan Program
and pre-screen beneficiaries who would then receive loans from BISA.
13.       Ministry of Health.  Technical assistance in the form of foreign
experts was to be provided to the Ministry of Health to address lack of
coordination among policies aimed at the urban poor and their effectiveness.
On the basis of this review, it was to identify a more substantive program
for financing in a future Bank project.  Specific support was to be given to
on-going efforts in the promotion of preventiv-e medicine and maternal-child
health care; training and education programs relating to nutrition;
preventive health care relating to epidemiology; and training programs for
community health promoters.
14.       Coordinating Commission.  Established under the chairmanship of the
Undersecretary of Coordination of the Ministry of Planning and Coordination,
the Coordination Commission was to be responsible for the formulation of
policy to ensure the effective implementation of the project and the
effective coordination of all participating agencies. It was also to provide
policy guidelines and coordination among other institutions whose investments
were likely to have an impact on the region.



-4-
III. PROJECT DESCRIPTION AND IMPLEMENTATION
15.       Project Objectives and Description.  As described in the appraisal
report, the project was designed to: (i) increase access to shelter and other
urban services, particularly for the lower income groups; (ii) strengthen the
institutional arrangements needed to promote such projects efficiently while
improving the prevailing income distribution and environmental conditions in
urban centers; (iii) demonstrate the feasibility of providing essential
services to low-income groups at affordable costs, to increase replicability
and avoid subsidies; (iv) provide and improve shelter for beneficiaries down
to the lowest 5th percentile of income distribution; (v) expand job
opportunities and the economic participation of artisans and small-scale
enterpreneurs by means of the provision of a line of credit; (vi) complement
and strengthen past Bank support to BISA by using it as an implementing
agency; and (vii), develop effective systems for the delivery of urban
services and for the rational management of urban growth through the
establishment of new and strengthening of existing institutional
arrangements.
16.       The project consisted of: (a) a program to develop 5,525 new
serviced sites with core dwelling units and 142 industrial/commercial plots
in the El Alto area of La Paz; (b) an upgrading program to prov_e 4,500
families living in low income areas of La Paz with essential infrastructure
and other urban services and coastruction materials credits; (c) the
construction of five new retail food markets to serve the marginal
settlements of La Paz; (d) the provision of a line of credit for artisans and
small-scale entrepreneurs to increase incomes and generate 1,560 new jobs
among low income groups in the Sites and Services and Upgrading areas of the
project; and (e), the provision of technical assistance and training. The
technical assistance and training component comprised support for the
agencies involved ia management or implementation of project components
(CONAVI, BISA, Accion Communal), and those participating in complementary
activities (BANVI, Ministry of Health). Under this component 214 man months
of consultancy services were to be provided at US$6,000/month; US$395,000 for
equipment; and US$200,000 for other institutional support and training
programs. Consistent with the Bank's approach of that time, special project
units were established in all of the agencies involved in the implementation
of the various project components. The aim was essentially to bypass
existing institutional rigidites and facilitate project implementation. It
was also felt that the technical assistance package would improve operations
within the agencies in a parallel fashion, so that by the end of the loan
period, the specialized units would inject an additional boost to efficiency
of operations of the parent agencies after they were re-absorbed into the
overall operations.
17.       Project Implementation.  Project implementation was subject to a
number of delays. It took eight yearm (July 1978 - June 1986) to implement
the project instead of the expected four years. During this time, the
closing date was extended three times. At the national level, considerable
political turmoil prevailed in the country from 1980. Indicators of this
situation were the large number of strikes which occurred during the period



-5 -
(1,043 in 1984 alone), along with the ten changes in national presidents and
the even more frequent cabinet and lower level changes which occurred during
1977-1985. The economic recession in 1981 resulted in deeper economic crisis
from 1982 to 1985, two project-specific consequences of which were lack of
counterpart funds and the Bank's suspension of disbursements to Bolivia
during 1983-84 because of overdue payment.
18.       The project was restructu--ed in 1981, partly as a result of these
delays, and also because of unresoi;ed administrative and institutional
problems in the main project implementation agencies. At the project unit
level, delays occurred as a result of inter and intra-institutional problems,
particularly within CONAVI, BISA and the Health Ministry.  The HAM unit was
quick to organize its staff and proceed with definiag and programming its
tasks. The Health unit began in a similar brisk manner, but as its
accomplishments and its role increased, inter-departmental rivalry surfaced
and paralysed continuation of its work. For BISA and CONAVI, there were
unresolved policy questions of their management regarding the role of their
respective project units. As a result, BISA's management could not initially
decide to what extent the institution should cater to the need for artisan
loans. CONAVI's management had similar questions regarding its role in
providing core unit dwellings.  To add to the problem, there were several
changes in the directors of the Health and CONAVI project units (4 and 5
respectively), and BISA and CONAVI had a prolonged dispute regarding the
price and sale terms of the land which CONAVI was to sell to BISA for its
industrial building. Greater details on these issues are presented in the
sections which contain reviews of the performance of the specific agencies.
Many of the delays which occurred at the national level could not have been
foreseen at appraisal. However, with hindsight, the ability and more
especially, the commitment of the respective institutions to implement their
project components should have been more carefully evaluated with more
adequate provisions made to deal with them.
19.       At the pre-appraisal stage, the Bank's doubts about the capacity of
existing institutional apparatus for project implementation led to the
creation of project units and the appointment of BANVI as the project's
fiscal agent. In the interest of getting the works started, there was some
lack of clarity in the allocation of institutional responsibilities and in
defining project components (e.g., in the health component). Also, the
project evolved in a physical environment in which hyperinflation caused
considerable distortions (e.g., in beneficiaries' ability to pay for shelter
in the light of severely reduced real incomes); and a political environment
in which numerous strikes resulted in considerable delays to project
implementation.
20.       If the delays caused by strikes and cash flow problems were not
counted, CONAVI's actual project implementation time would be less than two
years. Differences in planned versus actual costs of the respective project
components are summarized in Table 4. Actual costs in $b far exceeded even
the amended estimates due to hyperinflation and the consequent effect on
prices. However, in US$ terms, actual project costs are similar to those
estimated at appraisal. It should be noted here that because of the
hyperiaflationary environment, any detailed cost comparison should be done
with caution.



- 6 -
21.       As it became evident that some agencies (e.g., CONAVI and BISA)
were still trying to define their respective roles, the Bank decided to re-
assign responsibilities among the various agencies, reducing the tasks of
those which were performing poorly, and increasing the role of the others
which did well or showed the potential to do so.  Consequently, the urban
upgrading and market subcomponents of HAM were expanded and CONAVI's shelter
component was reduced. Although the Bank had not initially considered BANVI
as an executing agency, its role was expanded with the introduction of a
pilot sites and services component (based conceptually on the example of the
CONAVI-BIRF dwelling units). Coverage area of the Health component was
increased (since it was initially doing well), and HAM was given a share of
BISA's funds for artisan loans for use in a similar manner without the
participation of BISA. Also effected were modifications to procurement
procedures to avoid delays (by increasing the threshold for ICB and for prior
Bank review for civil works contracts to US$1 million for ICB and to US$0.5
million for HAM's contracts threshold) and reassignment of responsibility for
the provision of industrial lots from CONAVI to BISA. A summary of the
changes made in the first amendment of March, 1981 is presented in Table 5,
while Table 6 shows the allocations among the various project entities.
22.       These changes were made with two main purposes in mind:  to get the
project implemented without undue delays, and to put the agencies on notice
that if they delayed implementation of their respective components they stood
to lose all of the allocated funds in any further changes. The intent of
this action by the Bank was understandable, given the then prevailing
conditions; however, in retrospect, it should have analysed the long-term
implications of these actions in greater detail.  Getting a financial
institution such as BANVI involved in physical implementation of housing
works led to greater administrative and technical difficulties in BANVI.
Also, indications are that not much consideration was given to the
implication of having HAM lending and collecting for its artisan loan
subcompoaent.
23.       Having noted the above, it should be stated that the reallocation
appeared to have had the desired results insofar as it spurred the agencies
into action. However, by that time, the economic crisis was negatively
affecting all sectors of the economy to a greater degree, and funding for all
public investment programs became very scarce. It became increasingly
impossible to obtain government funds and to locate materials and contractors
for project works, and in order to ameliorate the situation, the Bank agreed
to open a special account and increase its share of financing from 77% to 95%
for all works except for the BISA component.  It was felt that BISA still had
private resources to do its program and although it had begun to show
interest in artisan lending, it apparently was still not fully committed to
the project component. The legal agreements were amended in 1983 to reflect
these new changes.
24.        Implementation of the sites and services, upgrading ard market
components as well as the technical assistance elements of the Health
component were expected to take about four years from the date of loan
effectiveness.  However, actual project implementation took eight years, from
July 1978 to June 1986, mainly because of the reasons discussed above
(Chart 1). Disbursements were scheduled to be completed by December 1980,
but following three extensions of the loan closing date, the last



- 7 -
disbursement was made in December 1986. Actual implementation by project
institutions is documented below.
25.       BANVI.  Instead of preparing 400 serviced plots with 304 basic
housing units on some of these plots as originally planned, a total of 650
lots were provided. BANVI built 441 houses on these lots leaving 209
serviced lots without houses.  In physical terms, it thus exceeded original
targets, although in terms of implementation time and costs (in pesos), the
actual results were worse than anticipated. This accomplishment was achieved
at a price since it distracted BANVI from its main functions as financial and
fiscal agent, as well as that of a bank.
26.       The BANVI site is about 2 km away from Villa Adela and has produced
much needed low-income housing. Compared to the CONAVI units, these houses
are more attractive. Neverthelecs, indications are that site selection was
dictated more by land availability than by demand. Consequently, the
location is not presently very attractive to many potential beneficiaries,
since it lacks adequate transport facilities (it is 2 km from a bus route),
adequate access roads and community facilities. Additionally, the poor
quality of some of the building materials (e.g., roof tiles), and poor
installation on some units do not make the dwellings as weather proof as they
should be, a significant consideration in the harsh climatic conditions of El
Alto. These deficiencies affected the commercial value of the houses built
under this component of the project.
27.       In their explanation of the situation, officials of BANVI ^liimed
that the selected site was the only one which had the size they-needed to
accommodate the units to be built. Additionally, they saw it as an area
which would be settled within a few years and so it would have the needed
services. Regarding the quality of the materials and workmanship, they
explained that the inflation drove many suppliers into bankruptcy and they
had to buy what was available in the market or do without. Given the
situation which existed during BANVI's construction period, most of the above
points appear valid. However, there are also the elements of lack of
technical experience and frequent changes in staff in BANVI which accounted
for some of the problems.
28.       HAM.  HAM-BIRF's participation in the project began well and
continued smoothly during the inflation period and even surpassed project
targets (see Tables 5 and 7). This record was due mainly-to its professional
approach, its foresight to make advanced purchases, and to the skills mix and
continuity of its staff and director. (The HAM unit is the only one which
maintained its senior level staff intact throughout the project
implementation period.) Devaluations of the $b occurred so rapidly that
HA14-BIRP's prudent savings, good contract adjustmeants provisions, and general
efficiency and creativity enabled it to increase the target area of coverage,
reach five times the beneficiary coverage for water supply, and build 40%
more of the number of market stalls originally planned (see Table 7). An
example of HAM-BIRF's creativity at a time of intease shortages in Bolivia
was to use the incentive of food-for- work and self-help to enable Continued
amocTh implementation of the project component. This approach contrasts
markedly with those of CONAVI-BIRF and BANVI-BIRF, which did not take
defensive measures in light of inflation, nor did taey give sufficient
priority to the social components of their work.



29.       CONAVI.  CONAVI was to acquire land totalling some 20 ha. adjacent
to the Rio Seco and Villa Adela sites for the construction of 1,277 sites and
services and commercial plots. It acquired 46 ha. of land adjacent to the
Rio Seco site, of which 43 ha. received urban services and 1,982 serviced
plots were developed along with 166 commercial plots. This compares well
with CONAVI's revised target of 1980 serviced plots (but it is much lower
than the original target of 5,525 plots). Because of delays in receiving
municipal approvals, CONAVI did not follow normal procedures and some site
layouts and construction standards were not approved by the municipality.
Although this did not affect the quality of the works done, it caused some
delays in transferring them to the municipality for maintenance.
30.       BISA.  In addition to funds made available by the Bank, BISA was to
contribute US$500,000 of its own funds for credits to artisans and
small-scales enterprises. This contribution was made in the form of
technical assistance to the project for consultancy servic3s end study trips
for staff of BISA. Government initially guaranteed 30% of defaults of
outstanding loans of artisans, up to a limit of US$30,000, but these
guarantees were not honored in light of the economic crisis. Lack of
knowledge of (and interest in) the small-scale enterprise sector on the part
of BISA led to half-hearted efforts to serve this market initially. Later,
as BISA became interested in the program, it became impossible to establish
and maintain a revolving credit fund because of hyperinflation.
31.       Health Unit.  A project unit in the Health Ministry defined and
implemented a mother-child nutrition program throughout La Paz. Health-posts
were established and staffed by nurses and visiting doctors and the program
quickly expanded in the El Alto area. However, as the popularity of the
program grew, the unit began to attract greater a-tention from the Health
Ministry, and various charges and criticisms were levelled egainst its Senior
staff. As the in-fighting grew, the efficiency of the unit declined. Its
staff resigned and the unit was disbanded. The Health Ministry kept no
record of the unit and its quantitative achievements cannot be measured. As
the unit became more entangled in inter-departmental rivalry, the Bank
permitted remaining project funds to partially finance and equip a health
training center in La Paz. This center is staffed and operated by the Health
Ministry with assistance from UNICEF.
32.       Coordination.  Both intra- as well as inter-agency coordination
were weak.  During the pre-inflation period, project implementation was
characterised by a lack of inter-inastitutional contacts and coordination
between CONAVI and other executing institutions. The Coordinating Commission
held weekly meetings, and although these assisted somewhat in getting the
different participants to work together, the Commission was ineffective
because the project agencies did not want to surrender any of their
autonomy. Except for HAN, the project units did not benefit from the
experience of their parent institutions in the implemeatation of project
works. As a result, the sites and services component had a history of
administrative and control problems such as works not being properly
sequenced, staff salaries not being paid on time, and accounts aot being
separated for the units.
33.       Separate project units were created to allocate greater direct
financial and administrative authority. In the case of HAM-BIRP, it



- 9 -
maintained excellent communication links with the parent Municipality. This
did not occur with the other project units because of reasons already noted
above. Coordination between HAM and other project agencies (e.g., BISA) and
between BANVI and BISA were generally good. Poor institutional coordination
between CONAVI and BISA severely hampered the implementation of the
industrial minipark.
34.       Contracting.  The urban upgrading component (US$3.36 million
without the construction materials loans); and about 27% (US$3.70 million) of
the sites and services component where mutual aid was envisaged, were to be
carried out by force account. The supply of major equipment and vehicles was
to be secured under international competitive bidding. All other civil
works, procurement and the supply of minor equipment were to be done through
competitive bidding advertised locally, in accordance with procedures
satisfactory to the Bank. During the early phase of project implementation,
contracting problems for both ICB and LCB were mainly due to lengthy and
cumbersome procedures, particularly for CONAVI, a Government agency.
Inflation complicated the problem with contractors unwilling to offer fixed
price and suppliers running out of stocks. Problems arose even when the
project units managed to negotiate equitable arrangements for adjustments
because the Government passed an adjustment law which was very favorable to
contractors and had to be applied in all cases. During the worst economic
period, CONAVI and BANVI had to post guards at each partially completed house
to prevent dismantling and sales of the fixtures.
35.       As inflation reached the four and five digit range (50,000% on an
annualized bases in September, 1985), it was almost impossible to negotiate
any contract for work or make any purchases on a planned basis. No supplies
were available, and when they were, price quotations were being changed
literally by the minute and the US$ was used as the reference price. Also,
the project units received loan funds from the Central Bank at the
artificially high fixed official exchange rate. As the situation worsened,
the Bank ag.eed to raise the minimum threshold amounts for ICB and prior
reviews and establish a special account for the project. It also agreed to
requests of HAM and later, CONAVI, to buy materials from Brazil and stockpile
these for later use. Bank missions worked with Government and project
officials to' modify adjustment laws which were too generous to contractors
and which in effect rewarded project delays.
36.       Delays.  Given Bolivia's history of political and economic unrest,
the implementation period set at appraisal was perhaps over-optimistic.
However, there was no reason to suppose at that time that the country would
undergo the severe economic problems which it faced during 1982-85, with a
consequent loss of produ-tivity; lack of counterpart funds; lack of access to
funds via the Central Bans; non-acquisition of land by BISA; and devaluation
of the peso coupled with hyperinflation. Whereas during appraisal the
expectation was that the future rate of inflation was likely to drop even
further (to 7%) than the 10% experienced at that time, the actual situation
was unprecedented inflation (Chart 3). The environment of continued
political and economic change and frequent strikes at the Central Bank
delayed definition of an exchange rate for Bank reimbursements, and this also
led to project implementation delays, as did the Bank's suspension of all its
disbursements to Bolivia during 1983-84, because of overdue loan repayment.
It is estimated that politieal turmoil resulted in delays of about 18 months
to the project; and suspensions of disbursements by the Bank caused some two



- 10 -
years of delays. Since there is some overlapping, the net result is a
shorter overall period of delay (about three years). As a result of delays,
project costs in pesos show considerable variation from the US$ amounts
quoted at appraisal.
37.       Project Costs and Financing.  Table 4 contains a summary of
estimated and actual project costs. Given the then-prevailing economic
conditions, no real comparison can be made between these figures. Exact
correspondence between estimated and actual project costs in US$ could not be
verified by the PCR mission because of the frequent devaluations. Project
modifications also make such comparisons diff'cult. Nevertheless, since the
Bank's share of project cost was re'latively high (80%), it is reasonable to
assume that final project cost was similar to original estimates.
38.       Planned and actual project financing arrangements are shown in
Table 8. Estimated and actual proportions of project funding from Government
and the Bank remained the same (20% and 80% respectively), although changes
were made in the Bank's allocation of funds to the different project
components. The amount spent on technical assistance increased by 5% over
that originally estimated, and funds were reallocated from sites and services
components to urban upgrading as a consequence of the first loan
restructuring in 1981.
39.       Government's inability or unwillingness to provide counterpart
funding (which has to be considered in the light of Bolivia's overall
economic difficulties and lack of liquidity), led the Bank to increase the
proportion of its overall funding from 77% to 82% under the second loan
amendment in May 1983. This adjustment was achieved through increasing its
disbursement percentage to 95% for categories 2 and 3 of BANVI, CONAVI, HAM
and the Health components and to use loan savings due to devaluation.
IV. OPERATING RESULTS
40.       ProjsctResults.  Despite numerous difficulties of national
strikes; hyperinflation; delays due to suspensions of disbursements to
Bolivia by the Bank; and lack of intra- as well as inter-institutional
coordination, in physical terms, the project has achieved a great measure of
success particularly in the provision of urban services. Many original
targets were surpassed. With respect to HAM, compared to original targets of
providing about 4,500 families with upgraded services, as Table 7 indicates,
over 20,000 families throughout a 1,500 ha. area were provided with drinking
water services. There were 1,541 new retail stalls constructed instead of
the 1,100 originally envisaged, and approximately 700 beneficiaries received
artisan loans. A comprehensive self-help program was also established and
strengthened. Furthermore, the achievements of HAM have provided a model for
selective incremental upgrading works with self-help, and on a largely cost-
recoverable basis. This is being done through a larger city-wide upgrading
component which is currently underway with partial Bank financing
(Credit 1842-BO), and with the project unit being the nucleus of the team for
the larger operation. The staff of HAM also made visits to other countries
(e.g., Guatemala and Ecuador) to provide technical assistance in setting up



- 11 -
similar programs there. For CONAVI 1,532 new shelter units were provided
compared to 4,696 envisaged at appraisal (and later modified to 1,980
units). Additionally, the Government is reviewing CONAVI's achievements and
is considering plans to consolidate all current housing programs to provide
more appropriate low-income housing. BANVI provided 441 units anrd 650
urbanized lots, while BISA granted about 300 artisan credits.
41.       Land purchase was the subject of a protracted dispute between BISA
and CONAVI. BISA was to have bought land for the industrial park component
of the project (which formed an intergral part of CONAVI's program); instead,
it allowed CONAVI to do so. Following CONAVI's purchase of land from various
private sector groups, it asked BISA for a higher price than BISA was willing
to pay and considerable delays resulted. BISA finally bought its land in a
different location altogether, relatively far from the CONAVI project housing
(whose beneficiaries the industrial workshops were designed to serve). These
delays and lack of early definition and decision-making by BISA's
adm±nintration (due partially to the macro-economic crisis in Bolivia at that
time), led to the non-implementation of the workshop component of the
project. Nevertheless, the land purchased by BISA was urbanized and it is in
close proximity to the units which BANVI built. It could therefore, still
serve some of the beneficiaries of the project as well as other low-income
residents who are expected to settle in the area.
42.       Consultants Performance and Technical Assistance.  The consultants
performed effectively, although the short time spent in the country (5-8 days
for most consultants) prevented integration into the project units. As a
consequence, they tended to lack locally-based perspectives and their
counterparts had difficulty understanding and thus fully implementing their
recommendations. For example, core unit designs and lower norms and
standards were initially not understood and accepted by CONAVI.  Very
effective use was made of regionally-based consultants from the Salvadoran
agency, Fundacion Salvadorena de Desorrollo y V%vienda Minima (FUNDASAL),
which transferred much of their previous experience on Bank-financed
projects. Also, many local professione.ls who worked on the project were able
to gain experience outside Bolivia, and this contributed to increased
efficiency and objectivity.
43.       Community Organization.  HAM's predecessor, Accion Comunal, was
particularly strong in community organization, a legacy which it passed on to
HAM. The demonstration effect of its initial involvement in the 8 de
diciembre residential area demonstrated a replicable approach to housing and
urban upgrading to the community. This approach irvolves intensive
orientation programs for residents interested in the services. They are told
what options are available and what the associated costs would be and they
are given the opportunity of reducing their costs through self-help and
(sometimes) food-for-work program. The community having the greatest number
of residents signing up for the program and paying an advance for works to be
done gets priority on HAM's list. On the strength of its initial activities,
HAM has received requests for upgrading from more than 100 neighborhoods and
has implemented a downpayment policy of 10-25% (according to ability to pay)
from would-be beneficiaries.



- 12 -
44*      O2pertioanand   Mait9enaace.  Responsibility for the administration
of municipal services lies with the municipality through the intermediary of
SAMAPA, the water and sewerage authority. SAMAPA will operate and maintain
all the water and sewerage systems instdlled by HAM. Though CONAVI is
legally obliged to transfer the operation and maintenance function of its
installations to SAMUP , at the time of the PCR mission, it had not yet
submitted its project component for municipal approval (the first step in the
transfer process). It was conducting an inventory of the works at that time,
after which it would effect the handover to the municipality. Handover of
the Rio Seco site suffered delays because the Education Ministry wanted to
have furniture and equipment in the school before it accepted the
facilities. The equipment and furniture were to be pla"ed in the school
shortly after the PCR mission was in the field.
45.       Cost Recovery.  At appraisal, US$17.7 million (78%.of the total
cost) were to be directly recovered from inLdividual beneficiaries.
Indirectly recovered costs (via property taxes) were to include some
community facilities, technical assistance and some offsite infrastructure.
Recovery of costs for the project were to come mainly from charges and sales
to final users. The remaining costs were to be absorbed by Government aad
recovered from general tax revenues, including local taxes. Table 11 shows
estimated and actual costs and recovery sources for each of the components
and in total.
46.       Before the hyperinflation period, as project works were being
implemented for the upgrading component, beneficiaries entered into contract
to pay their share of costs in non-indexed pesos. With the onset of
inflation, many beneficia.ies were able to prepay their debts with inflated
pesos. Since it was mainly beneficiaries of upgrading works who were
affected in this way (the shelter units were sold later), HAM held meetings
with some of the beneficiaries and renegotiated their obligations to pay in
US$ equivalent terms. This was done even though these beneficiaries had no
legal obligation to r:enegotiate and it reflects the excellent relationship
between HAM and the beneficiaries. Shortly after that, all of the other
agencies decided to set legal obligation in US$ terms. Complicating the
matter even more, since the units were built over a period of time when
inflation ranged from two to five digits, determining the final unit costs
was also a probl_m. Afterwards, with the obligations decided upon in indexed
mortgage schedules, beneficiaries were unable to pay their debts, since their
salaries were not commensurately adjusted. As a consequence of repayments in
inflated pesos, and later indexation of debt obligations, 94% of the costs of
HAM's urban improvements had not been recovered at the time of the PCR
mission and a similar case existed with respect to the market component,
although only 62% of artisans credits and 51% of housing materials credits
were still to be recovered at that time. Cost recovery had not yet been
initiated by BANVI and CONAVI, and in BANVI's sites and services component,
tenure had not yet been legally transferred to beneficiaries -- a
pre-requisite for initiation of cost recovery. CONAVI too has not yet
legalized its transfer of title to beneficiaries, some of whom are already
living in the units with some even renting rooms to tenants. In theory, it
is assumed that beneficiaries would pay monthly installments with penalty
interest from the first day's default. However, given current conditions,
this would not be possible for most beneficiaries and there would be need to



- 13 -
renegotate the loans outstanding. Table 11 indicates that in the project as
a whole, an estimated 74% of costs are likely to be recovered directly from
beneficiaries if they meet their obligations. It is,however, very difficult
to predict what would actually happen, given the unprecedented inflation rate
and its impact upon the economy and real income. During the period of
intense inflation, living conditions were so acute that many residents began
to dismantle and sell fittings, doors, wash-basins, etc., from their homes in
order to survive.
47.       It is the task of SAMAPA, the water and sewerage authority, to
recover HAM's investment through househol4 water bills, which will now
include an additional payment for urban improvements to water and sewerage.
To date, of the $b15,741 million invested by 1985, $bl,133 million (7%) was
recovered by the time the projec^t c-losed.
48.       Since BISA's initial artisan loans were not indexed, the value of
its recovery funds in real terms was substantially lessened. After May 1986,
US$900,00 was reassigned to it from other components. With these new funds,
an intense campaign of marketing and identification of beneficiaries was
initiated and US$865,088 of the funds were used up. To prevent
decapitalization, about 104 indexed loans have now been granted to
beteficiaries. This represents one third of the total granted by BISA over
the entire project period.
49.       Reporting Arrangements.  With the exception of CONAVI and of the
Ministry of Health following the Government's abandonment of the health
component of the project in 1983, reporting arrangements were implemented as
specified at appraisal. Though delayed in many instances, the respective
agencies produced trimestral reports of good quality. CONAVI was continually
behind in fulfilling its reporting obligations (for example, its 1984 audit
report was not received until Aagust 1986), and it w.s unable to prepare its
own completion report on time. Its auditors were unable to examine its
accounts for the years 1984 and 1985 primarly because the project unit had
not consolidated them and separated the parent agency transactions from
project agency ones; furthermore, balances shown lacked proper supporting
information.  An average of 9-12 months delay occurred in ?roduction of the
audited reports, due in part to the multi-tiered approval process for
contracting auditors, and later, by the worsening economic situation.
Central Bank project documentation was also incomplete, particularly for the
1983-85 period, because of strikes and bookeeping problems due to inflation.
50.       Project participation (including reporting) by the Health Unit went
well initially, but was completely absent after 1983. Following the
departure of the director in 1982, a request was made by the staff of the
Ministry for a special audit of the Unit's accounts. The records of the Unit
were not located even after the Ministry of Health made repeated attempts to
obtain them for the PCR mission. Officials of the Health Ministry said that
with the closing of the unit, the records were in rented facilities and they
cannot be found. Unlike each of the other agencies, which prepared a final
report, none was prepared on the health component.
51.       Compliance with Loan Conditions.  It was specified at appraisal
that SAMAPA was to provide adequate quantities of water in time to meet the
project's requirements for CONAVI's Rio Seco sites and services plots.
However, although SAMAPA constructed the infrastructure and aspervised and



- 14 -
installed water mains in the project area, financial problems prevented it
from providing adequate sewerage treatment facilities in all of the
neighborhoods before untreated effluent was discharged into Rio Seco. This
problem is being addressed through the ongoing municipal development and
water distribution program. Also, as noted above, Government agencies
responsible for staffing, operating and maintaining the schools and health
programs financed by the project have not been up to date in fulfilling their
responsibilitJes; again, because of severe financial constraints and
coordination problems.
52.        Disbursements.  As a consequence of the Bank's suspension of
disbursement to Bolivia in 1981 and 1983-4, project disbursements were
delayed, which in turn delayed implementation by a period of about wo
years. This was further aggravated by the large number of strikes (including
those in the Central Bank) which occurrea during the period and severely
hampered the flow of project funds. Disbursements were again suspended
between July 2 and December 13, 1985, because of non-payment of debts to the
Bank by Bolivia. The project was closed in June 1986, with outstanding
works continuing until December 1986, when the final disbursement was made.
At that time, an unspent balance of approximately US$85,000 was cancelled.
V. BENEFITS
53.        Economic and Social Benefits.  At appraisal, the internal economic
rates of return (IERR)-for the sites and services and urban upgrading
components were estimated to be about 16% and 27% respectively, with the IERR
for both components together estimated at 18%. The appraisal computation of
the rate of return assumed that the benefits included the imputed rental
values of the completed housing units, estimated by the market value of
similar houses. The cost streams were assumed to be investment and
maintenance costs. The useful life of the component was assumed to be twenty
years.
54.        In light of the environment of instability and hyperinflation which
occurred during the life of this project, it is not very meaningful to
calculate an IERR for comparlson. On the cost side, even though adjustments
could be made to estimate some type of real cost stream of investments, on
the benefits side, the PCR mission was not able to make reasonable estimates,
since there was no comparable market to analyse. Although no regular sales
transactions took place, owners of houses comparable to those of the project
area were quoting speculative and widely varying prices for their units.
As a result, project houses costing approximately US$2,000 to build were
being quoted at US$6,000 - US$8,000. For the upgrading component, a similar
problem exists in reesonably estimating the associated benefits of the
project works. Nevertheless, for similar works which are currently being
continued under Credit 1842-30, (and for which the economic analysis was done
at a later date), it is estimated that t1-e IERR is about 33x. It is
therefore reasonable to assume that the actual IERR of this project would be
no less than the 18% rate projected at appraisal.
55.        Employment.  HAM-BIRF's activities generated an estimated 977
man-months of employment and the project unit staff have accumulated
considerable technical, economic and social expertise through participation
in project implementation. Also, almost all of the market-related jobs



- ?5 -
benefitted working women, many of whom are heads of households. Under Loans
granted by BISA during tt., project, 299 productive units .aave benefitted from
credits, about 508 new jobs have been cxaated and 344 people have m«intaiLed
their jobs. Systems of production have been semi-mechanised and the
productive capacities of artisans in particular have improved. Consequently,
living standards of beneficiaries and their families have been raised and
greater efficiency demonstrated in the management procedures and strategy of
firms which received loans from BISA. Benefits accruing to BISA itself
include the experience gained in artisan lending and the recent institutional
shift in its policy, under which it diversified its exposure and is lending
more to small-scale and artisan operations.
56.       Poverty Imoact.  The sites and services component directly and
indirectly benefited residents in the project area and surrounding
population. During its relatively short life the health component reached
several thousand families (mostly mothers and children), and improved their
nutritional and health maintenance habits. More importantly, the initial
success of the program continues to influence policymakers and another
similar program is now in place at the national level. Overall, it is
estimated that about 80% of the project benefits went to beneficiaries in the
lowest quartile of household income in the project area.
VI. OVERALL EVALUATION
57.      General.  This project was the Bank's first urban project in
Bolivia. Like other early urban projects, it goal was to show borrowers that
there were alternatives to the extremes of physical eradication of slum areas
and the provision of fully furnished shelter units at highly-subsidized
prices to a few lucky beneficieries.
58.       At appraisal, the Bank was still considering a unified
comprehensive approach to urban problems and the project was thus formulated
with housing, infrastructure, health, employment and technical assistance
components. Bank staff felt that the creation of separate project units was
needed to avoid bureaucratic impediments and provide a nucleus for improving
performance in the parent organization. (This practice has been discarded in
later Bank projects after its weaknesses became evident, e.g., in friction
with other agencies, talent drain from other agencies, etc.). An additional
layer of project management, the Coordinati>.n Commission, was created to
facilitate inter-institutional coordination.
59.       Role of Project Agencies.  Even without the added complication of
hyperinflation and its resulting economic chaos, the project scope now
appears to have been too ambitious for a first operation. With the exception
of the HAE unit, all of the other units were apparently not fully apprised of
their roles and their tasks. Consequently, when they were called upon to
create and support special project units, they were not as cooperative as
they could have been, partly because of a lack of understanding of the
project and partly because of suspicion that their power base was being
eroded. The Health Unit provides a very good example of this situation where
the parent agency saw the project unit as a direct threat, both in terms of
its initial accomplishments and in job related benefits which were accruing
to the unit staff.



- 16 -
60.       The implementing units and their parent agencies spent almost a
year reconciling their positions and deciding what their respective roles
should be. CONAVI's staff was not comfortable with the proposed new
direction of the loan, preferring the old policy of building a few high cost
finished units for members.  It consequently never fully cooperated in
assisting the project unit to implement the program and it never tried to
facilitate staff continuity, proper accounting and reporting procedures,
etc. In a similar fashion, BISA's initial administration was not interested
in the artisan lending component, preferring .nstead to focus upon lending
for mining and heavy industrial operations. It kept the unit staff at a
minimum and at tines withheld salaries from the staff. In addition, there
wero frequent changes at all levels:  from presidents of the republic to
ministers, directors and lower level staff in the various units. The only
unit which did not suffer such changes was the HAM unit and this was due
partly to the good relations which it had with the pa.,:qt municipality and
partly to the Bank's efforts to have the unit staff remain to facilitate
project implementation.
61.       The Government's Role.  The Government, facing other more pressing
problems, was not able to provide leadership to the project.  It agreed to
re-allocate project funds in favor of those agencies willing to implement the
project and it reduced the roles of CONAVI and BISA while those of HAM and
BANVI were increased. As inflation grew and economic conditions worsened,
real wages declined substantially and contracts for some unit sta.' were not
being renewed. The Government was helpless in taking corrective actions.
Also, for contracting, it used a lengthy process of approvals and it approved
a contract readjustment formula which unduly favored contractors. Finally,
the Government insisted in drawing down loan funds at the much lower (peso)
official exchange rate for the US$, thus making project costs much more
expensive in US$ terms and negatively affecting the project.
62.       The Bank's Role.  Indications are that the Bank was not initially
able to explain project goals fully.  It could have done more to orient the
various agencies and to define project goals and targets more clearly. A
good example of this shortcoming was the Health component which was left to
be defined during project implementation.
63.       As project delays grew longer, the Bank apparently put more
emphasis upon getting the work done than upon long-term implications of some
of its actions. It drew BANVI, a financial institution, into physical
implementation of housing units. In some cases, with a worsening economic
situation, the Bank apparently tried too hard to get some components moving.
In order to compensate somewhat for the grossly inadequate salaries,
especially for higher level unit staff, project funds were used to cover some
administrative expenses. Although not inconsistent with Bank policy, this
practice created friction with Government officials who were not receiving
similar assistance. Given the economic situation which prevailed at that
time in Bolivia, the best course of action may have been to leave questions
of lo.g-term institutional development until later on when the situation was
expected to improve and to focus upon the more immediate problem of removing
constraints to implementation of physical works.



- 17 -
64.       Overall, the project resulted in significant achievements,
especially in light of the socio-economic situation which prevailed during
its implementation. The institutional and physical achievements of the HAM
component are remarkable by any measure, although this is somewhat tempered
by cost-recovery problems which are likely to occur if real wages do not rise
soon. The CONAVI and BANVI physical works have had more qualified success,
although for CONAVI, indications are that the Government is now willing to
consolidate its housing program and focus more upon low-income housing,
similar to those of the project. Similarly, with BISA, its new administra-
tion has begun a comprehensive re-orientation aimed at diversifying its
operations and providing greater assistance to artisan and small-scale
enterprises.



BOLIVIA
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
LOAN 1489-BO: URBAN PROJECT
________________________ ___
POPULATION ESTIMATES
I-------   -   - ------
Total Population                                     La Paz
of Bolivia                            Department           City
1980         5,599,592                               1,800,269          812,641                     G
1981         5,755,072                               1,854,860          845,816
1982         5,915,844                               1,913,184          881,404
1983         6,081,722                               1,969,261          916,297
1984         6,252,721                               2,029,008          953,634
1985         6,429,226                               2,091,429          992,592
Growth Rates (1980-1985)            3%
Rural-Urban Population Distribution
Urban         %                    Rural          %
1980      2,488,628     44.04                3,110,964      55.56
1981      2,595,237     45.09                3,159,835      54.91
1982      2,706,626     47.75                2,209,218      54.25
1983      2,822,546     46.41                3,259,176      53.59
1984      2,942,944     47.07                3,309,776      52.93
1985      3,068,051     47.72                3,361,175      52.28



BOLIVIA
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
LOAN 1489-BO: URBAN PROJECT
INCOME DISTRIBUTION AT APPRAISAL
________________________________
La Paz                    Project Beneficiaries
Upgrading Works            Sites & Services
Monthly Family Income            Cumulative                Cumulative                Cumulative
--------$b-----------      %         %
1      -        500       2.09      2.09            8.67      8.67
501    -       1,000     10.66    12.7',           30.51     39.18           15.00    15.00
1,001  -       1,500     11.05    23.8             30.95     70.13           65.00    80.00
1,501  -      2,500      18.42    42.22           22.78      92.91           20.00   100.00
2,501  -      3,500      10.65    52.87             5.38     98.29
3,501  -      5.000      13.40    66.27             1.71    100.00
5,001  -      6,500       7.35    73.62
6,501  -      8,000       4.72    78.34
8,001  -      10,000      6.09    84.43
10,001 -     12,000       3.31    87.74
12,001 +                 12.26   100.00



- 20 -
TABLE 3
BOLIVIA
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
LOAN 1489-BO: URBAN PROJECT
GENERAL INDICATORS, 1977-1985
Ilterest
Rate (%)
Paid by             laterest
SBoI per Parallel       Inflation    Bank's                Charged (%)
Year      US$       Rate           Rate        Savings Account    by Bank
1977      20                         10               10                19
1978      20                         10               10                19
1979      25                         19               15                23
1980      25                         47               17                25
1981      25                         32               22                32
1982     196                        123               30                43
1983     500                        275               43                67
1984
Mar     500
Apr   2,000
Aug   2,000       5,000         2,177              140                155
Nov   9,000      25,000
1985
Feb  45,000    150,000           Not Available
May  45,000    180,000
Number of Strikes in 1984:   1043
Number of Natiooal Proside3ta 1977-85:    10



BOLIVIA
FROJECT COKPLETION REPORT
LOAN 1489-BO: URBAN PROJECT
SUMMARY PROJECT COSTS
521 041  4 115I*4-                                                                                        an  U.S.* 58...-
1.6S...l.d A...nd.d    ikt.I   ...4 b... ...4446.       22*4   4-60          62.. t.6... 4b..A. d                6 Okt..  6.....id 0.0.              g.t.-t..d 66...dd  a.601         I.
S04.So  28a49.?,i    .140 6.4. 6    'IO :,O, 6.*l   27607.14    )1.2   31544.6    214..           I.       2.3       .4       S.6       .60    2.644Ps                        P.
a.4.,.l. C,.J.1.    20.0~~0 De   1to is ItSSi       :      Joeu 10.4  WW)4.8     322        144.1   jSladal2           .64    0.6        .2      0.5a 0.14         05a                   a.0.  .1  9.9
1.4 ... 4-4-        11.60   419. la      ?6..    56.112   346.44    ts"96.2l   .2.0          86&.111    WPH14.0.:    11.4      0.45     S...     4.16     0.as    0.642         1.14    0.A1      6.6
ft.6.,..l. 64.4.6.  11~~s.110   102.21   .64b%.w,    225.   0. 1..   41011.46   45.2.2      2.?. IV   41146.4i        11.M6    0.2t      2.4     4.02,    0.1)     D.as         0. us    0.4      0.11A
C  *..i.6.             1~~~~~~~~~.60    16.41?    1486.0.t    1.4  44.11I     1114. 4  .... .  44.24    Olo).90          1. -S    0.14    0. .:)   0.0.    0.0?      0.ak2        &.21     0.61     0.a1
0 '. C.dt. *    .5...       21.60.    16.22   22444b9.6.    ko.k. 60  . Si1 840&0.11      3.4 wow      .,4   *2916.           8.1,w    0.4)      Iti      1        0.06     0. 12       2.06     0.04     2.24
I. 1...h.....1  A....4.....  0.44   124.16   214141iv.04    W..60   pb 26.I 6 30S4sm  04  151 .       ?16215.0     0. 06     5.06     16*      164      0        G. M         1.60     566      2.14
$..s 86.60  46G.46.4  269l2sk..l  815.406  66814.0?   192600. 22   226.62    So0i.4   2"46106.9%        4.01     S.12    626.  .4           2.4---.-- O-.7---. -- I .11
12.40   344.1    0612S30.01    0. do   *44.02    6014.44    11.166     W51.01   Abbi4.41         0.42,    0.42     o.bs    6. Wk     0.24      0. 26       0..6     0. 14    O..?
S.4 6o 640.14    2701036.     0.20    10. 24    6l42.69      6.4.      220.0    66.64.06       (0.41    0.22'    0.2.       0.45     0.10     0. 1;       0. 2.    0.))     0.20o
27 60   708.44   16.61.2.25  0.00   211.64    41106.41    *1.40~~~~~b    a102.00   27716  . 4  8.1il  8.26  9.04     0.91h    0.60         a.6      641      14
1.46.6.6       44.60   542 12     0604.4       1.w        At.)   146164.40   *t 40    l5.61,  46.444.0"         k.;:6    1.01      2.11     0.07     0.01     5.650       2.12     2.?4     I.&$
is 60  36                                    "A.'a                    CM        &~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~.02  0.A  0.14  .   QG           .        .o
4%00 W4,..                   56.0"401.6         144.24       .4    29.1          21..    244         40.2       2228          0.10!---- 0.4                                 .0    ----           5.60     0
24.1 211311.96           50114.114  122564.od             1244.5    142.411                            5.4.1             2.4      0.49S.:0                       25
1.ft.v 2... of"I P.40
.222540.129 262.4 1..l  140A.00 10264.062401;aoC.1.1   542.60  4142.4   5 01M41.41   46-0.2  66040.4?  141111.1       24.24    66.14    86.js      ?.11     1.5?     ?.11       22.66    22.65    22.w6
I4



BOLIVIA
PROJECT CONPLETION REPORT
LOAR 1489-BO: URBAN PROJECT
DESCRIPTION OF THE PROJECT
pal            * I    a    I       6         I      U        a       L                6      a      A     t     S
*- ---*- - --- --- -- - -- ---- ----- - -- -  -- -- - ----- -- - - - - -- -    --   ---- --- - - -- ----- - ---            A     c       I      u        a       t
Avrai AsII                                     AiEtIld   AS  OF NaRCN  25, 1991
At  r  Sites ad Snwirnesto be crried Mut by CINAYII               Sitn  and Sevicesilo be carried  oIt by CENAVII                   Sites and Servicn  tcarried out by 0AVYII
Ierelopmot of about 5525 serviced plots witb             hevelopent of about 1,91 sevited plots with rue                   kevelopent *l l.U2  serviced plots, milkth 16  inds-
care duelling oits, of comaity facilities,              delting anits, of conmunty facilities, and  f a-                   Itrial plots ol IU *7 each One, in the Ro Srco loni
amd of abt III Idtriallcsanercial plots im              bout 3.5 ha. of indostraliconserial plots in the                  of the  I Alto areA of ta Fal.
the It alIt  area of to Paz, and provision of           Rio Sec   tone ofl  be [I Alto area de La Pat, asd
credits lor construction   aterials                      provision of cgedits for cossiruction saterials -
I.-   veltopsnt of about 5,525 urbkaited plots          I.- Developmeat at about 19K serviced plots wtb                    I.-  tvulopuent ol 192 serviced plots, provision of
in the E1 Alto area of La Pal Oa sites                  core dtelliug avits is the Rio Selo  one of the                    1512 basic units in the hBo Seca lone of S t Alto
already ownd by CONaVI ad appwoasmatety Vi Altt  area of La Pat an sites aIready owned                                     ou sites lfready  med by CIVI.
23 tectrn of aiitinoal adjacent land tO                 by CUVI.
be acquired by ClNVI!.                                                                                                                                                                                      N
2.- Provision of a core duelling seected fron
A"g I different typen to about 651 GI said
plots.
J.- tFioislon of basic esseAtidl  services  uatlu,       2.- Provision of basic esSNtsal services fuater,                  2.- 1kw. is provision of basic essntial services
lentricity, sweragr, acrOss roadsl.                     electrimaty ,sewerage ,access roads).                              twater, electricitt, sneerage).
4.- lostiruction of about 5.5 Is. of eater              J.- Construtlion of about  lte. of water trunt
truak line espassions   onnecting the sites              lian  expansimns cuonecting the sites
iKludEd in PrI A of thk  Projict With the               included in Prla A of the Proajct with the
main wadte  spply artlor   of La Paz.                   Main water supply nettwrk of La Pa.
5.- Constrution of abort seven neU  eleneSay             4.- Construction of reuired elemntary schools and                 4.- Ialugtment of the * l1alter alpit * school,
schools   d of on appropiate refuse disposal            conmitl cnters mad of an appropiate reulse                         a comity center, awd a child cre center.
faciliy  and lwbilding of two tcon ity                  disposal facility.
crnters by otua0l-aid.
6.- Provisioe of credits for const; action              S.- Provision of credits  for construction
sateirils And contracted labor to purtcasers             materials and contracted labor to purchasers
wishing to d9eve1l,ezPasd ,or improve their             wishing to developepamd ,wr iwrove their
initial duilings by self-help                           initial dwellings by self-help                                                                                                              a
0
7.- brelop nt of about 14  additioal                   6.- 3evelopnest of about 3.5 ha of                                6.- levelopnent of I  isndrstrial plots ofI JU  n
plots,adjacent to those set forth is Nlo.                iwdostriallromuercial  plots is the tio Seco                     each, tn tte Rlo Sec. lose.
hereoffor  rtlnsas and snll-scalr                        zone of the El Alto area ot the ta Pai.
eoterprists,prinartly labor-intensive and
simply technology enterpisses.



BOLIVIA
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
LOAN 1489-DO: URBAN PROJECT
DESCRIPTION OF THE PROJECT
fARI                 R      I       6         I       U        A        L                 6       I     A      L     S
------_-----__---------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------                       A     C       I        u        A        L
A   P P a 1AI  6 E I                                MnENDED   AS   If   nIRNCH  25, I"I
Part 3
lrsbaa Upgradiag Ito be carried out by fIIII                Urban Uplrading (to be carried out by RA)                             Urban tpgrading I carried out by HAtD
Provision of basic infrastracture and other                 Ptevision of basic infrasIructure and other urban                     Potvisiom  oi Basit infiaestruEtu,e and other ur-
uria. services to about 4SU  families                       services to not less than 5,1S 1 families living in                   ban services to 21,221 families liviing in 9 lou-
1i7iq* in let-i.cma  areas of ta Paz, aod of                lto-ince areas of ta Pfa, and of credits for                          income areas of La Paz, and credits for housing
credits lor construction materials.                         house improvements and lor saull artisans.                            iprovements and for small arlisans.
I.- Provisi,n of basic urba                                 I.- Preovision of basic urban                                         I.- Provision of Basic inirestrocture and other
services,subh as mater supply and                           services,such as maler supply and                                     urban services to 29,22? , mere provided.
sanrage, a reluse collection                                samerage, a refust collection                                         The upgrading vas limited 1o uater
system, pathways and street                                 system, pathuays and street                                           supply and sewerage.
pavment, and coaunity facilities                            pavement, and community lacilities,
sod retreational spaces,to about 453                        suck as community cenlers, day-care
families living in seven lou-income                         failities and eecreational spaces. to not
areas of La Pa;r                                            less than 5UP3 falilies living in lc-income
areas of [ Pat.
2.- Provision of secure tenure for                          2.- Provision of secure  tenure for                                   2.- thtere is provision of secure tenure for
partitcipats   I the urban upgrading *ith                   participants ia the urban upgrading milk                              participants in the urbas upgrading *ith
regard to Ihier respective plots.                           regard to thier respective plols.                                     regard to thier respeKtive plots.
3.- Provision of constraction materials                     3.- Provision of constructiol materials                              3.- Ihe credits for self-help beusing
credits fIr self-help bousiag improvements                  credits for sell-kelp bousing improvemeuts                           improvements mere give. to 5,&U9 families.
to about 453  participants.                                 to not less than 3311 participasts.
4.- Provision of credits to about 313                                I.- there sete 469  credits given to                               '  -
artisans, wbose operations are tao small to                          arlisans uhose operations are too small
qualify for tauns from 3ISA, in tie zones                             to qualify for loans from IISA.
slcKted for carrying out Part A and C of                              Ihe Program helped to create 1,2U  ieu                         LN
the Projecl.                                                          jobs.                                                        0
rth



BOLIVIA
PRE  CONPLEtION RR3P0T
WAN V48'-8O: URBAN PROJEC
__ .   _, ---------------------
DESCRIPTION OF ille PROJCT
-_______-______----------
__.    __.......... .  __. ....... ._  . .........  __ .. . ... . .. ._ . ..... . .- -_-------------     ---     ----------------     --------    ------
mtl             U    a     I       C         I      I        A       L t                     I     A      L     S
__ _ __________                 __._-- -------------                                             a   C    I -                  a    t-
apPaaIS S IItIlms  *5 as  of a ic  25, 191
Put r    btld l   brlils I to hi ctried ml by 11 bytlil Imbs I   bhe cu,ied rt by Ml                                                Rtisl   ubrles I curied ut by Ml
._~~~~~~~~~~~~~~--   -   -- ---                                                                             ...............  __.. .
Cmltrntlm tt l           retail  ld                    CinrKtiU Of liVe mt retil fIim rSa                                            e mm  S*tail fod awhts wre  bilt to
Mkits bI Mu         Iv-IKM t_ ee    at La Ja,             wiftste ni e      r-iKcen uOes dI  la Ftt.                       Vrn  10-aiKoe  trei  Of La Pat.
da as me.
selp  cmeltilm  ad qurdisi  of live                S     ni, C elrtim  aid epraitl  Ol live                              Siva s   retail Ind sutts, Ise  is Ibe
pilic reail Im         its   Is thbt fsllimimg          m   rasil fIew  swets b snrve uev l                               Cents of La Pat seter ad thrne  is El Alto
10CdtiMs                                                lm-imcm  weas of Li Pat.                                          aes, OrW  deemsed.
e.l be 1d  ig te  ill  Aild   a  tid  le Sate                                                                             Im use 1Itds created 1,541 sllit  spts,
sectuim  of th  El 15A  em dte  La teat;                                                                                  441 te th1     att it us n,slbed.
b.l In  is b  vtuisity of the SWr 
Cerum wastfn l the La   I ad
C.J 6   eatch Im tI  i11r  mle-iKam  Mses
d te Paz.
pat aS  ridits for rtiuss SW  smaIl-scale  sterpries              Svelopeat of ,dustrdal Ad cssseral                                oeelp        l mehsital aNW csancial
. . .  ............ ..  ............................ ....... ......... . ........ ... . ................  .         -.-..---.............-----------------------..
I tbe carried Mt by PISA 1.                             plots ad Credits for ktkseas aid                                  plats ad Creditk  f. ktisas aid
.... ... ..................._ ............................. ...........--------...-..................---.....-_-.
Bull-kate  aterpri n   I So be crried eNt                        Ssell-Sele talerrisen   I to be currvd at
by sign.                                                         by @SAI5.
Pravisin   f a sweId  tin the c"edit 1f                 knvlepmtl of t l        1   a kttarn   *1.                       be  tVisdin of a It ha. plot is he  tl
ertieSm   and emIl-scle umlarpiee                       lmt rallca tial plate ad  ebd  isa Sh                             Alatm  ws   l La Pat. the  ealtstrial Park ea
"Vpd  IsleaiK      e   bts ad preidet                   El Alto  re dI La Pu   aid pivises  of a                          no  develip"d.a speial lise of  rEdit hr
dit I54S se  _b  m     leriKM             grep          spKial  ise *1 Credit flr uliums Jd                               utisame   said a   scale nattrprisnenva
prlmril  is the arm  coevrd by Put A .                  sull tscale aterprisn dnipsd ts iKIceast                          qweud, dich bemfifed   9 prectinv
Pnt I buts all as ee cstists  l                -        is        sad provide Abt  IM  ea  As                             wits, ceated 5o ase  isma  ad  IJed   4 llowi al
Sailt   sem  available to b    'sam   ml                ues 1m-iKcme ytsW  Priuily is Sh                                  peSvle tso SrCt ther  bs.
uell-scle eml prisn  for   v fle ieg                    area  cvtmd by part A ad flat    hkereo
Lmms to trtisms ad lil-scale                                      te tons ts artisais ad lIl sale niterpries eA
nttrrisn e      Ir  khe lelSlase  pupasnt                        helped ta                                                                      °



BOLIVIA
PROJECT COlPLETION REPORT
LOAN 1489-80t URBAN PROJECT
DESCRIPTION OF THE PROJECT
P011           I    B     I       C   I        I t U          I   L               6       S    A            S 
------  --------  ------                                      ----- -C  I  tt  a  t
A t  t a      EA                             ItEtSECI   AS   of  Ianct    s, lSaI
lil to preet    and J ntablished artisus               lil to prude weo and ntablisbed artisas             l          i  29 prodctive aits havt ben heliltd
oers as    r_sidsts is tbh  areas to h                Ire asl resideets in tbe areas to be                            alklouis  their ttaeaiatms* rearntivatasm "a
"Waded sif  part a of the project.                    qyadd  ider tart I Do the  rojecil                             iupIeetatioe  f tithe Prject.
tiiI to etablish artisrs  eisg is the                 tiil tes tablish atisans selis, to the sites                    liil Ikte cratm  of 5t eson jobs. de  Ite ses-
site  to be erviced  nde fart A of the                to be survied   dor fatrs A ad C ol tk                          city of the job to 344 pens.
PrjcKt As dsli4s therein ie Mtcepetedt                Proej    as duellims therei are completed                      Ihe nber oft credits gives to the dill erst
sectors wre:
lii to itustder nidstis  sall-scale                   tiiil i  truasler wsistiuT stall-scale                                   a) Sall Scale Esterpries         Sl
nierrinss free aes  ilb lisited                       entrprisas ott ares uith lieited                                   bl dtisans                      241
espesses pssiblitin  to plots provided is             npasis pnibilities to plots provided so                                                       ----------
the rel site  a  of ta Pat porsoast to Pat            thb El Alto aUa eloa Lar Pat wsat to Parts                      leOiN.                             29
A of te Projet;ad                                     A ad A of the frojecti aso
lidi to estabtish ae  Iahee-mstenssve                 liv) to establish ae  labor -,micste
small-scale uaterpses ma plots provided as             small-stalt nstenupuss cs plots prvided is
the El llet aKea of a raz pursuant to fart             tht El Alto Asea oLa Pat psuantDl to trtFs
A et Ite Prect,                                        a a d A of the Project.
tih  proclim  of aWpippit tetheical                   fart 3 oI the Priect cmasists of provision of
assietate prst tea Pat E.1 O  tht                     apprupnate techaical assistance related to carrying
Project sill cmleets the gatin  el                    Got tart I ot lte  rhoifjt.
Ies  to "ueI the sccns of tart I of the
vl          eleest of a t 1 he o1 la ud for                    kItisitios Ofl I bh. Of lad fer isdOStriltOsG-
isdsstrarlilcoeercil plots ad shids is th  El Alto            mlial plots ad sheds is the lt AIto area.
rea of La par.                                                 Ihere is a Proet tor the Cimstrectin of as
lIdnstrial Part. tivil subs have not ket   du. e
part E
lecheical kslstaece                                   lechoscal Assistance                                           technical assistance                                                   U
Provisin of ltechlical assistance to                  provision ol techoical assistaire to s                         Provasios of tehostal assastaUce to a
I.- E VI tse *ehaSuil  ud cOeputerias at'S            I.- CIIAVI to   chasae baid computerize it's                   I.- CIIMAVI did not reach its plasud goals,
adisiitrative an  acctlitiel pr,cedurs ad             adsisistralive id accostieag progdlulrs and                    the elpesses a. this part ci the Projelt
to deeriop aee design usd tcosnltrucla                to develop sew design nd construilmos                           Pete side sainll on  design.
.i,...4..4   I ,11-  N.  -t blnl-an  4  Ag4 o4AlIad   aiandork for Iota si -.1 hmemiq and irltled



BOLIVIA
PROJECT COKPLETION REPORT
LOAN 1489-DO: URBAN PROJECT
DESCRIPTION OF THE PROJECT
. . ... ...
Put             2           I        C         I       11N     A        t                 l      O      A      L     S
--- ---- ----- --- ----- ---- ----- ---- ------ -- --- - ---- ---- - -- -- -- -----  A  C   I        V       A        I
AIp aAIs         I                               AN II  II[f       a FS   Of   NAB EN  25, 1981
_____________.___---~- -- --- --- - ----- --- --1--- -- --- ----- -- --- --- --- - ------- ---- ---- -- - ---- ---- --- --- - ---- - --- -- - ----- - --
Provision of about 24 man-months of                        Provision ol about 24 mag-months DI
techniEal assistasnc  by foreign and lonl                  technical assistance by Ioreign and local
experts sod acquisition ol aecessa y                       esperts and acquisition of necessary
eipipmeat to support LOAVI to:  i) cgmvert                 equipmet to support LthlilY     a O: 1.1 convert
sonr  of it's administiative and atcounting                Somt Of it's adnisistr tive and accounting
preoedures lo a schanited dnd  computerized                procedures to a mechaied and  computerized
systnm  sad t 1ii couplet  the developuent                 systen; and I iii complete the dtvelopeent
ad lormalinatiom of a paciage ol neu design                and forealinatian of a package of ote  design
and costruction stndards ht lot-cost                       and construction standards for low-cost
hosing prograes in coordination nith HAN.                  housing progans in coordination ma    fI.
N
2.- IN  to prKess loan applictlions  aide                  2- NAIl to process loan applicalions made                            W.- NAR  prncessed loan application made undef part                                       t
pider Pul I of the Proiect, to train its                   usder Part   of the Pruaett, to train it's                             ofl the Project, trained its stall and analiaed
staff and to analyze its socic-economic                    staff and to analyze its socin-econnsic                              its sofia-economic sirveys%
swrveys;                                                   surveys;
Previsioa of about Al *an-ontlhs of fortegi                Provtsion o  about 61  an-months of foriegn                          Frovision ol 15 San months of lonal Consultants
and local consultants and acquisition ol                   aid local consultants and acquisition of                             ad acquisition ol neesary equipment to assist
nnesary equipment la assist Accion Coauual                 necessary equipenl to Assist the Project                             the Project Unit In the:
in the I                                                   Unit in the I
lot carrying out of hart I of the  rojetf                  (di catrying Out of Part I of the Project;                          fal carryin  out ol Part I of the Project;
Ibl poessing el loon  application from                     (bi processing of loan application I-Os                              ib  Carrying Dot ol Part S of the Pvoyect.
artisans in cortdination   lhb SISA nader                  artisans ian coordinatiocn uith 9ISA  ander
Part I of the Project;                                     Part O of the Project;
Itl traininal of is staff is the ntt
dscribed in tbI hereoll and                                                                                                                                                                               t  i}
3.- 9ISA to manage the granting of loans,                  3.- lISA to eanage the developrinl ol                                3.- 9ISA has utilized  funds oi technical Assistance                         0
wade  Parit I of the Project, to artians and               industrial and couerncial plots and the                                  for design purposes.
small-scale enteptrises;                                  qgnting oi the loans to artisaAS and                                      Ihe lndustrial  Part has san preittc  design lef
small-scale enlerpfises under Pa   0 ol the                              constraEtiDn, approved by the Municipality.
Pro ect;



BOLIVIA
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
LOAN 1489-BO: URBAN PROJECT
____________________________
DESCRIPTION OP THE PROJECT
__________________________
faa,           | Ia        I       s         I      i        A       L                6      0     A      L     S
aP PI alshEi8E8RS ANUENUIfEI  as or NA  lICtH 25 1S81
4.-  INII to strengthet it's eahical                    4.- lUNI to sitengthen it's techical                              4.- (lteral Corsultants wne btred by FAN
capacities, to upport it's pfojeet wit, to              cqacitins  to support it's project wit, to                             naaly olr iested to support it's Project tiit.
mcmlitt a_  evaluate the Project atn  ppa,.             no.itt aid etvalute the Frojet and prepare
similar wbhn delopient proijectsi ad                    sielar urban developoent projeKts and
Prtision ii   out 79 on-mlbs of                         Part E.i cossists ol the provision of                            f(etenal Consultants Wre hited to tarry out tech-
teKhiCal assistane by foreall  aid loal                 tecI1ical ansistalce bV loreign and local                          aical stuodHs concerning thte uthallitnon of the
coesultants to streeqthea SltIt s tecbhscal             coonsltants to stvengthen  SANVI  s tethnical                    FPocint. Also, adesinistatire lonsultants anre
capaitin  is  enera, to support the                      capacities in  eneral, to support the                             hared to elaborate a  accountiog saouat for the
PrOjeKt tnit io he ntablished withim litRtl             Pfooict Ulit to be established within 8NtI                        spcial projelt liit.
to mit  an W ewalete the  FrOjKet , Nd                  to ottor aid evatwate the  the PrOJKt,
to prepare sisila trba  developmnt                       and to prepare sielar  rbdan developeent
proeiKts.                                               pojects.
S.- linistfr  of Health to prepare ad catrC             S.- Ninistry  f Hreallb to prepare aid carry
eel a health and outrFtion Prajr4G;                     out a health and nutritiom  prog la;                              5.- the inloraataon *as not availalbt to PER mission.
Part F
Health Iraining Center and Basic Health                           Health  rfaming Center and Basic Healtb
Progral  ito be carried out by the Dirision                       Frogras Ito be carried out by thp Division
H terto lulantill.                                                iaterno Inlaoitl).
I.- Cestruction and equipping ot a Health                        I.- the Health ?rainng  enater in ta Pat was
Iraining Ceeer imn La Paz to serve, inter                        tuilt
ai  , as the base for the health aJd
aotritiva pboqras described sis Part f.2
------------------                   beloul and
2.- A basic health and nutrition program for                     1h indoreation was available to PER  siss .
lon-income areas ol La Pat   , including
adsioistrative capestis and purchase and
utvliiation thereOf of equipment auid
- -vehicles.



BOLIVIA
PROJECT COIIPLBTION 11FO3T
LOAN 1489-BO: URBAU PROJECT
DESCRIPTION Of THi PROJICT
Mt            a    a     I       C        I     t       A       t               s     a    A    t    S
_  _    _  __  __  _  _   __.---.---~-- _- -----*-------- -   ---------------                      A    t      I       0       A       t
AtPIIISE                                    A IENCEC             o tf NAICu N   S,lY3
Fart 6                                                       Sitn  fd Srvicn  to ibt carried out by KIWII.                Sites ad Servics (to be *caried Mt by "Mil.
khvlopmt of about tU  srviced plots Kith                     kveloput of in plots. uith 44 t ielliag units
-ere dllio   "its ai cooemity                                ald 29 serviced plots addiltml to thoe uider
Iiailgies ,aditional t. thaw  "du  Part A                   Part A o te Ike PojK  is the El A el    . the l.ke
of the Projet , is the El Alto area of La                    project sate, easd 'Las hismarasO is lDated i
Far, Ud  owuisit. of credits for                             I. bwde of wha. e"pais asi   ea is O Alto.                          I
constructiou  materials, all as te  fully                    PibliE lissport service cold he a pnrblel  fwr
desribtd is Schedule to the DM1W  project                    its lcali..  Ike credits for cmstrvutno  uterials
runmt.                                                       have not hm  "lowed becase the bhousts waits havt
4at yet been adjedcated.
*Part 6 cot ists of thk preparatio of about                  kv'Ioeuut of An plots, eith tll duelling units
EU  serviced plots aid basic *usiag "its                     aid 2  setviced plots  ithb the provishi. of
is La Pat, tht provisum of nsnlial                           nsntial sevfics  alter, eletricity, sewteae
ervice  luter ,electrlcity *serag, and                       ad access rfeSl.
accs rasl, sessary of-site                                      411 plots uith dtliag gaits fully
isfrastruttre, basic cuauaity  latiliti*,                           aomplish the specilicatims.
aid the provisio  of credits, is mterials                       M   plots provided for espmsios provided
or is cash  to partwlpatiag *esolds to                             uilt strtet essatial uaaicipa  services.
develepnepaad,er improve the basic  aits. s.
_a
0



- 29 -
TABLE 6
NOLITIA
PROJ1CT COIPLETION REPORT
...........................
LolN 1489D80: URBAN PROJICT
...........................
PIOJICT IOID ALLOCATIO1
.......................
(US 1,allion)
Reallocations
laitial                       Barch                        Jue                Jue                ly
........                   ....
I198       S                l161          S               1883        S      1965         t     1986         t
CONAVi             9,915           59              5,147        31              4,758    28        41,836       28    3,852         23
% periodic                                          (48)                        (7.6)              (1.6)               (20.3)
variation
I 7.1978:100         100                            (48)                         (52)               (51)                 (61)
NAN                3,360           20              5,846        34              6.470      38      7,11484      44    7,547         44
2 perlodic                                             74                           11               15.7                0.8
variation 
I f. 1978:100        100                              74                         92.6              122.7               124.6
lISA               2,1800          16               3,631       21             2,208       13      1,009          6   1,909         11
x periodic           -                               29.7                      (39)                  (54)                89
varlation
I 1. 1978:100        100                             29.?                      (21)                (63.9)             (31.8)
BaIwl                500            3              1,1170         7            819          5     1,1144          7    754           4
S periodic                                           134                       (30)                39.7               (65.9)
variation
S 1.1978:100         100                             134                       63.)                128.8               50.8
Kia. of Iatltl       424            2              1,206         7             1,1891       11     2,52?         15   2,938         17
S periodic                                         183.8                       56.8                 33.S               16.3
variation
I 1. 1578:100        100                           183.8                       345                 416.0              591.3
1TT   M0L.
NO-LssioE          17,060         1o0           17,500         100           17,000             17,000         100   17,000        100



- 30 -
TABLE  7
BOLIVIA
PIOJICt caspLItI  8P0IS
...........................
LolN 1489-BO: 0IlI3 PIOJtCT
...........................
III9-BIR PROJECT EtlEiIClil8iS
....... .................
lstigated lo.      Nusber of           Number of
Beneficiaries      Beneficiaries       idditioall
at ProJect         Juno 30 1986        Beneficiaries
Ippraisal                              Served
Urban              4.500               20,22?              15,127
Upgrading                                                  ( + 349S)
(Infrastructure
Provision).
Shelter            500                 5,653               5,153
Isprovesemt                                                ( + 1,031S)
(Construction
Credits;
Assistance)
Construction of   1,100                1,541               441
Retail food        Dee                 eso                new
barkets            stalls              stalls             stalls
( + 402)
Artisans           300                 691                 391
Credits            credits             credits            credits
I + 3412)
TOTAL              6,400               28,257             21,857



- 31 -
TABLE 8
BOLIVIA
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
_________________________
LOAN 1489-BO: URBAN PROJECT
____________________________
SOURCES OF FUNDS
(U.S.$ MILLIONS)
TOTAL COST                     I B  R  D                         GOVERMENT               B  I S  A
ORIGIN AMEND  ACTUAL OR16INAL  AMENDED   ACTUAL         ORIGINAL  AMENDED   ACTUAL ORISI AMENOED    ACTu-
AGREEQ TOTAL         AGREEMENT AGREEMENT                AGREEMENT AGREEMENT         A6REE AGREEMENT
-- - -~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ -     ---
1. Sites and Services
Lani                               1.85  1.35    1.35        -       -       -                1.       1.35   1.65               -
Civil marks                       13.93  8.93    7.83       9.37     6.37  5.27               2.56     2.56   2.56               -
Construction materials
Loans                            1.66  1.39    1.39       1.27     -      -                 3.39     3.39   3.3                -
Subtotal         13.64 13.37    9.27       9.64      6.37  5.27              4.83     4.38   4.6                -
2. Urban Upgrading
Civil rvks                         2.65  3.22    3.17       2.33     2.63  2.55               3.62     3.62   3.62
Construction materials
Loans                            3.58  1.14    1.19       3.44     1.0i  3.95               3.14     1.14   3.14               -
Subtotal          3.23  4.36    4.26       2.47     3.63  3.sa               0.76     1.76   3.76               -
"goats
Land                               1.31  1.31    1.31         -        -     -                t.1      3.31   0.61
Civil Works                        3.60  1.17    1.31       3.46     1.63  3.9Z               3.14     1.14   3.14
Subtotal          0.61  1.19    1.32       1.46      1.33  3.87              6.15     3.15   6.15
ISall-Scale Enterprises
(Credits)                   3.15  1.96    2.46       2.55      1.96  2.46                -         -     -     3.53        -
5. Technical Assistance
Vehicln and Equipment            1.98  2.12    2.95       1.89     1.52  2.35               3.13     1.11    .113             1.5t    0.!
Enoinemring Design                 -    2.52    2.55       -        2.52  2.55               -     , -
TOTAL PRWECT COST                  22.51 22.51   22.51      17.33    17.93 17.N3               5.31     5.31   5.3t   3.59       1.50    O.



- 32 -
TABLE 9(a)
BOLIVIA
P2OJICT COUPLITIOI DEPORT
...........................
LOU  1489-BO:  BHA  PRQOJlCT
-..------------------------
COSt CALCOLATIOI OF CONAlI'S ONITS
,................ ..................
Description                 1,407 Bas. Units  120 Basic Units   452 Serviced          3 lodel                TOTAL
(126,630 m2)       Self Kelp          Sites              Units
(10,800 .2)        (40,680 *2)        (2710 *2              USS
1. Land                     15,385              1,312              4,942                  33             21,672
2. lIfrastracture           6,217               533                2,007                  13              8,800
3. CoAstruction of
Basic Units
443 Basic Units           752,205                                                                      752,205
444 Basic Units           790,848                                                                      790,848
440 Basie Units           602,300                                                                      602,300
200 Basic Uaits           94,058              141,086                                                  235,144
80 Finished                                   (obra  rieusl)
Basic Units            7,262                                                                        7,262
lxecution 120 Basic
units (self-help)                            14,811 (aaterials)                                       14,811
Construction 3 lodel
nits                                                                               24,776             24,776
B uie  Uits
investeent 1985
asagebent                 1,296                                                                        1,296
Basic units
prograused to
larch 31 1986             324,000                                                                      324,000
.               ~~~~.........      .....   .......                        -----....--
2,577,969          155,897                               24,t76             2,158,642
4. Supernisios .uid
Adaisistratiua
Costs                   468,907             39,992             150,637            1,000              660,535
.........   ......... .........   ......    .........
3,063,508          197,734            157,586            25,822             3,449,650
.........          .........          .........          ......             .........  
oil? COStS   (MS)           2,111               1,648                  349



-33-
TABLE 9(b)
BOLIVIA
PROJlCT COMPLITIOI RIPORT
.........................
LOl1 1489-BO: CUII PROJICT
-..------------------------
COST OF COMMERCIAL AREA
Ites:                                          Area of plot.         Area of         TOTlL
for indea.         Mlii Induties    COST
(13,124.03 s2)    (36,649.32 2)    (US$)
1. Lud                                          1,594               4,453              6,04?
.. ......         ......             ........ ..
2. Infrastructure
earth bo""ct                                 1,484               4,145              5,629
sewerage installation                        3,864              10,189             14,653
water installatiol                           3,2t4               9,143             12,417
- p  b                    1,288               3,59?              4,885
t-Aal *ater liAes                              445               1,243              1,688
s;tra drainage                                 647               1,808              2,455
,......     .     . ......            .............
11,002             30,725             41,727
3. Supervision & AdM. Costs                     48,598             135,711            184,309
61,1i4             170,889            232,083
... ~ ~   ~   ....               ... ..



BILIVIA
PROUECT CCMPLIEION REPORP
IAD 1489-f: URBAN HIOKr
CONAVI BASIC UNIT OCIMPED AS OF MAY 30, 19B6
Sites 1ype I       lkusing Type 2      Housing Type 3         1uISL
($b)               ($b)                ($b)                    ($b)
1. Lss QCiswares Lmd for Urbaxdzation
116,723.20 .2 used                   153,345,780.52     153,345,780.52      153,345,780.52      460,037,341.56
2. Stbdies & Projects
Erika Constructian Fium                     368.41             368.41              368.41             1,105.23
3. Housing Conetruction Contract
Claura Nikben, C.C.A. &
SEBOL Construetion Firs                                 418,534,531.64      835,505,639.00     1,314,040,170.64
4. Construction & Infrastructure Contract
Erika, Becit, C.C.A. Finas           153,345,78D.53     379,432,135.39      542,400,935.71    1,075,178,901.62?
5. Finsuizg Costs:
Canissions BIR Credit
BANVI, T.G.N. & Central Bank of
Bolivia
Paid April 30, 19)6                  29,946,251.07       72,780,910.00      104,648,094.)       2017,375,245.97
Short & Iag Tenm Obligations         209,544,264.0)     509,273,170.87      732,258,800.23    1,451,076,235.10
6. Adinistrative & Inspection Coats     22,455,039.77       59,569,194.77      83,306,212.12       165,330,446.66
7.. Censtruction Materiala for Incorporation                58,867,643.00      68,466,173.()       127,333,816.00
8. InstaUstion of Electricity Lisu                           4,915,595.53       4,915,595.53        9,831,191.06
TarAL 0SI PER UNIT                     568,637,484.30    1,716,719,330.12    2,524,847,639.42    4,810,204,453.84
WIAL Nl=  F IEXEM                                206                 173                268                 647
r-
WMA BAIANCE                         117,139,321,758.00   296,992,444,111.(00   676,659,167,366.0D  1,090,790,933,235.00



- 35 -
TABLE  10
BOLIIIJ
PROJECT COIPLITIOI RIPORT
LOIS 1489-BO: guRlA POJICT
COST 01 IAN-BIlI PROJECT WORKS
OSS                     State of Works
URBhN ISPROVIMINTS
I de diciembre                 317,936.00                 Concluded Aug. 1981
San Aatoaio                    153,862.00                 Concluded Oct. 1983
Cotabua -Tembladerani           22,847.00                 Coacluded Nov. 1981
La Portada                      96,812.00                 Concluded March IQ81
16 de folio - Loa Aldes    1,394,272.00                   Concluded July 1984
villa Idela                    733,580.00                 Concluded July 1985
pampabami                       19,660.00                 Concluded Aug. 1986
Bajo Tejar                       8,365.00                 Concluded Msrch 1986
Villa Adela 2da lase         1,065,069.00                 Concluded Sept. 1986
Ballivian                       20,619.00                 Concluded Sept. 1986
Sob Total                  3,893,022.00
MARIETS
Strongest                      186,203.00                 Concladed log. 1981
BartoliAu  Sina                147,464.00                 Concluded Nov. 1981
Alto Lisa                      151,634.00                 Concladed low. 1983
Antofagasta                    148,880.00                 Concluded Aug. 1983
Bolivar                        155,002.00                 Concluded Feb. 1983
llto Obrajes                   136,847.00                 Concluded Feb. 1983
Rio Seco                       147,772.00                 Concluded Jan. 1985
............
Sob Total                  1,073,752.00
Artioua  Credits               663,782.00
louuing Credits                168,692.00
TOTAL                        5,1799,248.00



BOLIVIA
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
_________________________
LOAN 1489-BO: URBAN PROJECT
RECOVERY SOURCES
(UL L       ILLION)
Ptuacr cost             .Wrlcma:uus                      t                    rwtvCH r                                     to rrfl
auntgs                                                                                          ass 
t.t*i..t.*  Ace6n         t.t&nt.d *twol             t.tdrntod aceq.il          9.tiotl d ct...           gotss.t.d act.4
*. Stw.  sw 5w..c
ts.                                *.05     *.05              0.90     6.90            tlj)  (93)                  0.0?     0.07             (7)     '7)
eneArtt d  *.50                            S.94              6.0      1S.            (200)  (200)                 -        -                -        -
_.d Ceaawi11 talSilItea           2.43     I.OS              0.15     a.s.              o 6J    -                 2.30     ...             (95)      -
Ce.tw.eto4sti_ a.erls In...        a.C6     0.39              2.66     6.39            (200)  (300)
s.blt.2                       23.64     9.21             82.27      .53            4_ 03)  (79)                2.3?    00.7             <(nf     (Ca)S
SSraste,ucwe                       2.00    2.27               2.00     2              (27    (200)>                -        -                 -       -        0 .2
Cs..ul  t.c53414|*s^               0.656    0.e               0.25     ....           (23)       -                 0.60    n.a.             £77)       -       0.06
ce.ons   is, oeterole  2a.n.       0.50     2.06              0.5      3.09            (200)  (00)                 -        -                 -       -        0.04
S .*-tk.t                      3.23     4.26              2.71     3.fl            C05)  (79                   0.'    n...              - 51       -       0.26
lead                               6.01     0.02              -        _                _        -                 0.01    0.03               30)   (200)    -_
C.ottc::t d.,o   3.o0                                         0.60      .02            Ctoo,C (00.                 -        -                 *       -        0.04
d^We   .6i  1.402         0.60      2.02           *W>   t%                    0.n3    0.02               2       t ip      0.04
d. Cadil.  te  64....                  9 .0     2.46              1.06     2.46           *200)  (12C0                 -        -                 -       -        0.ld
*.3 tnlbtAceI Afl...^*St               4.90     2.5            __ -                                  -                 2.10     2.95             .30)   (200)    -_
Gqll>q Dnn ^ esig
S.qr.l.2.  .d O.d4    tr           -        2.55              -        2.55                  (20) 
t o r OIL                      22.52    22.58             31.66    86.69           470)  474)                   4.66     3.63            22        -        0.40
a SOW) s.d corn kneeve ml ,l stwed t*, r"*-  tt2 ..coots.
flfr5%s41o n*.d aleel see   e. at be..t . adj.e-dc.lPd.
.USt) ale. be. el2g.3i.d rertl tr-t. to baa-lasene at   S--ac



- 37 -
TABLE 12
B0LI1I1
PPOJICt CONPLITION REPORT
.... ........... ..................
Lo01 1489-BO: URBAN PROJICT
...........................
IIDEX Of CONSlIER PRICIS
Years              General             General
lade:              Index
(Base Year         (Base Year
1966:100)          1916:1Q0)
1976                  332.2              100
197t                 259.12              108
1978                 196.32              119
1979                 474.48              143
1980                 698.63              210
1981                 923.12              178
1982                2,063.52             621
1983                7,750.21           2,333
1984              107,058.22          32,227
1985           12,686,008.G1      3,818,786



BOLIVIA
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
LOAN 1489-BO: URBAN PROJECT
URBAN DEVELOPMENT PROJECT IMPLEMENTATION SCIIEDULE
*         S    2    S_    4    S    _         -  4           _ I    1    4    4    a    1    4    5    a    1    4
14361sO *9                      e   _    _C     ==
590019 AN* £99901eg
Au  CQIUCISIIO9
col^|*fOl  fAC@"f{*"D  _ 
WV1^@|"^*|fI-                         - =_.    _      -. =- _ = =
"^*zZZSI                                                                       -fC.-l _-- _ __ ___--   ___±   _,_
MkIHSCA  ASSISTANC
3,00690 CO9II900TIOM
Df99 S UX C AD XSU      C       :                _   
011109~~~~~~                            __ _9119  . .- _-_   _   ,__:  -__   _  -:_                                           -_
EOM1IUC0  -  _-- -
COSSISUCI IOU 9*1691*__                   -           '         : -    _-_---_=-_.__ 
CaISISI 99069*9                                ..oil AN  .-   .- oil
49AM909111 4  OFM SlOMI        RClf"itll
tnt R^ivuazeiC De dtOIVIC.                                                   93:-   60
SIC"SNC Of ACRIINORN CUPIAVI.



- 39 -
BOLIVIA                                 -CIT 2
PROJECT COMLETION REPORT
ACTUAL AND ASSUMED INFLATION 1975-86
L=  . ,..... ..
X                   l                   l~~~~~~[   !NPUX>   VMALIUUA
qc~ ra    n                 i    -l      - eln ta                        19
°'    'I    I   II               I    1              jW 6 @
7.000-
;, LEa P.24.a..   I  I l1S       
L000                                                         Hpreprarat onaImemenato|l
40
-30
20    l eg                                  Xg 
0                                                      /I Pro ect Ass   tion
Pro ect Ass   tion
0     OX sr7   7d 79 oSi 8               864 85    ea S6    T  a8          Year



- 40 -
CITAT
BOLIVIA
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
LOAN 1489-BO: URBAN PROJECT
____________________________
OFFICIAL AND PARALLED EXCHANGE RATE
BY TRThESTERS
:_                     ~~~~~~~Loss-of 
;__,e                     purchasing power
,," i        ~~Paralld l1;
"'-"
6.4"                           official rLoateo
-m"Yri~gpmesters
*@@  |    t§§    §   t*@4    |   ***  | ~~Years.



