LOAN NUMBER 1489 BO
Amending Project Agreement
(Urban Development Project)
between
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION
AND DEVELOPMENT
and
CONSEJO NACIONAL DE VIVIENDA
Dated                               , 1981


﻿LOAN NUMBER 1489 BO
AMENDING PROJECT AGREEMENT
AGREEMENT, dated      m                       , 1981, between
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT (hereinafter
called the Bank) and CONSEJO NACIONAL DE VIVIENDA (hereinafter
called CONAVI).
WHEREAS by the Loan Agreement (hereinafter called the
Loan Agreement) dated November 30, 1977, between the Republic
of Bolivia (hereinafter called the Borrower) and the Bank, the
Bank has agreed to make available to the Borrower an amount in
various currencies equivalent to seventeen million United States
dollars ($17,000,000), on the terms and conditions set forth in
the Loan Agreement;
WHEREAS by a Project Agreement (hereinafter called the CONAVI
Project Agreement) dated November 30, 1977, between the Bank and
CONAVI, CONAVI undertook the obligation to carry out Parts A and
E.1 of the Project; and
WHEREAS the Bank and CONAVI have agreed to certain
changes in the Project Agreement, and, for such purpose, have
agreed to enter into this Agreement (hereinafter called CONAVI
Project Agreement), upon the terms and conditions hereinafter
set forth;
NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:
ARTICLE I
Section 1.01. The CONAVI Project Agreement is hereby amended
and shall read as follows:
"LOAN NUMBER 1489 BO
PROJECT AGREEMENT
AGREEMENT, dated November 30, 1977, between INTERNATIONAL
BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT (hereinafter called the
Bank) and CONSEJO NACIONAL DE VIVIENDA (hereinafter called
CONAVI).
WHEREAS (A) by the Loan Agreement of even date herewith
between Republic of Bolivia (hereinafter called the Borrower) and


﻿-2-
the Bank, the Bank has agreed to make available to the Borrower
an amount in various currencies equivalent to seventeen million
dollars ($17,000,000), on the terms and conditions set forth in
the Loan Agreement, but only on condition inter alia that CONAVI
agree to undertake such obligations toward the Bank as are
hereinafter set forth;
(B) by a subsidiary loan agreement between the Borrower
and CONAVI, the proceeds of the loan provided for under the
Loan Agreement will be made available to CONAVI on the terms
and conditions therein set forth; and
WHEREAS CONAVI, in consideration of the Bank's entering into
the Loan Agreement with the Borrower, has agreed to undertake the
obligations hereinafter set forth;
NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:
ARTICLE I
Definitions
Section 1.01. Wherever used in this Agreement, unless the
context shall otherwise require, the several terms defined in
the Loan Agreement, the Preamble to this Agreement and the General
Conditions (as so defined) have the respective meanings therein
set forth.
ARTICLE II
Execution of Parts A and
E.1 of the Project
Section 2.01. (a) CONAVI shall carry out Parts A and E.1 of
the Project, described in Schedule 2 to the Loan Agreement and in
Schedule 1 to this Agreement, with due diligence and efficiency
and in conformity with appropriate administrative, financial,
engineering and urban development practices.
(b) For the carrying out of Parts A and E.1 of the Project,
CONAVI shall maintain until the completion of the Project the
project unit established by CONAVI's resolution No. 2/80 of
March 4, 1980 with staffing and organization, and functions and
responsibilities as shall be satisfactory to the Bank.


﻿- 3 -
Section 2.02. In order to assist CONAVI in carrying out of
Part E.1 of the Project, CONAVI shall employ consultants whose
qualifications, experience and terms and conditions of employment
shall be satisfactory to the Bank.
Section 2.03. Except as the Bank shall otherwise agree,
contracts for the purchase of goods or for civil works to be
financed out of the proceeds of the Loan, shall be procured
in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 4 to the Loan
Agreement.
Section 2.04. (a) In alloting residential plots developed
under Part A of the Project to prospective purchasers, CONAVI
shall employ procedures acceptable to the Bank and designed to
insure adequate publicity of each step of the allotting process
and random selection of purchasers from among qualified appli-
cants. The term "qualified applicant" means applicants for plots
meeting criteria set forth in Schedule 2 to this Agreement.
(b) CONAVI shall enter into an individual contract with
each purchaser selected pursuant to (a) above, setting forth the
terms and conditions for the repayment of the prorated capital
costs of land and on-site infrastructure and the costs of the
residential dwelling unit. Such terms and conditions shall be
satisfactory to the Bank and shall include those set forth in
paragraph 1 of Schedule 3 to this Agreement.
(c) CONAVI shall make credits for construction materials
and contracted labor to purchasers of residential plots developed
under Part A of the Project, on terms and conditions satisfactory
to the Bank, including those set forth in paragraph 2 of Schedule
3 to this Agreement.
(d) CONAVI shall, not later than March 31, 1978 or such
later date as the Bank shall agree, furnish to the Bank for its
approval a standard form of the contract to be used for the
purposes referred to in paragraphs (b) and (c) of this Section.
(e) CONAVI shall enter into an agreement with BISA, satis-
factory to the Bank, for alloting such industrial/commercial
plots developed under Part A of the Project to prospective
purchasers, and for the recovering of CONAVI's investments in
such plots in accordance with terms and conditions stipulated
in paragraph 1 of Schedule 3 of this Agreement.


﻿-4-
Section 2.05. (a) CONAVI undertakes to insure, or make
adequate provision for the insurance of, the imported goods to
be financed out of the proceeds of the Loan made available to it
by the Bot-rower against hazards incident to the acquisition,
transportation and delivery thereof to the place of use or
installation, and for such insurance any indemnity shall be
payable in a currency freely usable by CONAVI to replace or repair
such goods.
(b) Except as the Bank may otherwise agree, CONAVI shall
cause all goods and services financed out of the proceeds of the
Loan made available to it by the Borrower to be used exclusively
for the Project.
Section 2.06. (a) CONAVI shall furnish to the Bank, promptly
upon their preparation, the plans, specifications, reports,
contract documents and construction and procurement schedules
for the Project, and any material modifications thereof or
additions thereto, in such detail as the Bank shall reasonably
request.
(b) CONAVI: (i) shall maintain records adequate to record
the progress of Parts A and E.1 of the Project (including its cost
thereof) and to identify the goods and services financed out of
the proceeds of the Loan made available to it by the Borrower, and
to disclose the use thereof in Parts A and E.1 of the Project;
(ii) shall, without limitation upon the provisions of paragraph
(c) of this Section, enable the Bank's representatives to visit
the facilities and construction sites included in Part A of the
Project and to examine the goods financed out of such proceeds and
any relevant records and documents; and (iii) shall furnish to the
Bank all such information as the Bank shall reasonably request
concerning the Project, the expenditure of the proceeds of the
Loan so made available to it and the goods and services financed
out of such proceeds.
(c) CONAVI shall enable the Bank's representatives to
examine all plants, installations, sites, works, buildings,
property and equipment of CONAVI and any relevant records and
documents.
Section 2.07. CONAVI shall duly perform all its obligations
under the CONAVI Subsidiary Loan Agreement. Except as the Bank
shall otherwise agree, CONAVI shall not take or concur in any
action which would have the effect of amending, abrogating,


﻿-5-
assigning or waiving the Subsidiary Loan Agreement or any pro-
vision thereof.
Section 2.08. (a) CONAVI shall, at the request of the Bank,
exchange views with the Bank with regard to the progress of Parts
A and E.1 of the Project, the performance of its obligations under
this Agreement and under the CONAVI Subsidiary Loan Agreement,
and other matters relating to the purposes of the Loan.
(b) CONAVI shall promptly inform the Bank of any condition
which interferes or threatens to interfere with, the progress of
Parts A and E.1 of the Project, the accomplishment of the
purposes of the Loan, or the performance by CONAVI of its
obligations under this Agreement and under the CONAVI Subsidiary
Loan Agreement.
Section 2.09. CONAVI shall take all such action as shall be
necessary to provide, promptly as needed, full ownership title
to the respective purchasers of the residential and industrial/
commercial plots developed by CONAVI under Part A of the Project.
ARTICLE III
Management and Operations of CONAVI
Section 3.01. (a) CONAVI shall at all times maintain its
corporate existence and right to carry on its operations and shall
take all steps necessary to acquire, maintain and renew all
rights, powers, privileges, concessions and franchises which are
necessary or useful in the conduct of its business.
(b) CONAVI shall at all times operate and maintain its
equipment and property, the equipment and property held by CONAVI
on behalf of the Borrower, public entities and local collectivi-
ties, and from time to time make all necessary renewals and
repairs thereof, all in accordance with appropriate engineering,
construction and urban development practices.
Section 3.02. CONAVI shall at all times manage its affairs,
plan the future expansion of its operations and maintain its
financial position, all in accordance with appropriate business,
financial and urban development principles and practices and under
the supervision of experienced and competent management.


﻿- 6 -
Section 3.03. CONAVI shall take out and maintain with
responsible insurers, or make other provisions satisfactory to
the Bank for, insurance against such risks and in such amounts
as shall be consistent with appropriate practice.
Section 3.04. CONAVI shall, not later than December 1, 1977
or such later date as the Bank shall agree, furnish to the Bank
for its review a detailed investment plan for the three ensuing
years.
ARTICLE IV
Financial and Other Covenants
Section 4.01. CONAVI shall maintain records adequate to
reflect in accordance with consistently maintained appropriate
accounting practices its operations and financial condition.
Section 4.02. CONAVI shall: (i) have its accounts and
financial statements (balance sheets, statements of income and
expenses and related statements) regarding Parts A and E.1 of
the Project for each fiscal year audited, in accordance with
appropriate auditing principles consistently applied, by
independent auditors acceptable to the Bank; (ii) furnish to the
Bank as soon as available, but in any case not later than six
months after the end of each such year, (A) certified copies of
its financial statements for such year as so audited and (B) the
report of such audit by said auditors, of such scope and in such
detail as the Bank shall have reasonably requested; and (iii)
furnish to the Bank such other information concerning the accounts
and financial statements of CONAVI and the audit thereof as the
Bank shall from time to time reasonably request.
Section 4.03. CONAVI shall, not later than March 31, 1978
or such later date as the Bank shall agree, make contractual
arrangements with SAMAPA satisfactory to the Bank for the
provision of adequate amounts of water to the areas included
in Part A of the Project.
ARTICLE V
Effective Date; Termination;
Cancellation and Suspension
Section 5.01. This Agreement shall come into force and effect
on the date upon which the Loan Agreement becomes effective.


﻿-7-
Section 5.02. This Agreement and all obligations of the Bank
and of CONAVI thereunder shall terminate on the date on which the
Loan Agreement shall terminate in accordance with its terms.
Section 5.03. All the provisions of this Agreement shall
continue in full force and effect notwithstanding any cancellation
or suspension under the Loan Agreement.
ARTICLE VI
Miscellaneous Provisions
Section 6.01. Any notice or request required or permitted to
be given or made under this Agreement and any agreement between
the parties contemplated by this Agreement shall be in writing.
Such notice or request shall be deemed to have been duly given or
made when it shall be delivered by hand or by mail, telegram,
cable, telex or radiogram to the party to which it is required or
permitted to be given or made at such party's address hereinafter
specified or at such other address as such party shall have
designated by notice to the party giving such notice or making
such request. The addresses so specified are:
For the Bank:
International Bank for
Reconstruction and Development
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America
Cable address:                      Telex:
INTBAFRAD                          440098 (ITT)
Washington, D.C.                   248423 (RCA) or
64145 (WUI)
For CONAVI:
Consejo Nacional de Vivienda (CONAVI)
Casilla 1141
La Paz, Bolivia
Cable address:
CONAVI
La Paz


﻿-8-
Section 6.02. Any action required or permitted to be taken,
and any document required or permitted to be executed, under this
Agreement on behalf of CONAVI may be taken or executed by its
Director Ejecutivo or such other person or persons as he shall
designate in writing.
Section 6.03. CONAVI shall furnish to the Bank sufficient
evidence of the authority and the authenticated specimen signature
of the person or persons who will, on behalf of CONAVI, take any
action or execute any documents required or permitted to be taken
or executed by CONAVI to any of the provisions of this
Agreement.
Section 6.04. This Agreement may be executed in several
counterparts, each of which shall be an original, and all
collectively but one instrument.
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their
representatives thereunto duly authorized, have caused this
Agreement to be signed in their respective names in the District
of Columbia, United States of America, as of the day and year
first above written.
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR
RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
By Is/ Suitbertus M. L. van der Meer
Acting Regional Vice President
Latin America and the Caribbean
CONSEJO NACIONAL DE VIVIENDA
By Is/ Juan Careaga Osorio
Authorized Representative


﻿-9-
SCHEDULE 1
Description of Parts A
and E.1 of the Project
I.   Sites and Services (Part A of the Project)
1.   Development of about 1,980 serviced plots with core
dwelling units in the Rio Seco zone of the El Alto
area of La Paz on sites already owned by CONAVI.
2.   Provision of basic essential services (water, elec-
tricity, sewerage, access roads).
3.   Construction of about 3 km of water trunk line
expansions connecting the sites included in Part A
of the Project with the main water supply network
of La Paz.
4.   Construction of required     elementary   schools and
community centers and of an appropriate refuse
disposal facility.
5.   Provision   of  credits  for  construction mat(cials
and contracted labor to purchasers wishing to develop,
expand, or improve their initial dwellings by self-help.
6.   Development of about 3.5 ha of industrial/commercial
plots in the Rio Seco zone of the El Alto area of
La Paz.
II. Technical Assistance (Part E.1 of the Project)
Provision of about 24 man-months of technical assistance by
foreign and local experts and acquisition of necessary equipment
to support CONAVI to: (i) convert some of its administrative and
accounting procedures to a mechanized and computerized system;
and (ii) complete the development and formalization of a package
of new design and construction standards for low-cost housing
programs in coordination with HAM.


﻿- 10 -
SCHEDULE 2
Selection Criteria for Prospective Purchasers
of Residential Plots developed
under Part A of the Project
1.   Prospective purchasers will be selected according to their
economic capacity, family size, skills and capabilities, present
housing conditions, and subject to the requirement of having been
residents of La Paz for at least two years immediately preceding
their application for a plot.
2.   In particular, the prospective purchaser will have to meet
the following criteria:
(a) have a family consisting of at least three members;
(b) not own any real estate in any city in Bolivia;
(c) have the income and paying capacity corresponding to
the particular core dwelling option selection;
(d) not have income above the level set by CONAVI for
the particular core dwelling option selected;
(e) undertake to expand by self-help the dwelling
purchased as necessary; and
(f) make a commitment to contribute his labor as necessary
to the mutual-aid elements included in the Project.
3.   Plots will be allocated to the purchasers selected through
a system of drawing lots.
4.   A maximum of 40% of the plots will be sold to purchasers who
are members of CONAVI, a maximum of 35% of plots will be sold to
purchasers who are members of other housing councils, and a
minimum of 25% of the plots will be sold to purchasers who are
not members of any housing council.


﻿- 11 -
SCHEDULE 3
Terms and Conditions of the Purchase
of Plots and of Credits for
Construction Materials and Contracted Labor
1.   Purchase of Plots
(a) Residential Plots:
(i) Amount:
Sum of prorated capital costs of land and on-site
infrastructure, costs of residential dwelling, and
costs of design, supervision and administration of
such infrastructure and dwelling.
(ii) Interest:
10% per annum
(iii) Repayment period:
Ranging from 15 to 20 years, provided that the
final maturity will not exceed the final maturity
of the Loan.
(iv) Security:
Such security as CONAVI shall reasonably request.
(v) Down payment:
Purchasers will be required to make a minimum down
payment of 10% of the amount referred to in (i)
hereof either in cash or through mutual help labor
credits. For the Purpose of this Schedule, the
term "mutual help labor credits" means credits
given by CONAVI to purchasers for work performed
on site infrastructure or superstructure prior to
the purchase of the plots.
(b) Commercial Plots:
(i) Amount:
Sum of prorated capital costs of land and on-site
infrastructure, costs of commercial unit, and


﻿- 12 -
costs of design, supervision and administration of
such infrastructure and unit, plus a surcharge to
defray part of the costs of infrastructure for the
residential plots.
(ii) Interest:
10% per annum
(iii) Repayment period:
A maximum of 7 years.
(iv) Security:
Such security as CONAVI shall reasonably request.
2.   Credits for Construction Materials and Contracted Labor
(i) Amount:
A maximum of the equivalent of $500.
(ii) Disbursement:
Credit recipients will receive only the construc-
tion materials; payments for contracted labor will
be made directly to the contractor by CONAVI.
(iii) Interest:
10% per annum
(iv) Repayment period:
From 1 to 5 years.
(v) Security:
Such security as CONAVI shall reasonably request."
ARTICLE II
Section 2.01. The CONAVI Amending Project Agreement shall
become effective on the date upon which the Amending Loan Agree-
ment becomes effective.


﻿- 13 -
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through
their representatives thereunto duly authorized, have caused
this Agreement to be signed in their respective names in the
District of Columbia, United States of America, as of the day and
year first above written.
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR
RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
By
Regional Vice President
Latin America and the Caribbean
CONSEJO NACIONAL DE VIVIENDA
By
Authorized Representative


﻿Interni..onal Bank for
Recoilstruc-tion and Developmtent
1818 Hi Struct, N.W.
Washin,tca, D.C. 20433
U.   S.   A.
Conscjo Necil de Vivienca (CO AVI)
Casill. 1141
La Paz, Bolivia
Ref: Loan N° 1489-BO (Urban Development
Projcct) - Setion 2.01 of the CONAV
Am~e1ndi  P~~ ?roi ert /X; reemewnt[ _____
In respect to Section 2.01 of the nbovemit-ioi Jc (C  v
A~menidin~' P'ro~j ject A:; e:cnnt , we bomreby enof iri that ine Amendi  , M
k;reewn ruL  mrredl to in sai.d Sect ion isth AndIa LUnn Av
si gno d heme  the iV 'el lie of BoJ i vi< and the In ternetA inal A.o
:                   ti ron ind  o iopncn rit. ,   12 ted
and   ea   Lont
By
Anthorii jdo tr
C    j N:ejo: 1da (              -   )
Y.y


﻿INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
CERTIFICATE
I hereby certify that the foregoing is a true
copy of the original in the archives of the Interna-
tional Bank for Reconstruction and Develop-
ment.
In witness whereof I have signed this Certifi-
cate and affixed the Seal of the Bank thereunto
this  -2I     day of <k4A, 198 L_
FOR SECRETARY


