CONFORMED COPY
LOAN NUMBER 1489 BO
Project Agreement
(Urban Development Project)
between
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION
AND DEVELOPMENT
and
BANCO INDUSTRIAL S.A.
Dated November 30, 1977


﻿LOAN NUMBER 1489 BO
PROJECT AGREEMENT
AGREEMENT, dated November 30, 1977, between INTERNATIONAL
BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT (hereinafter called the
Bank) and BANCO INDUSTRIAL S.A. (hereinafter called BISA), a
development bank established and operating under the laws of the
Republic of Bolivia.
WHEREAS (A) by the Loan Agreement of even date herewith
between the Republic of Bolivia (hereinafter called the Borrower)
and the Bank, the Bank has agreed to make available to the Bor-
rower an amount in various currencies equivalent to seventeen
million dollars ($17,000,000), on the terms and conditions set
forth in the Loan Agreement, but only on condition that inter alia
BISA agree to undertake such obligations toward the Bank as
hereinafter set forth;
(B) by a subsidiary loan agreement between the Borrower
and BISA, part of the proceeds of the loan provided for under the
Loan Agreement will be made available to BISA on the terms and
conditions therein set forth; and
WHEREAS BISA, in consideration of the Bank's entering into
the Loan Agreement with the Borrower, has agreed to undertake the
obligations hereinafter set forth;
NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:
ARTICLE I
Definitions
Section 1.01. Wherever used in this Agreement, unless the
context shall otherwise require, the several terms defined in
the Loan Agreement, the Preamble to this Agreement and the General
Conditions (as so defined) have the respective meanings therein
set forth and the following additional terms have the following
meanings:
(a) "Statutes" means the Estatutos of BISA dated Feb-
ruary 10, 1977, as amended to the date of this Agreement;
(b) "Statement of Policy" means the statement of lending
and investment policy approved by the Directors of BISA on
June 1, 1976 as amended to the date of this Agreement;


﻿-2-
(c) "subsidiary" means any company of which a majority of
the outstanding voting stock or other proprietary interest is
owned or effectively controlled by BISA or by any one or more
subsidiaries of BISA or by BISA and one or more of its subsidi-
aries;
(d) "Acci6n Comunal" means the department of the Munici-
pality of La Paz in charge of community development;
(e) "Juntas Vecinales" means neighborhood committees
established in the city of La Paz; and
(f) "Bolivian Peso" and "b $" means the currency of the
Borrower.
ARTICLE II
Execution of Parts D and E.3
of the Project
Section 2.01. (a) BISA shall: (i) carry out Parts D and E.3
of the Project described in Schedule 2 to the Loan Agreement and
Schedule 1 to this Agreement with due diligence and efficiency and
in conformity with appropriate administrative, financial and
banking practices, and shall provide, or cause to be provided,
promptly as needed, the funds, facilities, services and other
resources required for the purpose; and (ii) acquire, maintain and
renew all rights, powers, privileges and franchises as shall be,
from time to time, necessary or useful in the conduct of its
business and the carrying out of Parts D and E.3 of the Project.
(b) For carrying out Part D of the Project, BISA shall
borrow from the Borrower in Pesos the equivalent of $2,555,000 of
the proceeds of the Loan required therefor, under terms and
conditions set forth in a subsidiary loan agreement with the
Borrower satisfactory to the Bank, and in the carrying out of Part
D of the Project, BISA undertakes that it shall at all times
follow lending policies and procedures satisfactory to the Bank
including those set forth in Schedule 2 to this Agreement, as such
Schedule may be modified from time to time by agreement among the
Borrower, the Bank and BISA.
(c) Without limitation upon the generality of the provisions
of paragraph (a) of this Section, BISA shall provide out of its
own resources the equivalent of $500,000 in Pesos for the purposes
of Part D of the Project.


﻿- 3 -
Section 2.02. In order to assist BISA in the carrying out of
Part E.3 of the Project, BISA shall employ a management consultant
whose qualifications, experience and terms and conditions of
employment shall be satisfactory to the Bank.
Section 2.03. BISA shall duly perform all its obligations
under the BISA Subsidiary Loan Agreement. Except as the Bank shall
otherwise agree, BISA shall not take or concur in any action which
would have the effect of amending, abrogating, assigning or
waiving the BISA Subsidiary Loan Agreement or any provision
thereof.
Section 2.04. (a) BISA shall, at the request of the Bank,
exchange views with the Bank with regard to the progress of Parts
D and E.3 of the Project, the performance of its obligations under
this Agreement and under the BISA Subsidiary Loan Agreement, and
other matters relating to the purposes of the Loan.
(b) BISA shall promptly inform the Bank of any condition
which interferes or threatens to interfere with, the progress of
Parts D and E.3 of the Project, the accomplishment of the purposes
of the Loan, or the performance by BISA of its obligations under
this Agreement and under the BISA Subsidiary Loan Agreement.
Section 2.05. BISA shall utilize all funds repaid by artisans
and small-scale enterprises who have received loans under Part D
of the Project, which are not immediately needed to make payments
of principal, interest and other charges on the funds received
from the Borrower out of the proceeds of the Loan, exclusively
for additional loans under Part D of the Project.
ARTICLE III
Management and Operations of BISA
Section 3.01. BISA shall at all times manage its affairs,
maintain its financial position, plan its future expansion and
carry on its operations, all in accordance with appropriate
banking and financial practices, under the supervision of quali-
fied and experienced management and assisted by qualified and
experienced staff in adequate numbers, and in accordance with its
Statutes and Statement of Policy.
Section 3.02. BISA shall duly perform all its obligations
under agreements under which funds have been lent or otherwise put


﻿-4-
at the disposal of BISA by the Borrower or its agencies or others
for relending, investment or management. BISA shall promptly
inform the Bank of any action which would have the effect of
assigning, or of amending, abrogating or waiving any material
provision of, any such agreement.
Section 3.03. If BISA establishes or acquires any subsidiary,
BISA shall cause such subsidiary to observe and perform the
obligations of BISA hereunder to the extent to which such obliga-
tions shall or can be applicable thereto, as though such obliga-
tions were binding upon such subsidiary.
ARTICLE IV
Financial Covenants
Section 4.01. BISA shall maintain records adequate to re-
flect, in accordance with consistently maintained appropriate
accounting practices, its operations and financial condition,
including without limitation its loan operations under Part D of
the Project.
Section 4.02. BISA shall: (i) have its accounts and financial
statements (balance sheets, statements of income and expenses and
related statements) for each fiscal year audited, in accordance
with appropriate auditing principles consistently applied, by
independent auditors acceptable to the Bank; (ii) furnish to the
Bank as soon as available, but in any case not later than six
months after the end of each such year, (A) certified copies of
its financial statements for such year as so audited and (B) the
report of such audit by said auditors, of such scope and in such
detail as the Bank shall have reasonably requested; and (iii)
furnish to the Bank such other information concerning the accounts
and financial statements of BISA and the audit thereof as the Bank
shall from time to time reasonably request.
Section 4.03. Except as the Bank shall otherwise agree,
BISA shall: (i) conduct its operations and affairs in such manner
as shall be necessary to maintain, at all times, its debt/equity
ratio within the limit provided in Section 4.05 of this Agreement;
and (ii) if such ratio shall, for reasons beyond BISA's control,
be exceeded, promptly take all such reasonable action as shall be
necessary or advisable to bring such ratio within such limit.


﻿- 5 -
Section 4.04. BISA shall not make any repayment in advance
of maturity in respect of any outstanding debt of BISA which, in
the judgment of the Bank, would materially affect BISA's ability
to meet its financial obligations.
Section 4.05. Except as shall be otherwise agreed between
the Bank and BISA, BISA shall not incur or permit any subsidiary
to incur: (i) any Category I debt if, after the incurring of such
debt, the consolidated Category I debt of BISA and all its subsid-
iaries then incurred and outstanding would be greater than the
consolidated capital and surplus of BISA and all its subsidiaries;
or (ii) any Category II debt if, after the incurring of such debt,
the consolidated Category II debt of BISA and all its subsidiaries
then incurred and outstanding would be greater than six times the
consolidated capital and surplus of BISA and all its subsidiaries.
For the purposes of this Section:
(a) "Category I debt" means any debt incurred by BISA or any
subsidiary by the issuance, in the capital market of Bolivia, of
certificates of indebtedness with a maturity of not less than one
year; and "Category II debt" means any debt other than a Category
I debt incurred by BISA or any subsidiary.
(b) Debt shall be deemed to be incurred: (i) under a loan
contract or agreement (including the Subsidiary Loan Agreement) on
the date and to the extent the amount of the loan is drawn down
and outstanding pursuant to such loan or agreement, and (ii) under
a guarantee agreement, on the date the agreement providing for
such guarantee has been entered into but only to the extent that
the guaranteed debt is outstanding.
(c) Whenever in connection with this Section it shall be
necessary to value in terms of Bolivian Pesos debt payable in
foreign currency, such valuation shall be made at the prevailing
lawful rate of exchange at which such foreign currency is, at the
time of such valuation, obtainable by BISA for the purposes of
servicing such debt.
(d) "consolidated Category I debt of BISA and all its
subsidiaries" and "consolidated Category II debt of BISA and all
its subsidiaries" mean the total amount of debt of BISA and
subsidiaries, excluding any debt owed by BISA to any subsidiary or
by any subsidiary to BISA or to any other subsidiary in regard of,
respectively, Category I debt and Category II debt.


﻿-6-
(e) "consolidated capital and surplus of BISA and subsidiar-
ies" means the aggregate of (i) the unimpaired paid-up capital,
surplus and free reserves of BISA and subsidiaries after excluding
therefrom such amounts as shall represent (1) equity interests of
BISA in any subsidiary or of any subsidiary in BISA or any other
subsidiary and (2) unless the Bank shall otherwise agree, asset
revaluations and intangibles, and (ii) any loan to BISA or its
subsidiaries which the Bank shall deem to be included in such
consolidated capital and surplus for the purposes of this Section.
Section 4.06. BISA shall take such steps satisfactory to
the Bank as shall be necessary to protect itself against risk of
loss resulting from changes in the rates of exchange between the
currencies (including Bolivian Pesos) used in its operations.
Section 4.07. The Bank and BISA shall from time to time,
at the request of either party, exchange views through their
representatives with regard to the administration, operations and
financial condition of BISA and its subsidiaries, and BISA shall
furnish to the Bank all such information as the Bank shall rea-
sonably request concerning the administration, operations and
financial condition of BISA and subsidiaries.
Section 4.08. BISA shall enable the Bank's representatives
to inspect the records referred to in Section 4.01 of this Agree-
ment and any relevant documents.
ARTICLE V
Effective Date; Termination;
Cancellation and Suspension
Section 5.01. This Agreement shall come into force and effect
on the date upon which the Loan Agreement becomes effective.
Section 5.02. This Agreement and all obligations of the Bank
and BISA thereunder shall terminate on the date on which the Loan
Agreement shall terminate in accordance with its terms.
Section 5.03. All the provisions of this Agreement shall
continue in full force and effect notwithstanding any cancellation
or suspension under the Loan Agreement.


﻿- 7 -
ARTICLE VI
Miscellaneous Provisions
Section 6.01. Any notice or request required or permitted
to be given or made under this Agreement and any agreement between
the parties contemplated by this Agreement shall be in writing.
Such notice or request shall be deemed to have been duly given
or made when it shall be delivered by hand or by mail, telegram,
cable, telex or radiogram to the party to which it is required
or permitted to be given or made at such party's address herein-
after specified or at such other address as such party shall
have designated by notice to the party giving such notice or
making such request. The addresses so specified are:
For the Bank:
International Bank for
Reconstruction and Development
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United State of America
Cable address:                     Telex:
INTBAFRAD                          440098 (ITT)
Washington, D.C.                   248423 (RCA) or
64145 (WUI)
For BISA:
Banco Industrial S.A.
P.O. Box 1290
La Paz
Bolivia
Cable address:                     Telex:
BISA                               BX5279
La Paz
Section 6.02. Any action required or permitted to be taken,
and any document required or permitted to be executed, under
this Agreement on behalf of BISA may be taken or executed by its
General Manager or such other person or persons as he shall
designate in writing.


﻿-8-
Section 6.03. BISA shall furnish to the Bank sufficient
evidence of the authority and the authenticated specimen signature
of the person or persons who will, on behalf of BISA, take any
action or execute any documents required or permitted to be taken
or executed by BISA pursuant to any of the provisions of this
Agreement.
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through
their representatives thereunto duly authorized, have caused
this Agreement to be signed in their respective names in the
District of Columbia, United States of America, as of the day and
year first above written.
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR
RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
By Is/ Suitbertus M. L. van der Meer
Acting Regional Vice President
Latin America and the Caribbean
BANCO INDUSTRIAL S.AC
By /s/ Miguel Zalles Denegri
Authorized Representative


﻿-9-
SCHEDULE 1
Description of Parts D and E.3 of the Project
The purpose of Part D of the Project is to create additional
economic opportunities for low-income groups in La Paz, primarily
those living in the areas to be serviced and upgraded under Parts
A and B of the Project. Part D of the Project consists of making
loans available to artisans and small-scale enterprises for the
following purposes:
(i) to promote new and established artisans from
among residents in the areas to be upgraded under
Part B of the Project;
(ii) to establish artisans moving in the sites to be
serviced under Part A of the Project as dwellings
therein are completed;
(iii) to transfer existing small-scale enterprises from
areas with limited expansion possibilities to plots
provided in the El Alto area of La Paz pursuant to
Part A of the Project; and
(iv) to establish new labor-intensive small-scale
enterprises on plots provided in the El Alto area
of La Paz pursuant to Part A of the Project.
The provision of appropriate technical assistance pursuant
to Part E.3 of the Project will complement the granting of loans
to ensure the success of Part D of the Project.


﻿- 10 -
SCHEDULE 2
Lending and Operating Policies and Procedures
A.   Loans to Artisans
1.   Definition. For purposes of this Schedule, the term
"artisan" means the proprietor of a business employing
up to five persons.
2.   Loan Type. Loans will be granted to artisans to finance:
(i) acquisition of fixed assets (hereinafter called
fixed assets loans); and (ii) working capital (herein-
after called working capital loans).
3.   Beneficiaries. Loans will be granted to artisans living
in the areas to be upgraded and serviced under Parts A
and B of the Project. The local Juntas Vecinales
assisted by representatives from Acci6n Comunal and
BISA will preselect the artisans worthy of receiving
loans. Artisans' loan applications will be first pro-
cessed by the respective Junta Vecinal, screened by
Acci6n Comunal for their technical soundness and then
reviewed for approval by a special appraisal unit of
BISA.
4.   Amount. An individual loan may finance up to 90% of the
funds required or the equivalent of $5,000, whichever
shall be the lesser.
An applicant's equity contribution may be in cash or in
kind (or in both), such contribution to be reasonably
evaluated by BISA. The total amount of principal owed by
an artis: , to BISA will not exceed the equivalent of
$5,000 at ay one time.
5.   Terms. Loans will be granted for minimum and maximum
terms, respectively, of:
(i) 5 years to 8 years for fixed assets loans (1
year to 3 years of grace); and
(ii) 1 year to 3 years for working capital loans.
6.   Interest Rate. An interest rate of 12% per annum will
be charged on the balance outstanding of a loan.


﻿- 11 -
B.   Loans to Small-Scale Enterprises
1.   Definition. For the purposes of this Schedule, the term
"small-scale enterprise" means a business with a paid-in
capital of less than the equivalent of $20,000.
2.   Loan Types. Loans will be granted to small-scale enter-
prises to finance: (i) acquisition of fixed assets
(hereinafter called fixed assets loans); and (ii) work-
ing capital (hereinafter called working capital loans).
3.   Beneficiaries. Loans will be granted to small-scale
enterprises situated primarily in the areas to be
upgraded and serviced under Parts A and B of the Proj-
ect. The selection of suitable beneficiaries and the
processing of their loan applications will be made by a
special appraisal unit to be established within BISA's
Operations Department.
4.   Amount. An individual loan may finance the lesser of:
(i) up to 70% of the funds required or the equivalent of
$20,000; and (ii) up to 70% of the funds required or
the equivalent of $40,000 for small-scale enterprises
relocating to plots provided under Part A of the Proj-
ect. Loans of more than the equivalent of $20,000 made
to small-scale enterprises relocating to plots provided
under Part A of the Project will not exceed in the
aggregate the equivalent of $800,000. The total amount
of principal owed by a small-scale enterprise to BISA
will not exceed the equivalent of $20,000 at any one
time; provided, however, that this limitation will
not apply to loans made to small-scale enterprises for
purposes of relocation to plots provided under Part A of
the Project.
5.   Terms. Loans will be made for minimum and maximum
terms, respectively, of:
(i) 5 years to 8 years for fixed assets loans
(up to 2 years of grace); and
(ii) 1 year to 3 years for working capital loans.
6.   Interest Rate. An interest rate of between 12% and 18%
per annum will be charged on the balance of a loan.


﻿- 12 -
C.   Provision for Bad Debts
BISA will establish a special provision account for bad
debts under the loan program included in Part D of the
Project. BISA will periodically allocate to such account from
interest payments received an amount equivalent to 3-1/2%
per annum of the amount of each loan until the ratio of the
provision for bad debts to the total outstanding amount of
loans under such loan program reaches 1:10; thereafter, BISA
will maintain the ratio at such level.


