CONFORMED COPY
LOAN NUMBER 1489 BO
Project Agreement
(Urban Development Project)
between
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION
AND DEVELOPMENT
and
HONORABLE ALCALDIA MUNICIPAL DE LA PAZ
Dated November 30, 1977


﻿LOAN NUMBER 1489 BO
PROJECT AGREEMENT
AGREEMENT, dated November 30, 1977, between INTERNATIONAL
BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT (hereinafter called the
Bank) and HONORABLE ALCALDIA MUNICIPAL DE LA PAZ (hereinafter
called HAM).
WHEREAS (A) by the Loan Agreement of even date herewith
between Republic of Bolivia (hereinafter called the Borrower) and
the Bank, the Bank has agreed to make available to the Borrower an
amount in various currencies equivalent to seventeen million
dollars ($17,000,000), on the terms and conditions set forth in
the Loan Agreement, but only on condition inter alia that HAM
agree to undertake such obligations toward the Bank as hereinafter
set forth;
(B) by a subsidiary loan agreement between the Borrower and
HAM, part of the proceeds of the loan provided for under the Loan
Agreement will be made available to HAM on the terms and condi-
tions therein set forth; and
WHEREAS HAM, in consideration of the Bank's entering into the
Loan Agreement with the Borrower, has agreed to undertake the
obligations hereinafter set forth;
NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:
ARTICLE I
Definitions
Section 1.01. Wherever used in this Agreement, unless the
context shall otherwise require, the several terms defined in
the Loan Agreement, the Preamble to this Agreement and the General
Conditions (as so defined) have the respective meanings therein
set forth and the term "Acci6n Comunal" means the department
of HAM in charge of community development.
ARTICLE II
Execution of Parts B, C and
E.2 of the Project
Section 2.01. HAM shall carry out Parts B, C and E.2 of the
Project described in Schedule 2 to the Loan Agreement and in


﻿-2-
Schedule 1 to this Agreement with due diligence and efficiency
and in conformity with appropriate administrative, financial,
engineering and urban development practices.
Section 2.02. In order to assist HAM in the carrying out of
Part E.2 of the Project, HAM shall employ consultants whose
qualifications, experience and terms and conditions of employment
shall be satisfactory to the Bank.
Section 2.03. Except as the Bank shall otherwise agree, con-
tracts for the purchase of goods or for civil works to be financed
out of the proceeds of the Loan, shall be procured in accordance
with the provisions of Schedule 4 to the Loan Agreement.
Section 2.04. (a) Before commencing work on the urban up-
grading under Part B of the Project, HAM shall furnish to the Bank
for its approval: (i) the final development plan for the urban
upgrading and the costs calculations therefor; and (ii) the
arrangements established for providing secure tenure to partici-
pants in the urban upgrading.
(b) HAM shall cause Acci6n Comunal to enter into an indi-
vidual contract with each participant in the urban upgrading
setting forth the terms and conditions for the repayment of the
prorated capital costs of the infrastructure provided and, if
applicable, the amount of the construction materials credit. Such
terms and conditions shall be satisfactory to the Bank and shall
include those set forth in paragraph 1 of Schedule 2 to this
Agreement.
(c) HAM shall cause Acci6n Comunal to make credits for con-
struction materials and contracted labor to participants in the
urban upgrading on terms and conditions satisfactory to the Bank,
including those set forth in paragraph 2 of Schedule 2 to this
Agreement.
(d) HAM shall, not later than March 31, 1978 or such later
date as the Bank shall agree, furnish to the Bank for its approval
a standard form of the contract to be used for the purposes
referred to in paragraphs (b) and (c) of this Section.
Section 2.05. (a) HAM undertakes to insure, or make adequate
provision for the insurance of, the imported goods to be financed
out of the proceeds of the Loan made available to it by the
Borrower against hazards incident to the acquisition, transporta-
tion and delivery thereof to the place of use or installation,


﻿- 3 -
and for such insurance any indemnity shall be payable in a cur-
rency freely usable by HAM to replace or repair such goods.
(b) Except as the Bank may otherwise agree, HAM shall cause
all goods and services financed out of the proceeds of the Loan
made available to it by the Borrower to be used exclusively for
Parts B, C and E.2 of the Project.
Section 2.06. (a) HAM shall furnish to the Bank, promptly
upon their preparation, the plans, specifications, reports, con-
tract documents and construction and procurement schedules for
Parts B and C of the Project, and any material modifications
thereof or additions thereto, in such detail as the Bank shall
reasonably request.
(b) HAM: (i) shall maintain records adequate to record the
progress of Parts B, C and E.2 of the Project (including the cost
thereof) and to identify the goods and services financed out of
the proceeds of the Loan made available to it by the Borrower, and
to disclose the use thereof in Parts B,.C and E.2 of the Project;
(ii) shall, without limitation upon the provisions of paragraph
(c) of this Section, enable the Bank's representatives to visit
the facilities and construction sites included in Parts B and C of
the Project and to examine the goods financed out of such proceeds
and any relevant records and documents; and (iii) shall furnish to
the Bank all such information as the Bank shall reasonably request
concerning Parts B, C and E.2 of the Project, the expenditure of
the proceeds of the Loan so made available to it and the goods and
services financed out of such proceeds.
(c) HAM shall enable the Bank's representatives to examine
all plants, installations, sites, works, buildings, property and
equipment of HAM and any relevant records and documents.
Section 2.07. HAM shall duly perform all its obligations
under the HAM Subsidiary Loan Agreement. Except as the Bank shall
otherwise agree, HAM shall not take or concur in any action which
would have the effect of amending, abrogating, assigning or waiv-
ing the HAM Subsidiary Loan Agreement or any provision thereof.
Section 2.08. (a) HAM shall, at the request of the Bank,
exchange views with the Bank with regard to the progress of Parts
B, C and E.2 of the Project, the performance of its obligations
under this Agreement and under the HAM Subsidiary Loan Agreement,
and other matters relating to the purposes of the Loan.


﻿-4-
(b) HAM shall promptly inform the Bank of any condition
which interferes or threatens to interfere with, the progress of
Parts B, C and E.2 of the Project, the accomplishment of the
purposes of the Loan, or the performance by HAM of its obligations
under this Agreement and under the HAM Subsidiary Loan Agreement.
ARTICLE III
Financial and Other Covenants
Section 3.01. HAM shall maintain or cause to be maintained
separate records adequate to reflect, in accordance with consis-
tently maintained sound accounting practices, the operations,
resources and expenditures, in respect of Parts B, C and E.2 of
the Project, of the departments or agencies of HAM responsible
for carrying out Parts B, C and E.2 of the Project or any part
thereof.
Section 3.02. HAM shall: (i) have its accounts and financial
statements (balance sheets, statements of income and expenses and
related statements) regarding Parts B, C and E.2 of the Project
for each fiscal year audited, in accordance with appropriate
auditing principles consistently applied, by independent auditors
acceptable to the Bank; (ii) furnish to the Bank as soon as avail-
able, but in any case not later than six months after the end of
each such year, (A) certified copies of such financial statements
for such year as so audited and (B) the report of such audit by
said auditors, of such scope and in such detail as the Bank shall
have reasonably requested; and (iii) furnish to the Bank such
other information concerning such accounts and financial state-
ments and the audit thereof as the Bank shall from time to time
reasonably request.
Section 3.03. HAM shall cause Acci6n Comunal at all times to
manage its affairs, plan the future expansion of its operations
and maintain its financial position, all in accordance with appro-
priate business, financial and urban development principles and
practices and under the supervision of experienced and competent
management assisted by qualified and experienced staff in adequate
numbers.
Section 3.04. HAM shall operate the retail food markets
included in Part C of the Project pursuant to a rate structure
designed to secure recovery of the full capital, maintenance and
operation costs of such part of the Project.


﻿- 5 -
Section 3.05. HAM shall promptly take all action necessary
to approve the layout and construction standards which have been
developed by CONAVI for the dwellings to be built pursuant to
Part A of the Project.
Section 3.06. HAM shall promptly establish special procedures
to ensure prompt approval by it of all designs made by CONAVI for
the sites included in Part A of the Project.
Section 3.07. HAM shall cause the equipment and vehicles used
in the operation of the refuse collection system included in Parts
A and B of the Project to be adequately maintained and shall cause
all necessary repairs thereof promptly to be made, all in accor-
dance with appropriate engineering practices, and shall provide,
promptly as needed, the funds, facilities, equipment, services
and other resources required therefor.
Section 3.08. HAM shall promptly make all arrangements
necessary to provide to the participants in the urban upgrading
pursuant to Part B of the Project secure tenure with regard to
their respective plots.
Section 3.09. HAM shall, not later than March 31, 1978 or
such later date as the Bank shall agree, make contractual arrange-
ments with SAMAPA satisfactory to the Bank for the provision of
adequate amounts of water to the areas included in Parts B and C
of the Project.
ARTICLE IV
Effective Date; Termination;
Cancellation and Suspension
Section 4.01. This Agreement shall come into force and effect
on the date upon which the Loan Agreement becomes effective.
Section 4.02. This Agreement and all obligations of the
Bank and of HAM thereunder shall terminate on the date on which
the Loan Agreement shall terminate in accordance with its terms.
Section 4.03. All the provisions of this Agreement shall
continue in full force and effect notwithstanding any cancellation
or suspension under the Loan Agreement.


﻿-6-
ARTICLE V
Miscellaneous Provisions
Section 5.01. Any notice or request required or permitted to
be given or made under this Agreement and any agreement between
the parties contemplated by this Agreement shall be in writing.
Such notice or request shall be deemed to have been duly given or
made when it shall be delivered by hand or by mail, telegram,
cable, telex or radiogram to the party to which it is required or
permitted to be given or made at such party's address hereinafter
specified or at such other address as such party shall have
designated by notice to the party giving such notice or making
such request. The addresses so specified are:
For the Bank:
International Bank for
Reconstruction and Development
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America
Cable address:                     Telex:
INTBAFRAD                          440098 (ITT)
Washington, D.C.                   248423 (RCA) or
64145 (WUI)
For HAM:
Acci6n Comunal
Honorable Alcaldia Municipal
de La Paz
La Paz, Bolivia
Cable address:
ALCALDIA
La Paz
Section 5.02. Any action required or permitted to be taken,
and any documents required or permitted to be executed, under this
Agreement on behalf of HAM may be taken or executed by its Alcalde
or such other person or persons as he shall designate in writing.


﻿-7-
Section 5.03. HAM shall furnish to the Bank sufficient
evidence of the authority and the authenticated specimen signature
of the person or persons who will, on behalf of HAM, take any
action or execute any documents required or permitted to be taken
or executed by HAM pursuant to any of the provisions of this
Agreement.
Section 5.04. This Agreement may be executed in several
counterparts, each of which shall be an original, and all collec-
tively but one instrument.
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their
representatives thereunto duly authorized, have caused this
Agreement to be signed in their respective names in the District
of Columbia, United States of America, as of the day and year
first above written.
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR
RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
By /s/ Suitbertus M. L. van der Meer
Acting Regional Vice President
Latin America and the Caribbean
HONORABLE ALCALDIA MUNICIPAL DE LA PAZ
By /s/ Alberto Crespo Gutierrez
Authorized Representative


﻿-8-
SCHEDULE 1
Description of Parts B, C
and E.2 of the Project
I.   Urban Upgrading (Part B of the Project)
1.   Provision of basic urban services, such as water supply
and sewerage, a refuse collection system, pathways and
street pavement, and community facilities, such as
community centers, day-care facilities and recreational
spaces, to about 4,500 families living in seven low-
income areas of La Paz.
2.   Provision of secure tenure for participants in the urban
upgrading with regard to their respective plots.
3.   Provision of construction materials credits for self-
help housing improvements to about 4,500 participants.
II. Retail Markets (Part C of the Project)
Design, construction and operation of five public retail food
markets in the following locations:
(a) One each in the Villa Adela and Rio Seco sections
of the El Alto area of La Paz;
(b) One in the vicinity of the Sagrado Coraz6n area of
La Paz; and
(c) One each in two other low-income areas of La Paz.
III. Technical Assistance (Part E.2 of the Project)
Provision of about 63 man-months of foreign and local con-
sultants and acquisition of necessary equipment to assist Acci6n
Comunal in the:
(a) carrying out of Part B of the Project;
(b) processing of loan applications from artisans in
coordination with BISA under Part D of the Project;
(c) training of its staff in the work described in (b)
hereof; and


﻿-9-
(d) development of a proper methodology for the
analysis of Acci6n Comunal's on-going socio-
economic surveys.


﻿- 10 -
SCHEDULE 2
Terms and Conditions for Provision
of Urban Upgrading and of Credits for
Construction Materials and Contracted Labor
1.   Provision of Urban Upgrading
(i) Amount:   Prorated capital costs of infrastructure
provided.
(ii) Interest: 10% per annum.
(iii) Repayment
period:   15 years
(iv) Security: Such security as HAM shall reasonably request.
(v) Down
payment: Participants will be required to make a
minimum down payment of 10% of the amount
referred to in (i) hereof either in cash or
the equivalent in mutual help labor. For the
purpose of this Schedule, the term "mutual
help labor" means work performed by partici-
pants on on-site infrastructure during the
execution of the urban upgrading.
2.   Credits for Construction Materials and Contracted Labor
(i) Amount:       A maximum of the equivalent of $300.
(ii) Disbursement: Credit recipients will receive only the
construction materials; payments for con-
tracted labor will be made directly to
the contractor by HAM.
(iii) Interest:      10% per annum.
(iv) Repayment
period:       From 1 to 5 years.
(v) Security:     Such security as HAM shall reasonably
request.


