O IIAL
DDOCUMINTS             LOAN NUMBER 1489 BO
Amending Project Agreement
(Urban Development Project)
between
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION
AND DEVELOPMENT
and
BANCO DE LA VIVIENDA
Dated       /Va& ,A               , 1981


﻿LOAN NUMBER 1489 BO
AMENDING PROJECT AGREEMENT
AGREEMENT, dated                              , 1981, between
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT (hereinafter
called the Bank) and BANCO DE LA VIVIENDA (hereinafter called
BANVI).
WHEREAS (A) by the Loan Agreement (hereinafter called the
Loan Agreement) dated November 30, 1977, between the Republic
of Bolivia (hereinafter called the Borrower) and the Bank, the
Bank has agreed to make available to the Borrower an amount in
various currencies equivalent to seventeen million United States
dollars ($17,000,000), on the terms and conditions set forth in
the Loan Agreement;
WHEREAS by a Project Agreement (hereinafter called the
BANVI Project Agreement) dated November 30, 1977, between the Bank
and BANVI, BANVI undertook the obligation to carry out Part E.4
of the Project; and
WHEREAS the Bank and BANVI have agreed to certain changes in
the Project Agreement, and, for such purpose, have agreed to enter
into this Agreement (hereinafter called BANVI Amending Project
Agreement, upon the terms and conditions hereinafter set forth;
NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:
ARTICLE I
Section 1.01. The BANVI Project Agreement is hereby amended
and shall read as follows:
"LOAN NUMBER 1489 BO
PROJECT AGREEMENT
AGREEMENT, dated November 30, 1977, between INTERNATIONAL
BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT (hereinafter called the
Bank) and BANCO DE LA VIVIENDA (hereinafter called BANVI).
WHEREAS (A) by the Loan Agreement of even date herewith
between Republic of Bolivia (hereinafter called the Borrower) and
the Bank, the Bank has agreed to make available to the Borrower
an amount in various currencies equivalent to seventeen million


﻿-2-
dollars ($17,000,000), on the terms and conditions set forth in
the Loan Agreement, but only on condition inter alia that BANVI
agree to undertake such obligations toward the Bank as are
hereinafter set forth;
(B) by a financing and fiscal agency agreement and a
subsidiary loan agreement between the Borrower and BANVI, part of
the proceeds of the loan provided for under the Loan Agreement
will be made available to BANVI on the terms and conditions
therein set forth; and
WHEREAS BANVI, in consideration of the Bank's entering into
the Loan Agreement with the Borrower, has agreed to undertake the
obligations hereinafter set forth;
NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:
ARTICLE I
Definitions
Section 1.01. Wherever used in this Agreement, unless the
context shall otherwise require, the several terms defined in
the Loan Agreement, the Preamble to this Agreement and the General
Conditions (as so defined) have the respective meanings therein
set forth and the following additional terms have the following
meanings:
(a) "Project Unit" means the unit described in Section 2.02
of this Agreement; and
(b) "Statutes" means the Estatutos of BANVI dated
September 11, 1974, as amended to the date of this Agreement.
ARTICLE II
Execution of Parts E.4 and G of the
Project, and Financial Administration
of Parts E.5 and F of the Project
Section 2.01. BANVI shall carry out: (a) Parts E.4 and G of
the Project described in Schedule 2 to the Loan Agreement and in
Schedule 1 to this Agreement with due diligence and efficiency
and in conformity with appropriate administrative, financial,
banking, engineering and urban development practices; and (b) the
financial administration of Parts E.5 and F of the Project as


﻿-3-
described in Schedule 1 to this Agreement, with due diligence
and efficiency and in conformity with appropriate administrative,
financial and banking practices.
Section 2.02. BANVI shall establish and maintain thereafter
until the completion of the Project, a Project Unit, the staffing
and organization of which shall be satisfactory to the Bank,
for: (i) the monitoring and evaluation of the Project; (ii) the
preparation of similar urban development projects; and (iii) the
carrying out of Parts E.4 and G of the Project and the financial
administration of Parts E.5 and F of the*Project.
Section 2.03. Except as the Bank may otherwise agree, BANVI
shall cause all services financed out of the proceeds of the Loan
made available to it by the Borrower to be used exclusively for
the Project.
Section 2.04. (a) BANVI shall furnish, or cause to be
furnished, to the Bank, promptly upon their preparation, the
plans, specifications, reports, contract documents and construc-
tion and procurement schedules for Parts E.4, E.5, F and G of the
Project, and any material modifications thereof or additions
thereto, in such detail as the Bank shall reasonably request.
(b) BANVI: (i) shall maintain, or cause to be maintained,
records adequate to record the progress of Parts E.4, E.5, F and G
of the Project (including the cost thereof) and to identify the
goods and services financed out of the proceeds of the Loan made
available to it by the Borrower, and to disclose the use thereof
in Parts E.4, E.5, F and G of the Project; (ii) shall, without
limitations upon the provisions of paragraph (c) of this Section,
enable the Bank's representatives to visit the facilities and
construction sites included in Part G of the Project and to
examine the goods financed out of such proceeds and any relevant
records and documents; and (iii) shall furnish the Bank all such
information as the Bank shall reasonably request concerning the
Project, the expenditure of the proceeds of the Loan so made
available to it and the goods and services financed out of such
proceeds.
(c) BANVI shall enable the Bank's representatives to examine
all plants, installations, sites, works, buildings, property and
equipment of BANVI and any relevant records and documents.
Section 2.05. (a) BANVI shall, at the request of the Bank,
exchange views with the Bank with regard to the progress of


﻿-4-
Parts E.4, E.5, F and G of the Project, the performance of its
obligations under this Agreement, the Subsidiary Loan Agreement
and under the Financing and Fiscal Agency Agreement, and other
matters relating to the purposes of the Loan.
(b) BANVI shall promptly inform the Bank of any condition
which interferes or threatens to interfere with the progress of
Parts E.4, E.5, F and G of the Project, the accomplishment of
the purposes of the Loan, or the performance by BANVI of its
obligations under this Agreement, the Subsidiary Loan Agreement
and the Financing and Fiscal Agency Agreement.
Section 2.06. In order to assist BANVI in the carrying out
of Parts E.4, E.5, F and G of the Project, BANVI shall employ
consultants whose qualifications, experience and terms and
conditions of employmenc shall be satisfactory to the Bank.
Section 2.07. Except as the Bank shall otherwise agree,
contracts for the purchase of goods or for civil works to be
financed out of the proceeds of the Loan, shall be procured
in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 4 to the Loan
Agreement.
Section 2.08. (a) In alloting residential plots developed
under Part G of the Project to prospective purchasers, BANVI
shall employ procedures and criteria acceptable to the Bank.
(b) BANVI, shall enter into an individual contract with
each purchaser selected, setting forth the terms and conditions
for the repayment of the prorated capital costs of land and
on-site infrastructure, and the costs of the residential dwelling.
Such terms and conditions shall be satisfactory to the Bank and
shall include those set forth in paragraph 1 of Schedule 2 to
this Agreement.
(c) BANVI shall make credits for construction materials and
contracted labor to purchasers of residential plots developed
under Part G of the Project, on terms and conditions satisfactory
to the Bank, including those set forth in paragraph 2 of Schedule
2 to this Agreement.
(d) BANVI shall, no later than July 1, 1981 or such later
date as the Bank shall agree, furnish to the Bank for its
approval the procedures and selection criteria for the allocation
of plots and a standard form of the contract to be used for the
purposes referred to in paragraphs (b) and (c) of this Section.


﻿-5-
Section 2.09. (a) BANVI undertakes to insure, or make
adequate provision for the insurance of, the imported goods to
be financed out of the proceeds of the Loan made available to
it by the Borrower against hazards incident to the acquisition,
transportation and delivery thereof to the place of use or
installation, and for such insurance any indemnity shall be
payable in a currency freely usable by BANVI to replace or repair
such goods.
(b) Except as the Bank may otherwise agree, BANVI shall
cause all goods and services financed out of the proceeds of the
Loan made available to it by the Borrower to be used exclusively
for the Project.
Section 2.10. BANVI shall duly perform all its obligations
under the BANVI Subsidiary Loan Agreement and the Financing and
Fiscal Agency Agreement. Except as the Bank shall otherwise
agree, BANVI shall not take or concur in any action which would
have the effect of amending, abrogating, assigning or waiving
the BANVI Subsidiary Loan Agreement or provision thereof or the
Financing and Fiscal Agency Agreement or any provision thereof.
Section 2.11. BANVI shall take all such actions as shall be
necessary to acquire, no later than July 1, 1981 or such later
date as the Bank shall agree, such land, acceptable to the Bank,
as shall be required for the construction of about 400 residential
plots, and shall furnish to the Bank promptly after such
acquisition, evidence satisfactory to the Bank that such land
is available for the carrying out of Part G of the Project.
ARTICLE III
Management and Operations of BANVI
Section 3.01. BANVI shall at all times manage its affairs,
maintain its financial position, plan its future expansion and
carry on its operations, all in accordance with appropriate
banking, financial and urban development practices, under the
supervision of qualified and experienced management assisted by
qualified and experienced staff in adequate numbers and in
accordance with its Statutes.
Section 3.02. BANVI shall act as the Borrower's fiscal agent
for Parts A, B, C, E, F and G of the Project. To that end, BANVI
shall make withdrawals from the Loan Account for such parts of
the Project.


﻿-6-
Section 3.03. BANVI shall take out and maintain with
responsible insurers, or make other provisions satisfactory to
the Bank for, insurance against such risks and in such amounts
as shall be consistent with appropriate practice.
ARTICLE IV
Financial Covenants
Section 4.01. BANVI shall maintain records adequate to
reflect in accordance with consistently maintained appropriate
accounting practices, its operations and financial condition.
Section 4.02. BANVI shall: (i) have its accounts and
financial statements (balance sheets, statements of income and
expenses and related statements) for each fiscal year audited,
in accordance with appropriate auditing principles consistently
applied, by independent auditors; (ii) furnish to the Bank as
soon as available, but in any case not later than six months after
the end of each such year, (A) certified copies of its financial
statements for such year as so audited and (B) the report of such
audit by said auditors, of such scope and in such detail as the
Bank shall have reasonably requested; and (iii) furnish to the
Bank such other information concerning the accounts and financial
statements of BANVI and the audit thereof as the Bank shall from
time to time reasonably request.
Section 4.03. BANVI shall, not later than July 1, 1981 or
such later date as the Bank shall agree, make contractual arrange-
ments with SAMAPA, satisfactory to the Bank, for the provision of
adequate amounts of water to the area included in Part G of the
Project.
ARTICLE V
Effective Date; Termination;
Cancellation and Suspension
Section 5.01. This Agreement shall come into force and effect
on the date upon which the Loan Agreement becomes effective.
Section 5.02. (a) This Agreement and all obligations of the
Bank and of BANVI thereunder shall terminate on the earlier of
the following two dates:


﻿- 7 -
(i) the date on which the Loan Agreement shall
terminate in accordance with its terms; or
(ii) the Closing Date.
(b) If the Loan Agreement terminates in accordance with
its terms before the date specified in paragraph (a) (ii) of
the Section, the Bank shall promptly notify BANVI of this event.
Section 5.03. All the provisions of this Agreement shall
continue in full force and effect notwithstanding any cancellation
or suspension under the Loan Agreement.
ARTICLE VI
Miscellaneous Provisions
Section 6.01. Any notice or request required or permitted to
be given or made under this Agreement and any agreement between
the parties contemplated by this Agreement shall be in writing.
Such notice or request shall be deemed to have been duly given or
made when it shall be delivered by hand or by mail, telegram,
cable, telex or radiogram to the party to which it is required or
permitted to be given or made at such party's address hereinafter
specified or at such other address as such party shall have
designated by notice to the party giving such notice or making
such request. The addresses so specified are:
For the Bank:
International Bank for
Reconstruction and Development
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America
Cable address:                      Telex:
INTBAFRAD                          440098 (ITT)
Washington, D.C.                   248423 (RCA) or
64145 (WUI)
For BANVI:
Banco de la Vivienda
Av. Camacho, 1336
La Paz, Bolivia


﻿-8-
Cable address:                      Telex:
BANVI                              BV-295ENTEL
La Paz
Section 6.02. Any action required or permitted to be taken,
and any document required or permitted to be executed, under
this Agreement on behalf of BANVI may be taken or executed by
its Gerente General or such other person or persons as he shall
designate in writing.
Section 6.03. BANVI shall furnish to the Bank sufficient
evidence of the authority and the authenticated specimen signature
of the person or persons who will, on behalf of BANVI, take any
action or execute any documents required or permitted to be taken
or executed by BANVI to any of the provisions of this Agreement.
Section 6.04. This Agreement may be executed in several
counterparts, each of which shall be an original, and all
collectively but one instrument.
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through
their representatives thereunto duly authorized, have caused this
Agreement to be signed in their respective names in the District
of Columbia, United States of America, as of the day and year
first above written.
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR
RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
By Is/ Suitbertus M. L. van der Meer
Acting Regional Vice President
Latin America and the Caribbean
BANCO DE LA VIVIENDA
By Is/ Miguel Zalles Denegri
Authorized Representative


﻿-9-
SCHEDULE 1
Description of Parts E.4 and G
of the Project and of the Financial
Administration of Parts E.5 and F
of the Project
1.   Part E.4 consists of the provision of technical assistance
by foreign and local consultants to strengthen BANVI's
technical capacities in general, to support the Project
Unit to be established within BANVI, to monitor and evaluate
the Project, and to prepare similar urban development
projects. The technical assistance will include inter alia
the provision of consultants in the fields of financial
analysis, project engineering, economics and urban planning.
2.   Part G consists of the preparation of about 400 serviced
plots and basic housing units in La Paz, the provision of
essential services (water, electricity, sewerage, and
access roads), necessary off-site infrastructure, basic
community facilities, and the provision of credits, in
materials or in cash, to participating households to develop,
expand, or improve the basic units.
3.   Financial Administration of Parts E.5 and F of the Project
consists of maintaining financial records and effecting
authorized expenditure for the Divisi6n Materno-Infantil in
respect of Parts E.5 and F of the Project, in accordance with
an operations manual which will be acceptable to the Bank.


﻿- 10 -
SCHEDULE 2
Terms and Conditions of the Purchase
of Plots and Core Dwelling Units and
of Credits for the Improvement of
the Core Dwelling Units
1.   Purchase of Plots and of Core Dwelling Units
(i) Amount:
Sum of prorated capital costs of land and on-site
infrastructure, costs of residential dwelling, and
costs of design, supervision and administration of
such infrastructure and dwelling.
(ii) Interest:
10% per annum
(iii) Repayment period:
Ranging from 15 to 20 years.
(iv) Security:
Such security as BANVI shall reasonably request.
(v) Down payment:
Purchasers will be required to make a minimum down
payment of 5% of the amount referred to in (i)
above.
2.   Credits for the Improvement of the Core Dwelling Units
(i) Amount:
A maximum of the equivalent of $500.
(ii) Disbursement:
In materials or cash.
(iii) Interest:
17% per annum


﻿- 11 -
(iv) Repayment period:
Up to 30 years.
(v) Security:
Such security as BANVI shall reasonably request."
ARTICLE II
Section 2.01. The BANVI Amending Project Agreement shall
become effective on the date upon which the Amending Loan Agree-
ment becomes effective.
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their
representatives thereunto duly authorized, have caused this
Agreement to be signed in their respective names in the District
of Columbia, United States of America, as of the day and year
first above written.
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR
RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
By                                   v
Regional Vice President
Latin America and the Caribbean
BANCO DE LA VIVIENDA
/S/    Sthorize Rpsti
By       Z7c                   7~/A
Authorized Representative


﻿March 25, 1981
InLernationaj bzank for
Reconstructiohn and Developraent
1818 11 Strect, N.W.
Ubington, D.C. 20433
U.   S.   A.
Dwco d, la Viv i n!
Av. Camacho 133
Rfef: Lk:'n N° ':69-B  (Urban Developraent
Project). - Sectiocni 2.01. of the BANXI
In ri y   t to Lcti.vn 2.01 o  the aboveræntioned B:1:
c.onrirmii Luat te Am-,di  Lon
r           to i li  i d Sectio    is the Aen'dinc; Loni :C, ,eelment
si het~         d~'' eul  oø B3oli \ a~:nd th~e Ifnternatioux'  ikmkzxdz oc
It&ir.tionaul ri,X for Roeøi:truction
and- Bel             eo;ra
i
a     :      r


﻿INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
CERTIFICATE
I hereby certify that the foregoing is a true
copy of the original in the archives of the Interna-
tional Bank for Reconstruction and Develop-
ment.
In witness whereof I have signed this Certifi-
cate and affixed the Seal of the Bank thereunto
this  alfd   -day of JeAl, 198    .
FOR SECRETARY


