CONFORMED (OPY
LOAN NUMBER 1489 BO
Project Agreement
(Urban Development Project)
between
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION
AND DEVELOPMENT
and
CONSEJO NACIONAL DE VIVIENDA
Dated November 30, 1977


﻿LOAN NUMBER 1489 BO
PROJECT AGREEMENT
AGREEMENT, dated November 30, 1977, between INTERNATIONAL
BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT (hereinafter called the
Bank) and CONSEJO NACIONAL DE VIVIENDA (hereinafter called
CONAVI).
WHEREAS (A) by the Loan Agreement of even date herewith
between Republic of Bolivia (hereinafter called the Borrower) and
the Bank, the Bank has agreed to make available to the Borrower an
amount in various currencies equivalent to seventeen million
dollars ($17,000,000), on the terms and conditions set forth in
the Loan Agreement, but only on condition inter alia that CONAVI
agree to undertake such obligations toward the Bank as hereinafter
set forth;
(B) by a subsidiary loan agreement between the Borrower
and CONAVI, part of the proceeds of the loan provided for under
the Loan Agreement will be made available to CONAVI on the terms
and conditions therein set forth; and
WHEREAS CONAVI, in consideration of the Bank's entering into
the Loan Agreement with the Borrower, has agreed to undertake the
obligations hereinafter set forth;
NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:
ARTICLE I
Definitions
Section 1.01. Wherever used in this Agreement, unless the
context shall otherwise require, the several terms defined in the
Loan Agreement, the Preamble to this Agreement and the General
Conditions (as so defined) have the respective meanings therein
set forth.
ARTICLE II
Execution of Parts A and
E.1 of the Project
Section 2.01. (a) CONAVI shall carry out Parts A and E.1 of
the Project described in Schedule 2 to the Loan Agreement and in


﻿-2-
Schedule 1 to this Agreement with due diligence and efficiency
and in conformity with appropriate administrative, financial,
engineering and urban development practices.
(b) For the carrying out of Part A of the Project, CONAVI
shall establish a special team whose staffing and organization
shall be satisfactory to the Bank. CONAVI shall cause such team
to design the detailed engineering and prepare the tender docu-
ments for the sites and community facilities included in Part
A of the Project and such off-site infrastructure works which
are directly related thereto.
Section 2.02. In order to assist CONAVI in the carrying
out of Part E.1 of the Project, CONAVI shall employ consultants
whose qualifications, experience and terms and conditions of
employment shall be satisfactory to the Bank.
Section 2.03. Except as the Bank shall otherwise agree,
contracts for the purchase of goods or for civil works to be
financed out of the proceeds of the Loan, shall be procured
in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 4 to the Loan
Agreement.
Section 2.04. (a) In allotting residential and commercial
plots developed under Part A of the Project to prospective
purchasers, CONAVI shall employ procedures acceptable to the
Bank and designed to insure adequate publicity of each step of
the allotting process and random selection of purchasers from
among qualified applicants. The term "qualified applicant" in
relation to residential plots, means applicants for plots meeting
criteria set forth in Schedule 2 to this Agreement.
(b) CONAVI shall enter into an individual contract with
each purchaser selected, setting forth the terms and conditions
for the repayment of the prorated capital costs of land and
on-site infrastructure, the costs of the residential dwelling
or commercial unit, as the case may be, and, if applicable,
the amount of the construction materials credit. Such terms
and conditions shall be satisfactory to the Bank and shall
include those set forth in paragraph 1 of Schedule 3 to this
Agreement.


﻿- 3 -
(c) CONAVI shall make credits for construction materials and
contracted labor to purchasers of residential plots developed
under Part A of the Project, on terms and conditions satisfactory
to the Bank, including those set forth in paragraph 2 of Schedule
3 to this Agreement.
(d) CONAVI shall, not later than March 31, 1978 or such
later date as the Bank shall agree, furnish to the Bank for its
approval a standard form of the contract to be used for the
purposes referred to in paragraphs (b) and (c) of this Section.
Section 2.05. (a) CONAVI undertakes to insure, or make
adequate provision for the insurance of, the imported goods to be
financed out of the proceeds of the Loan made available to it by
the Borrower against hazards incident to the acquisition, trans-
portation and delivery thereof to the place of use or instal-
lation, and for such insurance any indemnity shall be payable
in a currency freely usable by CONAVI to replace or repair such
goods.
(b) Except as the Bank may otherwise agree, CONAVI shall
cause all goods and services financed out of the proceeds of the
Loan made available to it by the Borrower to be used exclusively
for Parts A and E.1 of the Project.
Section 2.06. (a) CONAVI shall furnish to the Bank, promptly
upon their preparation, the plans, specifications, reports, con-
tract documents and construction and procurement schedules for
Part A of the Project, and any material modifications thereof or
additions thereto, in such detail as the Bank shall reasonably
request.
(b) CONAVI: (i) shall maintain records adequate to record
the progress of Parts A and E.1 of the Project (including the cost
thereof) and to identify the goods and services financed out of
the proceeds of the Loan made available to it by the Borrower, and
to disclose the use thereof in Parts A and E.1 of the Project;
(ii) shall, without limitation upon the provisions of paragraph
(c) of this Section, enable the Bank's representatives to visit
the facilities and construction sites included in Part A of the
Project and to examine the goods financed out of such proceeds and
any relevant records and documents; and (iii) shall furnish to the
Bank all such information as the Bank shall reasonably request


﻿-4-
concerning the Project, the expenditure of the proceeds of the
Loan so made available to it and the goods and services financed
out of such proceeds.
(c) CONAVI shall enable the Bank's representatives to
examine all plants, installations, sites, works, buildings,
property and equipment of CONAVI and any relevant records and
documents.
Section 2.07. CONAVI shall duly perform all its obliga-
tions under the CONAVI Subsidiary Loan Agreement. Except as
the Bank shall otherwise agree, CONAVI shall not take or concur
in any action which would have the effect of amending, abrogating,
assigning or waiving the CONAVI Susidiary Loan Agreement or any
provision thereof.
Section 2.08. (a) CONAVI shall, at the request of the Bank,
exchange views with the Bank with regard to the progress of
Parts A and E.1 of the Project, the performance of its obliga-
tions under this Agreement and under the CONAVI Susidiary Loan
Agreement, and other matters relating to the purposes of the
Loan.
(b) CONAVI shall promptly inform the Bank of any con-
dition which interferes or threatens to interfere with, the
progress of Parts A and E.1 of the Project, the accomplishment of
the purposes of the Loan, or the performance by CONAVI of its
obligations under this Agreement and under the CONAVI Susidiary
Loan Agreement.
Section 2.09. CONAVI shall take all such action as shall be
necessary to acquire, not later than December 31, 1977 or such
later date as the Bank shall agree, at least 20 hectares of land,
adjacent to the Rio Seco and Villa Adela sections of the El Alto
area of La Paz and acceptable to the Bank, as shall be required
for the construction of about 1,277 sites for dwelling and indus-
trial plots, respectively, included in Part A of the Project and
shall furnish to the Bank, promptly after such acquisition,
evidence satisfactory to the Bank that such land is available for
purposes related to Part A of the Project.


﻿-5-
ARTICLE III
Management and Operations
of CONAVI
Section 3.01. (a) CONAVI shall at all times maintain its
corporate existence and right to carry on its operations and shall
take all steps necessary to acquire, maintain and renew all
rights, powers, privileges, concessions and franchises which are
necessary or useful in the conduct of its business.
(b) CONAVI shall at all times operate and maintain its
equipment and property, the equipment and property held by CONAVI
on behalf of the Borrower, public entities and local collectivi-
ties, and from time to time make all necessary renewals and
repairs thereof, all in accordance with appropriate engineering,
construction and urban development practices.
Section 3.02. CONAVI shall at all times manage its affairs,
plan the future expansion of its operations and maintain its
financial position, all in accordance with appropriate business,
financial and urban development principles and practices and under
the supervision of experienced and competent management.
Section 3.03. CONAVI shall take out and maintain with respon-
sible insurers, or make other provisions satisfactory to the Bank
for, insurance against such risks and in such amounts as shall be
consistent with appropriate practice.
Section 3.04. CONAVI shall, not later than December 1, 1977
or such later date as the Bank shall agree, furnish to the Bank
for its review a detailed investment plan for the three ensuing
years.
ARTICLE IV
Financial and Other Covenants
Section 4.01. CONAVI shall maintain records adequate to
reflect in accordance with consistently maintained appropriate
accounting practices, its operations and financial condition.


﻿-6-
Section 4.02. CONAVI shall: (i) have its accounts and finan-
cial statements (balance sheets, statements of income and expenses
and related statements) for each fiscal year audited, in accor-
dance with appropriate auditing principles consistently applied,
by independent auditors acceptable to the Bank; (ii) furnish to
the Bank as soon as available, but in any case not later than six
months after the end of each such year, (A) certified copies of
its financial statements for such year as so audited and (B) the
report of such audit by said auditors, of such scope and in such
detail as the Bank shall have reasonably requested; and (iii)
furnish to the Bank such other information concerning the accounts
and financial statements of CONAVI and the audit thereof as the
Bank shall from time to time reasonably request.
Section 4.03. CONAVI shall, not later than March 31, 1978
or such later date as the Bank shall agree, make contractual
arrangements with SAMAPA satisfactory to the Bank for the provi-
sion of adequate amounts of water to the areas included in Part A
of the Project.
ARTICLE V
Effective Date; Termination;
Cancellation and Suspension
Section 5.01. This Agreement shall come into force and effect
on the date upon which the Loan Agreement becomes effective.
Section 5.02. This Agreement and all obligations of the Bank
and of CONAVI thereunder shall terminate on the date on which the
Loan Agreement shall terminate in accordance with its terms.
Section 5.03. All the provisions of this Agreement shall
continue in full force and effect notwithstanding any cancellation
or suspension under the Loan Agreement.
ARTICLE VI
Miscellaneous Provisions
Section 6.01. Any notice or request required or permitted
to be given or made under this Agreement and any agreement between
the parties contemplated by this Agreement shall be in writing.
Such notice or request shall be deemed to have been duly given


﻿- 7 -
or made when it shall be delivered by hand or by mail, telegram,
cable, telex or radiogram to the party to which it is required or
p.rmitted to be given or made at such party's address hereinafter
specified or at such other address as such party shall have
designated by notice to the party giving such notice or making
such request. The addresses so specified are:
For the Bank:
International Bank for
Reconstruction and Development
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America
Cable address:                      Telex:
INTBAFRAD                           440098 (ITT)
Washington, D.C.                    248423 (RCA) or
64145  (WUI)
For CONAVI:
Consejo Nacional de Vivienda (CONAVI)
Casilla 1141
La Paz, Bolivia
Cable address:
CONAVI
La Paz
Section 6.02. Any action required or permitted to be taken,
and any documents required or permitted to be executed, under
this Agreement on behalf of CONAVI may be taken or executed by its
Director Ejecutivo or such other person or persons as he shall
designate in writing.
Section 6.03. CONAVI shall furnish to the Bank sufficient
evidence of the authority and the authenticated specimen signature
of the person or persons who will, on behalf of CONAVI, take any
action or execute any documents required or permitted to be taken
or executed by CONAVI pursuant to any of the provisions of this
Agreement.


﻿-8-
Section 6.04. This Agreement may be executed in several
counterparts, each of which shall be an original, and all collec-
tively but one instrument.
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their
representatives thereunto duly authorized, have caused this
Agreement to be signed in their respective names in the District
of Columbia, United States of America, as of the day and year
first above written.
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR
RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
By Is/ Suitbertus M. L. van der Meer
Acting Regional Vice President
Latin America and the Caribbean
CONSEJO NACIONAL DE VIVIENDA
By /s/ Juan Careaga Osorio
Authorized Representative


﻿-9-
SCHEDULE 1
Description of Parts A and
E.1 of the Project
I.   Sites and Services (Part A of the Project)
1.   Development of about 5,525 urbanized plots in the El
Alto area of La Paz on sites already owned by CONAVI
and on approximately 20 hectares of additional adjacent
land to be acquired by CONAVI.
2.   Provision of a core dwelling selected from among 3
different types to about 85% of said plots.
3.   Provision of basic essential services (water, electri-
city, sewerage, access roads).
4.   Construction of about 5.5 km of water trunk line expan-
sions connecting the sites included in Part A of the
Project with the main water supply retwork of La Paz.
5.   Construction of about seven new elementary schools and
of an appropriate refuse disposal facility, and building
of two community centers by mutual-aid.
6.   Provision of credits for construction materials and
contracted labor to purchasers wishing to develop,
expand, or improve their initial dwellings by self-help.
7.   Development of about 142 additional plots, adjacent to
those set forth in No. 1 hereof, for artisans and
small-scale enterprises, primarily labor-intensive and
simple technology enterprises.
II. Technical Assistance (Part E.1 of the Project)
Provision of about 24 man-months of technical assistance by
foreign and local experts and acquisition of necessary equipment
to support CONAVI to: (i) convert some of its administrative and
accounting procedures to a mechanized and computerized system; and
(ii) complete the development and formalization of a package of
new design and construction standards for low-cost housing pro-
grams in coordination with HAM.


﻿- 10 -
SCHEDULE 2
Selection Criteria for Prospective Purchasers
of Residential Plots developed
under Part A of the Project
1.    Prospective purchasers will be selected according to their
economic capacity, family size, skills and capabilities, present
housing conditions, and subject to the requirement of having been
residents of La Paz for at least two years immediately preceding
their application for a plot.
2.    In particular, the prospective purchaser will have to meet
the following criteria:
(a) have a family consisting of at least three members;
(b) not own any real estate in any city in Bolivia;
(c) have the income and paying capacity corresponding to
the particular core dwelling option selected;
(d) not have income above the level set by CONAVI for
the particular core dwelling option selected;
(e) undertake to expand by self-help the dwelling purchased;
and
(f) make a commitment to contribute his labor to the mutual-
aid elements included in the Project.
3.   Plots will be allocated to the purchasers selected through a
system of drawing lots.
4.     A maximum of 40% of the plots will be sold to purchasers
who are members of CONAVI, a maximum of 35% of plots will be sold
to purchasers who are members of other housing councils, and a
minimum of 25% of the plots will be sold to purchasers who are not
members of any housing council.


﻿- 11 -
SCHEDULE 3
Terms and Conditions of the Purchase
of Plots and of Credits for
Construction Materials and Contracted Labor
1.  ~Purchase of Plots
(a)   Residential Plots:
(i) Amount:
Sum of prorated capital costs of land and on-site
infrastructure, costs of residential dwelling, and
costs of design, supervision and administration of
such infrastructure and dwelling.
(ii) Interest:
10% per annum
(iii) Repayment period:
Ranging from 15 to 20 years, provided that the
final maturity will not exceed the final maturity
of the Loan.
(iv) Security:
Such security as CONAVI shall reasonably request.
(v) Down payment:
Purchasers will be required to make a minimum down
payment of 10% of the amount referred to in (i)
hereof either in cash or through mutual help labor
credits. For the purpose of this Schedule, the
term "mutual help labor credits" means credits
given by CONAVI to purchasers for work performed on
site infrastructure or superstructure prior to the
purchase of the plots.


﻿- 12 -
(b)   Commercial Plots:
(i) Amount:
Sum of prorated capital costs of land and on-site
infrastructure, costs of commercial unit, and
costs of design, supervision and administration of
such infrastructure and unit, plus a surcharge to
defray part of the costs of infrastructure for the
residential plots.
(ii) Interest:
10% per annum
(iii) Repayment period:
A maximum of 7 years.
(iv) Security:
Such security as CONAVI shall reasonably request.
2.   Credits for Construction Materials and Contracted Labor
(i) Amount:
A maximum of the equivalent of $500.
(ii) Disbursement:
Credit recipients will receive only the construc-
tion materials; payments for contracted labor will
be made directly to the contractor by CONAVI.
(iii) Interest:
10% per annum
(iv) Repayment period:
From 1 to 5 years.
(v) Security:
Such security as CONAVI shall reasonably request.


