Report No. PIC4974
Project Name                        Brazil-Land Reform and Poverty (@+) ...
Alleviation Pilot Project
Region                              Latin America and Caribbean
Sector                              Agriculture/Poverty Reduction
Project ID                          BRPA6475
Borrower                            Federal Republic of Brazil
Implementing Agencies               Ministerio Extraordinario de Politica
Fundiaria
Palacio de Desenvolvimento
70.057-900 Brasilia DF
Tel: (061) 223-8852
Fax: (061) 226-8727
States of Bahia, Ceara, Maranhao,
Minas Gerais, and Pernambuco
Date PID Prepared                   November 1996
Appraisal Date                      January 1997
Board Date                          April 1997
1.      Country and Sector Background. Poverty in Brazil has a strong
rural and regional dimension. About 50 percent of the Brazilian
poor live in rural areas, and the incidence of poverty among the
rural population is more than double that in large cities and urban
areas. The Northeast has long constituted the single largest area
of rural poverty in Latin America. This Region, covering nine
states and part of a tenth, accounts for 19t of Brazil's total land
area and almost 30t of its 148 million population (1993). More than
half of all Brazilian poor, and almost two-thirds of the country's
rural poor, live in the Northeast where, according to the World
Bank's "Brazil: Poverty Assessment," annual per capita incomes of
rural inhabitants reach only US$ 230 (less than one-tenth of the
national average).
2.      Among the underlying causes of rural poverty in the Northeast
is the relatively poor resource base of large parts of the region
and variable agro-climatic conditions which makes the region
vulnerable to drought. Skewed land distribution and the virtual
absence of a functioning rural financial system for the poor are
additional constraints. Northeast agriculture is characterized by
limited input use and slow rates of technology adoption.
Productivity is low, with output per farm worker less than half
that of other regions. Overall Northeast agricultural GDP growth
was negligible during 1991-1994.
3.      The Government's poverty alleviation strategy for the
Northeast is linked to an overall strategy for overcoming the
constraints on investment and productivity in the sector and
increasing the production of tropical crops and staple foods in the
region. The Bank-financed Northeast Rural Development Program



(NRDP/PAPP) is a cornerstone of this poverty alleviation strategy.
In 1993, the program was transformed into a community-based
development program, drawing both on the successful experience of
the small community projects component under the original NRDP and
on lessons learned with similar schemes elsewhere in Latin America.
Performance has since improved markedly. Rural communities are
participating in the identification, financing and implementation
of subprojects that meet their most pressing needs. This
participation increases communities' sense of project ownership and
sharpens the subprojects' focus on poverty alleviation.
4.      Brazil has one of the most unequal distributions of land
ownership in the world. Limited access to land and extreme
inequality in land ownership are widely known to be central factors
contributing to rural poverty in Brazil. Moreover, studies
undertaken in Brazil have shown that family farms are more
productive and more labor intensive than large farms thus
demonstrating that the skewed land distribution limits agricultural
productivity and employment. This finding is consistent with
studies in other rural labor surplus economies that show
significant efficiency gains in small family farms compared to
large estates. The high land ownership concentration--in spite of
the apparent inefficiency of many large farms--has been the result
of several economic distortions. Distortions have included
subsidized agricultural credit, high inflation and tax provisions
that made land attractive as financial investment. Distortions have
driven land prices well above the present value of agricultural
returns, thus, making land inaccessible to small farmers. Small
farmers' access to credit is often limited by the absence of
undisputed titles, creating a further bias in favor of large farms.
Rental arrangements contribute little to more efficient farm sizes
since tenancy regulations have made tenancy and sharecropping
relatively unattractive to owners.
5.      Past approaches for addressing problems of land distribution
in Brazil have focused on Government-administered land reform
through expropriation and redistribution. These approaches had
limited success. The Government realizes that, at the current
national average cost of administrative land reform of about US$
30,000 per family and at the current rate of 40,000 settled
families annually, it will not be able to attend to the estimated
target population of 2.5 million families within a reasonable
amount of time. Therefore, the Government is eager to experiment
with faster, less costly, and less conflictive approaches to land
reform.
6.      Today, there are a series of new conditions, both in Brazil
and at the Bank, that create a unique opportunity for tackling this
issue with much greater prospects of success:
a)      Many of the economic distortions affecting the land market
have recently been eliminated. Agricultural credit subsidies have
been cut drastically, and inflation is at a historic low. These
changes have reduced the financial attractiveness of land holdings
for non-productive purposes and therefore increased the supply of
-2 -



land and reduced its price. Currently, large tracts of land are
available for sale at low prices by owners and banks who hold land
as collateral for defaulted farm debt.
b)      Increasingly violent land conflicts have built up pressure on
the Government to decisively address the problems related to skewed
land distribution and have convinced the Federal Government that it
needs to act quickly and constructively.
c)      The Government recognizes the limits of administrative land
reform through expropriation and redistribution and is eager to
experiment with alternative approaches to land reform.
d)      The success of the new generation NRDP/PAPP projects has
established a model for very effective decentralized implementation
of rural development projects in the Northeast that can serve as a
model and can be used as an already proven institutional framework
for a decentralized, market-assisted approach to land reform.
e)      Finally, a recent clarification of Bank policies allows the
inclusion of land purchases as counterpart-financed project costs.
7.      Project Objectives. The project would assist the Government
of Brazil and the participating States to alleviate rural poverty
and its consequences by providing rural poor with access to land
and funds for complementary investment subprojects, which are
planned and implemented by community associations. The project
would support the experimentation with a program of market-assisted
land reform in which beneficiaries are given access to financing
for the purchase of suitable lands. The purchases would be
negotiated between willing sellers and willing buyers.
8.      Project Description. The proposed project would support the
Government initiative to pilot a market-assisted approach for land
reform in Brazil. Five States have been selected for participation
in the pilot project based on the severity of the problem of
landless rural workers but also based on the conditions that will
allow rapid and successful implementation of the pilot project in
these States. These conditions include the immediate availability
of land in the market and the capacity of the State agencies to
implement the project demonstrated by good performance in the
implementation of the NRDP/PAPP projects.
9.      The project would have five components: a) a Land Purchase
Fund to finance land purchases for 15,000 poor farm families; b)
community subprojects (small matching grants to communities for
investment projects, technical assistance and start-up); c)
institutional strengthening (technical assistance and training at
the State level); d) project administration, supervision and
monitoring; and e) impact evaluation and dissemination by the
Federal Government.
10.     Project Financing. The total cost of the project, to be
implemented over three years, is estimated at US$150 million. The
proposed loan would provide US$90 million, the Federal Government
- 3-



US$45 million, State Governments US$6 million and beneficiary
communities US$9 million (minimum 10. of the total costs of
community subprojects, provided either in cash, kind or labor).
11.     Project Implementation. Community associations (consisting of
rural workers who do not own land or own land insufficient for
subsistence) themselves would select suitable lands and negotiate
the purchase of those lands with willing sellers. The associations
would present the owners' declaration of willingness to sell at a
specified price to the State Land Institute and request
confirmation that: (a) the title to the land is clean, and no
invasion or other condition threatens the effectiveness of the land
purchase; and (b) the negotiated purchase price is consistent with
market conditions. Communities would present their project to the
State Technical Unit (STU) of the respective State's Northeast
Rural Development Project (NRDP/PAPP), which would verify the
eligibility of the beneficiaries. With the clearance by the State
Technical Unit, communities are eligible for credit from the land
fund which is created from Federal Government budget resources and
administered by the Banco do Nordeste do Brasil (BNB). Communities
internally would decide on land allocation to their individual
members and the corresponding payment obligations.
12.     Communities that participate in the land fund component would
be eligible to present to the State Technical Unit proposals for
the financing of complementary community subprojects and technical
assistance to establish the settlement and improve the productivity
of the acquired land (physical and social infrastructure, as well
as productive community investments). Community labor and land
would constitute the counterpart contribution by the community.
13.     The State Technical Units are responsible for project
administration, monitoring and reporting. The Federal Government is
responsible for project impact evaluation and dissemination of the
experiences gathered. Minor differences in the implementation
arrangements between states will allow more comprehensive lessons
from the experience of this pilot project. For example, in Ceara,
existing municipal councils, instead of the State Technical Unit,
will approve community subprojects.
14.     Project Sustainability. Experience with the reformulated
NRDP/PAPP projects indicates that project sustainability is
generally good. The community-based subprojects would finance
relatively small investments which are easily maintained by the
communities themselves, both technically and financially. Equally
important is the fact that client-driven subprojects, identified
and implemented by the communities, have demonstrated a high degree
of ownership by beneficiary groups and their consequent willingness
to maintain them.
15.     Financial analysis confirms the financial sustainability of
the farm operations established under the project. In fact, income
increases are sufficient for significant savings and investments
that would allow additional medium- and long-term income increases.
Additional factors favoring the sustainability of project benefits
- 4 -



include: a) incentives for self selection of suitable beneficiaries
because of the requirement to repay the land loan; b) a high degree
of community participation in identification, preparation,
contracting, implementing and supervising subprojects; c) counterpart
funding by beneficiaries is likely to ensure high level of sustainability
of subproject benefits.
16.     Lessons from Bank Experience. The concept of market-assisted
land reform underlying the proposed project builds upon the
extensive lessons of often negative experience with land reform in
many other countries:
a)      Avoid excessive subsidies, tax breaks and blanket debt relief
for farmers since these benefits are captured by those who own most
land; they subsidize inefficient farms which otherwise would (and
should) fail; they increase the price of land beyond the reach of
the poor; and they create an unsustainable fiscal drain. On the
other hand, the removal of agricultural subsidies increases the
supply of land.
b)      Avoid expropriation and land acquisition by Governments since
they create legal disputes and delays, and high administrative
costs. Compared to beneficiaries, Governments have a poor record in
identifying the most suitable lands. Instead, base land reform on
voluntary deals between willing buyers and sellers supported by
partial subsidies to poor buyers.
c)      Avoid administrative selection of beneficiaries since
bureaucrats are ill equipped to identify farmers with the most
suitable skills. Instead, local communities should participate in
the selection of beneficiaries.
d)      Complementary investments in infrastructure are essential for
the success of land reform programs.
17.     In Brazil, the specific lessons from the Northeast Region
Land Tenure Improvement Project and land titling components of the
Northeast Rural Development Projects favor the proposed approach
and include the following:
a)      Land redistribution, by itself, is not a solution to rural
poverty. Without complementary services and investments to induce
technological change, production and income levels will remain
relatively low.
b)      It is essential to correctly assess the Government's
political will to implement ambitious programs to extend the
benefits of secure land ownership to a large number of small
farmers, improve land policies and administration, and challenge
vested interests.
c)      In the Brazilian administrative and political setup,
efficient implementation of regional projects is compromised
because of the built-in split between financial responsibility and
control at the Federal level and managerial control at the State
- 5 -



level and because of complicated and ineffective channels of funds
between the federal agencies and the States.
18.     In terms of the delivery mechanism for the project, the
lessons learned from the twenty years of project experience with
rural development in the Northeast provide valuable insights and
include the following:
a)      Decentralization of fiscal and investment decision-making
from Federal to state and local governments ensures more efficient
project administration. Decentralization of resource allocation and
investment decisions to communities should be accompanied by a
clearly defined and well-disseminated system of incentives and
penalties to discourage the misuse of funds.
b)      Poverty targeting mechanisms should be simple, explicit and
monitorable; be based on objective criteria; foster transparency
and minimize political interference in project resource allocation;
and ensure that project resources do reach the poorest communities.
c)      Participation in the financing of subprojects generates a
sense of ownership and a willingness to share responsibility for
the future operation and maintenance of project investments.
Therefore, project investments are more sustainable when the
communities contribute to subproject financing in a cost-sharing
arrangement and when there is increased beneficiary participation.
d)      A widely disseminated and carefully designed publicity
campaign is essential to ensure transparency and proper knowledge
of the program's objectives and contents by all potential
beneficiaries.
e)      Technical assistance should be accessible to rural
communities to enable them to identify, prepare and implement their
own subprojects, thereby augmenting their capacity to compete for
investment funds.
f)      Standardization of subproject documents, technical designs
and unit costs simplifies the subproject preparation and evaluation
process, facilitates the procurement of goods and works, prevents
overdesign and improves the quality of subprojects, thereby
encouraging greater participation by poorer communities and
reducing bottlenecks in the subproject cycle.
19.     Poverty and Program Objective Category. The proposed project
is part of the Bank's Program of Targeted Interventions. The
Northeast Region has the greatest incidence of poverty in Brazil.
The project also employs a targeting mechanism which takes into
account poverty-related criteria and other key parameters to ensure
that project resources reach those communities which contain a
higher concentration of rural poor than the rest of the State.
20.     Environmental Aspects. Environmental Assessment Category "B"
is proposed for this project. Because of their relatively small
size, most community subprojects would not have a significant
- 6 -



effect on the environment.
Contact Point:           Public Information Center
The World Bank
1818 H Street N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
Telephone No.:   (202) 458-5454
Fax No.:   (202) 522-1500
Note: This is information on an evolving project. Certain
components may not necessarily be included in the final project.
Processed by the Public Information Center week ending April 18, 1997.
- 7 -



Annex
Summary of Environmental Analysis
Brazil: Land Reform and Poverty Alleviation Pilot Project
1.      Because of their relatively small size, most community
subprojects would not have a significant effect on the environment.
The project would, however, ensure proper environmental screening
and enforcement measures, to prevent certain types of productive or
infrastructure subprojects from producing negative effects on the
environment. The Operational Manual would specify key environmental
criteria and screening and enforcement procedures to be followed.
2.      Based on specific criteria for different subproject types,
each subproject proposal presented by the community associations
would include a simple environmental assessment in the form of a
"checklist", following a standard format. For standard subproject
types, environmental screening at the subproject approval stage
would be the responsibility of the State Technical Unit. Technical
assistance would be contracted for exceptional subproject types,
for which technical standards have not been developed.
The project will explicitly exclude the purchases of protected
lands or areas with primary forest or with land claims by
indigenous people.
3.      In contrast to conventional land reform projects, which
because of lower land costs are often located at or near the
agricultural frontier, land purchases under the proposed will
likely occur well within traditional agricultural areas where
services are available and markets are near. Therefore, the project
is consistent with an overall approach to reduce the pressure on
protected areas and primary forests by intensifying land use within
the agricultural frontier.
-8-



