Page  1
CONFORMED COPY
LOAN NUMBER 4147 BR
Project Agreement
(Land Reform and Poverty Alleviation Pilot Project )
between
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION
AND DEVELOPMENT
and
STATE OF BAHIA
Dated July 29, 1997
LOAN NUMBER 4147-BR
PROJECT AGREEMENT
AGREEMENT, dated July 29, 1997, between INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION 
AND DEVELOPMENT (the Bank) and the STATE OF BAHIA (BAHIA);
WHEREAS (A) by the Loan Agreement of even date herewith between Federative 
Republic of Brazil (the Borrower) and the Bank, the Bank has agreed to make available 
to the Borrower an amount in various currencies equivalent to ninety million dollars 
($90,000,000), on the terms and conditions set forth in the Loan Agreement, but only 
on condition that BAHIA agree to undertake such obligations toward the Bank as are set 
forth in this Agreement;
(B)
by a Participation Arrangements to be entered into between the Borrower 
and BAHIA, a portion of the proceeds of the loan provided for under the Loan Agreement 
will be transferred to BAHIA on the terms and conditions set forth in said 
Participation Arrangements; and
WHEREAS BAHIA, in consideration of the Bank's entering into the Loan Agreement 
with the Borrower, has agreed to undertake the obligations set forth in this 
Agreement;
NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:
ARTICLE I
Definitions
Section 1.01. Unless the context otherwise requires, the several terms defined 
Page  2
in the preamble to this Agreement, the Loan Agreement and the General Conditions (as 
so defined) have the respective meanings therein set forth.
ARTICLE II
Execution of the Project
Section 2.01. BAHIA declares its commitment to the objectives of the Project as 
set forth in Schedule 2 to the Loan Agreement, and, to this end, shall, through STU: 
(a) participate with the Borrower in the carrying out of BAHIA’s corresponding 
activities under Parts A and B of the Project, with the participation of the 
Beneficiaries; and (b) carry out its corresponding activities under Parts C and D of 
the Project, all with due diligence and efficiency and in conformity with: (i) the 
Participation Arrangements; (ii) the Operational Manual; (iii) the relevant State 
Annual Operating Plan referred to in Section 2.05 of this Agreement; and (iv) 
appropriate administrative, financial, engineering, environmental and land management 
practices, and substantially in accordance with the targets set forth in the Project 
Monitoring Letter; and shall provide, or cause to be provided, promptly as needed, the 
funds, facilities, services and other resources required for the carrying out of its 
corresponding activities under 
Parts C and D of the Project.
Section 2.02. Except as the Bank shall otherwise agree, procurement of the 
goods, works and consultants' services required for the Project and to be financed out 
of the proceeds of the Loan shall be governed by the provisions of Schedule 4 to the 
Loan Agreement.
Section 2.03. BAHIA shall carry out the obligations set forth in Sections 9.04, 
9.05, 9.06, 9.07 (a) and (b), 9.08 and 9.09 of the General Conditions (relating to 
insurance, use of goods and services, plans and schedules, records and reports, 
maintenance and land acquisition, respectively) in respect of its corresponding 
activities under Parts C and D of the Project.
Section 2.04. (a) BAHIA shall maintain during Project implementation, with 
adequate facilities and equipment, a technical coordination unit housed within BAHIA’s 
Secretariat of Planning (the STU) with staff in adequate numbers and with adequate 
qualifications, and with responsibilities, structure and functions satisfactory to the 
Bank, including:
(i)
the responsibility for the overall coordination of BAHIA’s 
participation in the 
implementation of the Project, 
including, inter alia, the provision of support to, 
and the coordination 
of, the participation of other entities involved in BAHIA’s 
activities under Parts A, B, C, and D of the Project;
(ii)
with respect to each proposal for a Community Subproject, and 
without limitation to 
Section 9.09 of the General Conditions, 
evaluating the land tenure status of the 
land required for 
the Community Subproject in order to confirm that such land and 
rights in respect of land are physically and legally available for the purposes of 
such proposed Community Subproject and that the negotiated land purchase 
price is 
consistent with the existing local land market 
conditions; and
(iii)
upon such confirmation, and the fulfillment of any other 
requirement set forth in 
the Operational Manual for the making of 
a Land Loan, informing LLFA of its 
concurrence with the 
provision of a Land Loan.
Section 2.05. BAHIA shall, in the month of October of each year during Project 
implementation, furnish to the Bank an annual plan satisfactory to the Bank (a State 
Annual Operating Plan), describing, inter alia, the Project activities (and their 
relation to the objectives of the Project) to be carried out during the next calendar 
year, including the costs thereof.
Section 2.06. Without limitation upon the provisions of Section 9.01 (a) and 
9.07 of the General Conditions, BAHIA shall:
Page  3
(a)
in the months of January and July of each year during Project 
implementation furnish to the Borrower and the Bank reports on the progress in the 
implementation of BAHIA’s activities under Parts A, B, C and D of the Project during 
the previous six months which shall be based on the targets and indicators set forth 
in the Project Monitoring Letter, such reports to be of such scope and in such detail 
as the Bank shall reasonably request; in a month fourteen months after the Effective 
Date, furnish to the Borrower and the Bank a report on the overall progress in the 
implementation of BAHIA’s activities under Parts A, B, C and D of the Project which 
shall be based on the targets and indicators set forth in the Project Monitoring 
Letter, such report to be of such scope and in such detail as the Bank shall 
reasonably request;
(b)
in the months of February and August of each year during Project 
implementation hold reviews jointly with the Borrower and the Bank, such reviews to be 
based on the reports referred to in paragraph (a) above and, thereafter, take or cause 
to be taken all such action which shall have been agreed upon by BAHIA, the Borrower 
and the Bank during the reviews referred to in this paragraph, as necessary for the 
efficient execution of its corresponding activities under the Project or the 
achievement of its objectives, such action to be taken in the manner and within the 
timetable agreed upon during such reviews; and in a month fifteen months after the 
Effective Date, hold a mid-term review jointly with the Borrower and the Bank, such 
review to be based on the report referred to in paragraph (b) above and, thereafter, 
take or cause to be taken all such action which shall have been agreed upon by BAHIA, 
the Borrower and the Bank during the review referred to in this paragraph, as 
necessary for the efficient execution of its corresponding activities under the 
Project or the achievement of its objectives, such action to be taken in the manner 
and within the timetable agreed upon during such review.
Section 2.07.  BAHIA shall assist the Borrower in the preparation of the plan 
referred to in Section 3.07 of the Loan Agreement and the report referred to in 
Section 9.07 (c) of the General Conditions, as provided in the Operational Manual.
Section 2.08.  BAHIA shall exercise its rights and comply with its obligations  
under the Participation Arrangements and under each Grant Agreement in such a manner 
as to protect the interests of the Borrower and the Bank, and, except as the Bank 
shall otherwise agree, BAHIA shall not amend, suspend, abrogate, waive or fail to 
enforce the Participation Arrangements or each Grant Agreement, or any provision 
thereof.
Section 2.09.  BAHIA shall promptly inform the Bank and the Borrower of any 
condition which interferes or threatens to interfere with the progress of the carrying 
out of its part of the Project, the accomplishment of the purposes of the Loan, or the 
performance by BAHIA of its obligations under this Agreement, the Participation 
Arrangements and under each Grant Agreement.
ARTICLE III
Financial Covenants
Section 3.01 (a) BAHIA shall maintain records and accounts adequate to reflect 
in accordance with sound accounting practices the operations, resources and 
expenditures, in respect of its activities under Parts C and D of the Project, of the 
departments or agencies of BAHIA responsible for the carrying out of such activities.
(b)
BAHIA shall:
(i)
have the records and accounts referred to in paragraph (a) above 
for each fiscal 
year audited, in accordance with appropriate 
auditing principles consistently 
applied, by independent auditors 
acceptable to the Bank;
(ii)
furnish to the Bank as soon as available, but in any case not 
later than six months 
after the end of each such year, the report of 
such audit by said auditors of such 
scope and in such detail as the 
Bank shall have reasonably requested; and 
Page  4
(iii)
furnish to the Bank such other information concerning said records 
and accounts, 
and the audit thereof, as the Bank shall from 
time to time reasonably request.
ARTICLE IV
Effective Date; Termination;
Cancellation and Suspension
Section 4.01. This Agreement shall come into force and effect on the date upon 
which the Loan Agreement becomes effective.
Section 4.02. This Agreement and all obligations of the Bank and of BAHIA 
thereunder shall terminate on the date on which the Loan Agreement shall terminate in 
accordance with its terms, and the Bank shall promptly notify BAHIA thereof.
Section 4.03. All the provisions of this Agreement shall continue in full force 
and effect notwithstanding any cancellation or suspension under the General 
Conditions.
ARTICLE V
Miscellaneous Provisions
Section 5.01. Any notice or request required or permitted to be given or made 
under this Agreement and any agreement between the parties contemplated by this 
Agreement shall be in writing. Such notice or request shall be deemed to have been 
duly given or made when it shall be delivered by hand or by mail, telegram, cable, 
telex or radiogram to the party to which it is required or permitted to be given or 
made at such party's address hereinafter specified or at such other address as such 
party shall have designated by notice to the party giving such notice or making such 
request. The addresses so specified are:
For the Bank:
International Bank for
  Reconstruction and Development
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America
Cable address:
Telex:
INTBAFRAD
248423 (MCI) or
Washington, D.C.
 64145 (MCI)
For the State of Bahia:
Secretaria de Estado de Planejamento, Ciencia e Tecnologia - 
SEPLANTEC
Av. Luiz Viana Filho, 250 - Conjunto SEPLANTEC 
Centro Administrativo de Bahia - CAB
Paralela - CEP 41.745-000
Salvador, Bahia
Brazil
Telex:
371-3206
With copies to:
Ministério do Planejamento e Orçamento
Secretaria de Assuntos Internacionais
Esplanada dos Ministérios, Bloco “K” - 5º andar
Page  5
70040-906, Brasília, D.F.
Brazil
Ministro de Estado Extraordinário de Política Fundiária
SBN - Palácio do Desenvolvimento 18º andar
70057-900, Brasília - D.F.
Brazil
Section 5.02. Any action required or permitted to be taken, and any document 
required or permitted to be executed, under this Agreement on behalf of BAHIA may be 
taken or executed by the Governor of the State of Bahia or such other person or 
persons as such Governor shall designate in writing, and BAHIA shall furnish to the 
Bank sufficient evidence of the authority and the authenticated specimen signature of 
each such person.
Section 5.03. This Agreement may be executed in several counterparts, each of 
which shall be an original, and all collectively but one instrument.
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their duly authorized 
representatives, have caused this Agreement to be signed in their respective names in 
the District of Columbia, United States of America, as of the day and year first above 
written.
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR
  RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
By /s/ Shahid Javed Burki
Regional Vice President
Latin America and the Caribbean
STATE OF BAHIA
By /s/ Luiz Antônio Vasconcellos Carreira
Authorized Representative
