                                    Document of
                                  The World Bank




                                                               Report No: 25973

                        IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
                                     (CPL-41470)

                                        ON A

                                       LOAN

                          IN THE AMOUNT OF US$90.0 MILLION

                                       TO THE

                            FEDERATIVE REPUBLIC OF BRAZIL

                                       FOR A

               LAND REFORM AND POVERTY ALLEVIATION PILOT PROJECT




                                   December 4, 2003




ESSD
Brazil Country Management Unit
Latin America and Caribbean Region

                            CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS

                     (Exchange Rate Effective December 31, 2002)

                               Currency Unit = Real
                                    R$1.00 = US$ 0.28
                                   US$ 1.00 = R$3.53

                                    FISCAL YEAR
                               January 1 to December 31

                        ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS
BB       Bank of Brazil
BNB      Bank of the Northeast of Brazil
CAS      Country Assistance Strategy
CF       Crédito Fundiário
CT       Cédula da Terra
CONTAG   National Confederation of Agricultural Workers
FETAG    State Federations of Agricultural Workers
IDH      United Nations Human Development Index
IICA     Inter-American Institute for Cooperation in Agriculture
INCRA    National Institute of Colonization and Agrarian Reform
LCRD     Local Council for Rural Development
MDA      Ministry of Agrarian Development
MEPF     Ministry of Agrarian Reform (replaced by MDA)
MIS      Management Information System
NEAD    Center for Agrarian Studies
NRDP    Northeast Rural Development Program
NTU      National Technical Unit
PPA      Government Development Plan 2000-2003 (multi-year)
PROCERA Credit Program for Land Reform Beneficiaries
PRONAF-A National Program to Strengthen Family Agriculture
RPAP     Rural Poverty Alleviation Program
SAT      Land Purchase Subproject
SIC      Community Investment Subproject
STU      State Technical Unit
TJLP     Long Term Interest Rate


                             Vice President:   David de Ferranti
                           Country Director    Vinod Thomas
                            Sector Manager     John Redwood
          Task Team Leader/Task Manager:       Luis O. Coirolo

                                           BRAZIL
                     Land Reform and Poverty Alleviation Pilot Project


                                         CONTENTS




                                                                              Page No.
1. Project Data                                                                    1
2. Principal Performance Ratings                                                   1
3. Assessment of Development Objective and Design, and of Quality at Entry         2
4. Achievement of Objective and Outputs                                            5
5. Major Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcome                            24
6. Sustainability                                                                27
7. Bank and Borrower Performance                                                 28
8. Lessons Learned                                                               31
9. Partner Comments                                                              33
10. Additional Information                                                       34
Annex 1. Key Performance Indicators/Log Frame Matrix                             35
Annex 2. Project Costs and Financing                                             37
Annex 3. Economic Costs and Benefits                                             39
Annex 4. Bank Inputs                                                             43
Annex 5. Ratings for Achievement of Objectives/Outputs of Components             45
Annex 6. Ratings of Bank and Borrower Performance                                46
Annex 7. List of Supporting Documents                                            47

Project ID: P006475                                                  Project Name: Land Reform and Poverty Alleviation
                                                                     Pilot Project
Team Leader: Luis O. Coirolo                                         TL Unit: LCSER
ICR Type: Core ICR                                                   Report Date: December 8, 2003


1. Project Data
                   Name: Land Reform and Poverty Alleviation Pilot                L/C/TF Number: CPL-41470
                            Project
   Country/Department: BRAZIL                                                             Region: Latin America and the
                                                                                                     Caribbean Region

        Sector/subsector: General Agriculture, fishing and forestry (70%); Other social
                            services (25%); and General public administration (5%)
                  Theme: (i) Land management (0083 P); (ii) Civic engagement, participation
                            and community driven development (0057 P); (iii) Rural services
                            and infrastructure (0078 P); (iv) Other social development (0062 S)


  KEY DATES                                                                  Original               Revised/Actual
           PCD: 11/20/1996                                     Effective: 05/31/1997                07/31/1997
     Appraisal: 01/20/1997                                         MTR: 12/31/1998                  02/01/2000
      Approval: 04/22/1997                                      Closing: 06/30/2001                 12/31/2002



    Borrower/Implementing Agency:          FED. REP. OF BRAZIL/MINISTRY OF AGRARIAN DEVELOPMENT
                      Other Partners:      State Governments of Bahia, Ceara, Maranhao, Minas Gerais and Pernambuco

STAFF                           Current                                        At Appraisal
Vice President:                 David de Ferranti                              Shahid Javed Burki
Country Director:               Vinod Thomas                                   Gobind T. Nankani
Sector Manager/Director:        John Redwood                                   Constance Bernard
Team Leader at ICR:             Luis O. Coirolo                                Luis O. Coirolo
ICR Primary Author:             Anna Roumani with Joao
                                Barbosa de Lucena and Brazil
                                Northeast Team


2. Principal Performance Ratings

(HS=Highly Satisfactory, S=Satisfactory, U=Unsatisfactory, HL=Highly Likely, L=Likely, UN=Unlikely, HUN=Highly Unlikely,
HU=Highly Unsatisfactory, H=High, SU=Substantial, M=Modest, N=Negligible)

                           Outcome:        S
                      Sustainability:      L
   Institutional Development Impact:       SU
                 Bank Performance:         S
            Borrower Performance:          S


                                                      QAG (if available)             ICR
                                  Quality at Entry: HS                               S
                     Project at Risk at Any Time: No

3. Assessment of Development Objective and Design, and of Quality at Entry

3.1 Original Objective:

Project objectives were: (i) increase the incomes of about 15,000 poor rural families through
improved access to land and participation in complementary, demand-driven community
subprojects; (ii) raise the agricultural output of lands included in the project; and (iii) pilot-test a
market-based approach to land reform in which beneficiaries would obtain financing for the
purchase of suitable properties negotiated directly between rural communities and willing sellers
and which, if it proved successful, would enable the Government to accelerate the pace and lower
the cost of its programs to improve land access by the rural poor throughout the Northeast and
elsewhere in Brazil.


3.2 Revised Objective:

Project objectives were not revised.

3.3 Original Components:

The project (known in Brazil as Cedula da Terra ­ CT) financed five components: (i) Land
Purchase for 15,000 poor farm families organized into community associations (estimated
US$45.0 million, 30% of total). This component was financed 100% by the Federal Government
of Brazil; (ii) Community subprojects for those same beneficiary groups, through small matching
grants for investments, technical assistance and start-up (estimated US$84.3 million, 56.2% of
total); (iii) Community Development Support, Technical Assistance and Training (institution
building) through consulting services and training, and public dissemination of information about
the project (estimated US$3.9 million, 2.6% of total); (iv) State Project Administration,
Supervision and Monitoring by the five participating States of Bahia, Ceará, Maranhão,
Pernambuco and Minas Gerais (estimated US$10.1 million, 6.7% of total); and (v) Federal
Project Evaluation and Dissemination (estimated US$6.7 million, 4.5% of total). Estimated total
project cost was US$150.0 million with a Bank Loan of US$90.0 million (see Annex 2).

3.4 Revised Components:

Project components were not revised.

3.5 Quality at Entry:
Rated Highly Satisfactory

The Project was part of the Bank's Rural Development Compact and was rated by the Quality
Assurance Group (QAG) as one of two Best Practice operations in LAC in 1997, for quality at
entry. According to QAG, the project: (i) built on previous Economic and Sector Work, was
reflected in the CAS, was the result of strategic choices among options, and provided an opening
to pursue poverty reduction through an innovative approach; (ii) concentrated on geographical
areas where the rural poor live and on assets which the poor hold, effectively targeting
beneficiaries; (iii) was demand-driven, with beneficiaries organizing into associations, identifying
and negotiating the purchase of properties, assuming responsibility for purchase of land,


                                                   - 2 -

identifying and implementing complementary subprojects, and contracting technical assistance to
improve capacity to manage and develop their newly-acquired lands, in accordance with an
Operational Manual; (iv) financed the creation and improvement of productive assets, and cost
recovery and sustainability were features of the design; (v) included detailed economic analysis
demonstrating that the project would have a strong impact on the poor and that economic and
financial returns would remain robust under various scenarios; and (vi) employed systematic
monitoring and evaluation, combined with regular, well-conceived supervision and follow-up.

This was the first market-based land reform operation ever approved by the Bank after a Board
Seminar in July 1996 discussed the potential benefits of this new approach. The project tested a
land reform mechanism under which beneficiary associations of poor rural laborers and farmers,
either landless or with insufficient land for subsistence, obtain financing to purchase suitable
agricultural properties for which they negotiate directly with willing sellers. This mechanism was
the direct outgrowth of the Bank and Federal Government's ongoing search in the 1970s and
1980s, through research, institutional development (establishing and strengthening State Land
Institutes), settlement, land administration, survey preparation and land titling activities, for more
efficient and effective instruments to address excessive land concentration in the Northeast
region.* Research results demonstrated the linkage between excessive land concentration and
rural poverty, and recommendations urged rapid land re-distribution in this region.

* See R ural Development: Issues and Options in Northeast Brazil, Report 665a-BR; The Agricultural Economy of Northeast Brazil, Johns
Hopkins, 1981; Parnaiba Valley Development Project (State of Piauí), Loan 2015-BR; National Land Administration Program ­ Northeast Region
Land Tenure Project, Loan 2593-BR, 1985; Brazil Poverty Assessment, 1995 (Report No. 14323-BR); and Bank Land Policies Paper, World Bank
1996.


In the 1990s, the more general shift to demand-driven community-based development programs in
the Northeast of Brazil, also financed by the Bank, yielded important lessons suggesting new ways
to address land issues. Findings in the 1995 Brazil Poverty Assessment suggested that
stabilization, falling land prices and low inflation were creating an environment where promoting
efficient land markets could be an important anti-poverty instrument by improving access of the
poor to land. A 1996 Bank Land Policies Paper reviewed global experience in terms of the costs,
inefficiency and conflictive nature of administrative instruments (e.g., expropriation and
government re-distribution) to achieve land reform, and recommended experimenting with
market-based mechanisms.

In this context, the Brazil CAS Report 14569, June 29, 1995 and Progress Report, June 20, 1996
identified poverty reduction as the central objective of Bank assistance efforts, recommending
specific anti-poverty policies in a decentralized context. Subsequently, the June 1997 CAS for
Brazil and CAS Update of May 1998 cited community and market-based strategies for land
re-distribution and rural infrastructure as key elements of the Bank's rural poverty strategy.

Brazilian Government commitment to land reform increased significantly after 1995 with some
300,000 landless families targeted for settlement. The mechanisms employed to settle the actual
580,000 families on 19.6 million hectares (of which 128,000 families/3.5 million hectares were in
the Northeast region) were largely traditional, i.e., expropriation or direct purchase. The
community-based approach to land reform was piloted within the Ceará Rural Poverty Alleviation
Project (Loan 3918-BR); 700 families acquired 23,377 hectares at a cost of R$6,083/family and


                                                                    - 3 -

R$179/hectare for the land, plus R$5,574/family for complementary on-farm investments
executed through the community-driven methodology. Research results demonstrate that land
reform programs require the combined effects of land acquisition and on-farm investment for their
success and sustainability.

Communities responded enthusiastically to the Ceará pilot. Execution was both rapid and low
cost relative to traditional, state-administered methods of land reform. During the pilot's
12-month implementation, the number of families gaining access to land in Ceará virtually doubled
the number of beneficiaries reached in the previous two decades of land reform by this state.
Recognizing the model's promise as a viable complement to other methodologies for land reform,
the Federal Government sought Bank support for a broader pilot in five Northeast states.

Importantly, changing conditions at that time in Brazil and the Bank created a unique opportunity
to innovate. Declining agricultural credit subsidies and low inflation reduced the incentives to
hold land as a hedge, increased the supply of land available for sale (especially by absentee owners
and by banks holding land as collateral for defaulted farm debt), and lowered its price.
Government was under strong political and social pressure to rapidly and constructively address
the land distribution issue, and was looking for a viable, complementary methodology. The
Bank-supported Rural Poverty Alleviation Projects in the Northeast were demonstrating the
benefits of decentralized, participatory development and providing an institutional
model/framework for a market-based, community-driven land reform program. Bank policies
were modified to accept land purchases as counterpart, which permitted the Bank to proceed with
this project.

Project objectives were appropriate in view of: (i) limited access to land and extreme inequality in
land ownership being key elements of the rural poverty equation in Brazil and especially the
Northeast region; (ii) research indications that under conditions of rural labor surplus family farms
are more productive and labor-intensive than large farms with un-utilized or under-utilized lands,
and that skewed land distribution limits agricultural productivity and employment;* (iii) issues
affecting Government-administered land reform programs using expropriation and redistribution
due to delays, high costs, potential for abuse and political/social conflict; (iv) rules governing
expropriation which had the effect of excluding about 40.0 million hectares which could be
subject to acquisition by landless rural families under the project mechanism. The five states were
selected due to the severity of landlessness; good prospects for rapid and effective project
implementation; the immediate availability of land in the market; coverage of a range of natural
environments representative of the Northeast; and demonstrated implementation capacity of those
State Governments and their respective Technical Units, which were the same as those used under
the Northeast Rural Poverty Alleviation Projects.
*   This finding is consistent with studies in other rural labor surplus economies that show significant efficiency gains in small family farms compared
to large estates.

Basic Principles. Four basic principles govern the model: (i) Decentralization, drawing on the
institutional/governance framework established under the Bank-financed Rural Poverty
Alleviation Projects in the Northeast states, and jointly administered by State agencies and
involved financial institutions; (ii) Community-based approach, proven to be both cost-effective
and non-conflictive. Poor rural communities take the initiative (with technical assistance support



                                                                           - 4 -

from diverse sources), selecting land, negotiating its purchase and receiving a loan for the
purchase of land (Subprojeto de Aquisição da Terra ­ SAT) This method builds sustainability
through the self-selection of beneficiaries and lands; (iii) Access to investments, through
immediate financing for approved community ventures to enhance productivity (Subprojeto de
Investimento Comunitário - SIC). Based on community decisions on priority investments and
with proposals approved, funds flow directly to their associations, i.e., are deposited to the
association bank account. Families also receive a start-up grant of R$1,300 per family (about
US$440) for settlement expenses in the first year; and (iv) Piloting and evaluation, through
innovative measures to achieve objectives, intensive study of outcomes and impact, national and
international knowledge dissemination, and enhanced Bank supervision.


4. Achievement of Objective and Outputs

4.1 Outcome/achievement of objective:
Rated Satisfactory.
The CT project achieved its targets and objectives, and successfully tested a new, cost-effective
and non-conflictive methodology for land re-distribution to complement traditional Government
land reform programs, as verified by evaluations, special studies and intensive supervision in the
project period. The primary research tools substantiating project achievements and supporting
adjustments in project design were the following.
First, establishing the project evaluation platform, an initial (baseline) study in 1998/99 by the
Economic Institute of the State University of Campinas, State of São Paulo, Brazil (UNICAMP)
with the Ministry of Agrarian Development (MDA) and the Project Technical Unit (Center for
Agrarian Studies/NEAD) conducted field research using statistically planned samples/panels of
beneficiary populations of the CT. Over 50% of lands purchased at the time were surveyed,
applying questionnaires to a representative sample of 222 beneficiary households to evaluate the
socio-economic profile of beneficiaries, land purchases, the governance structure and
implementation strategy of the five states, with results presented in several documents.* Second,
a comprehensive preliminary evaluation in 2001 by UNICAMP, MDA and NEAD conducted an
expanded field survey (2000 questionnaires) including CT beneficiaries, INCRA (National
Institute for Colonization and Agrarian Reform) beneficiaries of traditiona agrarian reform and a
control group. Data from the National Household Survey for 3,413 households sharing
characteristics of the CT target population (i.e., head of household between 18 and 60 years,
agricultural laborer, with household income <R$240/month) and other official sources were also
compared with CT beneficiaries to evaluate, among other things, the effectiveness of the
self-selection targeting mechanism.** Third, an end of project impact evaluation in 2003 by the
UNICAMP team focused more tightly on project agricultural production, income and other key
issues, comparing a sample of 106 CT settlement projects and 306 beneficiaries surveyed in
August 2003 with the same sample projects/beneficiaries surveyed in 1998, just after initial
implementation.*** A series of smaller, specialized studies (including case studies in the States of
Bahia and Ceara) were completed, complemented by international and national seminars and
workshops (see 4.2).
* Avaliação Preliminar do Cédula da Terra. Relatório Técnico 1999a and 1999b, Buainain, Silveira, Souza Filho, Magalhaes.
**Estudo de Avaliação de Impactos do Programa Cédula da Terra, 2001. Relatorio Final, July 2002 Universidade Estadual de Campinas/Nucleo
de Economia Agrícola, Ministério de Desenvolvimento Agrario, Nucleo de Estudos Agrarios e Desenvolvimento.
***Estudo Final de Avaliação de Impactos do Programa Cédula da Terra. Relatório Preliminar September 2003, Buainain, Universidade
Estadual de Campinas.




                                                                    - 5 -

Objective 1: Increasing the incomes of about 15,000 poor rural families through improved
access to land and participation in complementary, demand-driven community
subprojects.

Evaluation shows this objective was achieved. The project allocates a package of financing
totaling R$11,200 for each beneficiary family, comprising a land purchase subproject (SAT) and a
community investment subproject (SIC), plus a separate R$1,300 settlement grant. Within the
combined SAT/SIC package, beneficiaries are encouraged to buy the best land for the lowest
possible price, keeping in mind that the lower the land price, the greater the non-refundable or
matching grant portion is for family settlement/on-farm investment.

Data was collected from a sample of 108 property acquisition projects (and as many community
associations) and 313 beneficiaries surveyed in August 2003, and compared to data collected from
the same sample in 1998 just after implementation started. An additional comparison was made
to the results of the 2001 study. Over the period from 1998 to 2003, beneficiaries' nominal
income rose by an average 180%, from R$2,057 (typical beneficiary family) to R$5,777,
equivalent to a monthly per capita income of R$122, significantly above the poverty line currently
in use by the Federal Government, of R$70.

Correcting these nominal income values for the increase in agricultural labor salary rates in the
period, a good proxy for inflation in rural areas since it indicates the opportunity cost of labor,
real income increased by 75% between 1998 and 2003 (see Tables 1 and 2). In terms of minimum
salaries, average family income in 1998 was equivalent to 0.7 minimum salaries, while in 2003 it
was equivalent to 2.5 monthly minimum salaries (the minimum salary applicable up to April 2003
was R$200). This reflects a substantial increase, especially considering that the PNAD (Pesquisa
Nacional por Amostras Domiciliares) surveys from 1999 to 2001 indicate that there was no
positive change in average total family income for the rural population with similar characteristics
to CT beneficiaries. Moreover, it should be noted that estimates of 1998 income already account
for payments received by beneficiaries from their own associations for work performed
implementing project infrastructure financed by SIC funds. Therefore, 1998 income estimates
over-state what beneficiaries' income would have been at the project entry point.




                                                 - 6 -

  Table 1: Evolution of Nominal Income by Source (1998-2003)
            Income                                                       Average (%)
                                        Jan-Dec 1998                Aug 1999-July 2000  Aug 2002-July 2003
  Annual gross income                   2,057.8 100%                2,672.3 100%        5,777.4   100%

  Off-farm labor                        930.8         45%           491.1     18%       394.3     7%
  Agric. production                     266.0         13%           1,238.8 46%         3,766.6   65%
  Land rental                           na            na            5.1       -         5.6       -
  Other sources                         860.9         42%           937.2     35%       1,610.8   28%
  Source: UNICAMP research data.


 Table 2: Evolution of Income in Daily Rates (1998-2003)
          Income                                                          Average (R$)
                                     Jan-Dec          Daily*           Aug 99-  Daily*    Aug 02-     Daily**
                                     98                                Jul 00             Jul 03
  Annual gross income                 2057.81          374.15          2,672.37   485.89   5,777.49    650.62

  Off-farm labor                       930.82          169.24           491.13    89.30    394.37       44.41
  Agric. production                    266.04           48.37          1,238.88   225.25   3,766.64    424.17
  Land rental                             na              na             5.12      0.93      5.65       0.64
  Other sources                        860.95          156.54           937.24    170.41   1,610.83    181.40

  Source: UNICAMP research data
  * Average daily rate estimated for the period Jan 1998-July 2000, R$5.50
  ** Average daily rate estimated for the period Jan 1998 ­ July 2003, R$8.88


Analysis of the composition of household income helps explain not only the current situation of
beneficiaries but also the dynamics of the settlement projects. The comparison of income
composition between 1998 and 2003 showed a significant shift towards agricultural production
and away from off-farm employment. In 1998, income from agricultural production on-farm was
only 13% of total household income, by 2000 it was about 45% and by 2003, on-farm production
contributed 65% of total beneficiary household income. Off-farm income decreased from 45% to
7% of total income in the period. This change resulted basically from the substantial increase in
agricultural production as indicated in Table 3 which shows that between 1998 and 2000 the
increase in production was of the order of 360%, while between 2000 and 2003 it was 204%.
This analysis indicates that beneficiaries are dedicating more time/family labor to agricultural
activities on-farm and less to off-farm work, evolving towards independence from off-farm jobs.
Similar poor farmers in these same regions are typically strongly dependent on off-farm income
for survival.




                                                                    - 7 -

Table 3: Growth by Income Source (1998-2003)
                                                          Evolution
             Income                        Jan-Dec 1998              Aug 1999 - July 2000
                                      Aug 1999 - July 2000           Aug 2002 - July 2003
Annual gross income:                           30%                          116%

Off-farm labor                                 -47%                         -20%
Agricultural production                       366%                          204%
land rental                                     na                          10%
Other sources                                   9%                          72%
Source: UNICAMP research data

Monetary income results are an important indication not only of levels of production but also of
the insertion of beneficiaries in the market. Monetary income from all sources was R$3,947.00,
68% of total income, or equivalent to about R$324.00 per month, which is equivalent to 1.6
minimum salaries (by April 2003). Of this total monetary income, R$3,158 is derived from
agricultural production on-farm, again conveying an image evolving away from that of the
traditional, small, poor farmer who is much more dependent on subsistence production. It is also
important that for a substantial number of beneficiary families, only the monetary income they
receive, that is, not considering consumption of own production, puts them above the poverty
line. In the rural Northeast, this is especially noteworthy.

In terms of employment, the 2003 evaluation found that settlement projects created employment
for an average 3.9 individuals per beneficiary family, of which the great majority were family
members and about 3% were hired workers. Given that the sample used in the 2003 evaluation
can statistically represent only the universe of subprojects implemented from 1998 on, it is not
possible to extrapolate these employment estimates to the universe of project beneficiaries.
However, since the projects implemented from 1998 were in general more effective in initiating
productive activities at an earlier stage, a conservative estimate could reasonably be made that for
the 15,267 beneficiary families, approximately 60,000 year-round occupations were being created
by 2003.

Well-being: Of the families living on the settlement by 2003, 93% lived in houses of masonry
with roofing and floors of cement; 67% had bathroom and sanitation facilities and 84% had
electric power. These data indicate that improved dwelling quality associated with a family
income of 2.5 minimum salaries monthly amounted to a significant improvement in overall living
conditions for families who, four years earlier, were living under the poverty line with gross
deficiencies in basic services/facilities. The 2003 evaluation also shows that whereas in 1998, only
25% of beneficiary families lived on their property, 23% in other locations near the property, 21%
in small rural centers and 30% in urban peripheries of essentially rural towns, by 2003, 75% lived
on their property, 13% in small rural centers in close proximity to the property and less than 1%
in an urban setting. This is a clear indicator of consolidation and evolution within a community
context.




                                                  - 8 -

Objective 2: Raising the agricultural output of lands included in the project.

The project was successful in increasing the agricultural output of properties acquired. The 2003
evaluation describes the evolution of agricultural production in two forms: (i) land use on farms
before CT was implemented was low, with large areas non-utilized or under-utilized, while the
expansion of land use observed in 2003 was very significant; and (ii) the increase in agricultural
production was substantial as indicated by its importance as a source of family income and the
increase in agricultural sales.Land use on the properties acquired under CT was very low before
the projects were implemented. As seen in Table 4, the majority of properties were abandoned or
under-utilized.

Table 4: Land-use of Properties Acquired under the Project (1998)*
                                                                States
        Item            Bahia             Ceara             Maranhao      Minas Gerais     Pernambuco
                        Incid.     %      Incid.     %      Incid.   %    Incid.    %      Incid.    %
 Effic   Abandoned      6          24     7          21.9   3        18.8 3         25.0   4         22.2
 of      Under-         13         52     19         59.4   10       62.5 8         66.7   11        61.1
 prod.   utiliz.
         Well-          6          24     5          18.8   3        18.8 1         8.3    3         16.7
         utilized
         Total:         25         100    32         100    16       100  12        100    18        100

*End-project land use figures are still being calculated by UNICAMP directly from the questionnaires applied to
the associations, and will be published in the final 2003 report.

This situation improved markedly over time as a result of the project. In a substantial portion of
CT projects surveyed, it was observed that there were significant investments in land preparation
to expand the area cultivated, investments in livestock and in perennial crops. It can be safely
stated that estimations of current agricultural production do not yet incorporate the potential
output from these recent investments. The 2003 evaluation also found that the majority of farm
systems visited have good potential for progressing to more complex levels as long as they can
secure access to needed inputs.

Even without factoring in output from recent investments, the observed increase in agricultural
production between 1998 and 2003 is substantial and indicates the markedly better use of land on
the properties after settlement. Agricultural production increased 366% between 1998 and 2000
and a further 204% from 2000 to 2003. This significant increase in the level of output has taken
place despite restrictions faced by farmers in relation to drought, and reduced availability of credit
and technical assistance. In fact, given these restrictions it is actually more rational for farmers to
use production systems that are less intensive in the use of inputs and modern technology, but
more efficient to guarantee a minimal income source. These characteristics are typical of small
family agricultural establishments in the Northeast and are present in the CT projects. An analysis
of the efficiency of agricultural production carried out by the 2003 evaluation indicates that access
to credit and regular technical assistance could significantly increase production on CT properties,
irrespective of additional expansion of area cultivated.

Numerous examples were observed/recorded of innovative farming initiatives that had already



                                                         - 9 -

progressed well beyond traditional patterns. Without exception, all of these had one common
characteristic: the presence of a dynamic association and leadership which had managed to
implement associative activities with two main objectives: (i) as an employment generation
strategy for beneficiaries and to achieve income sufficient to make land loan payments and make
new, additional investments; and (ii) as a strategy for organizing the work of individual beneficiary
families and raising their production capacity especially though mechanizing certain stages of the
production cycle or for associative preparation of soils, group clearing of individuals' land, and
other forms of joint farming activity.

In general, the production of beneficiaries interviewed in 2003 was still predominantly individual
but associative patterns were evolving as communities consolidated, and developed types of
productive activities in which investments had only recently been made such as pasture, perennial
crop plantations (coffee, cacao) and cattle, which implicitly require collaboration/association for
successful development. The 2003 evaluation makes the connection between associative action
and higher value production based on results of an analysis of income determinants which shows
significant positive impacts of collaborative and integrated actions in productive activities in
general and in associative livestock production in particular.

Objective 3: Pilot testing a market-based approach to land reform which, if successful,
would enable Government to accelerate the pace and lower the cost of programs to improve
land access.

The project achieved this objective, successfully testing a new methodology bound by a
governance regime already proven under the related, Bank-financed community-driven rural
poverty reduction projects in the Northeast region, and demonstrating through evaluation, that the
approach was cost-effective and replicable at greater scale. The pilot targeted a limited number of
beneficiaries in five states expressly committed to the pilot, and with agro-climatic and
socio-economic conditions representative of the broader Northeast region. Systematic
evaluation, specialized studies/case studies, strong supervision and national/international seminars
and workshops demonstrated quantitatively and qualitatively, that the method is a viable,
complementary and non-conflictive mechanism for rapid land re-distribution without inflating land
prices, with capacity to increase the productivity and income of the poorest rural families,
improve family well-being, and build social capital. As a direct result, the Federal Government
engaged the Bank in discussions on expanding the piloted, community-based approach to the rest
of the Northeast and other parts of Brazil, specifically to 14 states including four
South/Southeastern states. The follow-on Land-based Poverty Alleviation Project I (known as
Crédito Fundiário, 7037-BR), EUR 218.2 million (US$202.1 million equivalent), which included
the principle lessons learned during implementation of the CT pilot, was effective on October 16,
2001.

Adjustments during Implementation: In keeping with its piloting objective, the project was
adapted/adjusted during implementation on the basis of research findings, project supervision and
changing circumstances, as follows:

(i) The amount allocated to TA was increased (to 8% of the on-farm investment) during land



                                                 - 10 -

purchase and subsequent production planning over the first three years after installation to ensure
increased productivity and incomes, based on the finding that lack of systematic access to and
provision of technical assistance to CT beneficiaries was a potentially binding constraint on their
progress and sustainability of their properties.

(ii) The approval process for complementary on-farm investments was streamlined with the funds
(including the R$1,300 settlement grant) deposited immediately to the association bank account
following land purchase and disbursed (in the case of subprojects) upon approval of the
community proposal by the State Technical Unit.

(iii) A more strategic, inclusive approach was devised to train newly-formed community
associations to increase organizational level, social cohesion and ability to develop their property,
based on findings that community capacity for organized action was not always adequate given
families' background, experiences and individuality.

(iv) Financial conditions for the land loans were retroactively adapted to those of Complementary
Law 93 of 1998, with repayment and grace periods increased to 20 and 3 years respectively and a
50% rebate on the nominal interest rate for timely payment by beneficiary associations located in
more difficult agro-climatic areas (e.g., semi-arid).

(v) To preserve the concept of the market-based mechanism as a complementary, not substitute
instrument, the project could not sell lands legally subject to expropriation (i.e., not exceeding 15
modulos fiscais)*. ** This had the effect of reducing the possibility of large associations bringing
proposals to the STUs***, and associations which presented proposals to buy land subject to
expropriation were directed to locate other land.

* Modulo Fiscal: Minimum efficient size of a productive holding for a family, as established by the Federal Government, and which may vary by
region and agro-climatic conditions.
** The original design did not exclude the possibility of purchasing lands that could be expropriated, but from 1999 on, prompted in part by events
surrounding two requests for Inspection Panel investigation, no purchasing process would be initiated by CT for any property which could potentially
be expropriated, and the project Operational Manual was changed accordingly.
*** Average settlement size was 15-30 families under CT and about 50-70 families under INCRA expropriation.


(vi) Differentiated SAT/SIC financing packages were introduced to account for varying
circumstances, including agro-climatic, in participating states . In certain regions of the semi-arid
zone, due to the need for greater investment in lower quality land characteristic of this region, and
also in areas where land prices are traditionally higher due to soil and rainfall conditions (e.g.,
Zona da Mata), the SAT/SIC financing package was adjusted to a total of R$14,000 per family
from the usual R$12,000, including in both cases the R$1,300 settlement grant, (see Section 6 on
sustainability in semi-arid).

Inspection Panel. Two requests for an investigation of the CT submitted to the Bank's
Inspection Panel in December 1998 and again in September 1999, provided additional opportunity
to stock-take, evaluate the project's implementation experience and specific features and make
responsive adjustments. The Inspection Panel reviewed both requests, visited settled beneficiary
communities and local leaders, and in May 1999 and again in December 1999, decided not to
recommend an investigation of the project.




                                                                        - 11 -

4.2 Outputs by components:

Land Purchase Account ­ US$45.0 million (baseline cost)
Rated Highly Satisfactory

This component included land purchases (Subprojetos de Aquisição da Terra/SAT) by
community associations of poor farm families without land or with insufficient land to subsist,
funded by loans from a land account (100% Federal Government-financed) computed as
counterpart funding for the other Bank-financed components. Component costs were estimated
at US$45.0 million for about 15,000 families at an average US$3,000 per family. By end-project,
some 15,267 poor rural families had benefited (about 76,000 individuals), settling on 609 separate
properties (122% of appraisal estimate) at an average cost of R$4,984 (land only) and a total land
cost of US$45.0 million or about US$2,950 per family.*

* Data provided by the Borrower shows total cost for land acquisition as US$45.0 million, i.e, the original PAD estimate. See Project Cost and
Financing section 5.5.

Governance Framework for Land Acquisition: The CT was decentralized, based on self-selection
by beneficiaries, founded on mechanisms governing the acquisition of lands and included
incentives for sound business transactions which avoided collusion. Legally- constituted
associations of eligible families (as defined by program rules) buy properties directly on the open
market using repayable credit. Title is delivered to the family upon full repayment of the loan.*
The implicit idea is that the final objective is the re-distribution of land, avoiding a polemic about
the forms of acquisition and redistribution, and focusing on the socio-economic impact and
sustainability of a new public policy. The project tested the manner in which purchase of lands in
the market and transferring to communities the task of identifying and negotiating directly with
their owners, could serve as a valid complementary instrument of land policy. The governance
structure associated with the selection and acquisition of lands under CT is summarized as
follows:

 Community associations identify suitable lands and directly negotiate their purchase with
willing sellers.

 Community associations present to the responsible state body* *a formal declaration of the
owners' willingness to sell the land to the community at a specified price and request confirmation
that: (a) the title to the land is clean, and no invasion or other condition threatens the effectiveness
of the land purchase; and (b) the negotiated purchase price is consistent with market conditions.

 Communities present their land purchase project to the State Technical Unit together with a
plan for community investment projects (component 2). The Technical Unit verifies the eligibility
of the beneficiaries according to targeting conditions defined in the Operational Manual and
approves the land purchases, usually on a first-come first serve basis.

* With the approval of the State Technical Unit, communities are eligible for a land loan from the
land account created with Federal Government budget resources and administered by the Banco
do Nordeste do Brasil (BNB). A loan is given to the community association for the purchase



                                                                       - 12 -

price of the land plus other purchase-related expenses such as land surveys. Loans were initially
given for 10 years with three years of grace at the Government long-term interest rate (TJLP),
later changed to conform to Complementary Law 93, i.e., 20 years with three years' grace and a
50% rebate on the nominal interest rate for timely payment by associations located in more
difficult agro-climatic areas (e.g., semi-arid).

 Communities decide internally on and determine by contract with the individual members the
division of land among individual community members and the corresponding payment
obligations.

* In the land acquisition process, the title passes in the name of the association, and is held by the creditor bank as an operational guarantee. Once the
association liquidates its debt, the property is free of the mortgage and individual titles can be created and the land sold, if desired.
** Participation of State Land Institutes (SLI) occurred at different levels in each state: (i) in Maranhao, SLI involvement was limited to providing
legal assistance to analyze land purchase proposals, and do topographic surveys; (ii) in Ceara, IDACE was responsible for the entire land purchase
process (appraisal, legal assistance, and helping communities during the negotiation with seller); (iii) in Pernambuco, the State Department of Lands
was responsible only for evaluation of properties acquired; (iv) in Bahia, CORA (Coordination for Agrarian Reform of the Agriculture Secretariat)
had a more active role, handling appraisal, legal assistance, negotiation support, implementation of SICs and supervision. The STUs handled general
coordination and authorized payments.

The project was launched successfully and was well-advanced towards achieving its targets
within the three years estimated. By the second year, the five State Technical Units were
receiving land purchase proposals representing over 4,000 families per month. However, two
Inspection Panel requests (during which project activities were consciously slowed), generalized
fiscal/economic crisis starting in 1998 which caused increasing shortages of resources in the
national budget which in turn, limited the entry of Bank funds for the on-farm investment and
other components; and, administrative difficulties in the Ministry of Agrarian Development,
slowed implementation. Importantly, STUs' institutional capacity to analyze and process the
massive numbers of purchase proposals received based on an innovative methodology which
essentially required learning by doing, combined with the burden of processing equally large
numbers of applications for complementary on-farm investments, became a limiting factor.

By state, Bahia had the best performance, benefiting 4,261 families, followed by Ceará (3,590),
Maranhão (3,530), Pernambuco (2,235) and Minas Gerais (1,651). Total land acquired in the five
states under 609 separate purchase events was 399,000 hectares, with an average of about 26
ha/family, an average price of R$191/ha and average cost per family of R$4,984 (land only). The
global average cost per family increased modestly over time, due principally to the higher average
cost in Pernambuco of lands acquired in the Zona da Mata region. Prices are traditionally higher
due to soil quality, rainfall and proximity to the major consumer market of Recife. In the
semi-arid zones, STUs evaluated land purchase proposals in light of water availability on the
property/subsoil and potential to install small-scale dams, irrigation systems and other water
supply facilities, and service human and animal consumption needs. The majority of properties
purchased in the semi-arid region have this potential (or already have water facilities) but the
speed at which they have been able to invest in its development has, not surprisingly, varied
between and within States.

Role of Banco da Terra and National Institute for Colonization and Agrarian Reform (INCRA):
Banco da Terra was the popular name adopted by the Federal Government for a Land Credit
Program with national coverage. To activate it, Government created in 2000 a Land Fund to
which were channeled all resources from various sources, destined for land purchases. Banco da



                                                                           - 13 -

Terra had no executive role in the CT project, nor was it financed by the Bank. Resources for
land purchases were allocated in the INCRA budget till 2000. From then on, the Land Fund
became the source of funding for land acquisition. INCRA was also the financial manager of the
CT, and budget allocations for bringing Bank resources into the project were included in the
INCRA budget which, once released by Treasury, were transferred by INCRA to the five State
Technical Units for project administration and for financing the SICs. The Bank of the Northeast
received from INCRA funds allocated to finance land purchases, while the Bank of Brazil
received from INCRA resources to finance the SICs.

Land Prices: Evaluations (1999 and 2001) show that the project did not exert pressure on land
prices and in some states, most notably Maranhão, prices actually declined over the course of
project execution. The amount of land involved was a tiny fraction of total land transacted in the
region and too small to exert a significant effect on the market. The vast majority of land
acquired derived from persons who had abandoned rural activities due to age, labor problems,
indebtedness to banks or because the returns on farm activity were unacceptably low. In Bahia,
problems with the monoculture of cacau and the crisis in sugar-cane in the Zona da Mata caused
owners to sell out at reasonable prices.

Studies of public settlement, colonization and irrigation projects reveal that price and quality of
land are the strongest factors in the success of the venture and hence the negotiation process
involving the associations and sellers is especially vital. The 2001 evaluation presents a series of
thoughts/findings on this process. While quality and location have been stressed in the literature
as key factors of success or failure, price has infrequently been mentioned or has been minimized
(mainly because under expropriation, costs are borne by government and beneficiaries who, thus
far, have not actually paid for their properties). The viability, expansion and good function of the
CT depended on the supply of land which could be purchased at prices compatible with program
rules (i.e. the total SAT/SIC package), on land potential and on beneficiary capacity (Silveira,
Buainain and Magalhães, 2000).

The total financing package for land purchase and on-farm investment per family, as previously
stated, was R$11,200 (excluding settlement grant). Obviously, a higher limit would have
permitted the purchase of greater area, depending on local conditions of price and quality, or the
amount available for initial investment, but this would have restricted the number of families
participating and the number of properties acquired. The 2001 evaluation found that few
purchases of land committed more than 60% of their total package to the SAT and a majority of
beneficiaries committed far less, indicating a process of negotiation. The limit is per family, so an
association may bring in more families to increase the total financing available for SAT and SIC.
However, larger numbers of families per project were shown by evaluation to reduce the
bargaining power of associations, introducing, among other things, an "impatience factor"; and,
few properties were available to accommodate large numbers.

The evaluation also showed that, based on FGV (Fundação Getúlio Vargas) reference indices, CT
projects, while distributed in all regions of the five participating states, were not concentrated in
areas with high land prices. In the absence of precise market indicators, use of a "laudo"*
permitted verification of the consistency of the negotiated outcome with the technical and
productive characteristics of the land (as set out in the laudo). Comparing the final price


                                                  - 14 -

paid/contracted and the value of the corresponding laudo, the evaluation revealed only minor
differences between them, confirming the importance of this document and that State
Governments are performing their role well as arbiters, ensuring that the associations themselves
appropriate any subsidies.

* Document verifying key characteristics of the land, and price, prepared by STU technicians.

In conclusion, the project governance mechanism introduced safeguards and incentives to reduce
the likelihood of collusion and boost associations' bargaining power. The general comportment
of the negotiating parties was not oriented to collusion or benefit-sharing. The seller's intrinsic
lack of interest in the buyer's repayment capacity notionally introduces a moral risk to the issue of
raising the financing ceiling, but buyers' obligation to repay in this case, reduced the risk of
collusion. The initial price asked by the owners approximated more the average value of the
market reference price (unknown to owners), than the Program "ceiling". This means that for at
least the majority of purchases, the program limit was sufficient to avoid price inflation and permit
purchase of properties at prices close to the market average and not the limit of funds available.

The core project strategy was intended to ensure successful, sustainable settlement. Access to a
SAT was to be first-come/first-served and all states attempted to adopt this maxim. However,
this did not mean that the first proposals to arrive were the first to be approved and released for
funding. In some cases, negotiations were protracted, or difficulties were encountered in locating
documents pertaining to the beneficiaries and/or the land for sale, or the land required specialized
measurement/survey. Some proposals were set aside as a function of price, quality of the land
selected and/or characteristics of the group making the proposal (e.g., level of organization and
conformity with eligibility criteria). Massive demand from the outset was due to many factors,
most prominently, the social pressures of landlessness, but also because no clear limit had been set
at appraisal on the size of properties to be purchased. From 2000 on however, the project could
only finance properties up to 15 modulos fiscais (see footnote, Objective 2) to delineate
Project-supported activities from other existing traditional agrarian reform programs. This
requirement dampened demand somewhat, mostly from very large groups, but did not
compromise project objectives.

Repayment of Land Loans: The original terms for repayment of land loans were 10 years with
three years' grace at the long-term interest rate (TJLP). These terms were subsequently changed
to 20 years with three years' grace at a real rate of 6% per year, and a 50% rebate on the interest
rate for timely repayment by associations in more difficult agro-climatic zones (the latter a
consequence of lessons emerging from the Inspection Panel initial review process). This brought
CT beneficiaries into line with the terms for repayment under the scaled-up, expanded Crédito
Fundiário project, i.e., to avoid two separate repayment regimes operating simultaneously for the
market-based program. As at December 31, 2002, repayment by associations with their first
installment due, is summarized by State as follows:




                                                                       - 15 -

                  Table 6: Beneficiary Repayment of First Installments, end-2002
               State                     No. Assns. Due                Assns. Paid                   % Assns. Paid
               Maranhão                             51                            42                            82.3
               Ceará                               131                           119                            90.8
               Pernambuco                           19                            10                            52.6
               Bahia                                42                            32                            76.1
               Minas Gerais*                         -                             -                               -
               Total:                              243                           203                    83.5 (aver.)**
                  * Lack of data for Minas Gerais is due to failure of financial institutions to revise contracts to conform to the
                  new Complementary Law 93, as mentioned in text below. Contract revision was started in 2003.
                  ** Most of the difference in repayments in other states is also due to this bureaucratic roadblock.


That about 84% of all associations with first payments due actually paid and on time, is
significant in light of the comparatively low level of capitalization, formal training and
management skills of project beneficiaries, and location of a significant portion of CT settlements
in semi-arid areas, which experienced a serious drought in the 1999-2000 period (and again in
2002/2003). Those who delayed payment were naturally affected by these same conditions, but
the most important obstacle affecting families' ability to pay on time was bureaucratic delays
associated with the retroactive adaptation of initial land loan terms and conditions to the new
terms resulting from passage of Complementary Law 93.

The system/process for repayment of the land loan was the same for all five states. The debt
pertained to the association, no family could make an individual payment. Should a family reneg
on its contract to purchase the land, the association generally arranged for a substitution (formally
presented to the STU/financial institution) or alternatively, it might be decided that remaining
families assume the debt and formalize this with the STU/financial institution.                                     Beneficiaries'
capacity to generate sufficient cash income to both service the debt on their land loans and
continue to accumulate assets for future farm improvements is a crucial aspect of project
sustainability. Evaluation results indicate that, when all monetary income is considered, (i.e., cash
income from agricultural production, off-farm employment and other sources), project
beneficiaries have sufficient resources to make their loan payments, which range from R$300 per
year in the Semi-Arid to R$650 in the Zona da Mata, and to increase their asset base from
agricultural production on land acquired under the project (see also Annex 3).

Community Subprojects ­ US$84.3 million (baseline cost)
Rated Satisfactory

Community associations which acquired land were eligible to present to the STU proposals to
finance complementary community subprojects and technical assistance (Subprojetos de
Investimentos Comunitarios/SIC) intended to boost on-farm productivity and income. Subproject
selection was demand-driven with a short negative list of ineligible investments. Proposals used
standard documentation and technical, economic, environmental and sustainability criteria
established in the Project Operational Manual. The STU appraised proposals based on these
parameters and financial agents disbursed grant funds for execution of the subproject. The SIC
were effected through matching grants for small-scale investments ­ classified broadly as
infrastructure, productive and social - identified by settled communities as priorities.



                                                               - 16 -

Beneficiaries were obligated to contribute to the investment in cash and/or kind (minimum 10% of
subproject value), and be responsible for operation and maintenance, including by establishing
user funds, essentially the same requirement as the Bank-financed, community-driven Northeast
rural poverty reduction projects. Each community had the option of directing up to 8%
(incremental) of the cost of their on-farm subproject to technical assistance.

* Infrastructure: e.g., rural water supply, electricity and local access roads; Productive: e.g., small-scale agro-processing, communal tractors, minor
irrigation schemes, purchase of breeding animals, campo agricola; Social: e.g., crèches, school and health post rehabilitation.


The project financed 2,965 SIC investments, 119% of the appraisal target (2,500), to upgrade
basic economic and social services and enhance productive potential. Demand for SICs was, as a
complement to land purchase proposals, exceptionally strong and in the initial years, subject to
processing delays which stemmed from the sheer volume of demand and insufficient technical and
administrative capacity in STUs to manage it (as mentioned, the STUs were also administering
their respective rural poverty reduction projects). Further, reduced Federal budget allocations
under a deepening budget crisis affected the entry of Bank funds for SICs. Final cost for this
component was US$66.4 million. The overall limit per family "package" (land plus on-farm
investment or SAT+SIC) was R$11,200 in the PAD. The R$1,300 settlement grant was separate
from the SAT/SIC package. When the project was negotiated US$1.00 was worth R$1.04 but by
December 2002 it had risen to R$3.53 due to precipitous devaluation, but land prices remained
largely stable with only minor variations in each state (except Pernambuco where prices are
significantly higher as a function of purchases in the expensive Zona da Mata). Because of this
situation, the project continued to work with the values established in the PAD. Only in the
second part of 2000, when around 70% of the project target had been achieved, were the values
adapted to a rate equivalent to R$1.80/US$1.00 as a function of increased prices of inputs and to
compensate for the higher prices of lands in some regions.

Originally, the SIC was planned to serve as funding for settling-in, on-farm infrastructure, while
PROCERA/PRONAF-A would be used for productive investments. However, as PROCERA
was not accessed (see below on credit) and PRONAF-A was under-utilized due to bureaucratic
and other impediments to beneficiary access, the SIC became in many cases, the only source of
financing for productive investments as well. However, the amount available was insufficient for
both infrastructure needs and for productive investments which imposed a limitation on many
beneficiaries but especially those in semi-arid areas requiring significant investment to counter
agro-climatic conditions and improve income from marketable/commercial production. SICs
were used for a wide variety of investments but most commonly for electricity and water supply
installation (both essential for productive activities, as demonstrated under the Northeast rural
poverty projects), communal tractors and equipment, various types of small-scale agro-processing
facilities, the purchase of livestock (cattle and goats), and housing construction.

Credit. Prompt and adequate access to credit to sustain and build on the benefits of initial
on-farm investments, is important to the establishment and sustainability of CT lands. The
evaluation in 2001 found that only 6% of all families interviewed had accessed credit in the 5
years prior to participation in the CT. Updated information shows that a larger percentage of
beneficiary families had received credit (PRONAF-A) through end-project, but it also shows that
the majority of beneficiaries still had problems with obtaining credit. Serious, protracted drought



                                                                           - 17 -

was probably an important underlying reason for reluctance to lend to CT families in this period,
especially in semi-arid areas, but bureaucratic (e.g., lack of coordination between the release of
PRONAF-A funds and the season when it was most needed; release of credit in installments,
affecting farmers' planting schedule and continuity of production) and budget constraints in a time
of general fiscal crisis were equally, if not more, important.

It was understood (and agreed with Government) at the outset that CT beneficiaries would have
access to PROCERA credit, designed specifically for agrarian reform areas, with low interest
rates and a 50% rebate on interest and principal. In 1998, INCRA publicly announced that CT
beneficiaries were eligible and defined the amount of funds available. The States moved to ensure
accreditation for CT beneficiaries with INCRA regional offices. With credit proposals under
preparation by the States, the Federal Government changed its agricultural credit policy for
agrarian reform families, eliminating PROCERA and assigning all small producers including land
reform beneficiaries, to the PRONAF-A credit program. Regulations were delayed and a decree
limiting CT beneficiaries to working capital not to exceed US$1,300 equivalent required Bank
intervention, working with the States and the participating Banks of Brazil and the Northeast.
The current amount is R$3,500. Most recipient families obtained working capital in Year 1 and
investment capital in Year 2. The supply of PRONAF credit remained modest through
end-project despite agreements with the States and support from the Ministry of Agrarian
Development, chiefly due to the economic situation, but more recently, availability has
improved.*

* Government's budget for PRONAF-A country-wide in 2002 was about R$2.3 billion, but the new Government has announced an increase to some
R$5.4 billion for 2003, improving the credit prospects for many agrarian reform beneficiaries.




 Table 7A: Aggregate Final Results, 1998-2002
 States                   No. projects            Area              No.           Value of        Value of          Total
                                                  (ha)           Families         Property      Investments           R$
                                                                                  (R$)-SAT       (R$) - SIC
 Maranhão                            124          91,353              3,530 11,709,490           30,702,449      42,411,939
 Ceará                               226         142,901              3,590 20,270,890           20,562,844      40,833,734
 Pernambuco                          100          41,365              2,235 15,929,269           11,698,435      27,618,704
 Bahia                               111          84,257              4,261 20,201,125           30,895,464      51,096,598
 Minas Gerais                          48         38,856              1,651       7,993,805      12,875,121      20,868,926

 TOTAL                                609         398,732           15,267        76,095,579     105,978.129     182,829,901
 Source: Participating States




                                                                       - 18 -

 Table 7B: Aggregate Final Results, 1998-2002
 States                Total        SAT/Family       SIC/Family      Average          Price
                     R$/Family           R$               R$        Ha/Family        of Land
                                                                                      R$/ha
 Maranhao              12,014           3,317            8,697         25.8          128.17
 Ceara                 11,374           5,646            5,727         39.8          141.85
 Pernambuco            12,357           7,123            5,234         18.5          384.87
 Bahia                 11,991           4,740            7,250         19.8          239.75
 Minas Gerais          12,640           4,841            7,798         23.5          205.72

 TOTAL                 11,975           4,984            6,941         26.1          190.84
 Source: Participating States


Community Development Support, Technical Assistance and Training ­ US$3.5 million
(baseline cost)
Rated Satisfactory

This component supported strengthening the effectiveness and quality of project operations,
financing technical assistance, seminars and training courses for community associations, project
information dissemination campaigns to promote awareness, transparency and participation. The
final cost of this component was US$2.6 million. Selected aspects of this component are
discussed below.

The critical importance of technical assistance (TA), especially in the first two years, was
recognized in project design and funds were provided to finance its delivery. STUs rapidly
became aware in the first year or so, of the low organizational level of many associations and its
negative effects on settlement and land development prospects. Public technical assistance
services were variable in quality and quantity and were, with some exceptions including EMATER
(State Agricultural Extension Agency) in Ceará and Maranhão, unequipped technically or
logistically to provide the regular attention required. Most families surveyed in 2001 put
significant emphasis on technical assistance from local technicians, exchanges of information at
association meetings, and experiences of neighbors rather than formal public authorities or firms
in the initial period. About 50% of beneficiaries surveyed in 2001 had received technical
assistance in the previous year and this number is expected to have risen significantly through
end-project, especially given enhanced arrangements to improve TA availability/provision.

The STUs had a critical role in assisting associations to contract technical assistance and in a
generally more strategic approach from 2000 onwards, amounts allocated for associations to
contract TA were increased during the land purchase process and subsequent production planning
over the first three years after installation of families on-land. Associations were given the option
of using up to 8% of the value of their on-land investment for TA services, comprising > 4% for
initial TA for project preparation, and the balance for production assistance in the first three years
of settlement. Associations could also contract specific, specialized TA for investment
subprojects and specific types of farming activities, and the STUs facilitated this process. The five
STUs organized a total 95 formal mass training events for community leaders covering subjects
such as public policies and programs, organization, financial administration, environmental issues
and associative action. In addition numerous meetings took place over the project period


                                                   - 19 -

between STU technical staff in the field and community associations, dealing with a wide range of
subjects of direct practical application to families' social and economic development on-farm.
The STUs themselves received training in financial management, technical aspects of project
execution, monitoring techniques and community mobilization/organization.

State Project Administration, Supervision and Monitoring ­ US$9.2 million (baseline cost)
Rated Satisfactory

This component supported overall project coordination, supervision, monitoring, and the
incremental operating costs of the STUs for project coordination, reporting and physical
performance reviews. STUs were responsible for project dissemination activities, training of
beneficiaries, analysis of land purchase proposals including obtaining the legal opinion on project
documentation, physical assessment of the properties involved, analysis of the SIC on-farm
investment proposals, guidance to communities on the purchasing of goods and services,
contracting of technical assistance, and submission of accounts, management and technical
training for beneficiaries, and guidance on preparing credit proposals and interacting with financial
agents. The Management Information System (MIS) and training of operational staff were
completed in 2000. Final cost of the component was US$2.1 million, well under original
estimates due importantly to the effects of devaluation, but also to delayed financing to states as a
result of shortages of general budget funds to draw Bank loan resources into the project.

Federal Project Evaluation and Dissemination ­ US$6.0 million (baseline cost)
Rated Highly Satisfactory

The Federal Government, through the Ministry of Agrarian Reform's Center for Agrarian Studies
(NEAD), was responsible for project impact evaluation, studies and dissemination of experiences,
and for evaluating ex ante the possible expansion of the pilot approach if judged successful (see
also 7.5). Innovative and proactive approaches to evaluation, monitoring and research
dissemination by the Borrower and intensive supervision by the Bank resulted in a significant body
of research findings, lessons and data which, inter alia, provided the basis for adjustments to the
project and for the preparation of the follow-on Credito Fundiario project. The estimated cost
was US$6.0 million and final cost at Closing, US$5.2 million.

As detailed in 4.2, this component financed (i) an initial baseline study in 1998/99 by UNICAMP
with MDA and NEAD; (ii) a preliminary evaluation in 2001; (iii) an end of project impact
evaluation in 2003; (iv) case studies of project impact in the States of Bahia and Ceara; (v) a
series of studies on special topics; (vi) seminars, workshops and other activities to disseminate the
project.




                                                 - 20 -

The following lists the research financed under NEAD's oversight:

                                    Study                                                Author(s)
       1. Evaluation of Impact of the Cedula da Terra Program, 2003  State University of Campinas
                                                                     (UNICAMP), São Paulo, Brazil 2003
      2. Prelim. Evaluation of Impact of the Cedula da Terra Program UNICAMP, Ministry of Agrarian
                                                                     Development/NEAD 2001
      3. Evaluation of Cedula da Terra in States of Bahia and Ceará  UNICAMP et al. 1999
      4. Project Baseline Study                                      UNICAMP et al. 1999
      5. Land Reform Policy Options                                  Buainain et al. 1998
      6. Rural Land Prices and Impact of the Cedula da Terra         Reydon and Plata 1998
      7. Social Relations on Land Reform Settlements                 Martins de Carvalho 1998
      8. Socio-economic Profile of Cedula da Terra Beneficiaries     Souza Filho et al. 1999
      9. Demand for Land Access in Brazil                            David 1999
      10. Agrarian Reform and Development of Family Agriculture      Gomes at al. 1999
      11. Financial Options for Land Reform                          Troster 1998
      12. Evaluation of Cedula da Terra in Bahia                     Garcia Filho et al. 1998
      13. Case Studies of RPAP-Ceará Pilot Land Reform Component     Danilo 1998
      14. Social Dimensions of the Cedula da Terra Project           Navarro 1998
      15. Technical Assistance for Land Reform Settlements           Lopes 2000
      16. Small-scale Agriculture in Brazil                          DIPES/IPEA 2000
       17. Regional Impacts of Land Reform                            REDES 2000


In addition to studies, four seminars discussed implementation of the CT. First, an international
conference in July 1998 jointly sponsored by the Ministry of Agrarian Reform and the Bank
discussed the theoretical foundations linking wealth distribution, poverty and growth, as well as
empirical evidence from and experiences with land reform in various countries. Second, the MDA
sponsored (with the State of Ceará, Banco do Nordeste and the Inter-American Institute for
Cooperation in Agriculture (IICA) in November 1998, a seminar on "Agrarian Reform and
Sustainable Development" with broad participation of NGOs, government agencies and the Bank.
Third, a Bank-sponsored workshop attended by the National Confederation of Rural Workers
(CONTAG), leading Northeast rural development NGOs, church agencies, Rural Poverty
Alleviation Program (RPAP) technical personnel and Bank staff, explored ways to leverage
greater participation by certain sectors (state rural worker federations and NGOs) in the CT and
the ongoing Northeast rural poverty projects. Finally, participating states and the Bank held a
seminar to review and discuss preliminary findings of the first UNICAMP evaluation. The study
looked at the beneficiary selection process, characteristics of CT settlements, and their economic
and financial viability. This evaluation strategy resulted in a set of findings and lessons which
prompted modifications to the ongoing CT and design changes to the follow-on Crédito
Fundiário project.

Targeting and Participation: The evaluation program and special studies produced important
findings on targeting, participation and well-being under the CT.

Targeting: Results of studies (Buainain 1999a and 1999b, UNICAMP 2001 and 2003)
demonstrate that the project, through its self-selection strategy, attracted families with the
intended socio-economic profile. Leakage to non-poor groups was minimal. Average beneficiary



                                                         - 21 -

household income at entry was US$92 (about R$240). Some 32% of beneficiaries overall were
illiterate (and about 50% in the first cohort entering the program in 1998), while a further 47%
had completed no more than 4th grade. Data revealed that CT beneficiaries had lower overall
asset ownership, larger household density and poorer quality housing at the outset relative to a
control group of households with similar socio-economic standing (Buainain: 1999b). Most
beneficiaries were previously tenants or share-croppers (working in some cases, the same land
eventually purchased under the project), and most had some farming experience. About 90% had
worked in the rural sector prior to becoming CT beneficiaries. The term "entrepreneurial poor"
best describes the product of the self-selection process.

The 2001 evaluation (UNICAMP) looked at the geographic distribution of CT settlements,
confirming that they are located in municipalities with very low IDH* with a high proportion
<0.50. Based on the pre-selection criterion that family income should not exceed R$240/month
(about US$92) the evaluation also concluded that beneficiaries were among the poorest of the
rural population. Clearly, the selection process has leaned towards a group of families who do
not/cannot find work in their place of origin, especially because they do not have land to "fix"
their location and migration is a survival tactic. These families acquire certain life experiences
from migration that contribute positively to the sustainability of the settlement.

* United Nations Index of Human Development


Of major importance however, both as a targeting and a sustainability issue, the 2001 evaluation
compared the profiles of program entrants in 1998 and 2001, noting that while still well within the
poverty targeting parameters of the project, and with the overall cohort still a wide mix of
histories and aptitudes, many entrants by 2001 tended to be of higher caliber - more organized,
more motivated, more frequently from the same community (indicating active mobilization
activities), with greater agricultural experience and slightly better-educated. Evaluation revealed
that the drought of 1999 had the effect of driving desperately poor people into the project so that
the project became, to some extent, and to some families, a way to deal with drought.

The majority of beneficiaries originated from small agglomerations/centers and had agricultural
activities as their main occupation. The evaluation found that families living in small groupings
had better prospects for participation than those purely "rural" because living in such areas
equates with better access to information about programs, generally better organization and more
intensive participation in social bodies involved in land access issues. Beneficiaries had had more
life experiences desirable for successful settlement, tended to have more dependent children <14,
demonstrating the program's high social impact, and an overall higher average education level
(due to children's access to improved primary education, since the family head generally showed
low educational attainment). Looking at state characteristics, in Ceará, selection was more
intense in rural villages, beneficiaries tended to have less experience with migration and were
more tightly connected to their communities. In Bahia and Minas Gerais, a greater proportion of
beneficiaries were from the peripheral areas of dispersed, small urban centers considered rural .

Civil Society Participation: The community associations were the front-line civil society entities
under the project, essentially responsible for project execution under the community-driven
methodology. The Federal Government through NEAD and the Bank looked for openings to



                                                  - 22 -

expand civil society inclusion from the start. Involvement of other entities in key support roles
increased markedly from 2000 onward due in part a major strategic effort by STUs in
collaboration with the Bank, to leverage broader participation across a range of activities, in
keeping with a strong push to institutionalize transparency in all stages of project execution. By
end-2002 this effort had produced significant results, with a diverse cohort of private
organizations and bodies supporting the project, with some variations between participating
States. The project had always had strong support from the local federations/syndicates of
agricultural workers . The follow-up to CT, the Land-based Poverty Alleviation Project I (Loan
7037-BR, Crédito Fundiário) established as a design feature, a strong partnership with the
National Confederation of Agricultural Workers (CONTAG) which has a formal role in project
implementation (with spillover effects on the then-ongoing CT project).

Women's participation: While women undoubtedly benefit in many ways from land access
programs and especially, in the case of CT, from on-farm investments in water supply, electricity
and many other types of investments, the vast majority of direct beneficiaries of land purchase
were male. While it was intended that women participate and no restriction limited this, State
studies show women's direct participation was about 8%. The level has already increased under
Crédito Fundiário project (Loan 7037-BR) as a result of efforts by the Bank, STUs and
CONTAG who are working to promote women's direct participation (i.e., as land owners).
Possible reasons for low direct participation are: (i) female-headed households are among the
poorest of the poor and possibly not overtly within the "entrepreneurial poor" self-selected for
participation; and, in a project where demand for participation greatly outstrips supply, traditional
attitudes prevailed. The potential significance of their modest representation among direct
beneficiaries might be gauged from the 2001 evaluation finding that being a female-headed
beneficiary family correlated closely with greater chance of increasing family income under the
project.

* See Decentralized Rural Development, Enhanced Community Participation and Local Government Performance: Evidence from Northeast Brazil,
van Zyl, Sonn and Costa, July 2000; and An Assessment of Community Participation, Costa, Bank/FAO, 1999.


4.3 Net Present Value/Economic rate of return:

The economic and financial analyses of the project are based on three family farm types
implemented in the project area. The semi-arid represents farms in the interior of the Northeast
(known as the Sertão) in the States of Ceará, Bahia, Pernambuco and Minas Gerais; the Zona da
Mata depicts farms in the coastal zone with generally better soil and rainfall conditions; and the
Meio Norte represents farms in the transition area between the Northeast region (semi-arid and
Zona da Mata) and the Amazon, mainly incorporating the participating State of Maranhão. The
analysis draws on actual individual crop budgets and herd data. Crop yields and associated
cropping patterns are taken from a follow-up evaluation of project beneficiaries in July/August
2003. A set of assumptions and facts underlies the analysis (see Annex 3 and UNICAMP, 2003).

Economic rates of return (ERR) were 21% in the Semi-arid (where agro-climatic conditions are
the most challenging) to 27% in the Meio Norte and 55% for the more favorable Zona da Mata.
The overall ERR for the Project was 25%.




                                                                 - 23 -

4.4 Financial rate of return:

Financial rates of return were 22% in the semi-arid, 51% in the Meio Norte and 35% in the Zona
da Mata (with higher initial cost of investment in land).

Fiscal Impact: According to data in the Project Appraisal Document (PAD) of April 1997, the
average estimated cost (nationwide) to settle a family under the traditional process of
Government-administered expropriation was US$16,400, while the average estimated cost under
the Project was US$8,600. The cost of traditional agrarian reform in the Northeast region
1995-2002 averaged US$14,430 per family, using Federal Government estimates.* In
comparison, the actual average cost per CT family in the period 1998-2002 was about
US$12,800.** The Project thus represented total savings to Government of some US$25.0
million.

 See Ainda Sobre a Reforma Agraria, Romeiro and Buainain in Instituto de Economia, January 2003.
** For comparison purposes, an estimated allocation of PROCERA credit is included in both figures.


4.5 Institutional development impact:

The beneficiary associations are the crucial institutional element of the project methodology and most
important local determinant of its success and sustainability. Institutional/social capital improvements
were an implied project objective. The activities associated with forming an association,
identifying areas for possible purchase, negotiating with landowners, identifying investments to
enhance the property, planning the agricultural use of the property, executing the on-farm
investment, contracting firms for specific purposes, abiding by procurement rules for acquiring
goods and services needed for the project, applying for credit from financial agents are, in tandem
with the learning framework provided by the STU, NGOs, churches and private firms, of
enormous importance to the capacity and socio-economic evolution of beneficiary communities.
Moreover, the 2003 evaluation team noted during field surveys that many beneficiary associations
formed specifically for the purpose of participating in the project were now undergoing a
renovation of leadership, a promising indicator of institutional sustainability and social capital
formation. The institutional impact on communities of the participatory governance model is
treated in detail in several studies associated with the Northeast rural poverty reduction projects,
which apply a similar community-based methodology for the formulation, execution, operation
and maintenance of essential investments.*
*  See Can Community-driven Infrastructure Programs contribute to Social Capital? Findings from the Rural Northeast of Brazil. Ryan and
Costa, May 12, 2003.

5. Major Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcome

5.1 Factors outside the control of government or implementing agency:

Two factors affecting the project were beyond Government's control: the serious drought in the
Northeast states in 1999-2000, affecting among other things, the ability of newly-settled families
in the semi-arid region in particular, to commence and sustain productive activity. Observations
of this impact prompted STUs to withhold approval of new land purchase proposals lacking
provisions for secure water supply. Another factor not directly controllable by authorities was the
global economic crisis of the late 1990s and the financial collapse of Argentina which had major



                                                                 - 24 -

spillover effects in other Latin American economies and contributed to Brazil's sharp financial
downturn. Finally, there was strong opposition to the project strategy from social movements
supporting traditional land reform programs, resulting in two successive requests for a Bank
Inspection Panel investigation, which, while they were not accepted by the Panel, caused a
marked (deliberate) slowdown in project execution.

5.2 Factors generally subject to government control:

Principal issues affecting project execution and subject to Government control (direct and
indirect) included the following:

(i) Due to the generalized fiscal crisis, from 1999 to 2000, the project suffered deficits of general
budget resources permitting the entry of Bank Loan funds. This caused interruptions to the flow
of funds to the States for the SICs at a period of very high demand for processing of on-farm
investments, and for institutional development activities, project administration and supervision as
well, disrupting the continuity of project execution. Similarly, with the creation of the Land Fund
in 2000, from which all project counterpart funding for land purchases was subsequently to be
sourced, there were also delays in the flow of funds due to administrative and bureaucratic issues.
Issues also arose over the Federal Government's policy of transferring equal funding to all five
states for SICs, causing shortages of SIC resources in those states moving ahead faster on land
purchases. The SIC financing situation was resolved in large part by streamlining the SIC
approval process and by depositing SIC funds immediately to an association's bank account upon
completion of land purchase, to be drawn-upon once on-farm investment proposals were
approved by the STU.

(ii) Changed Federal agricultural credit policies for agrarian reform beneficiaries saw the
elimination of the PROCERA credit line, originally intended to benefit CT beneficiaries, and slow
adjustment of PRONAF-A regulations to accept CT families, limiting the delivery of a key input
for improving farm productivity.

(iii) Lack of a fully-staffed national technical unit (NTU) until 2000 (actually established as a
design feature of Crédito Fundiário) meant NEAD was responsible for all aspects of project
coordination, monitoring, evaluation, studies and dissemination without the needed physical and
human resources, and caused delays in the systematic training of STUs in project norms/rules.

(iv) Once Land Fund resources began to be used as Federal counterpart funding, bringing that
institution into the project administrative equation, the resulting duplicative and excessive
coordination structure and bureaucracy slowed project execution, especially in 2000/2001.

(v) Operational involvement of the Bank of the Northeast and Bank of Brazil in the project was
impeded by the need for each bank to adapt its own internal operating norms to the requirements
of the CT Loan Agreement.

5.3 Factors generally subject to implementing agency control:

The project was Federally-financed, coordinated and evaluated but day to day execution of both



                                                    - 25 -

the land purchase and on-farm investment activities rested with the State Technical Units. While
not entirely within their control, a situation rapidly arose where the pressure of demand for
processing of both land purchase proposals and on-farm investment proposals, overwhelmed STU
capacity and markedly slowed the project. STUs were simultaneously administering/supervising
the Bank-financed Northeast rural poverty reduction projects, resulting in bureaucratic back-ups
which affected processing of SICs.

Various issues impacted the project at the level of the States, directly or indirectly as a result of
deficiencies within the STUs and/or difficult situations which took STUs (and the Bank) time to
resolve in the context of a totally new methodology, including the following: (i) STU teams
launched project activities with insufficient technical personnel and resources for field work (given
simultaneous field supervision requirements of the rural poverty projects), aging computer
technology and systems, and initial difficulties in establishing dynamic partnerships with social
movements/NGOs to leverage greater support for project implementation; (ii) STUs experienced
difficulties in securing smooth performance of the involved financial institutions (Bank of Brazil,
Bank of the Northeast) due to bureaucratic hurdles involving compatibility between financial
provisions of the Loan Agreement and those banks' internal regulations; (iii) in several states,
there was initial lack of involvement of Municipal Governments and need for STUs to even more
proactively divulge information about the project and work with local authorities; (iv) there was a
tendency within some STUs to establish plans for SIC funding involving PROCERA and
subsequently PRONAF-A credit funds whose availability, for reasons previously explained, was
not guaranteed; and (v) issues affecting the beneficiary associations including initial slow progress
in establishing systematic provision of technical assistance.

5.4 Costs and financing:

The PAD foresaw a total project cost of US$150.0 million with a Bank Loan of US$90.0 million
and Borrower contribution of US$45.0 million, State Government contribution of US$6.6 million
and US$8.4 million from beneficiary associations. By Closing, total project cost was US$121.3
million with Government's share US$45.0 million as planned, the five States contributing US$1.9
million, beneficiary associations US$5.9 million and the Bank US$68.5 million (see Annex 2).
Sharp devaluation of the Real over the project period permitted the project to achieve its targets
at reduced cost. Further, the roll-out of the new Crédito Fundiário project with enhanced design
reflecting the many lessons of CT, and the fact that CT targets had been achieved, prompted
Government to request cancellation of the remaining Loan balance of US$21.4 million. The
Closing Date was extended twice (to permit completion of certain activities and additional
disbursement of the Loan), to June 30, 2002 and again to December 31, 2002. The amount of
US$800,000 was reallocated from Category 5 Unallocated, to Category 3 Consultant's Services
under Part E (Project Evaluation and Dissemination at the Borrower's Level). The reallocated
funds financed, under the coordination of the Center for Agrarian Studies (NEAD), a
communications strategy and the monitoring, evaluation and integration of Federal and State
Government mechanisms to alleviate the impact of drought in participating Northeast states.

Audit performance was consistently good. Audits were high quality, delivered on time and
uniformly rated Unqualified for the Project Accounts, Statements of Expenditure and Special
Account.


                                                  - 26 -

6. Sustainability

6.1 Rationale for sustainability rating:
Sustainability is rated Likely for the following reasons:

(i) The governance framework permits a high degree of community participation in the land
purchase process and in the identification, preparation, implementation and supervision of on-farm
subprojects which fosters ownership and social capital development. The framework also
provides penalties and incentives for quality performance. Self-selection for participation
promotes motivated beneficiaries committed to successful settlement and land loan repayment (as
shown by payment levels for first installments). Cost-sharing by community associations has been
proven under the Bank-financed rural poverty projects, to boost the sustainability of subproject
benefits.

(ii) Beneficiaries' social capital is an important sustainability factor. CT beneficiaries were found
by the 2001 evaluation to be of a higher caliber, with more agricultural experience than the
average poor rural person eligible to apply, more frequently with a history of migration (seen as
an indicator of entrepreneurial capacity), better-organized, more frequently from the same
community and slightly better-educated. An especially promising finding is that the great majority
of beneficiaries are relatively young, with the time available to establish fully operating agricultural
production units. Further, the 2003 evaluation noted a process of turnover in association
leadership. Most associations were created specifically to comply with eligibility requirements for
participation in the project and thus the renovation of leadership is regarded as a strong indication
of increased social capital and institutional vitality of associations and suggests a longer-term
perspective on the part of member families.

(iii) The financial and economic sustainability of family farms is positive (see Annex 3) The 2003
evaluation includes a sustainability analysis (Chapter 8), based on farm models in the main
agro-ecological zones. With the exception of the semi-arid farm model with no irrigation and
small area (as distinct from semi-arid properties with irrigation and larger area), all models
indicate sustainable production and above poverty line income. Productive sustainability is also
bolstered by the fact that family income from on-farm activities has gone from 13% of total
income in 1998 to 65% in 2003, an indication that productive activity has been continuously
increasing despite deficiencies in access to credit and technical assistance. The major part of
agricultural income so far has been annual/short cycle and the impact of recent investments is still
potential. Further, about one-third of all farmers use chemical fertilizers and 40% use anti-disease
agents, but these percentages have been growing. New national agricultural credit
policies/programs give priority to agrarian reform beneficiaries and are well-funded. All five CT
states are included in the new Land-based Poverty Alleviation Project and thus stand to benefit
from increasingly better-organized and accessible technical assistance, and a process of
normalization of access to Government's recently-announced increased volumes of PRONAF-A
credit for working and investment credit.




                                                  - 27 -

6.2 Transition arrangement to regular operations:

Transition arrangements to regular operations essentially involve the process described earlier.
Following land purchase and settlement, beneficiary families are eligible for financing of basic
productive and social infrastructure, both through the SIC and other programs including, in all CT
states except Minas Gerais, the Bank-supported rural poverty projects. On-farm investment
subprojects are executed, released to the community association, which technically and legally
own the investments, and become operational under certain operation and maintenance
guidelines/agreements.


7. Bank and Borrower Performance

Bank
7.1 Lending:

The Bank's performance during identification, preparation and appraisal is rated fully Satisfactory.
The origins of the Bank's engagement with this innovative methodology are set out in Section 3
along with the rationale for a QAG Best Practice rating for quality at entry. Project concept,
design and strategy were rooted firmly in the following: (i) the lessons of global experience; (ii)
successful experiences with participatory, demand-driven and adaptable mechanisms for rural
poverty alleviation in the targeted region; (iii) exceptionally strong demand from Brazilian Federal
and State Governments looking for cost-effective and non-conflictive complementary
mechanisms for land re-distribution; (iv) level of pent-up demand from poor, landless rural
families; and, (v) strong conviction in the Regional Vice-Presidency that the timing and
implementing environment were right to effectively insert the Bank as honest broker into a
traditionally controversial activity. Successfully piloting the mechanism within the Ceará Rural
Poverty Alleviation Project (Loan 3918-BR) provided the impetus and justification for scaling up
to the five participating states.

7.2 Supervision:

Bank supervision is rated Satisfactory. Supervision was intensive, regular, responsive to arising
issues affecting project execution, and carried out by staff in the Bank's Recife and Brasilia offices
as well as through regular supervision missions from Washington. Visits to participating states
included staff from the Federal Ministry responsible (Special Ministry for Land Policy ­ MEPF,
subsequently the Ministry of Agrarian Development ­ MDA), and the project Technical Unit
(NEAD). Bank supervision staff made about 60 visits to the states in the course of
implementation for supervision, troubleshooting, providing expert guidance to visiting foreign
officials, and representing both the Bank and the methodology itself in public forums including
national and international seminars and workshops.

About 140 staff-weeks were required for formal supervision missions. Project execution
benefited from stable Bank task management for the duration. The advantages of the Bank's
Recife Office in terms of proximity, experienced Task Managers and administrative personnel,



                                                  - 28 -

long-standing relationships with State and Federal authorities and knowledge of the
community-driven mechanisms and their evolution in the Northeast, were evident. Issues were
complex in an evolving, innovative operation and supervision worked actively to promote proper
evaluation and continuous incorporation of lessons through adaptation of design and
administrative features. The project was correctly rated Satisfactory throughout, for
Development Objectives and Implementation Progress.

7.3 Overall Bank performance:
Rated Satisfactory

Borrower
7.4 Preparation:
For Government, the community-based approach to land reform provided a cost-effective means
of responding rapidly to the politically and socially challenging demands of the landless rural poor
for increased access to land, while complementing traditional mechanisms in an administratively
simpler and less conflictive way. The project was prepared/designed in close contact with the
Minister of Agrarian Reform, who personally promoted the pilot in the Northeast. The
Governors of participating Northeast states firmly endorsed the project concept. In early 1996,
Government upgraded sector institutions, designated a Federal Minister for Agrarian Reform and
increased the budget for the overall Federal land reform program (from US$1.3 billion in 1995 to
US$2.6 billion in 1997). Subsequently, following project Effectiveness, new Federal legislation
increased the taxation of non-productive holdings, making additional resources available to
sustain agrarian reform activities/programs.

7.5 Government implementation performance:

Government Implementation Performance: The Federal Government was always committed to
this project, which benefited during its preparation, launching and execution from the strong
personal support of the Minister for Land Policy and subsequently, from the Minister for Agrarian
Development following changes in institutional responsibilities. As stated in 5.2, for about half
the project period, Government had difficulty providing resources from the general budget to
permit the inflow to the project of Bank loan funds. Even so, resources provided were sufficient
for the project to rapidly achieve its targeted 15,000 beneficiaries, slightly exceeding this figure.
Government was consistently committed to providing counterpart funding for the land purchase
component which was 100% financed from Government resources.
The evolution of this commitment was demonstrated by Government's proposing in 1999, well
before closing of CT, a significant scale-up of the market-based program to 14 states, including
four outside the Northeast region, using the same strategy as CT with a total cost of EUR 436.4
million and a Loan of EUR 218.2 million (US$201.1 million equivalent), benefiting 50,000
families over four years. Government's strategy was to use this opportunity to incorporate all
critical lessons learned at that time, into an expanded operation rather than attempt to make
extensive changes to the CT. Once the CT reached its targeted number of beneficiaries,
Government decided to close it and cancel the Loan balance (US$21.4 million), rather than
continue with two projects of similar design, objectives, terms and conditions under
implementation simultaneously.




                                                 - 29 -

7.6 Implementing Agency:

Center for Agrarian Studies (NEAD): The project was managed by NEAD, established in 1997
within the cabinet of the Minister Extraordinary for Land Policy (MEPF). NEAD's principal
intended function was to assist that cabinet, contributing to the preparation and improvement of
Government land policies, as well as generating studies and research to support this function. Its
responsibilities in practice were much broader. The technical and administrative staff of NEAD
was always small and the unit carried out a full range of tasks including project coordination,
training and assistance to participating states, as well as evaluation/studies and project monitoring,
mainly by contracting consultant support. Coordination of CT passed in its last six months to the
newly-created National Technical Unit (NTU) responsible for the follow-on Land-based Poverty
Alleviation Project. The NTU is structured with an administrative team experienced in all aspects
of the new project.

NEAD's performance was satisfactory overall, and especially good in regard to the many
evaluations, studies and special events designed to disseminate project lessons and results.
NEAD's collaboration with the UNICAMP evaluation team was particularly fruitful. The project
has a unique body of research data on an innovative and still controversial land re-distribution
methodology, now in its 7th year.

State Technical Units: Performance was generally satisfactory within the context of difficulties
associated for the most part with administering a new methodology subject to high beneficiary
demand and under tight fiscal conditions (see 5.3). Project coordination was handled within the
same STUs established for the purposes of administering the Bank-supported, community-driven
rural poverty reduction projects, which reduced the administrative costs of the CT (and clearly
benefited the project due to their accumulated institutional and technical knowledge from a
decade of administering and coordinating those programs). Each STU established a technical
group responsible exclusively for the CT; the CT used the administrative and financial structure
established for the rural poverty projects. STUs also leveraged, to different degrees depending on
the state, support from other public bodies such as State Land Institutes, departments/agencies
responsible for land administration and linked to state secretariats of agriculture, and NGOs at the
state and municipal levels, which resulted in good quality project supervision. Field supervision
was handled directly by the STUs and by other bodies such as State Land Institutes. In Ceará,
most supervision was done by the Technical Assistance and Rural Extension Company, and in
Bahia, through the Agrarian Reform Coordination Unit of the State Secretariat of Agriculture. In
Maranhão, Regional Management offices of the State Government provided supervision and some
technical assistance.

7.7 Overall Borrower performance:
Rated Satisfactory




                                                 - 30 -

8. Lessons Learned

Critical Factors: A series of factors was of fundamental importance to the successful outcome of this
project:

(i)     Political and social timeliness;

(ii)    Commitment of Federal, State and local leaders, confronted with chronic rural poverty and
landlessness and seeking cost-effective and non-conflictive options for land-re-distribution;

(iii)   Profound changes in the relationship between the Federal Government, states and
municipalities under the Constitution of 1988, permitting decentralized governance, community
participation and the direct transfer of resources to beneficiaries;

(iv)    The Bank's global knowledge base and willingness to act as "honest broker" in a risky,
controversial and innovative approach;

(v)      Formal evaluation program resulting in extensive data supporting arguments about
impact and potential; and,

(vi)    Demonstration effects across the Northeast region and within states at the local level, of
the successful community-driven, rural poverty projects and the opportunity to
replicate/incorporate their principles, practices and lessons.

Lessons:

Evaluation and supervision have produced the following lessons:

(i)     The market-based mechanism, community-led, is an agile and effective complementary
method for settling landless rural families, condensing on average, the entire process from
identification to purchase into about 90 days.

(ii)    Self-selection for participation effectively pinpoints the rural poor and in particular, the
"entrepreneurial poor", those more likely to settle and produce successfully. The vast majority of
beneficiaries have had household incomes/characteristics consistent with the targeted group.

(iii)   Most properties acquired are modestly-sized relative to traditional land reform projects,
settling some 15-30 families. Associations with <10 families have difficulty forming a leadership
core, and aggregate resources available for investment after purchase of land may be insufficient.
Groups exceeding 50 families are unwieldy, with diminished bargaining power due to internal
pressures; and, few available properties can accommodate large numbers.

(iv)    Communities have consistently selected fair to good quality land representative of
predominant conditions in each state, at significant cost savings vs. traditional land reform, and



                                                  - 31 -

without elevating land prices or promoting collusion.

(v)     In drought-prone areas, authorities are advised to avoid approving purchase proposals for
land where irrigation does not exist or cannot be rapidly installed.

(vi)    Implementation through community associations is successful. Associations show
impressive capacity to mobilize members, select and negotiate land for purchase, prepare on-farm
productive investments and execute them.

(vii)   Evaluation demonstrates the financial and economic viability of a majority of
subprojects, with financial returns in more favorable climatic zones exceeding initial estimates. In
semi-arid zones, financial estimates are met where water access is adequate, dictating
development of a strategy for resolving the water access issue where applicable.

(viii)  Government's political will to implement and finance sensitive new programs extending
the benefits of secure land ownership to large numbers of poor rural families, and challenge vested
interests, must be correctly assessed and calibrated in project design at the outset; continuous
effort to build support and dialogue with stakeholders is essential, especially in the context of
program expansion.

(ix)    Strong MIS is a key instrument for monitoring and implementation of a project involving
numerous community groups across a broad area; and, with evaluation, permits early
identification of issues and continuous inclusion of improvements/adaptations.

(x)     Technical assistance and credit are vital inputs in the early years of new settlement to
create, consolidate and innovate productive activity, build social cohesion and boost sustainability.
Ensuring their availability is rural areas requires a strategy and strong follow-up.

(xi)    The importance of strong evaluation and information dissemination programs cannot be
over-stressed.




                                                 - 32 -

9. Partner Comments

(a) Borrower/implementing agency:

The Borrower provided the following comments on the Bank's draft ICR:




                                              - 33 -

(b) Cofinanciers:
na

(c) Other partners (NGOs/private sector):
na

10. Additional Information

na




                                             - 34 -

Annex 1. Key Performance Indicators/Log Frame Matrix

A. Key Performance Indicators
A. Key Performance               Responsible       Unit             Estimated Total   Actual Outcome
IndicatorsProject Components     Institution
and Activities

A. Land purchases                STUs, community
                                 associations
Land purchases financed:
- beneficiary families                             families         15,000            15,267
- beneficiary indivs.                              individuals      75,000            76,300
- subprojects                                      No.              500               609

B. Community subprojects         STU, community
                                 associations
Subprojects implemented
- start-up grants                                  families         15,000            15,267
- investment subprojects                           No.              2,500             2,965

C. Institutional development
- prep. of annual program of TA  STU               No. per state    3                 5
and training
Training, TA and seminars        STU
- beneficiary assns                                No.              50                95
-STU/SLI staff                                     No.              10                22
Publicity campaigns, each state  STU
- present to Bank                STU                                                  done
- implementation                 STU                                                  done

D. Project admin. Supervision,
monitoring
- supervision of subprojects     STU               No. visits       6,000             7,300
- annual operating plans (POA)   STU               No. per state    4                 5
Monitoring reports and reviews
- monthly disb. & MIS update     STU               No. per state    42                48
- semi-annual reports            STU               No. per state    7                 10
- external audits                STU               No. per state    4                 5
-phys. perf. reviews             STU               No. per state    4                 5
- implem. review                 STU                                                  Done
- mid-term review                STU, MEPF, Bank                                      Done

E. Project Evaluation
Center for Agrarian Studies      MEPF (later MDA)
(NEAD)
- established                                                                         Done
- operational                                                                         Done
- prepare annual plan and TOR                                                         Done
Information network and          MEPF (later MDA)
dissemination
- implement activities                                                                Done
Evaluation studies               MEPF/MDA
- design study                                                                        Done (1998)
- baseline study                                                                      Done (1999)
- re-surveys                                                                          Done (2001, 2003)
Studies                          MEPF/MDA
Land market study                                                                     Done
Financial options study                                                               Done
Social demand study                                                                   Done
Legal framework for coops. study                                                      Done
Other studies                                                                         Done (4.2)




                                                       - 35 -

B. Log Frame Matrix
Narrative Summary                   Key Performance Indicators           Actual/Latest Estimate
1A: Outcome/Impact Indicators
1. Increased incomes of rural       1. Incomes of families               1. From 1998-2003, family
poor through improved access to     participating in the project vs.     nominal income rose 180% over
land and participation in           control groups and pre-project       pre-project levels and real income
community subprojects               income levels.                       (deflated) rose 75%.
                                                                         2. By 2003, about 65% of family
                                                                         income was from on-farm
                                                                         activities vs. 13% in 1998 and
                                                                         45% in 2000.
2. Increased agricultural output of 2. Net economic benefits of          2. Economic rates of return
lands included in the project       increased agricultural production    (ERR) 21% Semi-arid, 27% Meio
                                                                         Norte, 55% Zona da Mata.
                                                                         Financial rates of return (FRR)
                                                                         22% Semi-arid, 51% Meio Norte,
                                                                         35% Zona da Mata (higher initial
                                                                         investment cost of land).
3. Piloting a new, market-based     3. Pilot program tested and          3. Pilot program successfully
approach to land re-distribution    evaluated                            tested. Evaluated in 1999, 2001,
                                                                         2003. Resulted in scale-up to
                                                                         Land-based Poverty Alleviation
                                                                         Project I (Crédito Fundiário,
                                                                         7037-BR), a 4-year program in 14
                                                                         states, with estimated total
                                                                         estimated cost of around
                                                                         US$400.0 million (original
                                                                         denominated in Euro) and
                                                                         benefiting 50,000 families.
1B : Output Indicators
1. Establishment of family farms    1. Family farms established for      1. Family farms established for
on lands purchased by               about 15,000 participating           15,267 families
communities with project            families
(Federal Government) funds
2. Implementation of land value     2. Subprojects implemented on-       2. 2,965 investment subprojects
improving community                 farm, covering about 15,000          implemented on
subprojects                         beneficiaries                        settlements/farms benefiting
                                                                         about 15,267 families (water
                                                                         supply, electricity, access roads,
                                                                         small-scale agro-processing,
                                                                         animal herd development, crop
                                                                         development, tractor, creches,
                                                                         community schools.
3. Information and analysis         3. PAD project performance           3. (i) See 4.2 for studies financed;
permitting evaluation of the pilot  indicators include : (i) an          (ii) baseline study (1998), prelim.
and its capacity for replication,   Evaluation study (detailed design    impact evaluation 2001, end-
and if indicated, measures to       study, baseline study and re-        project evaluation 2003; (iii) eval.
broaden program implementation.     surveys) ; and (ii) other studies to results lead to Land-based
                                    include land market study.           Poverty Alleviation Project I
                                                                         (7037-BR) in 14 states.




                                                    - 36 -

Annex 2. Project Costs and Financing


A. Project Costs and Financing
                                        At Appraisal                At Closing
Project Component                  Local Foreign     Total    Local Foreign      Total
Land Purchase Fund                   45.0        0.0  45.0      45.0      0.0     45.0
Community Subprojects                69.4      14.9   84.3      66.4      0.0     66.4
Community Development Support         1.9        1.6   3.5       1.4      1.2      2.6
Project Adm., Sup., Mon.              7.2        2.0   9.2       1.6      0.5      2.1
Impact Evaluation                     4.8        1.2   6.0       4.2      1.0      5.2
Total Baseline Cost                 128.3      19.7  148.0     118.6      2.7    121.3
Physical Contingencies                1.0        0.3   1.3       0.0      0.0      0.0
Price Contingencies                   0.3        0.4   0.7       0.0      0.0      0.0
Total Project Cost                  129.6      20.4  150.0     118.6      2.7    121.3



B. Project Cost by Procurement Arrangement
           At Appraisal                                 (US$million)


                                         Local      Direct                  Total Cost (incl.
                                   NCB Shopping Contracting Other N.B.F. Contingencies
Land                                0.0        0.0        0.0   0.0    45.0             45.0
                                   (0.0)     (0.0)      (0.0)  (0.0)  (0.0)             (0.0)
Civil Works                         3.5        1.5      32.8    0.0     0.0             37.8
                                   (3.2)     (1.3)     (29.6)  (0.0)  (0.0)           (34.1)
Goods and Materials                 0.0        2.4      44.1    0.0     0.0             46.5
                                   (0.0)     (2.2)     (39.6)  (0.0)  (0.0)           (41.8)
Cons. Serv., Studies and Proj. Adm. 0.0        0.0        0.0  20.7     0.0             20.7
                                   (0.0)     (0.0)      (0.0) (14.1)  (0.0)           (14.1)
TOTAL                               3.5        3.9      76.9   20.7    45.0            150.0
                                   (3.2)     (3.5)     (69.2) (14.1)  (0.0)           (90.0)




                                           - 37 -

                                                             (US$million)
                                            Local       Direct                    Total Cost (incl.
             At Closing             NCB Shopping Contracting Other N.B.F. Contingencies
Land                                   0.0        0.0         0.0      0.0   45.0             45.0
                                     (0.0)      (0.0)        (0.0)   (0.0)  (0.0)             (0.0)
Civil Works                            2.7        1.5        25.7      0.0    0.0             29.9
                                     (2.4)      (1.3)       (23.2)   (0.0)  (0.0)           (26.9)
Goods and Materials                    0.0        1.8        34.7      0.0    0.0             36.5
                                     (0.0)      (1.7)       (31.2)   (0.0)  (0.0)           (32.9)
Cons. Serv., Studies and Proj. Adm.    0.0        0.0         0.0      9.9    0.0              9.9
                                     (0.0)      (0.0)        (0.0)   (8.7)  (0.0)             (8.7)
TOTAL                                  2.7        3.3        60.4      9.9   45.0            121.3
                                     (2.4)      (3.0)       (54.4) (8.7)    (0.0)           (68.5)



C. Allocation of Loan Proceeds
                                       At Appraisal                       At Closing

                            Est. Project             Loan     Est. Project            Loan
  Category Description         Cost       Fin. %    Proceeds     Cost      Fin. %    Proceeds
Land                           45.0        0%         0.0        45.0        0%         0.0
Grants for Comm. Subp.         84.3       90%        75.9        66.4       90%        59.8
Inst. Strengthening             4.0       100%        4.0         2.6      100%         2.6
Project Evaluation              6.0       100%        6.0         5.2      100%         5.2
Project Adm.                    5.7       20%         1.1         0.5       20%         0.1
Field Supervision and Mon.      3.0       50%         1.5         1.6       50%         0.8
Unallocated                     2.0                   1.5         0.0                   0.0
TOTAL                          150.0      60%        90.0       121.3       56%        68.5


D. Sources of Financing
                                            At Appraisal                   At Closing
               Source                 Local     Foreign     Total   Local    Foreign      Total
Federal Government                     45.0        0.0      45.0     45.0       0.0      45.0
State Governments                       6.6        0.0      6.6       1.2       0.0       1.2
Beneficiary Communities                 8.4        0.0      8.4       6.6       0.0       6.6
IBRD                                   69.9       20.1      90.0     53.4       15.1     68.5
TOTAL                                 129.9       20.1      150.0   106.2       15.1    121.3




                                              - 38 -

Annex 3. Economic Costs and Benefits

The economic and financial analyses of the project are based on three family farm types which were
implemented in the project area. Under the initial project design, a fourth model ­ peri-urban ­ was also
included, but was never operationalized. The Semi-Arid represents farms in the interior of the Northeast
(the Sertão), in particular Ceará, Pernambuco, Minas Gerais and Bahia. Agriculture in the Semi-Arid
focuses on livestock (cattle as well as goats), subsistence food crops and a small area of higher value crops
(Pinha, representative of all higher value products) . There is minimal irrigation but access to limited
quantities of water for livestock and a small area of higher value crops. The Meio-Norte typifies the
beneficiaries in the State of Maranhão. This area is characterized by increased rainfall, making cultivation
of some fruit crops feasible. Family farms in the coastal region of Pernambuco are represented by the Zona
de Mata, which is characterized by sufficient rainfall and overall favorable climatic conditions, allowing
much smaller cropped areas.

The analysis draws on actual individual crop budgets and herd data. Crop yields and associated cropping
patterns are taken from a follow-up evaluation of project beneficiaries conducted in July/August 2003. The
analysis is based on the following assumptions:

1. A 10-year horizon is considered.
2. No multiplier effects on the local economy are considered.
3. No effect of the project on the market price of land is considered. This is borne out in actual project
experience.

The analysis is further constructed on the following facts:

1. Land repayment is over a 20-year term, with three years of grace, at 6% a.p.r, with a 50% rebate on
financing charges.
2. A start-up grant of R$1,300 was received by each beneficiary family upon receipt of the land.
3. Complementary subproject investments are valued at the average per-family (in R$), based on actual
project data and including a 10% family contribution (in terms of labor).
4. Family labor is valued at R$6 per day, while without-project family income is taken to be R$2,070 or
90% of the legal minimum wage.
5. Net economic benefits are calculated by: (i) subtracting from the benefit flow to families the
Government cost of the program and adding incremental tax revenues and transfers to previous land
owners.

Results

Beneficiary Incomes: Figures 1a and 1b depict the transformations in household income that have occurred
for beneficiary families. First, over the period 1998 to 2003, families participating in the project have
registered income increases of on average, 180% over initial levels. In 1998, at project inception, the
typical beneficiary family had a total income of R$2,057. By 2000, average income had risen to R$2,672,
while average income as of August 2003 had soared to R$5,777. Another way of recognizing the income
increase, while correcting for inflation over the period, is to convert this nominal income into daily
earnings.




                                                      - 39 -

                            Evolution of Beneficiary Income (in Daily Earnings)


                         700

                         600
                                                                         Agricultural
                         500                                             Production    In Figure 1a, for both 1998 and 2000
                         400                                                           figures, a daily wage of R$5.50 is employed.
    Earnings                                                             Farm Labor
                         300                                                           For 2003, the daily wage is set at R$8.88.

                                                                         Other Sources Whereas families in 1998 and 2000
            #Daily       200                                                           averaged the equivalent of 374 and 487
                         100                                                           daily wages annually, respectively, by 2003,

                          0                                                            this same figure had risen to 650 daily
                                                                                       wages annually.
                                 1998          2000         2003


Figure 1a




                                   EvolutionofBeneficiaryIncome(%)
                                                                                       Second, the sources of beneficiary household
                          100%                                                         income showed a significant shift toward
                                                                                       own agricultural production and away from
                           80%                                          Agricultural   both other sources (e.g., transfers, pensions)
                                                                        Production     and farm labor (Fig. 1b). Whereas in 1998,
                           60%
                                                                        FarmLabor      agricultural production comprised only 13%
                                                                                       of total beneficiary income, by 2003, this
                  Percent  40%                                                         same source of income had grown to
                                                                        Other Sources
                                                                                       account for nearly 65%.
                           20%

                            0%
                                    1998        2000       2003


Figure 1b

Ex post economic and financial rates of return were calculated for the three types of family farms (Table
1). In each case, these were considered satisfactory. Economic Rates of Return (ERR) ranged from 21%
(Semi-Arid) ­ where agro-climatic conditions are the most challenging among the three farm types ­ to
about 55% for the more favorable Zona de Mata. Overall, the ERR for the project was 25%.

Lower land prices and reduced own-consumption (relative to the Semi-Arid) led to a much higher FRR in
the Meio-Norte. In turn, the much higher price for land purchases in the Zona de Mata had a dampening
effect on the early cash flow for these beneficiaries, which resulted in a lower FRR However, monetary
income in the Zona de Mata, far surpassing the levels in both the Semi-Arid and Meio-Norte, contributed to
an ERR roughly double that of these other two regions. (see Table 1).




                                                                            - 40 -

 Table 1: Economic and Financial Rates of Return, Cedula da Terra
 Item                            Semi-arid            Meio Norte      Zona da         Total Project
                                                                      Mata
 Economic Rate of Return                21%               27%             55%                25%
 (ERR)
 Financial Rate of Return               22%               51%             35%                29%
 (FRR)



                       CT Beneficiary Income - Semi-Arid


                  6000
                  5000                                                   Evaluation results also confirm that
                  4000                                  HH Income        beneficiary families are now
              R$  3000                                                   generating cash incomes sufficient
                                                        Income After
                  2000                                                   to both satisfy debt repayment and
                                                        Land Payment
                  1000                                                   progressively construct an
                    0                                                    increasing asset base from

                        Year 3         Year 10                           agricultural production on the land
                                                                         purchased under the project.
                             Project Year


         Figure 2a

Figures 2a-2c graphically depict two milestones for the beneficiary families, in terms of income generated
from agricultural production: (i) the actual income, across the three farm types, after
Year 3 of project implementation and (ii) the projected income, expected ten years after the land purchase.

                       CT Beneficiary Income - Meio Norte                Overall, average annual household
                                                                         income rose to R$5,777 by 2003,
                  8000                                                   nearly three times the household
                  7000                                                   income registered in 1998. Across
                  6000                                                   the three farm types, average
                  5000                                     HH Income     beneficiary income from agricultural

                R$4000                                                   production alone had, as of year 3

                  3000                                     Income after  of the project, risen by 45% in the

                  2000                                     Land          Semi-Arid, 107% in the Meio-Norte
                                                           Payment       and a staggering 300% in the Zona
                  1000                                                   de Mata.
                     0
                         Year 3        Year 10

                             Project Year


         Figure 2b




                                                      - 41 -

          CT Beneficiary Income - Zona de Mata


     18000                                                 A key aspect of the sustainability of
     16000
     14000                                                 the project lies in the capacity of

     12000                                   HH Income     beneficiaries to generate sufficient
     10000                                                 cash income to both service the debt
   R$ 8000                                   Income After  incurred for the land purchase and
      6000                                   Land Payment  continue to accumulate assets for
      4000                                                 future farm improvements.
      2000                                                 Evaluation results indicate that,
        0
                                                           when all monetary household
             Year 3       Year 10                          income is considered (i.e., cash
                 Project Year                              income from agricultural
                                                           production, off-farm employment,
Figure 2c                                                  transfers and pensions), project
                                                           beneficiaries have sufficient
                                                           resources to adequately make annual
                                                           debt service payments ­ ranging
                                                           from R$300 in the Semi-Arid to
                                                           R$650 in the Zona de Mata.




                                          - 42 -

Annex 4. Bank Inputs

(a) Missions:
Stage of Project Cycle                 No. of Persons and Specialty           Performance Rating
                                     (e.g. 2 Economists, 1 FMS, etc.)    Implementation Development
                   Month/Year  Count           Specialty                   Progress       Objective

 Identification/Preparation
              05/1996                   2    Ag. Economist
                                        1       Economist
                                        2       Ag. Specialist


 Appraisal/Negotiation
              11/1996                   3    Ag. Economist
                                        1      Economist
                                        2      Ag. Specialist

              01/1997                   2    Ag. Economist
                                        2      Ag. Specialist
                                        1      Economist
                                        4      Consultants


 Supervision
              06/1997               Update   -                                S               S
              04/1998                   1    Ag. Economist                    S               S
                                        1       Economist
                                        1       Ag. Specialist

              09/1998                   1    Ag. Economist                    S               S
                                        1       Ag. Specialist

              05/1999                   1    Ag. Economist                    S               S
              11/1999                   1    Ag. Economist                    S               S
                                        1      Ag. Specialist

              05/2000 (MTR)             1    Ag. Economist                    S               S
                                        1       Economist
                                        1       Ag. Specialist

              09/2000                   1    Ag. Specialist                   S               S
              03/2001                   1    Ag. Specialist                   S               S
                                        1       Ag. Economist

              11/2001                   1    Ag. Specialist                   S               S
              06/2002                   1    Ag. Specialist                   S               S
              11/2002                   1    Ag. Specialist                   S               S

 ICR
              03/2003                   1     RD Specialist                   S               S
                                        1       Ag. Specialist




                                              - 43 -

(b) Staff:

       Stage of Project Cycle                Actual/Latest Estimate
                                 No. Staff weeks                 US$ ('000)
  Identification/Preparation            22.4                           18.0
  Appraisal/Negotiation                 13.3                           33.2
  Supervision                          140.3                         460.1
  ICR                                     6.0                          13.5
  Total                                182.0                         524.8




                                            - 44 -

Annex 5. Ratings for Achievement of Objectives/Outputs of Components

(H=High, SU=Substantial, M=Modest, N=Negligible, NA=Not Applicable)
                                          Rating
   Macro policies                        H       SU    M       N    NA
   Sector Policies                       H       SU    M       N    NA
   Physical                              H       SU    M       N    NA
   Financial                             H       SU    M       N    NA
   Institutional Development             H       SU    M       N    NA
   Environmental                         H       SU    M       N    NA

Social
            Poverty Reduction            H       SU    M       N    NA
            Gender                       H       SU    M       N    NA
            Other (Please specify)       H       SU    M       N    NA
         Social capital development
   Private sector development            H       SU    M       N    NA
   Public sector management              H       SU    M       N    NA
   Other (Please specify)                H       SU    M       N    NA
Note: Under Social, gender is rated Substantial as an outcome of investments in energy, water supply and
housing, all of which benefit poor rural women, and the employment and family income benefits of the
settlement process.




                                                    - 45 -

Annex 6. Ratings of Bank and Borrower Performance

(HS=Highly Satisfactory, S=Satisfactory, U=Unsatisfactory, HU=Highly Unsatisfactory)


6.1 Bank performance                           Rating

   Lending                                       HS     S     U       HU
   Supervision                                   HS     S     U       HU
   Overall                                       HS     S     U       HU


6.2 Borrower performance                       Rating

   Preparation                                   HS     S     U       HU
   Government implementation performance         HS     S     U       HU
   Implementation agency performance             HS     S     U       HU
   Overall                                       HS     S     U       HU




                                                    - 46 -

Annex 7. List of Supporting Documents

Estudo de Avaliação de Impactos do Programa Cedula da Terra, 2003: Relatorio Final. State
University of Campinas, November 2003.

Estudo de Avaliação de Impactos do Programa Cédula da Terra, 2001. Relatório Síntese. State
University of Campinas, and Ministry of Agrarian Development, November 2002.

Evaluation of Cédula da Terra in the States of Bahia and Ceará. State University of Campinas,
1999

Project Baseline Study. State University of Campinas, Ministry of Agrarian Development and
Center for Agrarian Studies (NEAD), 1999

Avaliação Preliminar do Cedula da Terra. Relatório Técnico 1999a and 1999b, Buainain,
Silveira, Souza Filho, Magalhães.

Can Community-driven Infrastructure Programs Contribute to Social Capital? Findings from the
Rural Northeast of Brazil. Ryan and Costa, May 12, 2003.

See also list of research studies in Section 4.2.

Project Supervision Reports (PSR)

Project Appraisal Document, Land-based Poverty Alleviation Project I, Report 19585-BR,
November 6, 2000.

Project Audit Reports

Physical Performance Reviews (annual)




                                                 - 47 -

- 48 -

