Page  1
 
 
THE INSPECTION PANEL 
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT 
1818 H Street, N.W. 
 
Telephone: (202) 458-5200 
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION 
 
 
Washington, D.C. 20433, USA 
Fax : (202) 522-0916 
 
 
       Internet: 
 
http:\\www.worldbank.org
 
 
IPN REQUEST RQ99/1 
 
  
       
 January 
8, 
1999 
 
NOTICE OF REGISTRATION 
 
Re: Request for Inspection
 
– BRAZIL:  Land Reform and Poverty Alleviation Pilot Project 
(Loan No. 4147BR)
 
 
 
The Inspection Panel (the “Panel”) received on December 14, 1998 a 
Request for Inspection (the “Request”) dated December 10, 1998 signed by the 
Fórum Nacional Pela Reforma Agrária e Pela Justiça No Campo (The National 
Forum for Agrarian Reform and Justice in Rural Areas), (“the Forum”), and 
signed by representatives of ABRA – Assoçiação Brasileira de Reforma Agrária 
(Brazilian Agrarian Reform Association), ANMTR – Articulação Nacional de 
Mulheres Trabalhadoras Rurais (National Group of Rural Women Workers), 
Cáritas Brasileira (Brazilian Branch of Caritas), CIMI – Conselho Indigenista 
Missionário (Missionary Indigents Council), CNASI – Confederação Nacional das 
Associações dos Servidores do INCRA (National Confederation of Associations 
of INCRA staff), CONIC – Conselho Nacional de Igrejas Cristás do Brasil 
(National Council of Christian Churches of Brazil), CONTAG – Confederação 
Nacional dos Trabalhadores na Agricultura (Nacional Confederation of 
Agricultural Workers), CPT – Comissão Pastoral da Terra (Pastoral Land 
Commission), INESC – Instituto de Estudos Sócio-Econômicos (Institute of 
Socioeconomic Studies), MST – Movimento dos Trabalhadores Rurais Sem 
Terra (Movement of Landless Rural Workers), Rede Brasil sobre Instituições 
Financeiras Multilaterais (Brazilian Network on Multilateral Financial Institutions) 
and 853 individuals (the Requesters). 
 
 
The Requesters claim that rural workers and landless peasants signing 
the Request and/or represented by the Forum and/or its member organizations 
are being materially and adversely affected by the design and execution of this 
project and are likely to be similarly affected by follow-up loans that the Bank 
intends to make to support these kind of projects in Brazil. 
 
 
Specifically, the Requesters claim that the project is not achieving its 
objectives, is not being implemented as a pilot project, will make it impossible for 
its alleged beneficiaries to repay the debts they enter into under the project, has 
increased the prices of agricultural land available to rural workers and is being 
implemented as an alternative instead of a complement to Brazil’s constitutionally 
mandated agrarian reform program, and the Bank has failed to consult and 
Page  2
 
 
adequately inform project affected people and their representatives.  According 
to the Requesters, the foregoing would constitute violations of 
inter alia
 the 
following Bank Polices and Procedures: 
 
 
OD 4.15 on Poverty Reduction 
 
BP 17.50 on Disclosure of Operational Information 
GP 14.70 on Involvement of NGOs in Bank Operations (which is not under 
the purview of the Panel) 
 
 
I am notifying you that the Request appears to meet the criteria for 
registration set forth in paragraphs 17 and 22 of the Panel’s Operating 
Procedures (the "Operating Procedures"), so I have on January 8, 1999, which is 
also the date of the dispatch of this notice, registered the Request in the 
Inspection Panel Register. 
 
 
In accordance with paragraph 18 of IBRD Resolution No. 93-10 and 
paragraph 18(d) of the Operating Procedures, Bank Management is hereby 
notified that it must provide the Panel no later than February 9, 1999 with written 
evidence that it has complied, or intends to comply with the relevant policies and 
procedures in the implementation of the above-referenced project.  The subject 
matter the Management must deal with in a response to the Request is set out in 
paragraph 33 of the Operating Procedures.  After receiving the Management 
response, the Panel will, as provided by paragraph 19 of the Resolution, 
“determine whether the Request meets the eligibility criteria set out in paragraph 
12 to 14 and shall make a recommendation to the Executive Directors as to 
whether the matter should be investigated.” 
 
The Request has been assigned IPN Request Number RQ99/1. 
 
 
 Sincerely, 
 
 
 
 Ernst-Günther 
Bröder 
 Chairman 
 
 
 
  
  
To: 
D. Tomás Balduino 
 
Bispo de Goiãs Velho 
 
Presidente da Comissão Pastoral da Terra 
 
Secretario do the Fórum Nacional Pela Reforma  
Agrária e Pela Justiça No Campo 
 
Page  3
 
 
Mr. 
James 
D. 
Wolfensohn 
    
 President 
 
 
International Development Association  
 Room 
MC12-750 
     
 
[by hand against confirmation] 
  
cc: 
The Executive Directors and Alternates 
International Development Association 
 
 
