Page  1
 
 
THE INSPECTION PANEL 
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT 
1818 H Street, N.W. 
 
Telephone: (202) 458-5200 
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION 
 
 
Washington, D.C. 20433, USA 
Fax :            (202) 522-0916 
 
       Internet: 
 
http:\\www.worldbank.org
 
 
IPN REQUEST RQ99/5 
  
       
 September 
28, 
1999 
 
NOTICE OF REGISTRATION 
 
Re: Second Request for Inspection
 
       BRAZIL:  Land Reform and Poverty Alleviation Pilot Project 
       (Loan No. 4147BR)
 
 
 
The Inspection Panel (the “Panel”) on September 14, 1999 received a 
Request for Inspection (the “Second Request”) dated and delivered to the Bank’s 
Field Office in Brasilia, Brazil, on August 27, 1999.  This is the second Request 
for Inspection submitted to the Panel regarding the above-referenced project.  
The Second Request has been signed by representatives of the same social and 
labor organizations that signed the original Request for Inspection dated 
December 21, 1998.
1
 In addition, about 25 members of the Federal Senate and 
Chamber of Deputies, plus representatives of other social organizations, religious 
leaders, Federal Congressional staff and other individuals 
2
 have signed the 
Second Request. Although the Second Request contains substantially the same 
allegations about failures in the project’s design and implementation and possible 
violations of Bank policies and procedures, the Requesters claim that the Second 
Request is justified by new circumstances and new evidence not known by 
and/or available to the Requesters at the time of the prior Request.
3
   
 
The Requesters claim that they now have evidence, 
inter alia
, that the 
terms of loans for land purchases have not been improved as indicated by the 
Panel in its Report
4
, that the project continues to pay inflated prices for land that 
could be expropriated at a lower cost (thereby increasing agricultural land prices 
and harming the poor) and that the bad quality of the land acquired under the 
project and the absence of adequate lines of credit for project beneficiaries will 
not allow them to cultivate the land and repay their loans.  The Requesters also 
claim that Bank management did not provide the Panel information available to it 
that would have confirmed veracity of their claims. 
 
 
As in the prior Request, the Requesters claim that rural workers and landless peasants 
signing the Request and/or represented by the Fórum Nacional Pela Reforma Agrária e Pela 
Justiça No Campo (The National Forum for Agrarian Reform and Justice in Rural Areas), (“the 
Forum”) and/or its member organizations are being materially and adversely affected by the 
                                                
 
1
 
See INSP/R 99-1, 2 and 4. 
2
 All signatories of the Second Request hereinafter called “the Requesters”. 
3
 See paragraph 12 d) of the Board Resolution that established the Inspection Panel.  
4
 See para 22 of the Panel’s Report and Recommendation dated May 27, 1999 (INSP/R 99-4)
 
Page  2
 
 
design and execution of this project and are likely to be similarly affected by follow-up loans that 
the Bank intends to make to support these kind of projects in Brazil. 
 
 
The Requesters’ allegations could constitute violations of 
inter alia
 the following Bank 
Polices and Procedures: 
 
 
OD 4.15 on Poverty Reduction 
 
OD 13.05 Project Supervision 
 
BP 17.50 on Disclosure of Operational Information 
 
  
I am notifying you that I have on September 28, 1999, which is also the date of the 
dispatch of this notice, registered this Request in the Inspection Panel Register.  Due to the fact 
that the Panel’s “registration” process is often misunderstood, I would like to emphasize that 
“registration” is an administrative procedure established by the Panel and that it implies no 
judgement whatsoever concerning the eligibility of the Request. 
 
 
In accordance with paragraph 18 of the Resolution and paragraphs 2 and 8 of the 1999 
Clarifications to the Resolution that established the Inspection Panel (the “1999 Clarifications”)
5
,  
Bank Management has been notified that it must provide the Panel, no later than October 28, 
1999, with written evidence that it has complied, or intends to comply with the Bank’s relevant 
policies and procedures in relation to the above-referenced loan.  The subject matter that 
Management must deal with in a response to the Request is set out in paragraph 3 and 4 of the 
1999 Clarifications. 
 
 
After receiving Management’s response, the Panel will, as provided by paragraph 19 of 
the Resolution, “determine whether the Request meets the eligibility criteria set out in paragraph 
12 to 14 and shall make a recommendation to the Executive Directors as to whether the matter 
should be investigated”. 
 
 
The Request has been assigned IPN Request Number RQ99/5. 
 
 
 Sincerely, 
 
 
 
 
 Jim 
MacNeill 
 Chairman 
 
 
  
To: 
D. Tomás Balduino 
 
Bispo de Goiãs Velho 
 
Presidente da Comissão Pastoral da Terra 
                                                
 
5
 The 1999 Clarifications are contained in the “Conclusions of the Board’s Second Review of the Inspection Panel” dated April 20
, 
1999. 
Page  3
 
 
 
Secretario do the Fórum Nacional Pela Reforma  
Agrária e Pela Justiça No Campo  
 
Mr. 
James 
D. 
Wolfensohn 
    
 President 
 
 
International Development Association  
 Room 
MC12-750 
     
 
[by hand against confirmation] 
  
cc: 
The Executive Directors and Alternates 
International Development Association
 
