Document of
The World Bank
Report No: 20330-BR
PROJECT APPRAISAL DOCUMENT
ONA
PROPOSED LOAN
IN THE AMOUNT OF US$50.0 MILLION
TO
THE BANK OF THE NORTHEAST
FOR A
NORTHEAST MICROFINANCE DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
April 27, 2000
Brazil Country Management Unit
Environmentally and Socially Sustainable Development Sector Management Unit
Latin America and Caribbean Region



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
(Exchange Rate Effective April 1, 2000)
Currency Unit = Real (R$)
R$ = US$ 0.57
US$ I = R$ 1.74
FISCAL YEAR
January 1 to December 31
ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS
AROA       Adjusted Return on Assets                          LCSES      Environmentally and Socially Sustainable
Development Sector Management Unit Latin America
and the Caribbean Region
ATM        Automatic Teller Machine                           MIS        Management Information System
BN         Banco do Nordeste (Bank of the Northeast)          NBF        Non-Bank Financed
BNDES    Banco Nacional de Desenvolvimento Econ6mico e        NCB        National Competitive Bidding
Social (National Bank for Economic and Social
Development)
BRI        Bank Rakyat of Indonesia                           NE         Northeast
CAS        Country Assistance Strategy                        NGO        Non-Governmental Organization
CDI        Certificado de Deposito Interbancdria (Inter-Bank  PIRD       Japan's Policy and Humaai Resources Development
Certificate of Deposit)                                       Fund
CGAP       Consultative Group to Assist the Poorest           PMR        Project Management Report
CQS        Consultant's Qualifications Selection              QBS        Quality Based Selection
CY         Calendar Year                                      QCBS       Quality and Cost Based Selection
ETENE    Escrit6rio Tecnico de Estudos Economicos do          RFP        Request for Proposal
Nordeste - (Technical Office for Economic Studies of
the Northeast)
FENAPE   Federa~,co Nacional de Apoio aos Pequenos            ROA        Retum on Assets
Empreendimentos (National Federation for Assistance
to Small Enterprises)
FNE        Fundo Constitucional do Nordeste (Constitutional   SDI        Subsidy Dependence Index
Fund for the Northeast)
FY         Fiscal Year                                        SEBRAE   Servi,o Brasileiro de Apoio as Micro e Pequenas
Empresas (Brazilian Service for Assistance to Micro-
and Small Enterprises)
GDP        Gross Domestic Product                             SIL        Specific Investment Loan
ICB        International Competitive Bidding                  SME        Small and Medium Enterprises
IDA        International Development Association              SOE        Statement of Expenditures
IDB        Inter-American Development Banik                   SPC        Servico de Prote,co do Credito (Credit Protection
Service)
IFC        Intemational Finance Corporation                   TA         Technical Assistance
LACI       Loan Administration Change Initiative              UNDP       United Nations Development Program
LCS        Least Cost Selection
Vice President:    Mr. David de Ferranti
Country Director:      Mr. Gobind T. Nankani
Sector Director:    Mr. John Redwood
Task Team Leader:        Mr. Steven N. Schonberger



)X  -7
t£1A2






BRAZIL
NORTHEAST MICROFINANCE DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
CONTENTS
A. Project Development Objective                                                         Page
1. Project development objective                                                         2
2. Key performance indicators                                                            2
B. Strategic Context
1. Sector-related Country Assistance Strategy (CAS) goal supported by the project        2
2. Main sector issues and Government strategy                                            3
3. Sector issues to be addressed by the project and strategic choices                    5
C. Project Description Summary
1. Project components                                                                    6
2. Key policy and institutional reforms supported by the project                         7
3. Benefits and target population                                                        8
4. Institutional and implementation arrangements                                         8
D. Project Rationale
1. Project altematives considered and reasons for rejection                              9
2. Major related projects financed by the Bank and other development agencies           10
3. Lessons leamed and reflected in proposed project design                              10
4. Indications of borrower commitment and ownership                                     11
5. Value added of Bank support in this project                                          11
E. Summary Project Analysis
1. Economic                                                                             12
2. Financial                                                                            13
3. Technical                                                                            14
4. Institutional                                                                        15
5. Environment                                                                          20
6. Social                                                                               21
7. Safeguard Policies                                                                   23
F. Sustainability and Risks
1. Sustainability                                                                       23
2. Critical risks                                                                       23
3. Possib]e controversial aspects                                                       24



G. Main Loan Conditions
1. Effectiveness Condition                                                          25
2. Other                                                                            25
H. Readiness for Implementation                                                        26
I. Compliance with Bank Policies                                                       26
Annexes
Annex 1: Project Design Summary                                                        27
Annex 2: Project Description                                                           34
Annex 3: Estimated Project Costs                                                       64
Annex 4: Cost Benefit Analysis Summary                                                 65
Annex 5: Financial Summary for Revenue-Earning Project Entities, or Financial Summary  68
Annex 6: Procurement and Disbursement Arrangements                                     83
Annex 7: Project Processing Schedule                                                   89
Annex 8: Documents in the Project File                                                 90
Annex 9: Statement of Loans and Credits                                                91
Annex 10: Country at a Glance                                                          95
Annex 11: Framework for Microfinance in Brazil                                         97
MAP(S)



BRAZIL
Nortieast Microfinance Development Project
Project Appraisal Document
Latin America and Caribbean Region
LCSER
Date: April 27, 2000                              Team Leader: Steven N. Schonberger
Country Manager/Director: Gobind T. Nankani       Sector Manager/Director: John Redwood
Project ID: P050776                               Sector(s): BI - Institutional Development, FY - Other
Finance
Lending Instrument: Specific Investment Loan (SIL)  Theme(s): Rural Development; Poverty Reduction;
Financial Sector
Poverty Targeted Intervention: Y
Project Financing Data
R Loan         El Credit        Oi Grant        Cl Guarantee    Li Other (Specify)
For LoanslCredits/Others:
Amount (US$m): $50.00
Proposed Terms: Variable Spread & Rate Single Currency Loan (VSCL)
Grace period (years): 5                                Years to maturity: 15
Commitment fee: 0.75% on
undisbursed balance, beginning 60 days
after signing.
GOVERNMENT                                                      0.00           0.00           0.00
IBRD                                                           48.50            1.50         50.00
IDA
OTHER                                                          50.00           0.00          50.00
Total:                                                         98.50           1.50         100.00
Borrower: BANK OF THE NORTHEAST
Responsible agency: BANK OF THE NORTHEAST
Estimated disbursements ( Bank FY/US$M):
Annual     3.7           6.1          9.8        13.4        12.1         4.9
Cumulative     3.7   l      9.8         19.6        33.0        45.1         50.0
Project implementation period: 12/01/99 to 6/30/05
Expected effectiveness date: 07/01/2000  Expected closing date:  12/31/2005
OCa PAD F.ni Rev M,f. 200



A. Project Development Objective
1. Project development objective: (see Annex 1)
The proposed project is part of the Bank's program of targeted assistance to the Northeast Region which
constitutes the largest concentration of poverty in Brazil. The project addresses the lack of access of the
poor to financial services, an important constraint to improved productivity and incomes. The project
would build on a successful two-year pilot program, financed by the Government of Brazil with technical
assistance from the Bank and preparation assistance financed by a Japanese PHRD Grant. The overall
objective of the project is to improve the access of microenterprises throughout the Northeast Region to
sustainable, fonnal financial services by supporting expansion of the program known as "CrediAmigo" in
Brazil.
2. Key performance indicators: (see Annex 1)
Progress towards achievement of the project objective would be monitored using the following indicators:
(i) Extent of outreach: At least 120,000 additional active clients.
(ii) Depth of outreach: Average outstanding loan balance less than 65% of Northeast per capita
GDP.
(iii) Breadth of outreach: Number of municipalities in Northeast with CrediAmigo clients.
(iv) Financial sustainability: Subsidy dependence index of zero: adjusted return on assets greater
than 3%.
(v) Operational efficiency: Operational costs (annualized) less than 24% of average net
outstanding portfolio.
(vi) Institutional independence: Equity to earning assets ratio of at least 15%.
B. Strategic Context
1. Sector-related Country Assistance Strategy (CAS) goal supported by the project: (see Annex 1)
Document number: 16582-BR (CAS), R98-116 (Progress Report), SecM98-943 (Framework Paper)
Date of latest CAS discussion: 12/01/98
The project would support achievement of the CAS regional growth goals to (i) reduce rural and urban
poverty in the Northeast Region of Brazil; and (ii) increase the sustainability of poverty reduction activities.
The importance of self-employment and micro-enterprise activities to the incomes of the poor (discussed
below) suggests that activities which support the growth of those activities can improve their employment
and incomes. The Bank has supported Government programs which provide grant financing to poor
communities, particularly in rural areas, to develop their productive assets. Govemnment wishes to
"graduate" many of these communities from grant-based assistance. However, limited access to financing
for working capital and complimentary investments limits full utilization of the improved asset base. The
proposed project would develop, in the Northeast Brazil environment, products and delivery systems,
designed on the basis of international and local experience, for provision of financially sustainable
microfinance services to poor communities in urban and rural areas.
Relevant CAS indicators:   (i) Declining poverty gap for poor, client households in the Northeast;
(ii) Declining subsidy requirement per beneficiary
The proposed project is consistent with the CAS strategy to improve access to, and reduce the cost of
capital by using innovative lending technologies to lower financial internediation costs. To the extent the
- 2 -



project is able to provide savings services, it will also support increased domestic savings mobilization.
Emphasis on asset quality is consistent with the Bank's support of improvements in the soundness of the
financial system. Regulatory and supervisory issues particular to development of the microfinance industry
which are identified during the preparation and implementation of the proposed project are being integrated
into the Bank's dialogue with the Central Bank of Brazil in coordination with the Bank-financed Central
Bank Modernization Technical Assistance Loan, and through non-lending services. Experience in support
of commercial microfinance development in Brazil is being shared with the International Finance
Corporation (IFC) which places mobilization of resources for small and medium enterprises through credit
lines amongst its major priorities for development of capital markets.
2. Main sector issues and Government strategy:
See Annex llfor a more thorough review of the framewvork for microfinance in Brazil)
Poverty in Northeast Brazil
The Northeast Region, consisting of the states of Maranhao, Piaui, Ceara, Rio Grande do Norte, Paraiba,
Pemrnambuco, Alagoas, Sergipe, and Bahia, constitutes the largest concentration of poverty, particularly
rural poverty, in Brazil. While the Northeast accounts for less than 30% of Brazil's population (45
million), it contains over 55% (14.6 million) of Brazil's poor, a poverty rate over twice that of the rest of
the country. Almost half the Northeast population is rural and 60% of the poor in the Northeast live in rural
areas.
According to the Brazil Poverty Assessment (Brazil: A Poverty Assessment, World Bank Report No.
14323-BR)., 37.4% of all poor household heads are self-employed, reaching almost 50% in rural areas.
Economic and Sector Work (Brazil: the Management ofAgriculture, Rural Development and Natural
Resources, World Bank Report No. 11783-BR) has identified skewed access to land and financial services,
inter alia, as major constraints to improved productivity and incomes in the Northeast.
Government is piloting the use of market-based mechanisms to improve the quality and efficiency of its
services targeted to the poor. While the introduction of demand-driven programs has improved the
efficiency and effectiveness of some social investments targeted to the poor, programs to facilitate access to
land and credit have been less successful, requiring high, ongoing public subsidies while reaching a limited
number of beneficiaries. Government is now piloting the use of market-based, alternative mechanisms to
improve access to both land and financial services.
-3 -



Microenterprises
Despite their important role in the economy, microenterprises have very limited access to business support
services. The most recent available enterprise statistics indicate that the microenterprises account for over
90% of all finns in Brazil and over 35% of total employment in services, commerce and industry (
Coletanea Estatistica da Micro e Pequena Empresa, Brazilian Service for Assistance to Micro- and Small
Enterprises (SEBRAE)). Not surprisingly, given its economic profile, the Northeast Region has the highest
percentage of its labor force, 81% working in enterprises with up to five employees. A recent survey of
microentrepreneurs in the Northeast Region (Demanda PorMicrocredito No Nordeste Brasileiro,
Technical Office for Economic Studies of the Northeast (ETENE), indicates that most microentrepreneurs
have not completed secondary schooling, have little training in business management and have virtually no
access to lending from banks and other fonnal financial intermediaries. Private banks, unable to meet the
demand for lower-cost lending services to medium and large enterprises, have little incentive to develop the
market knowledge and technology required to profitably provide financial services to microenterprises. The
surveys carried out in urban centers and rural market towns, indicate that guarantee requirements,
transactions costs and inappropriate loan products discourage microenterpreneurs from accessing
government-sponsored directed credit programs. Limited informal finance is available from suppliers and
moneylenders at effective interest rates as high as 200% per annum. Government has recognized the
importance of supporting the development of microenterprises as part of its poverty reduction strategy and
has identified improved access to technical and financial services as a priority development activity (Brasil
em Accao, Ministry of Planning).
Access to Formal Financial Services
Access to formal financial services in Brazil is uneven. Using the rough indicator of population per bank
branch, access to banking services in Brazil (just under 10,000 people per branch) is comensurate with
other upper middle income countries in Latin America, though this number is much higher than in OECI)
countries. However, this masks important regional disparities. The Northeast (approximately 19,000 per
branch) and the North (20,000 per branch) are the most under-served regions in Brazil. In addition, using
GDP per branch ($50,000 per branch for Brazil) as an indicator of potential business volume, the
Northeast ($47,000) provides little incentive for private bankers to increase their coverage relative to other
regions (i.e.: in the North where GDP per branch is $60,000).
This disparity in coverage and lack of incentives for increased coverage by private banks is one of the
primary justifications for continued support of publicly-owned banks (which account for 46% of bank
branch infrastructure and 55% of financial sector assets in Brazil) and directed credit lines which generally
have high defaults and administrative costs. However, survey data from SEBRAE and ETENE indicates
that few microenterprises have access to financial services, particularly lending services, from either public
or private banks, despite attractive cash-flow characteristics, payment of interest rates to moneylenders and
suppliers which are several times those offered by directed credit lines, and a demonstrated willingness to
utilize savings services. While access to savings and deposit services is more common, this occurs mostly
in large, urban centers and even in those cases reaches less than a quarter of microentrepreneurs. As a
result, Govemment is seeking altemative mechanisms for deepening access to financial services, which
require limited and declining subsidies to initiate, and which could potentially be provided by the private
sector on commercial basis, reducing or eliminating the need for public interventions such as directed credit
lines.
-4 -



Microfinance Services
The development of microfinance services in Brazil has lagged behind that of other countries in Latin
America, due in part to the former period of high inflation, restrictions on the ability of NGOs to serve as
financial intermediaries and mobilize foreign donor funding, and lack of Government support for industry
development - all impediments which have been removed in the past two years. More recently, a number of
Brazilian programs have demonstrated that Brazilian microentrepreneurs are willing and able to borrow
and repay loans at relatively high rates of interest, but these programs are all quite small relative to the
potential market for these services. It is important to note that the existance of directed credit lines has not
been an impediment to the rapid growth of these programs despite the fact that they charge interest rates
several times that of the credit lines for loans of much shorter term and have had very low arrears rates.
Noting the success of microfinance programs in other countries, such as Indonesia, Bangladesh and
Bolivia, the Brazilian Government has embarked on an amnbitious program to promote the development of
microfinance services in Brazil as a cost-effective mechanism for addressing the public policy goal of
reducing disparities in access to financial services. Consistent with the experience in these countries where
governments and donors played a critical role during the initial development phase of the microfinance
industry, the Brazilian Government, working with donors, has taken several important initiatives over the
past two years to provide an appropriate legal frarnework as well as financial and technical assistance to
microfinance programs. A high-level commission attached to the Office of the President (Comunidade
Solidaria) has been working with the Central Bank to provide a new institutional context for development
of microfinance institutions ( Law No. 9.790 of March 23, 1999; Central Bank Circular and Resolution
No. 002915; and Presidential Provisionary Measure No. 1.9414-4 of July 28, 1999). In addition, the
National Bank for Economic and Social Development (BNDES), with support from the Inter-American
Development Bank (IDB), provides technical assistance and loans to existing Non-Governmental
Organization (NGO) lenders and NGO/municipal start-ups, located primarily in the urban centers of the
Southeast Region of Brazil.
In the Northeast Region, the World Bank has assisted Govemment in the development of an alternative
strategy, similar to the approach taken in Indonesia and Chile, where microfinance services were developed
in public development banks. Through the Northeast Rural Poverty Alleviation Program, a Japanese
PHRD Grant and the Consultative Group to Assist the Poorest (CGAP), the Bank has financed technical
assistance for the development of a pilot microfinance program (CrediAmigo) in the Bank of the Northeast
(BN), a regional development bank with branches throughout all nine Northeastern states and the northern
areas of Minas Gerais. The pilot, which was initiated in November 1997, had over 37,000 active clients
and an outstanding portfolio of almost US$10 million by December 31, 1999. Portfolio quality, measured
as 30-day portfolio-at-risk was 2.4%.
3. Sector issues to be addressed by the project and strategic choices:
The proposed project would build on the twvo-year pilot for development of CrediAmigo to provide
sustainable financial services to microenterprises throughout the Northeast Region. The program
represents the most important effort to develop a sustainable microfinance program within a commercial
bank in Brazil. While supporting the expansion and institutional development of the CrediAmigo program,
emphasis would be placed on progress towards full financial sustainability of service provision in order to
permit eventual phase-out of public or donor assistance.
The micro-finance program is being developed with BN, a development bank with majority govemment
ownership. The initial focus on a public bank, with its inherent risk of political intervention, was based on
- 5-



the commitment of BN management to development of a sustainable, microfinance program and important
potential support service network provided by BN's 176 branches throughout the Northeast Region. BN's
financial and institutional support systems and banking know-how have provided an important platform for
CrediAmigo's initial development. Though initially focused on lending services in urban areas and market
towns, the program will introduce savings and other financial services, consistent with the high demand
indicated by the ETENE surveys and their potential as a source of sustainable funding for the program.
Consistent with intemational experience, savings services will be introduced following thorough legal,
regulatory and institutional evaluation, and market surveys will be carried out to ensure savings products
are designed for the target clientele. The project will also pilot mechanisms to cost-effectively reach isolated
clients through the use of post offices as service windows, mobile branches, smart cards and ATMs.
By demonstrating the viability of a sustainable microfinance program, based on intemational best practices,
CrediAmigo is expected to have an important spill-over effect on the development of microfinance in
Brazil. Through.CrediAmigo, BN is the first bank in Brazil to provide unsecured loans based on solidarity
group guarantees. In addition, the program has emphasized sustainability and is demonstrating the
willingness of microentrepreneurs to borrow and repay at interest rates substantially higher than those
charged under directed credit lines. By the end of the project period it is expected that further financing ifor
CrediAmigo will be obtained commercially, at least for its more profitable market segments, while any
further Bank support would be limited to technical and financial assistance to extend the program's
outreach to increasingly isolated, under-served communities or to pilot financial products for special
categories of activities. Once the profitability of CrediAmigo is well established, it is expected that privalte
banks will begin to enter the microfinance market as has occurred in other countries.
C. Project Description Summary
1. Project components (see Annex 2 for a detailed description and Annex 3 for a detailed cost
breakdown):
..  . .a v.._. ... .
Expanded Microfinance Loan         Financial Sector    85.50       85.5     47.00       94.0
Portfolio (subloans)               Development
Strengthened Capacity to Support   Institutional       13.70       13.7      2.20       4.4
Sustainable Growth of CrediAmigo   Development
(TA, training, equipment, incremental
loan officers)
Impact Evaluation (TA)             Cross-sectoral       0.30        0.3      0.30        0.6
Economic
Analysis
Fee                                Other Non-sector     0.50        0.5      0.50        1.0
Specific
Total Project Costs                   100.00     100.0      50.00     100.0
Total Financing Required                   100.00      100.0     50.00      100.0
-6 -



2. Key policy and institutional reforms supported by the project:
While CrediAmigo continues to benefit from BN's operational support, the World Bank appraisal mission
and BN agreed that the program should evolve into a financially and legally distinct institution so as to
provide a governance and management structure focused on the needs of a sustainable microfinance
institution. In order to initiate this process, it was agreed that CrediAmigo will utilize an independent
accounting framework (including the estimated value of services provided by BN) to monitor operational
efficiency and profitability. In addition, BN management is working with the Central Bank to establish the
regulatory framework for a "trust fund"-type institutional arrangement which would permit CrediAmigo to
formally separate its accounts within BN and retain earnings in a capitalization fund to serve as future
equity. Additional studies under the project will identify options for increased institutional independence
and issues to be addressed with the Central Bank, including minimum capital requirements, restrictions on
branch operations, and the ability to provide savings and other financial services.
Credit and Savings Policies
Government-funded or guaranteed subsidized credit lines remain an important financial and sectoral policy
instrument in Brazil. The pilot experience with CrediAmigo has demonstrated superior repayment
performance relative to these credit lines despite the much higher interest rates and shorter terms of the
microfinance loans. As a result, BN is reviewing its current mechanisms for management of subsidized
credit lines. BN has raised this discussion with the Ministry of Finance and the Central Bank. By
demonstrating that a microfinance program can provide financial services more effectively to the target
groups without subsidy, CrediAmigo can provide Government with an option to distortionary, subsidized
credit lines.
Savings policies are also influenced by Brazil's strong reliance on directed credit. The Central Bank
imposes restrictions on the application of demand and savings deposits beyond the normnal reserve
requirements to fund special rural and housing lending programs. As a result, only 10% of demand
deposits and 25% (45% in the case of national, public banks) of savings deposits are available for
unrestricted lending by the mobilizing institution. In addition to the policy distortions in credit allocation,
this policy creates strong disincentives for deposit mobilization, particularly for institutions which are
uninterested or unable to utilize the funds withing the program restrictions. While this policy, like many in
Brazil is avoided by the private banks by having clients assign their funds to money-market or investment
CDs, these instruments are rarely attractive for the small savers typical of microfinance institutions, for
whom instant accessibility to the funds is second only to security. The Central Bank has indicated that it is
not opposed to easing these restrictions if alternative mechanisms, such as microfinance, can be found to
meet the needs of the some of the market segments served by the special programs. As part of its current
efforts to develop savings services in CrediAmigo, BN is seeking exemptions from these restrictions for
qualified institutions which utilize the deposits to finance their microfinance portfolios.
- 7 -



3. Benefits and target population:
The primary benefit of an expanded program would accrue to the urban and rural microenterprises
throughout Northeast Brazil which would have improved access to sustainable, lower-cost financial
services. Microenterprises are defined as owner operated firms with gross receipts of up to five minimum
salaries, and firms with employees with gross receipts of up to 10 minimum salaries. Based on this
criteria, CrediAmigo has estimated its potential market in the Northeast Region at over 2.2 million
microenterprises of which the program expects to serve at least 150,000 during the project period. Review
of a sample of the microenterprise financial statements prepared by loan officers indicates that client
businesses have average returns on assets of 34% per month with a median of 15%. CrediAmigo clients
currently pay 5% per month for credit services with minimal transactions costs, compared to the 10% or
more charged by informal lenders. While the financial benefits of microfinance programs on
microenterprises in terms of lower financial costs and high returns to economic activities is relatively
straightforward to evaluate, the eventual impact in terms of reduced poverty and improved standard of
living at the household level is more difficult to measure. Nonetheless, the program will utilize information
from the MIS, the social assessments and a formal impact evaluation focused on the microenterprise
household to assist BN and Government in assessing to what extent and through what mechanisms access
to microfinance services improves household welfare.
The program, consistent with successful programs worldwide, relies on self-targeting mechanisms based on
relatively small loans and high interest rates, as well as membership in a solidarity group. Using the proxy
commonly used for estimating poverty outreach in microfinance programs worldwide, CrediAmigo's
current average outstanding loan balance of US$241 is equivalent to 5.2% of per capita GDP in Brazil.
Even using the proportion of the much lower per capita GDP of the Northeast Region (17%), CrediAmigo's
depth of outreach is superior to that of programs such as BancoSol in Bolivia (8 1%) or even Grameen in
Bangladesh (48%). The social assessment carried out during project preparation confirms the program's
strong poverty orientation with over 80% of surveyed households reporting incomes below the poverty line.
Participation of the poor is facilitated by a dissemination program carried out in conjunction with
community organizations which work in street markets and poor neighborhoods, and as most new clients
discover the program through word-of mouth, particular attention is paid to providing a clear message to
current clients. Monitoring and impact evaluation activities will review client characteristics to check
consistency of beneficiary definition and targeting mechanisms with program and CAS objectives which
will be reviewed in-depth during the project's mid-term review.
4. Institutional and implementation arrangements:
The project would be implemented by the CrediAmigo Program in BN. The CrediAmigo Technical Unit
would have overall responsibility for implementation of project activities, working in conjunction with
relevant areas of BN. Individual branches would be responsible for lending under the Microfinance Loan
Portfolio Component. The CrediAmigo Technical Unit would have direct responsibility for implementation
of the Institutional Development Component of the project, and ETENE would manage implementation of
the Impact Evaluation Component.
Due to the importance of the expected demonstration and learning aspects of the program, the project
includes a number of mechanisms to promote review and evaluation by both primary (BN, Government,
CrediAmigo clients, Bank) as well as secondary (Central Bank, other microfinance institutions, other
commercial banks) stakeholders. The program includes an annual due diligence review which will be
conducted by an outside agency to thoroughly evaluate the program's progress towards commercial
viability according to several financial sector criteria. The due diligence will be reviewed jointly by BN,
Government and the Bank each year and a report prepared for general dissemination.
- 8 -



The program MIS will provide a framework for on-going analysis of client benefits at the enterprise level.
A mid-term review will be carried out no later than 30 months after loan effectiveness, during which BN,
Govemment and the Bank will review, inter alia, progress toward the program's financial sustainability
objectives, institutional evolution, results of the impact evaluation, environmental mitigation program, and
the effectiveness of dissemination activities.
D. Project Rationale
1. Project alternatives considered and reasons for rejection:
The principle altematives for supporting the development of microfinance services in Northeast Brazil are:
(i) financing NGOs; (ii) financing a private bank; (iii) financing an apex operation with private and other
public banks; and (iv) immediately creating an administratively and financially independent subsidiary or
similar entity. NGOs, while important sources of innovation in microfinance, rarely achieve substantial
outreach, particularly in rural areas. In Brazil, the oldest and largest NGO programn - National Federation
for Assistance to Small Enterprises (FENAPE) - has approximately 26,000 loans outstanding in its affiliate
programns with urban branches located in 12 states throughout Brazil after more than ten years of
operation. By contrast, BN's network of 174 branches in the Northeast represent substantial potential
outreach, including relatively isolated rural communities.
The private banking sector (including finance corporations) in Brazil is still in the process of consolidation,
and low domestic savings and high spreads and administrative costs in credit intermediation contribute to
the limited interest and ability of private-sector banks to serve even the small- and medium- enterprises
(SME) demand for financial services (Brazil CAS, op.cit.). IFC credit lines to support SME lending under
US$100,000 by private banks are not disbursing. Consistent with international experience, it is expected
that demonstration by CrediAmigo that provision of microfinance services can be profitable in the Brazil
environment may attract private banks into the market.
International experience with apex operations has demonstrated that these are most suited to addressing a
funding constraint in countries where significant microfinance retail capacity already exists. The
Inter-American Development Bank (IDB) has financed apex operations with public and private banks to
facilitate the development of microfinance services in other countries. While some of these programs have
induced banks to expand their small-scale loan portfolio, these loans are generally at the upper limits or
exceed the definition of micro-lending. In addition, banks have generally failed to expand their
micro-lending programs beyond the resources under the projects.
While the President of BN has expressed his desire to see CrediAmigo evolve into a financially and
administratively independent entity, the program currently derives significant benefits from operating as a
program of BN. The CrediAmigo program does not yet have sufficient scale to independently support the
high quality "back-office" services, including cash handling, security, promotions and communications and
logistical services including training which it can access through BN. In addition, its close association with
an important, regional, commercial bank is seen as an attractive attribute by its clients, most of whom have
never before had access to formal financial services. However, to anticipate its eventual independence, the
program has developed an independent accounting framework which includes imputed prices for all
services received from BN. Further institutional independence will depend in large part on the relative
advantages and lost privilages negotiated with the Central Bank.
-9-



2. Major related projects financed by the Bank and/or other development agencies (completed,
ongoing and planned).
Implementation   Development
Bank-financed                                                    Progress (IP)   Objective (DO)
Economic development of poor, rural  Northeast Rural Poverty         S              S
communities in the Northeast.      Alleviation Program (Projects
in all 10 states)
Market-based land reform.          Land Reform and Poverty           S              S
Alleviation Pilot Project
(BR-PE-6475))
Financial sector strengthening.    Central Bank Technical            S              S
Assistance Loan
(BR-PE-48357)
Other development agencies
Grants to microfinance NGOs.       IDB Small Grants Facility
Apex lending to on-going NGOs and   IDB Global Multi-sector
start-up municipal microfinance    Financing Program
institutions.
IP/DO Ratings: HS (Highly Satisfactory), S (Satisfactory), U (Unsatisfactory), HU (Highly Unsatisfactory)
3. Lessons learned and reflected in the project design:
The strong interest in microfinance as a tool to alleviate poverty provides numerous lessons regarding "best
practices" and errors to avoid. These lessons have been tested in the Brazil context during the pilot phase.
In addition, the Bank has facilitated visits by BN senior management and CrediAmigo staff to many of the
leading microfinance programs in Indonesia, Bolivia, Chile, Peru and Colombia. Amongst the most
important lessons reflected in the CrediAmigo program and the proposed project design are:
(i) Focus on sustainability as a goal from the outset of program development. The pilot phase was
designed to minimize operational costs while charging a high enough interest rate to permit fairly rapid
achievement of profitability. New products and delivery systems will be subject to feasibility studies to
determine their potential profitability, piloted to test critical business assumptions, and evaluated to
determine their contribution to overall program sustainability;
(ii) Provide appropriate incentives to program staff and clients. During the pilot phase, CrediAmigo
introduced an incentive system based on repayment performance and portfolio growth, which can account
for as much as 50% of loan officer salaries. Clients who repay promptly receive an interest rebate and can
renew their loans for a greater amount within 24 hours of their final loan payment. Access to additional
products, such as individual loans and payment services, can serve as additional incentives to clients with
good repayment records;
- 10 -



(iii) A management information system (MIS) which can provide real-time information on portfolio quality
and clear procedures to react to repayment problems is essential to avoid rapidly accumulating portfolio
deterioration. CrediAmigo, with financial assistance from a Japanese PHRD Grant, has installed an MIS
which is on-line in all CrediAmigo branches. An operational manual provides clear guidance for loan
officers, and the Technical Unit monitors and assists branches with repayment difficulties.
(iv) The ability to mobilize funds through savings and direct access to financial markets is an essential
element of longer-term sustainability. In addition, savings and payment services can be as valuable to the
poor as credit and significantly expands the potential client base. Under the Institutional Development
component of the proposed project, CrediAmigo's development into an independent institution will address
internal (BN) and extemal (Central Bank) constraints to service expansion and resource mobilization. As
has been done in other successful microfinance programs (BRI, BancoSol) market studies will be carried
out for the design of savings products tailered to the target clientele. Funds will be transferred internally by
BN to CrediAmigo branches at the inter-bank lending rate (CDI) so as maintain financial incentives to
reduce costs and seek alternative sources of financing. The cost of funds used for monitoring the program's
SDI is based on the rate which CrediAmigo would have to pay to mobilize deposits from the public.
(v) Rapid growth early in the pilot phase demonstrated the importance of developing institutional capacity
prior to rapid growth. As a result, the pilot program has focused on developing the capacity of support
systems including recruitment, training, information and management. During the first two years of the
loan period, CrediAmigo's capacity to support growth will be consolidated and this is reflected in the loan's
disbursement profile. Substantial program expansion from the current 213 loan officers will not begin until
the third year, following establishment of the capacity required to support an additional 400 loan officers.
4. Indications of borrower commitment and ownership:
The current program was initiated by the President and Board of Directors of BN who requested technical
assistance from the World Bank to develop an altemative mechanism for providing financial services to the
poor. BN has devoted significant resources, including funds for loans under the pilot program as well as
staff and senior management effort for program development. Study tours to successful microfinance
institutions in other countries have been followed by presentations to senior management as well as the
Board of Directors of BN. Perhaps most importantly, BN has emphasized its goal to develop a sustainable
institution as indicated by its decision to charge an interest rate which is higher than most NGO programs
in order to accelerate achievement of profitability.
5. Value added of Bank support in this project:
The proposed project fits well within the Bank's focused poverty reduction program in the Northeast
Region. Provision of financial services to microenterprises complements activities to reduce urban and
rural poverty through projects which improve the quality, cost-effectiveness and accessibility of education,
land reform and infrastructure services. The Bank's experience working with farmers' groups and
community associations through the Northeast Rural Poverty Alleviation Program provides the basis for
developing outreach strategies for solidarity group lending in rural areas.
World Bank financing would provide a reliable source of funds to the microfinance program during a
period of financial sector volatility in Brazil. Worldwide experience has demonstrated that liquidity
constraints during program expansion can severely undermine client willingness to repay, as the
expectation of access to new and possibly larger loans is an important, if not the primary, incentive for
repayment. As indicated above, the project includes assistance to CrediAmigo to identify and evaluate
alternative sources of funding for its continued expansion beyond the project period.
- 1 1 -



In addition, the World Bank's international expertise in microfinance, gained initially through its experience
in Indonesia in support of BRI, and later through its sponsorship of Sustainable Banking for the Poor and
CGAP provides a reference point for relevant experience which BN can readily access for program
development. CrediAmigo's experience can also provide the Bank with important lessons in the
development of commercial microfinance in large banking institutions.
Finally, the Bank can draw on its multi-sectoral experience in Brazil and international experience with
microfinance to assist BN and Government with dissemination of the results of the CrediAmigo program
from the perspectives of both poverty reduction and commercial sustainability. The Bank's on-going loans
and sector work in Brazil provide excellent linkages for reviewing microfinance in the context of
cost-effective poverty reduction and discussion of legal and regulatory impediments with Central Bank
authorities. In coordination with the IFC, the Bank can establish a credible forum for discussing
microfinance as a commercial, rather than donor-driven, activity with Brazil's private banking sector.
E. Summary Project Analysis (Detailed assessments are in the project file, see Annex 8)
1. Economic (see Annex 4):
O Cost benefit    NPV=US$ million, ERR = % (see Annex 4)
3 Cost effectiveness
0 Other (specify)
The proposed project provides a means for Govemment to build upon the pilot phase to demonstrate
financial viability with extended outreach in terms of numbers of clients and depth of outreach in terms of
reaching microenterprise owned and operated by the poor. The project is expected to provide substantial
public benefits. First and foremost, demonstration that financial services can be profitably provided to the
poor in a poor region such as the Northeast would provide Govemment with an alternative to directed
credit lines which have both high fiscal costs and whose funding mechanisms result in substantial distorticin
of credit allocation in Brazil. The project will attempt through its monitoring and impact evaluation
activities to determine both the effectiveness in targetting as well as the impact of access to financial
services on poor households; information which is vital for Government to evaluate its increasing financial
and legal and regulatory support for development of microfinance. The development of an appropriate
environmental screening and mitigation mechanism for microenterprises will be an important innovation
which can be utilized by other microfinance and SME lenders in Brazil to implement Brazil's Green
Protocol.
Economic evaluation of the provision of these expected benefits requires both calculation of a measure of
the efficiency with which the services are provided, as well as confirmation that (i) the benefits are being
provided to the target group, and (ii) the nature of the benefits in terms of income gains and improved
household welfare. In order to evaluate the CrediAmigo's cost-effectiveness, the program's actual and
projected subsidy dependence index (SDI) was calculated based on operational results and the CrediAmigo
business plan. The SDI indicates the interest rate which the program would have to charge, after
adjustment for inflation and all explicit and implicit subsidies, in order to break-even. In the case of the
pilot phase of CrediAmigo, the SDI has declined rapidly from 239% in December 1998, to 10% in
December 1999 as portfolio has grown rapidly relative to overhead costs. An SDI at or below zero
indicates that the program is subsidy independent, and as such does not depend on public funding to
survive. As a result of continued increases in clients and outstanding portfolio per loan officer, according
to its business plan, CrediAmigo's SDI is projected to become negative by December 2000 and remain so
over the remaining project period, although increasing costs associated with servicing more remote markets
- 12 -



and increasing competition with resultant reductions in interest rates are expected to put pressure on the
program to improve productivity and efficiency to maintain its subsidy-free sustainability.
Benefits to clients are less easily calculated with accuracy, due to the fungability of the use and benefits of
the financing and the complex survival strategies employed by poor families. The main expected project
benefits to clients results from the support of about US$400 million (estimated cumulative disbursements
of short-termn micro-loans during the project period) of investment under the Expanded Financing of
Microenterprises Component of the project. Microenterprises are likely to use part of the loans to finance
new investments and to expand their operations. Prior to loan approval, CrediAmigo evaluates all loans to
microenterprises to determine their repayment capacity. Only microenterprises with solid ex-ante capacity
to repay the CrediAmigo lending rate will be financed. For example, in the CrediAmigo branch in Caixas,
which ranks fourth and sixth in terms of outstanding loan portfolio and active clients, respectively, the
average return on assets of active clients was 34% per month, and the median was 15% per month.
CrediAmigo's high repayment and renewal rates verify the ability of microenterprises to eam sufficiently
high retums to pay real, effective interest rates of 4% per month. Monitoring activities will attempt to
isolate the net economic benefits of improved access to credit to the program's clients in order to verify the
actual, as opposed to perceived, benefits at the enterprise level, and the impact evaluation will attempt to
measure and identify the mechanisms for improved household welfare resulting from access to financial
services.
2. Financial (see Annex 5):
NPV=US$ million; FRR = % (see Annex 4)
Banco do Nordeste (BN): The project is expected to contribute to BN's profitability to the extent that
CrediAmigo's profits are recorded as BN profits or as returns on contributed equity in the event of
CrediAmigo's partial or complete spin-off. In terns of its role as the pass-through mechanism of Bank
loan funds to CrediAmigo, the project is expected to have a neutral or positive effect on BN's profitability,
although this will depend on actual exchange rate movements of the real.
BN is expected to charge an internal transfer interest rate for accounting purposes to CrediAmigo that takes
into account the foreign exchange risk and would explore different alternatives to hedge itself from
currency devaluation. BN will charge CrediAmigo branches an on-lending rate equal to or above the
Inter-Bank Certificate of Deposit (CDI) rate which averaged 13 percentage points above the real Bank US$
lending rate from 1996 to 1998. As the CDI rate is market determined, it is expected that the spread vis a
vis the Bank's variable, libor-based US dollar lending rate will be sufficient to cover foreign exchange risk.
CrediAmigo: The project would contribute towards the profitability of CrediAmigo. CrediAmigo has
developed an independent accounting framework for the microfinance program to facilitate monitoring of
progress toward full financial sustainability. The accounting framework includes assignment of costs of
the CrediAmigo Technical Unit, estimations of the value of services received from BN and explicit
identification of goods and services received on a subsidized or grant basis. The framework and the
financial results will be reviewed on as part of an annual due diligence to be carried out by a firm
specialized in analysis of microfinance programs, according to guidelines developed by CGAP.
Based on CrediAmigo's business plan, the contribution to profitability is estimated to total R$184 million
(US$106 million) over five years with an annual contribution to profits of over R$75 million (US$43
million) at full development. After tax return on assets (ROA) is forecast at 27% at the end of the five year
project period.
- 13 -



Fiscal Impact:
The project is expected to have a positive impact on Government finances based primarily on taxes on
CrediAmigo's incremental profits. Govemment will guarantee the loan but BN will be responsible for
repayment and for providing counterpart funding from its commercial sources. Government has chosen to
wave guarantee fees in return for partial financial guarantees and project financing of activities with high
public goods components such as the impact evaluation, legal and regulatory studies and development of an
environmental screening and mitigation program appropriate to microenterplises. Based on the
CrediAmigo business plan, taxable net operating income is estimated to generate R$ 148.5 million (US$
85.3 million) in tax revenues to Government over the five years of the project. Additional taxes are
expected to be received from the incremental net income of microenterprise clients, however given the high
level of informality, expected tax revenues from microenterprises were not estimated.
3. Technical:
The CrediAmigo program reflects intemational best-practices and lessons learned during the pilot phase
Study tours and international technical assistance have been used effectively by BN and CrediAmigo
management to build a prograrn which reflects the stated objective of full financial sustainability. This
includes:
(i) designing a simple loan product based on market research;
(ii) setting the interest rate high enough to fully cover the high operational costs associated with a.
start-up;
(iii) recruiting new loan officers at salaries substantially below those of regular BN staff;
(iv) providing performance incentives to loan officers and clients consistent with institutional
objectives.
The most important lesson learned during the pilot phase resulted from the decision to expand from five to
fifty branches after less than six months of operational experience. Management and training capacity was
not sufficient to provide the required oversight for the more than 200 new loan officers, and methodological
deviations and a focus on volume over quality generated high arrears which resulted in loan losses of 9%
on an annualized basis over the first nine months of the program. CrediAmigo management responded by
halting new lending for two months in order to retrain loan officers and focus on recovery of outstanding
loans. As a result of this costly experience, CrediAmigo has placed emphasis on portfolio quality in its
staff training and incentives with the consequence that over the past five months, loan losses have run at an
annualized rate of less than two percent.
The proposed loan will support CrediAmigo's expansion consistent with its business plan. The
pre-appraisal mission's analysis of the business plan indicated that it's assumptions are consistent with
recent performance in terms of loan officer productivity, portfolio quality, average loan sizes and costs and
reflects lessons leamed during the pilot phase. Nonetheless, the loan size is based on a more conservative
assumption of average active clients per loan officer (280 per loan officer rather than 400) as the program
has not yet demonstrated the ability to support higher numbers of clients program-wide without increases in
arrears and/or client desertion. In order to realize its high growth goal, prior to any further significant
expansion of its program, CrediAmigo will have to:
(i) consolidate staff training and monitoring to reduce variability in productivity amongst loan officers and
branches;
(ii) develop staff productivity and outreach mechanisms which permit increased market penetration without
substantial increases in overhead costs;
14 -



(iii) implement strategies to balance portfolios across loan officers without impeding productivity of top
performers;
(iv) strengthen recruiting, training and management systems to support planned expansion from 250 to 600
loan officers beginning in two years.
In order to address these needs, CrediAmigo will draw upon technical assistance and training resources
included in the Strengthened Capacity to Support Sustainable Growth of CrediAmigo Component.
4. Institutional:
4.1 Executing agencies:
Bank of the Northeast (Borrower) (see Annex 5)
Although BN has limited responsibility for implementation and the proposed project is focused on
CrediAmigo, rather than BN's institutional development, CrediAmigo remains dependent on BN's central
services and ability to manage repayment of the Bank loan. Accordingly, a due diligence review of BN was
carried out by a private, Brazilian rating agency and reviewed by the appraisal mission.
BN, established under Law No. 1649 of July 19, 1952, is one of four federal Govemment development
banks and is the 22nd largest bank in Brazil in terms of assets. BN's mission is to contribute to the
sustainable development of the Northeast region of Brazil. BN has its headquarters in Fortaleza in the
State of Ceara, and operates 176 branches in the nine states of the Northeast as well as the northem part of
Minas Gerais and Espirito Santo.
BN is a mixed capital corporation with limited liability and unlimited duration under the laws of Brazil. As
of December 31, 1999, the Federal Govemment owned, directly and indirectly, 90.63% of BN's voting
stock and 90.82% of its total capital. Since 1989, BN has been placed under the control of the Ministry of
Finance who designates the chairman of the bank's board of directors. The President of BN is chosen by
the President of Brazil.
BN's management conducts business independently to achieve and maintain reasonable profitability. A
major thrust of reforms being undertaken by BN's current president are to create a more professional,
results-oriented corporate culture which is better insulated from political interventions at the operational
levels. No single individual can approve a loan, and all loans are approved in committees according to
technical criteria.
BN operates primarily as a development bank, but as a multiple service bank, BN provides a range of
banking and financial services, including deposit accounts, lending to the rural, commercial and industrial
sectors, trade financing, foreign exchange brokerage and pension fund management.
BN initiated an important institutional reform program in 1995 to increase efficiency and outreach.
Overall staff was reduced from 5,468 in 1995 to 3,832 at the end of 1999, with the share of administrative
staff as part of total staff declining from 29% to 10% over the same period. From 1995 to 1999, loan
assets grew from R$2.6 million to over R$6.0 million, and the number of credit operations approved each
year grew from 68,000 in 1995 to over 404,00 in 1999, reflecting the bank's increasing focus on smaller
borrowers. As a result, BN's market share has increased from 35% of all loans granted to the Northeast
region in 1995 to 78% at the end of 1999. Loan approval was also decentralized so as to reduce the
- 15-



average time required for loan approval from 217 days in 1995 to the current mandated limits of 21 to 60
days, depending on loan amount.
Resources and Assets: BN's total funding of just over $14.0 billion (US$8.0 billion) consists primarily of
repassed Government funds (77.6%), complemented by repassed foreign funds - including loans from IDB
(8.2%), deposits (7.4%) and equity (6.8%). The Constitutional Fund for the Northeast (FNE), a
constitutionally guaranteed Government fund administered by BN, accounts for 47% of BN's funding.
BN's assets consist of net loans (78%), treasury - limited to highly liquid federal government securities
(17%), and permanent and other assets (5%). According to BN's December 31, 1999 financial statement,
current assets over current liabilities are a strong 152.2%.
Porfolio Composition: Approximately 90% of BN's outstanding loans are development loans based on
Federal Govemment financing, of which about half are to the agricultural sector. Remaining loans are
general credit to the private sector which consist mainly of short-term working capital loans funded through
BN's own resources - including deposits and repassed foreign funds, and trade financing. Financing of
public agencies has declined from over 37% of net loan assets in December 1995 to less than 7% in
December 1999. Concentration of the loan portfolio in the 10 largest borrowers has been reduced from
322% of net worth in December 1995 to just under 200% in December 1999. Concentration in the largest
100 borrowers has been reduced from 606% to 436% of net worth over the same period.
Portfolio Quality: The quality of BN's portfolio has improved since 1995. Net non-performing loans
improved from 12.1% in December 1996 to 11.2% in June 1999. However, this measure includes FNE
loans which are not subject to Central Bank rules on provisioning, but by less stringent rules approved by
the Brazilian Congress. Excluding FNE lending, net non-performing loans increases to 19.5% of total
loans in June 1999. While better than other large public banks such as Banco do Brasil (21.9%) or
BANESPA (22%), this is still well above the average of 2.4% for the fifty largest banks in Brazil in 1999.
BN management indicated that a large proportion of non-performing loans were contracted prior to the
1995 reorganization, and that loans contracted since then have performed much better, with non-performing
loans representing about 6% of the post-1995 portfolio.
Foreign Exchange Management Capacity and Impact of Recent Devaluation of the Real: BN's direct
exposure to foreign exchange risk is minimal since most of its funding is in reals BN's policy is to match
foreign exchange funding with foreign exchange loans, with no money or time gaps. Nevertheless, some of
the bank's customers are heavily dependent on imports and may result in increased past dues. For the
proposed loan, BN plans to utilize the Bank's hedging instruments.
Profitability, Liquidity and Solvency: BN has reported increasing nominal profits every year since
1995, reaching R$75.4 million (US$ 43.3 million) in December 1999. Return on average equity increased
from 5.2% in 1995 to 8.2% in 1999, compared to 16% for the fifty largest banks in Brazil. Return on
average assets was 1.0% in 1999 compared to 1.6% for the fifty largest banks.
Net interest income before provisioning expenses has increased steadily since 1995 and totaled R$572.6
million in 1999, which well exceeds the R$308.4 million earned in 1998. Much of this income came from
gains with the securities portfolio, which benefited from increasingly higher interest rates imposed by the
Central Bank since October 1997. Administrative and personnel expenses have decreased drastically since
1995 and in December 1999 only accounted for 18.9% of intermediation revenue, down from 95.5% at
year end 1995.
It is difficult to evaluate BN's performance without taking into account the effect of FNE. BN receives an
- 16 -



administrative fee of 3% on the value of assets lent from FNE which is recorded as "other income". These
fees account for over 35% of BN's gross income. Concurrently, the administrative expenses of managing
FNE are included in BN's overall administrative expenses. While BN would not be profitable without the
FNE administrative fees, BN feels that this is a secure source of income as it is constitutionally guaranteed
and would require a constitutional amendment to eliminate or change significantly. Nonetheless, recent
Government studies have suggested alterations to the basis of renumeration for public banks administering
Government funds. Given the importance of these funds to BN's solvency, the World Bank team will
continue to monitor this issue throughout project implementation.
BN's capital adequacy has averaged 12.3% over the past five years, consistent with private banks. This is
above the average of 10.4% for the fifty largest banks in Brazil. BN's BIS ratio stood at 11% on December
3 1, 1999. Adjustment of BN's stated net worth to reverse special Central Bank dispensations for
provisioning for past due loans reduces BN's capital adequacy ratio to 8.6%, which while less than the fifty
bank average, is consistent with large, private banks such as Bradesco, Lloyds and BankBoston, and
significantly better than Banco do Brasil (5.5%).
Outlook: Since 1995, BN has taken important steps to improve the efficiency of its operations and reduce
the concentration of its portfolio in government lending and large loans. The main issues which it will face
in the coming years are: (i) addressing the historic problem of large, non-perforning loans booked prior to
1995 which affects portfolio concentration and effective yield on portfolio as well as casting doubt on the
quality of published financial information; (ii) increase equity to point where adjustments to net worth do
not undermine capital adequacy; (iii) provide a clearer link between real intermnediation costs and retums
for specific financial services (i.e.: calculation of SDI); (iv) continue to incorporate private-sector banking
practices which contribute to increased administrative efficiency and improvement of portfolio quality; and
(v) maintain its insulation from political pressures which might undermine the important advances made
since 1995.
CrediAmigo (Microfinance Lending and Institutional Strengthening Components) (See Appendix 2.a and
2.b.II to Annex 2)
Background: The CrediAmigo microfinance program was initiated when BN's President, Dr. Byron
Quiroz, requested World Bank assistance to launch a program to better reach poor entrepreneurs in the
informal sector. The World Bank facilitated the transfer of funds from a loan to the State of Maranhao to
BN for study visits by senior management to successful microfinance institutions in Latin America and
Asia, to design and implement a market study, and to hire international technical assistance to assist with
the design of the program. The pilot phase of CrediAmigo was formally launched in five branches in late
November 1997 with assistance from ACCION Intl., an international NGO with substantial experience in
development of sustainable microfinance institutions in Latin America.
Organization: CrediAmigo exists as a program within BN. The program works within the matrix
management structure of BN with each of CrediAmigo's current 51 branches responding directly to BN's
regional superintendents. CrediAmigo has a dedicated staff of 302, of which 186 are loan officers, 51 are
branch managers, 14 are sub-regional coordinators, and 51 are in the CrediAmigo Technical Unit or are
client training coordinators in the branches. CrediAmigo has distinct office space, disbursement and
repayment windows, MIS, salary incentive system and field staff. Technical support is the responsibility of
the CrediAmigo Technical Unit under the Chief of Cabinet of BN's President.
Financial Services CrediAmigo currently provides a single loan product based on formation of solidarity
groups of four to seven borrowers. Maximum loan size is R$3,000, with no minimum. Maximum size of
- 17 -



the first loan is R$700. Loans normally have tenms of 90 days though some groups with good repayment
records have received 120 day loans. Repayments are made every 15 days to the CrediAmigo branch and
there is no grace period. Loans have an interest rate of 4% which is charged against the original disbursed
amount, resulting in an effective interest rate of 7.3% per month. An interest rebate of 15% of the total
interest due is discounted from the final repayment for clients with a perfect on-time repayment record.
Groups which repay on-time are eligible to receive new their loans for higher amounts within 24 hours of
receipt of the last repayment. There are no other charges, deposit requirements or guarantee requirements.
CrediAmigo intends to provide more flexible terms for its solidarity group loans, increasing the maximum
loan amount of R$4,000 and the maximum first loan to R$1,000. Loans would also have a maximum tenn
of six months, and payments could be made weekly, every 15 days or monthly depending on the specific
cash-flow characteristics of the group.
CrediAmigo is currently piloting an individual loan for clients who have perfect on-time repayment records
for at least two loan cycles. The individual loan is intended for those clients whose capacity to borrow
exceeds that of the rest of the group. Terms for the individual loan (interest rate, repayment period and
maximum loan amount) are similar to group loans.
CrediAmigo is also reviewing other loan products, such as investment loans and one-month special events
loans. It is also introducing insurance against non-repayment due to death. A savings product with a
minimum balance of R$50 is also being reviewed, though its introduction will depend in part on Central
Bank regulatory approval.
Non-financial Services CrediAmigo has initiated a business training program for clients through its branch
offices. Clients must pay for training which is not a requirement to access the loans. CrediAmigo charges
R$9 to R$18 for each course and offers a 30% discount to its loan clients. CrediAmigo is also developing
an environmental mitigation program which will assist microenterprises to reduce their environmental risks,
the majority of which directly affect microenterprise workers, their families and neighbors.
Loan Application and Qualification Process Borrowers must meet the following qualifications:
Member of group of 4 to 7 eligible borrowers;
Present identification card;
Proof of residence;
Over 18 years old;
Established in business at least one year;
Not be recorded in the credit reporting service (SPC).
Borrowers normally attend one orientation meeting, after which they are visited by a loan officer in their
place of business. The loan officer assists the potential clients with developing a simplified balance sheet,
income statement and cash flow estimate. The group then submit their credit application which is reviewed
by the loan officer who also checks if they are listed in the SPC and submits the application to the credit
committee. The branch-level credit committee meets daily to approve or rejects applicants and adjusts loan
amounts in relation to the estimated repayment capacity. The group then attends a final consolidation
meeting at which the terms and conditions of the loan are again explained, the loan contract is signed, and
the group receives its disbursement and a booklet with dated repayment slips. First loans are normally
disbursed within 7 days of the orientation meeting and renewals for groups which repaid their loan on-time
are disbursed within 24 hours.
- 18-



Repayments are made biweekly to CrediAmigo branches. While loans are made to individuals, repayment
is a group responsibility. Partial group repayments are not accepted, so if a single group member does not
make a repayment on-time, the entire group's repayment is delinquent unless the other members of the
group provide the missing repayment. Loan officers normally follow-up with individual clients at least
once every two weeks and more frequently in the case of actual or potential repayment problems.
Resources and Assets: CrediAmigo lending during the pilot phase has been solely financed by R$24
million of BN funds. CrediAmigo's R$8.2 million in earned losses have been booked as negative equity.
CrediAmigo's $17.3 million in assets consist of microfinance loans (90%), cash (4%), deferred expenses
(3%/o), fixed assets (3%).
Portfolio: All outstanding CrediAmigo loans are working capital loans of 90 days with repayments every
15 days. Loans carry a flat interest rate of 4% per month with no additional fees or deposit requirements.
Loans are based on solidarity group guarantees for groups of three to seven borrowers. As of December
1999, CrediAmigo had 37,683 active borrowers with an outstanding balance of R$17.2 million (US$9.6
million).
Portfolio Quality: As of December 31, 1999, CrediAmigo had a 30-day portfolio-at-risk measure of 2.4%.
After climbing to over 4.2% in September 1998, this measure of portfolio quality has fluctuated between
1.3% and 4%.
Profitability: CrediAmigo has steadily improved its profitability over the past two years. The program
incurred large losses during its first year of operations associated with high overhead costs and rapid
growth. However, steadily increasing loan officer productivity and reductions in administrative costs have
resulted in a decline in the unadjusted quarterly losses from R$1.4 million (US$1.4 million) in March 1998,
to a small, nominal profit of R$280,000 (US$161,000) in December 1999.
Impact of Recent Devaluation: As the goods and services produced by its microenterprises are largely of
domestic origin and most microenterprises have rapid tum-over of inventory, foreign exchange fluctuations
have little impact on either the costs or volume of business of CrediAmigo's clients. This was demonstrated
in late 1998 and early 1999 when the substantial devaluation of the real had virtually no impact on the
program's portfolio quality, renewal rates or demand for new loans.
Outlook: Assessments of the CrediAmigo program were carried out with CGAP in November 1998 and
April 1999. The November 1998 assessment identified a number of areas for improvement in the central
management of the program and the focus and design of loan officer incentives and training which
accounted, in part, for the high variability in results across branches and loan officers and the program's
low loan officer productivity. The follow-up visit in April 1999 verified that a number of important steps
had been taken to strengthen the program, including creation of the CrediAmigo Technical Unit with
specialists in each of the operative areas, promotion of experienced loan officers to branch managers to
replace BN staff, and an institution-wide focus (reflected in the incentive system and training program) on
increased productivity measured as growth in new clients per month. While operating results have begun to
reflect improvements in productivity and reduced variability between branches, additional time will be
required to determiine to what extent these measures are sufficient.
While acknowledging the improvements made in its institutional structure, the April 1999 assessment
recommended further consolidation of key centralized functions to support future program growth:
(i) Accountability mechanisms, including incentives and punitive actions;
-19-



(ii) Human resources development, including staff recruitment, supervision, evaluation and promotion;
(iii) Training, including initial staff training and reiterative training to maintain motivation and
professionalism;
(iv) Ex-post monitoring of loan portfolio including field reviews to identify potential methodological drift
and fraud, and statistical risk analysis;
(v) Overall loan portfolio management system for administering portfolio quality and growth, including
intervention strategies in case of poor performance;
(vi) Strategic planning and product development based on market research, design, simulation and testing.
(vi) Development of institutional structures which permit increasing financial and managerial independence
from BN.
The Strengthened Capacity for Sustainable Growth Component of the proposed loan includes intemational
technical assistance, training and equipment to support CrediAmigo's institutional strengthening program.
ETENE (Impact Evaluation Component) (See Appendix 2.c to Annex 2)
ETENE (Impact Evaluation Component): ETENE's legally mandated mission is to promote and
disseminate research findings financed by BN and its partners with the-objective of generating sustainable
economic development in the Northeast Region. ETENE operates with a staff of 22 employees, the
majority of whom have post-graduate degrees, including four Ph.Ds. ETENE has numerous collaborative
arrangements with Brazilian and international universities and research institutions. ETENE, working with
independent researchers, designed and implemented the initial market survey and social assessments for the
CrediAmigo program.
4.2 Project management:
Project management will be the responsibility of the CrediAmigo Technical Unit working with the relevant
specialized areas of BN. Technical assistance will be provided under the loan to support punctual project
management tasks as required.
4.3 Procurement issues:
BN has a dedicated procurement unit which will work with the CrediAmigo Technical Unit in all
procurement matters. The project's procurement plan, including a description of all procurement
responsibilities and expected modalities was reviewed by the World Bank procurement specialist and found
to be sufficient. The procurement specialist also provided training to the BN procurement unit regarding
Bank guidelines and use of standard Bank bidding documents and contracts.
4.4 Financial management issues:
Rated "B" Ineligible for PMR-Based Disbursements
BN's capacity to manage the loan funds, including assuming the foreign exchange risk and accounting for
use of funds, has been reviewed by the Bank's financial management specialist. The specialist determineid
that the project satisfies the Bank's minimum financial management requirements. However, the project
financial management system cannot currently generate quarterly project management reports (PMRs). An
action plan was prepared and agreed for the implementation of the project-specific financial management
system able to generate PMRs within six months after project effectiveness.
5. Environmental:                 Environmental Category: B
5.1 Summarize the steps undertaken for environmental assessment and EMP preparation (including
consultation and disclosure) and the significant issues and their treatment emerging from this analysis.
- 20 -



BN's Environmental Development Unit is adopting its environmental screening and mitigation tools for
general BN loans to the particular requirements of the CrediAmigo microfinance program (See Appendix
2.b.II to Annex 2). The appraisal mission reviewed the proposed environmental policy, flow-chart and
institutional responsibilities and found it acceptable. Based on these initial documents, the Environmental
Development Unit is working with CrediAmigo's training staff to prepare a training program for the
training agents in each branch who will integrate environmental mitigation training for businesses with
potential environmental damage identified through the loan application process.
5.2 What are the main features of the EMP and are they adequate?
Activities currently financed are very small-scale, focused on service activities, and all are on-going. Based
on intemational experience with microfinance, this profile is not expected to change significantly as the
program expands. As some on-going activities which would be supported could have environmental
impacts (tanneries, mechanical shops) which could be fairly easily mitigated, all loans will be screened to
identify those businesses with potential adverse environmental impacts. Those identified will be visited by
the training agent to prepare a simple mitigation plan with the microentrepreneur in the context of
improved, overall business management. Businesses which fail to implement simple mitigation activities
will not be eligible for follow-up loans.
5.3 For Category A and B projects, timeline and status of EA:
Date of receipt of final draft: September 15, 1999 (See Appendix
2.b.II to Annex 2
5.4 How have stakeholders been consulted at the stage of (a) environmental screening and (b) draft EA
report on the environmental impacts and proposed environment management plan? Describe mechanisms
of consultation that were used and which groups were consulted?
During project preparation, meetings were held with loan officers in each state to identify the types of
activities engaged in by microfinance clients. Based on these meetings, field visits were conducted to the
business locations of a sample of microfinance clients to identify the types of actual and potential
environmental risks associated with the different business activities. Meetings were also held with the
relevant national and state government environmental agencies regarding existing environmental
information and programs related to microenterprises. The proposed screening and mitigation mechanisms
developed on the basis of these consultations were then reviewed with operational personnel at all levels of
the microfinance program in order to determine their operational practicality. A follow-up workshop with
the participation of personnel from the microfinance program, national and state environmental agencies,
microfinance clients and NGOs will be undertaken in August to review the implementation of the program
and these consultations will be repeated as part of the annual evaluation of the environmental screening and
mitigation measures.
5.5 What mechanisms have been established to monitor and evaluate the impact of the project on the
environment? Do the indicators reflect the objectives and results of the EMP?
BN's Environmental Development Unit will provide oversight for the program, but annual extemal
evaluations, financed by the loan, will be conducted to review the information base developed on
microenterprises and to verify the effectiveness of mitigation actions. Overall project monitoring and
evaluation includes specific indicators to highlight the effectiveness of environmental mitigation activities.
6. Social:
6.1 Summarize key social issues relevant to the project objectives, and specify the project's social
- 21 -



development outcomes.
As agreed during the identification mission, in 1999, ETENE in BN performed an evaluation of
CrediAmigo clients (Trabalho de Avaliacao Social CrediAmigo) in order to identify client characteristics
and determine their satisfaction with CrediAmigo financial services. For this evaluation, ETENE carriedl
out a survey of 518 clients from five branches (Sio Luis, Teresina, Fortaleza, Limoeiro do Norte and
Recife). These branches accounted for 18% of CrediAmigo's total portfolio. The survey was complemented
by interviews with individual clients and loan officers.
CrediAmigo's clients generally live in urban neighborhoods that have minimal infrastructure, poor housing,
and low family incomes. CrediAmigo's clients have five or more years of experience running their
enterprises (61 percent), are illiterate (51 percent), are between 39 and 46 years old (44 percent).
Microentrepreneurial activity constitutes the principal activity, in terms of time, for most of CrediAmigci's
clients. CrediAmigo's MIS indicates that 75% of clients are engaged in commerce, 15% in services, and the
remaining 10% in manufacturing.
Female headed businesses had lower incomes and education levels. Although the program's design (use of
solidarity groups, low initial loan amounts and short terms) favors the participation of poorer clients and
particularly women who tend to be most active in commercial and service activities, the program's clients
are less than 50% women. Follow-up interviews have indicated that this is due to: (i) many male clients
are, in fact, borrowing for their wife's businesses; and (ii) loan officers have concentrated their promotional
efforts on shops and markets while many women-owned enterprises operate from homes.
Overall, clients appear to be extremely satisfied with CrediAmigo's services, as is evinced by CrediAmigos'
high loan renewal rate, about 85% of the loans are renewed. Low transaction costs for borrowers may
explain the high degree of client satisfaction. The survey shows that 93% of clients received their loans
without delays. Although CrediAmigo charges a slightly higher interest rate than other microfinance
programs, a small share of its clients (5%) complains about high interest rates. About 57% of clients are
not satisfied with the repayment periods on their loans. This is because the loan terms tend to depend more
on the number of loans taken by the borrower than on their cash flows. Borrowers may incur substantial
transaction costs in travel and time. CrediAmigo is planning to accept payments at post-offices, which will
reduce transaction costs to clients
During implementation, the appropriateness of the program and product design to meet the needs of the
targeted client group will continue to be reviewed with clients and community informants as part of
marketing studies and new product development. An impact evaluation study will be carried out during
implementation to attempt to measure program impact on client households.
6.2 Participatory Approach: How are key stakeholders participating in the project?
The key stakeholders are the microentrepreneurs in urban and rural areas throughout the Northeast Region
of Brazil and potentially all small savers unable to access formal financial service providers. During initial
program development, market surveys were carried out with microentrepreneurs in urban markets, poor.,
urban neighborhoods, markets in intermediate towns and largely rural communities. Loan product design,
including term, interest rate and repayment frequency, were based, in part, on the survey results.
6.3 How does the project involve consultations or collaboration with NGOs or other civil society
organizations?
Not applicable
- 22 -



6.4 What institutional arrangements have been provided to ensure the project achieves its social
development outcomes?
Not applicable
6.5 How will the project monitor performance in terms of social development outcomes?
The impact evaluation component will focus specifically on measurement of social impacts. Specific social
impact indicators are part of the projects overall monitoring and evaluation framework.
7. Safeguard Policies
7.1 Do anv of the following safeguard uolicies aMDl to the project?
,@:t@<-,7 2   Po-.y                            ,  7    e                       ty
l Environmental Assessment (OP 4.01, BP 4.01 GP 4.01)               1 Yes El No
E Natural habitats (OP 4.04, BP 4.04, GP 4.04)                      O Yes 1 No
l Forestry (OP 4.36, GP 4.36)                                       O Yes E No
El Pest Management (OP 4.09                                         LI Yes NI No
El Cultural Property (OPN 11.03)                                    O Yes 1 No
Ii Indigenous Peoples (OD 4.20)                                     l Yes 1 No
O Involuntary Resettlement (OD 4.30)                                E Yes E No
El Safety of Dams (OP 4.37, BP 4.37)                                El Yes 1 No
El Projects in International Waters (OP 7.50, BP 7.50. GP 7.50)     O Yes LI No
El Projects in Disputed Areas (OP 7.60, BP 7.60, GP 7.60)           O Yes LI No
7.2 Describe provisions made by the project to ensure compliance with applicable safeguard policies.
See Section 5. Environment above.
F. Sustainability and Risks
1. Sustainability:
Development of a sustainable microfinance institution has been a primary objective of the CrediAmigo
program since its inception. Sustainability is defined as profitability after adjustment for inflation and any
subsidies received. Experience in other countries has indicated that this can be achieved if (i) the program
prices its services at a level which allows it to cover its full financial costs as well as contribute to its equity
base; (ii) arrears are maintained at a very low level through staff incentives and an aggressive collections
policy; (iii) operational costs are constantly reduced through incorporation of new technologies and
management techniques in response to internal incentives and extemal market pressures; and (iv) the
institution and its products evolve so as to meet the needs of new as well as its historic client base.
2. Critical Risks (reflecting assumptions in the fourth column of Annex 1):
Risk                I  :Risk Ratinig           Risk  inimization Measure
From Outputs to Objective
- 23 -



1. BN management does not maintain           S         1. Agreed policies in Loan Agreement on
focus on low arrears, sustainability                   maintenance of portfolio quality (arrears and
objectives.                                           loan losses), restrictions on re-aging,
refinancing, parallel financing and non-cash
paydowns, and development of institulional
structures which provide CrediAmigo with
increasing independence and transparency.
2. BN's subsidized credit lines limit        S         2. CrediAmigo product and client service
market for microfinance loans and/or                   differentiated from BN credit lines. Client and
undermine repayment discipline of clients.             staff incentives focused on repayment.
3. Central Bank and/or BN Directors do      M          3. Continuous informational effort by
not approve institutional structures                   CrediAmigo, supported by Bank to demonstrate
consistent with program independence.                 advantages and intemational experience.
4. Brazilian macroeconomic/financial         S         4. Provision of high-quality information on
sector conditions serve as disincentive to            financial performance of CrediAmigo through
external equity investors and/or                      published operating results and annual, extemal
commercial lenders.                                    due diligence.
From Components to Outputs
1. Lack of counterpart funds.               N          1. BN, rather than Govemment, fully
responsible for provision of counterpart funds.
2. Unable to attract and retain suitable    M          2. Performance-based compensation allows
loan officers at salary levels consistent              CrediAmigo to tie pay more closely to
with program profitability.                            contribution to program profitability. Strong
staff training program provides additional
compensation.
3. Insufficient client demand for loan      M          3. Products and service delivery systeims
product.                                               developed based on results of client surveys and
pilots.
Overall Risk Rating                          S
Risk Rating - H (High Risk), S (Substantial Risk), M (Modest Risk), N(Negligible or Low Risk)
3. Possible Controversial Aspects:
(i) The relatively high interest rate charged by CrediAmigo has raised concems with some NGOs which
work with poor communities. However, there is growing public awareness in Brazil of the advantages of
sustainable microfinance programs, and several NGO microfinance programs have followed CrediAmigo in
increasing their interest rates on loans.
(ii) CrediAmigo's evolution into a legally and financially independent entity is controversial due to the
program's positive contfibution to BN's work environment and public image, and the issues raised
regarding Central Bank regulations on the operation of bank branches and the forrn of financial institutions.
BN's top management has indicated its support for CrediAmigo's development into an independent
subsidiary or similar arrangement. The Central Bank has agreed to review proposals for reforms to
- 24 -



provisions of the regulatory framework which may impede development of sustainable microfinance
institutions.
G. Main Loan Conditions
1. Effectiveness Condition
Loan Implementation Manual and CrediAmigo Credit Regulations, acceptable to Bank, formally adopted
by BN Board of Directors.
2. Other [classify according to covenant types used in the Legal Agreements.]
Financial Covenants
(a) Annualized loan losses (the sum of the unpaid balance of loans in arrears over 90 days) incurred in any
quarter will not exceed 4% of the outstanding portfolio at a date 180 days prior to the end of the quarter for
which loan losses are measured.
(b) Portfolio quality, measured as the average of the daily value over the quarter of the sum of payments
overdue up to 30 days plus the the balance of loans overdue 30 days or more, divided by the outstanding
portfolio at the end of the quarter, will not exceed 8%.
Additional Covenants
(a) Capacity to generate quarterly PMRs acceptable to the Bank within six months of loan effectiveness.
(b) Any modification of CrediAmigo's current policies with respect to the following will require prior
consultation and agreement with the Bank and modification of the relevant sections of the Implementation
Manual and CrediAmigo Regulations:
*   Change of current policy which prohibits refinancing and rescheduling of loans;
*  Introduction of new loan products and policies regarding parallel loans;
*  Changes in the basis for measurement of program arrears;
*   Changes in the reference interest rate used for accounting purposes for the transfer of funds to
CrediAmigo branches.
(c) Any modifications of CrediAmigo's current policies with respect to the following will require a priori
notification of the Bank and modification of the relevant sections of the Implementation Manual and
CrediAmigo Regulations:
*  Management and operational structure of CrediAmigo;
* Changes in terns, interest rates, grace periods and repayment frequency for loan products;
*  Basis for calculation of staff incentives;
*  Changes in the accounting framework for CrediAmigo.
Event of Default
Bank will be authorized to suspend disbursements in the event that the Govemment of Brazil has enacted
legislation or the Central Bank has issued regulations which establish interest rate ceilings, or require debt
rescheduling or debt forgiveness which materially and adversely affect CrediAmigo's ability to perform its
- 25 -



obligations under the Loan Agreement.
H. Readiness for Implementation
[G 1. a) The engineering design documents for the first year's activities are complete and ready for the start
of project implementation.
1 1. b) Not applicable.
1 2. The procurement documents for the first year's activities are complete and ready for the start of
project implementation.
1 3. The Project Implementation Plan has been appraised and found to be realistic and of satisfactory
quality.
Z 4. The following items are lacking and are discussed under loan conditions (Section G):
1. Compliance with Bank Policies
El 1. This project complies with all applicable Bank policies.
G 2. The following exceptions to Bank policies are recommended for approval. The project complies with
all other applicable Bank policies.
Steven N. Schonberger              hn Redwood                       u#* T. Xanicm
Team Leader                       Sector Manager/Director           County ManageDirnctor
- 26 -



Annex 1: Project Design Summary
BRAZIL: Northeast Microfinance Development Project
Sector-related CAS Goal:   Sector Indicators:         Sector/ country reports:    (from Goal to Bank Mission)
Increase sustainability of  (i) Poverty headcount declines. Evaluation of impact of  Fiscal savings of sustainable
poverty reduction activities                           program on household       programs results in increased
targeted to Northeast Region.                         welfare.                    coverage for poor as well as
increased GNP through more
efficient utilization of Brazils
resources.
(ii) Higher levels of cost  Brazil Poverty Assessment
recovery/lower levels of direct
subsidy per program dollar
spent compared to on-going
programs.
Project Development        Outcome / Impact           Project reports:            (from Objective to Goal)
Objective:                 Indicators:
Improved access of         Extent of Outreach          Annual, external due diligence Loans go to poor households.
microenterprises throughout  At least 150,000 active clients. reviews.
the Northeast Region of Brazil
to sustainable, formal
financial services.
Depth of Outreach          Annual, external due diligence Financial services result in
Average outstanding balance  reviews.                  measurable improvement in
less than 65% of Northeast                             household
Region GNP.                                            consumption/income.
Financial Sustainability   Annual, external due diligence
Subsidy Dependence Index   reviews.
zero, and Adjusted Return on
Assets greater than 3% after
factoring all direct
headquarters expenses and
estimations of related indirect
costs of services from BN.
Operational Efficiency     Annual, external due diligence
Operational costs less than    reviews.
24% (annualized) of average
outstanding portfolio during
last two quarters of program.
Establishment of Independent Annual, external due diligence
Institution                reviews.
Retention of earnings and
mobilization of external equity
result in 15% equity to
earning assets ratio.
- 27 -



Output from each          Output Indicators:         Project reports:           (from Outputs to Objective)
component:
1. Increased portfolio of  1.1 Increase in outstanding    1. PMR                BN management maintains
microfinance subloans.    portfolio program-wide, per                           program focus on lowv arrears
branch, per loan officer.                            and sustainability objjectives.
2. Strengthened Capacity to                          2. PMRtSupervision Missions BN's subsidized credit lines do
Support Sustainable Growth of                                                   not interfere with growth
CrediAmiigo                                                                     and/or undennine repayment
discipline of clients.
2.1 Marketing Studies (10    2.1 Market studies result in   2.1 PMRtBank supervision    Central Bank and BN
studies and staff training in   new promotional mechanisms missions             Directors approve institutional
promotional techniques)                                                         structures consistent with
program independence.
2.2 Risk Management Unit   2.2 Reduced level and     2.2 PMR                    Brazilian
Established (risk model   variation of arrears and loan                         macroeconomic/financial
operational and staff training  losses program-wide, per                        sector conditions permit
in use of system)         branch and per loan officer.                          CrediAmigo to attract external
investors.
2.3 Loan Officer Productivity  2.3 Higher level and reduced  2.3 PMR
Tools (Evaluation studies and variation in new clients per
pilots for introduction of palm  loan officer per month
pilots, etc. Staff training in   program-wide, per branch and
use of productivity tools,  per loan officer.
including time management.)
2.4 Tools/Mechanisms to   2.4 Program expands coverage 2.4 PMR
Expand Geographic Coverage to at least 150 municipalities.
(Evaluation studies and pilots
for new branches/posts, postal
service windows, mobile
branches, smart cards, etc.
Hiring of 400 new loan
officers. Equipment and staff
training.)
2.5 Identification of Viable   2.5 New product evaluations  2.5 PMiR/Bank supervision
New Products (At least five   result in profitable   missions
evaluations and pilots,   introduction without undue
including investment loans,   disruption to existing services.
special events loans, savings
and staff insurance).
2.6 Environmental         2.6 Environmental screening  2.6 PMRs/Annual
Management Program        identifies risky           Evaluations/Bank supervision
(screening process, client  microenterprises and     missions
training, evaluation)     mitigation program results in
effective reduction of risks.
- 28 -



2.7 Basic components of   2.7 Establishment of       2.7 PMR/Bank supervision
independent status within BN  Independent Accounting  missions
(legal studies, due diligence   Framework, CrediAmigo
reviews, dissemination    Trust Fund, Published
activities.)              Program Results certified by
due diligence, dissemination
seminars and publications.
2.8 Loan management       2.8 Difference between     2.8 PMR
services (annual financial    planned and actual results in
audits, maintenance of project PMRs < 20%. Project
reporting system, project  mid-term review.
mid-term review, procurement
assistance for bidding
documents and contracts).
3. Socio-Economic Impact   3. Evaluation provides    3. Bank supervision missions
Evaluation (TA for survey    statistically reliable
design, field testing and  assessment of impact of access
training, field work, data    to CrediAmigo services on
analysis, interpretation)  microenterprise development,
income growth and client
household welfare.
Project Components /      Inputs: (budget for each    Project reports:          (from Components to
Sub-components:           component)                                            Outputs)
1. Expansion of CrediAmigo  1. $85.5 million         Procurement and            Availability of counterpart
(Increase in subloans and                            disbursement reports from  funds.
incremental microfinance loan                        project and Bank.
portfolio)
2. .Strengthened Capacity for 2. $13.7 million                                  Suitable loan officers hired at
Sustainable Growth                                                              low salary levels.
2.1 Marketing (TA, training)  2.1 $1,130,000                                    Sufficient client demand for
loan product.
2.2 Risk Management (TA,   2.2 $120,000
training)
2.3 Increased Loan Officer   2.3 $230,000
Productivity (TA, equipment,
training)
2.4 Geographic Coverage   2.4 $11,170,000
(equipment, TA, training,
incremental loan officers)
2.5 New Financial Products  2.5 $330,000
(TA, training, equipment)
2.6 Environmental         2.6 $110,000
Management (TA, training)
- 29 -



2.6 Institutional Independence 2.7 $310,000
(TA, training)
2.7 Loan Administration (TA) 2.8 $300,000
3. Socio-Econonic Impact   3. $0.3 million
Evaluation (TA)
4. Fee                    4. $0.5 million
Appendix l.a.
Monitoring and Evaluation Framework
As presented in the project logical framework, the project will have four sets of indicators: (i) impact indicators;
(ii) development objective indicators; (iii) output indicators; and (iv) input indicators. In addition, indicators have
been identified for the risks associated with the critical assumptions specified in the logical framework.
Impact Indicators
Specific indicators to measure the impact of access to the CrediAmigo program on client business development,
income and household welfare will be identified and benchmarks established as part of the design of the impact
evaluation study during the first year of the project (see appendix A).
Development Objective Indicators
The following indicators and annual benchmarks have been identified to track progress toward achieving the
CrediAmigo program's objective of "providing sustainable financial services accessible to microentrepreneurs
throughout the Northeast Region." These indicators will be calculated annually as part of the due diligence review
and form part of the report provided to BN and the World Bank. The indicators may be calculated more frequently
as desired by BN or the World Bank.
Indicator              Actual      CY2000       CY2001       CY2002         CY2003        CY2004
1. Financial
Sustainability:
1.1 AdjustedReturnon    1.1 -17%   1.1 0%       1.1 1%       1.1 2%         1.1 3%        1. IAtleast
Assets (before taxes)                                                                     3%,
1.2 SDI                                                                                   1.2 Less than
1.2 10%     1.2 0%      1.2 -5%      1.2 -10%       1.2 -10%      -1(%
- 30 -



2. Operational
Efficiency:
2.1 Administrative costs  2.1 53%  2.1 40%     2.1 35%       2.1 30%        2.1 25%       2.1 Less than
over outstanding loan                                                                     24%
portfolio
3. Extent of Outreach:
3.1 Number of active
clients.               3.1 37,683   3.1 40,000   3.1 55,000    3.1 75,000   3.1 105,000    3.1 150,000
4. Depth of Outreach:
4.1 Average loan size
over NE Brazil Per     4.1 20%     4.1 Less    4.1 Less than  4.1 Less than   4.1 Less than   4.1 Less than
Capita GDP                         than 35%    50%           65%            65%           65%
5. Breadth of Outreach:
5.1 Number of
municipalities in NE   5.1 52      5.1 81      5.1 100       5.1 120        5.1 140       5.1 150
Brazil with CrediAmigo
clients.
6. Establishment of
Independent Institutional
Framework:
6.1 Institutional Status
(subject to approval of    6.1     6.1 Fully    6.1 Trust    6.1 Direct     6.1 External   6.1 Spin-off
BN Board of Directors    Program   independent Fund Legally  commercial    equity funds    plan approved
and Central Bark of    within BN    accounting   Established   borrowing.   mobilized.    by Board of
Brazil)                without     framework.                                             Directors.
formal
6.2 Ratio of equity from   distinctions.
retained earnings and
external investors to              6.2 0%       6.2 At least   6.2 At least    6.2 At least    6.2 At least
earning assets:        6.2 0%                   5%           20%.           15%.          15%.
- 31 -



Output Indicators
Indicators and annual benchmarks have also been defined to measure progress in achieving the planned
loan-financed outputs and associated outcomes. These indicators will be calculated by the MIS and reported to the
World Barik at least quarterly as part of the PMRs, and verified by the due diligence and external evaluation of the
environmental program. Descriptions of new promotional programs, new loan and non-loan financial producis
and new geographic outreach and productivity mechanisms will be provided by the CrediAmigo Technical Unit as
part of the comments sections of the PMRs. The following table provides an indicative subset of the output
indicators which will be monitored under the project
Output                                           Indicators
1. Increase in outstanding gross portfolio:  1.1 Program-wide portfolio.
1.2 Average branch portfolio
1.3 Average loan officer portfolio
1.4 Program-wide active clients
1.5. Average active clients per branch
1.6 Average active clients per loan officer
2.1 Marketing                        2.1.1 Number of marketing studies completed
2.1.2 Description of new promotional programs
2.1.3 Number of staff trained in marketing
2.2 Risk Management                  2.2.1 Program arrears (Portfolio at risk 15 days at end of period)
2.2.2 Program loan losses (Quarterly losses annualized divided by
outstanding portfolio at date 180 days previous)
2.2.3 Variability of program arrears
2.2.4 Average arrears at branch level
2.2.5 Variability of arrears at branch level (Standard deviation divided by
mean)
2.2.6 Average loan officer arrears
2.2.7 Variability of loan officer arrears
2.2.8 Number of staff trained in risk management
2.3 Loan officer productivity (Only loan   2.3.1 Average productivity New clients per loan officer per month. at
officers with at least 9 months experience  program level.
used for construction of indicator)  2.3.2 Variability at program level
2.3.3 Average at branch level
2.3.4 Variability at branch level
2.3.5 Number of staff trained in productivity enhancement
2.4 Expansion of Geographic Coverage    2.4.1 Number of loan officers
2.4.2 Number of loan officers with more than 9 months experience
2.4.3 Number of new loan officers
2.4.4 Number of branches
2.4.5 Number of posts
2.4.6 Number of mobile units
2.4.7 Number of ATMs
2.4.8 Number of non-CrediAmigo disbursement/payment windows (i.e.:
postal service, shops, etc.)
2.4.9 Number of staff and others trained to use outreach technology
2.5 New Financial Products           2.5.1 Description of products piloted
2.5.2 Number of staff trained in new products
2.6 Enviromnental Management         2.6.1 Percentage of microenterprises with potential environmental risks
captured by screening process
2.6.2 Percentage of microenterprises identified for mitigation which fully
implement mitigation program
2.6.3 Numb;;of enviromnental officers trained
2.6.4 Numbff of microentrepreneurs trained in mitigation



4. BN management does not 4.1 Annualized loan losses   4.1 More than 3%        PMR/supervision
maintain CrediAmigo's    in quarter divided by                                 missions/due diligence
focus on low arrears,     outstanding portfolio lagged  4.2 Policies relaxed to
sustainability objectives.    by 180 days.          permit these activities.
4.2 Program policies      4.3 Less than 1%
regarding refinancing,
re-aging, parallel loans and
non-cash paydowns.
4.3 Adjusted Return on
Assets.
5. BN's subsidized credit    5.1 Program arrears.   5. 1 Greater than 6%.      PMR/supervision
lines do not interfere with                                                    missions/due diligence
growth and/or undermine    5.2 Outstanding portfolio    5.2 Less than 10% in
repayment discipline of   growth.                   quarter.
clients.
6. Central Bank and/or BN   6.1 Formal Central Bank  6.1 No approval by July   PMRlsupervision
Directors do not pennit   approval for CrediAmigo"   2000.                     missions/due diligence.
institutional forms       trust fund".
consistent with program                             6.2 No approval by
independence.             6.2 BN Board of Directors   December 2000.
approval for CrediAmigo"
trust fund".
7. Brazilian macroeconomy   7.1 Quarterly net investment 7.1 Greater than 0    Due diligence/supervision
creates disincentives to  flow into Brazil..                                   missions
outside equity investment in                        7.2 Greater than % in real
CrediAmigo                7.2 Financial sector growth  terms.
rate in Brazil.
Impact (Development
Objectives to CAS Goal)
8. Loans do not go to poor   8. Clients household   8. Above poverty line.     Impact evaluation.
households.               consumption/income level.
9. Financial services do not  9. Change in household  9. Insufficient to close  Impact evaluation.
result in significant     incomes/consumption due to  poverty gap.
improvement of client     CrediAmigo financial
incomes/consumption.      services.
- 33 -



Annex 2: Project Description
BRAZIL: Northeast Microfinance Development Project
By Component:
Project Component I - US$85.50 million
Expanded Microfinance Loan Portfolio Component
This component will be implemented by CrediAmigo branches with oversight from the CrediAmigo Central
Technical Unit.
The component would provide funds for CrediAmigo to make loans for working capital and investment to
solidarity groups and individual solidarity group clients who have "graduated" by virtue of a good loan
repayment record. Financial management of the funds received from the Bank will be carried out by BN,
while implementation of the microfinance loan program will be carried out by CrediAmigo (see appendix
2.a for description of CrediAmigo program)
BN will be responsible for overall financial management and repayment of World Bank loan funds. Loan
funds will be provided in Reals by BN to CrediAmigo branches at a market rate equal to or greater than the
current inter-bank funds rate (CDI). The spread between the World Bank lending rate and the rate charged
to CrediAmigo by BN will be allocated by BN to cover the foreign exchange risk. The Central
Government's guarantee is being provided without charge to BN in return for the studies and evaluations
which will be financed under the loan (see Strengthened Capacity to Support CrediAmigo Expansion
Component and Impact Evaluation Component) and which are expected to generate substantial public
goods in terns of the development of the policy and regulatory framework for microfinance in Brazil.
Transfer of the funds to CrediAmigo will be recorded in CrediAmigo's accounting framework. Operating
results will be reflected in CrediAmigo's income statement and any loan losses will be charged against
CrediAmigo's accumulated profits. Net profits will be reflected as retained earnings, and net losses in
excess of equity will be covered by BN and reflected as outstanding liabilities to BN or paid-in equity by
BN on CrediAmigo's balance sheet.
T he microfinance loans supported by the World Bank funds will be identified by their code number in ithe
CrediAmigo MIS and this list will be available for review by Bank supervision missions and extemal
auditors and evaluators.
Assessment criteria and terms of the microfinance loans will be according to CrediAmigo's credit manual
which will be agreed with the Bank. CrediAmigo assessment criteria include:
(i) cash flow analysis of each microenterprise, including construction of a balance sheet and income
statement;
(ii) guarantees consisting of formation of a solidarity group comprised of at least three co-guarantors or
presentation of a legal guarantor (co-signer);
(iii) not found in credit reporting system;
(iv) acceptable repayment performance for previous CrediAmigo loans.
Demand is expected to be high given the limited availability of formal loan products designed for the
microenterprise sector in the Northeast. During the project period, CrediAmigo is expected to reach at
least 200,000 microentrepreneurs or less than 10% of the 2.5 million estimated microenterprises in the
- 34 -



Northeast. Competition from NGO lenders is restricted to a few large cities and these institutions have not
pursued aggressive growth strategies. Informal lenders provide loans whose characteristics are as or more
convenient for microenterprise borrowers but at interest rates at least twice that of CrediAmigo.
As a result of the component, CrediAmigo's loan portfolio should have expanded from approximately $10
million to $105 million and active clients from 37,000 to 150,000.
Project Component 2 - US$13.70 million
Strengthened Capacityfor Sustainable Growth of CrediAmigo
This component will be implemented by the CrediAmigo Technical Unit working with the appropriate areas
of BN and outside agencies (Central Bank, state environmental agencies) as relevant. (See appendix 2.b.I
for institutional action plan.)
Marketing (US$1,130,000): Consultants will be hired to assist CrediAmigo in develop promotional and
marketing strategies for the CrediAmigo program and products. Technical unit and branch staff will be
trained to implement the strategies which are adopted. As a result of the component, CrediAmigo will have
developed and implemented at least 10 new marketing strategies for the overall program, specific markets
and specific products and branch staff trained accordingly.
Risk-Management (US$120,000): Consultants will be hired to assist CrediAmigo in the development of its
risk management unit within the Technical Unit. The Technical Unit will develop and utilize a neural
systems model for portfolio analysis and credit scoring, and Technical Unit and branch staff will be trained
to utilize more sophisticated risk management techniques. As a result of the component, portfolio quality
will improve and variability in portfolio quality between loan officers and branches decline.
Loan Officer Productivity (US$230,000) Consultants will be hired to assist the Technical Unit in
development of mechanisms to enhance loan officer productivity in terms of gaining new clients and
management of larger numbers of active clients. These mechanisms will include training in time
management and purchase of equipment, such as palm pilots. As a result of the component the level of
staff productivity will increase and variability between loan officers and branches decline.
Geographic Coverage (US$11,170,000) Consultants will be hired to assist CrediAmigo in the
identification of mechanisms which provide cost-effective outreach to clients in lower-density areas.
Approximately 400 incremental loan officers will be added in the second, third and fourth years of the
project. Based on feasibility studies prepared, equipment will be purchased to pilot the technology and staff
trained. As a result of the subcomponent, CrediAmigo will have feasibility studies and pilot evaluations of
several outreach technologies, including financial projections, legal and regulatory requirements and staff
training and support needs. Govemment will benefit from identification of legal and regulatory constraints
and suggested solutions.
New Financial Products (US$330,000): Consultants will be hired to assist CrediAmigo in the identification
and design of new loan and savings products. The consultants will assist CrediAmigo in the design of
product design and testing and development and evaluation of pilots. Staff training and equipment will also
be financed. As a result of the subcomponent, CrediAmigo will have feasibility studies and pilot
evaluations of several loan and savings products, including financial projections, legal and regulatory
requirements and staff training needs. Government will benefit from the identification of legal and
regulatory constraints and suggested solutions.
- 35 -



Environmental Management (US$110,000): Consultants will be hired to work with BN's Environmental
Development Unit and CrediAmigo Technical Unit to carry out annual, independent evaluations of
CrediAmigo's environmental mitigation program for at-risk microenterprise clients. (See appendix 2.b.I]: for
description of BN's environmental development program and mission assessment of CrediAmigo
environmental management program.) CrediAmigo's business management/environmental officers in the
branches will receive updated training based on the results of the evaluations. As a result of the
component, CrediAmigo will have an effective screening system to identify microenterprise activities with
potential environmental risks and a follow-up client orientation program which results in effective
mitigation of identified risks. Government environmental agencies will have information on the types and
geographical locations of microenterprises which pose environmental risks. Public and private agencies
which assist microenterprises will have access to information and educational materials for distribution to
microenterprises, and microenterprises will have access to the materials and training.
Institutional Independence (US$3 10,000) Consultants will be hired to undertake legal and regulatory
studies, develop public reporting mechanisms and to cany-out annual due diligence reviews. (See appendix
2.b.1I for description of due diligence review.) CrediAmigo staff and BN management will also receive
training through study tours and participation in conferences focused on institutional development of
commercial microfinance institutions. As a result of the component, BN will be able to establish
institutional structures consistent with increasing the managerial, financial and legal independence of
CrediAmigo, and publish annual statements of program results based on extemal due diligence reviews
which assess the program in terms of its viability as an independent financial institution. Program results
and on-going lessons learned will be disseminated through seminars and publications.
Loan Administration (US$300,000) Funds will be provided to contract short-term consultants to assist in
punctual activities in support of loan administration, including extemal loan audits and assistance with
development of bidding documents for procurement. As a result of the subcomponent, BN should have
annual, extemal financial loan audits and bidding documents acceptable to the Bank, increasing consistency
between projected and actual implementation performance as reflected in the quarterly PMRs, and a
comprehensive mid-term evaluation carried out jointly with BN, Government and the Bank to review
project performance relative to objectives, lessons learned and any required adjustments in the program.
Project Component 3 - US$ 0.30 million
Impact evaluation Component
This component would be implemented by ETENE working in conjunction with universities and other
Brazilian and international researchers.
Technical assistance will be hired to assist ETENE in the design, implementation and analysis of statistical
surveys to evaluate program impact on client households. (See appendix 2.c for description of ETENE and
design parameters for impact evaluation.) As a result of the component, CrediAmigo, BN and
Government will be able to identify the relationship between access and use of formal microfinance
services, how credit is actually used, the impact on microenterprise growth and profitability, and the
broader benefits for the household. This will assist Government in determining the public welfare aspects
of microfinance in relation to other potential poverty reduction tools.
- 36 -



Appendix 2.a
Appraisal of CrediAmigo Microfinance Program
Mission
CrediAmigo's mission is to "Contribute to the development of the microenterprise sector through
the offer of financial services and training, which are sustainable, relevant, adequate and easy to access,
assuring new opportunities for employment and income in the Northeast Region of Brazil."
Background
The program was initiated when BN's President, Dr. Byron Quiroz, requested World Bank assistance to
launch a program to better reach poor, entrepreneurs in the informal sector. A seminar was held at BN's
headquarters in Fortaleza, Brazil in November 1996 at which the World Bank staff presented the lessons
learned from sustainable microfinance institutions in Asia and Latin America. A set of basic principles for
development of sustainable microfinance services, and a follow-up World Bank/CGAP mission in February
1997 carried out an assessment of BN's suitability as a platforrn to pilot a microfinance program. The
World Bank facilitated the transfer of funds from a loan to the State of Maranhao to BN for study visits by
senior management to successful microfinance institutions in Latin America and Asia, to design and
implement a market study, and to hire international technical assistance to assist with the design of the
program.
In late November 1997, with assistance from ACCION Intl., an international NGO with substantial
experience in development of sustainable microfinance institutions in Latin America, CrediAmigo was
formally launched in five pilot branches. CrediAmigo's first major challenge occurred in May 1998, when
BN management decided to expand the program to 46 more branches throughout the Northeast.
Insufficient support systems, loan officer and branch manager training, and emphasis on rapid growth
resulted in a rapid deterioration in the quality of the loan portfolio. The President of BN instructed all
managers to reduce or stop new microfinance lending until arrears were brought under control and loan
officers retrained.
The rapid expansion cost the CrediAmigo program an estimated $3 million in loan losses, lost productivity
and rehiring and retraining costs. However, the experience did provide an important examnple of the
dangers of over-rapid expansion and setting of ambitious growth targets without sufficient controls and
attention to portfolio quality. As a result, CrediAmigo has suspended any further expansion in favor of
program consolidation. CrediAmigo and BN management have focused on reducing overhead costs, and
increasing loan officer productivity and portfolio quality through training, incentives and better monitoring,
a process which is being supported by technical assistance from CGAP and ACCION, Intl.
Program Description
Legal Structure and Ownership. CrediAmigo is a program fully within BN and as such has no distinct
legal standing. BN management is currently working with the Central Bank of Brazil in the definition of a
trust find-type entity which would permit CrediAmigo to have a financially independent status for the
- 37 -



purposes of accounting. BN is also examining options for increased institutional independence consistent
with the program's requirements and capacities.
Organizational Structure. CrediAmigo works within the matrix management structure of BN. Loan
officers are organized into 51 CrediAmigo branches which are both physically and administratively distinct
from BN. Though in most cases they share physical facilities and security arrangements with BN
branches, CrediAmigo has separate offices and separate, dedicated tellers for disbursement and repayment
of microfinance loans. CrediAmigo branches are directly accountable to BN's regional superintendents,
who appoint sub-regional coordinators to oversee and support the activities of up to five branches. The
regional superintendents report directly to the President of BN.
The CrediAmigo Technical Unit, housed in the Office of the President of BN, provides technical support
services to the branches and the superintendents, including training, assistance with human resources
management, promotional support and resolution of particular problems with portfolio management or
growth. The Technical Unit is also responsible for program oversight, policy development, MIS
development and support, and strategic planning. The Technical Unit provides program results and
performance comparisons to all levels of the program and reports directly to the President of BN through
the Chief of Cabinet who is also the General Manager of CrediAmigo.
Geographic Coverage. CrediAmigo currently has 51 branches spread throughout the nine states of the
Northeast Region (Alagoas, Bahia, Ceara, Maranhao, Paraiba, Pernambuco, Piaui, Rio Grande doNorte
and Sergipe) as well as the northem portion of Minas Gerais. CrediAmigo is testing innovative means to
extend its geographic coverage without incurring the overhead expense of new branches through
introduction of service posts, mobile units and use of non-bank transactions points such as post offices.
Source of Funds BN has provided CrediAmigo with R$24 million for on-lending which are "transfered" for
accounting purposes at the inter-bank lending rate (CDI). CrediAmigo also received $400,000 of
non-reimbursable funds from a World Bank loan to the State of Maranhao, and a $996,000 PHRD Grant
to support staff training, MIS development and technical assistance.
Financial Services CrediAmigo currently provides a single loan product based on formation of solidarity
groups of four to seven borrowers. Maximum loan size is R$3,000, with no minimum. Maximum size of
the first loan is R$700. Loans normally have terms of 90 days though some groups with good repayment
records have received 120.day loans. Repayments are made every 15 days to the CrediAmigo branch and
there is no grace period. Loans have an interest rate of 4% which is charged against the original disbursed
amount, resulting in an effective interest rate of 6% per month. An interest rebate of 15% of the total
interest due is discounted from the final repayment for clients with a perfect on-time repayment record.
Groups which repay on-time are eligible to receive new their loans for higher amounts within 24 hours of
receipt of the last repayment. There are no other charges, deposit requirements or guarantee requirements.
CrediAmigo intends to provide more flexible terms for its solidarity group loans, increasing the maximum
loan amount of R$4,000 and the maximum first loan to R$1,000. Loans would also have a maximum term
of six months, and payments could be made weekly, every 15 days or monthly depending on the specific
cash-flow characteristics of the group.
CrediAmigo is currently piloting an individual loan for clients who have perfect on-time repayment records
for at least two loan cycles. The individual loan is intended for those clients whose capacity to borrow
exceeds that of the rest of the group. Terms for the individual loan are similar to group loans, though
CrediAmigo intends to require a co-signatory to the loan.
- 38 -



CrediAmigo is also reviewing other loan products, such as investment loans and one-month special events
loans. It is also introducing insurance against non-repayment due to death. A savings product with a
minimum balance of R$50 is also being reviewed, though its introduction will depend in part on Central
Bank regulatory approval.
Non-financial Services CrediAmigo has initiated a business training program for clients through its branch
offices. Clients must pay for training which is not a requirement to access the loans. CrediAmigo charges
R$9 to R$18 for each course and offers a 30% discount to its loan clients. CrediAmigo is also developing
an environmental mitigation program which will assist microenterprises to reduce their environmental risks,
the majority of which directly affect microenterprise workers, their families and neighbors.
Loan Application and Qualification Process Borrowers must meet the following qualifications:
Present identification card;
Proof of residence;
Over 18 years old;
Established in business at least one year;
Not be recorded in the credit reporting service (SPC).
Borrowers normally attend one orientation meeting, after which they are visited by a loan officer in their
place of business. The loan officer assists the potential client with developing a simplified balance sheet,
income statement and cash flow estimate. The group then submit their credit application which is reviewed
by the loan officer who also checks if they are listed in the SPC and submits the application to the credit
committee. The branch-level credit committee meets daily to approve or rejects applicants and adjusts loan
amounts in relation to the estimated repayment capacity. The group then attends a final consolidation
meeting at which the terms and conditions of the loan are again explained, the loan contract is signed, and
the group receives its disbursement and a booklet with dated repayment slips. First loans are normally
disbursed within 7 days of the orientation meeting and renewals for groups which paid their loans paid
on-time are disbursed within 24 hours. Loan officers normally follow-up with individual clients at least
once every two weeks and more frequently in the case of actual or potential repayment problems.
Human Resources CrediAmigo has a dedicated staff of 302, of which 186 are loan officers, 51 are branch
managers, 14 are sub-regional coordinators, and 51 are in the CrediAmigo Technical Unit or are client
training coordinators in the branches. CrediAmigo loan officers are recruited and contracted through a third
party due to union restrictions on hiring and pay scales in BN. (The proposed trust fund arrangement is
intended, in part, to permit CrediAmigo to contract staff directly outside the BN union restrictions). Loan
officers are typically recent university graduates with some business experience. Branch managers are
selected from amongst loan officers. Sub-regional coordinators are BN employees, although CrediAmigo
expects to eventually replace them with CrediAmigo staff that entered as loan officers, both to further
institutionalize the CrediAmigo culture and microfinance focus, and to reduce staff costs.
The staff of the CrediAmigo Technical Unit comes from within BN. In addition to capitalizing on the
banking experience of its staff, BN is placing high quality staff in the sub-regional coordinator and
technical unit positions in order to facilitate communication with other areas of BN and to ensure that the
lessons learned from the microfinance operation, particularly in portfolio management, human resources
management and client services, are transferred to the rest of the bank. BN also considers CrediAmigo as a
source of staff with a stronger commercial focus for the larger bank.
- 39 -



CrediAmigo staff at the loan officer and branch levels receive a base pay of about R$400 (US$230) per
month which can be doubled through an incentive system based on productivity (new clients per month)
and portfolio quality (low arrears). The average loan officer received R$724 (US$416) in base salary and
incentive payments in June 1999. Staff receive quarterly evaluations which review performance, attitude,
teamwork and skills and career development. Although not formally employees of BN, CrediAmigo loan
officers and branch managers are considered as such in terms of all BN activities and access to recreational
facilities.
Training Staff receive intensive training in microfinance credit methodology, business management and
communications. Training modules have been developed with the assistance of ACCION, Intl., an
intemational NGO with extensive experience in the development of sustainable microfinance institutions
throughout Latin America. Training modules are continually updated in response to identified program
needs. Training is provided through formal courses conducted by BN, apprenticeships with experienced
loan officers, staff exchanges between CrediAmigo branches, study visits to other microfinance institutions
in Latin America, and on-line lessons.
Management Information Systems (MIS) BN has invested substantially in CrediAmigo's MIS. All 51
branches are on-line with the Central Technical Unit, regional coordinators and the regional
superintendents. The MIS consists of two main systems - the managerial system which is "open", and the
accounting system which is "closed" and which interacts with BN's main MIS. Virtually all CrediAmigo
systems and processes are computerized and available through the MIS, including loan applications, loan.
officer scheduling, disbursement and repayment information, basic data on clients, incentives calculations
and performance rankings.
Delinquency management The current incentive program rewards, portfolio growth and delinquency
control. Under this scheme, loan officers' remuneration varies according to a score calculated on the basis
of their sales performance (new loans plus renewed loans); they lose points for any loan in their portfolio
that is behind in its payments. The loan officer is responsible for following up on portfolio at risk of up to
0.5% of his/her portfolio. The branch coordinator will intervene if default is between 0.5% and 2%, with
involvement of the regional manager when portfolio at risk exceeds this amount. CrediAmigo's technical
unit will monitor and/or intervene branches when portfolio at risk raises above 4% in the branch.
CrediAmigo's policy is to never refinance any loan.
Program Promotion BN has also invested substantially in promotion of the CrediAmigo program through
television, radio, and promotional posters, pamphlets and t-shirts. A recent market study indicates that the
most important promotional tool has become CrediAmigo's satisfied clients who tell others about the
program. Second in importance are the individual visits of loan officers to potential clients.
Operational Results
In table 1 the performance of CrediAmigo is compared against data published by the MicroBanking
Bulletin for large Latin America microfinance institutions which have attained at least 95% full financial
sustainability. The microfinance institutions included in this category are: BancoSol (Bolivia), Los Andes,
Financiera Calpia (El Salvador), CM Arequipa, Prodem, FIE, MiBanco, Genesis Empresarial
(Guatemala), Finamdrica, FWWB Cali (Colombia). Comparing a young microfinance institution like
CrediAmigo to older microfinance institutions may have some drawbacks. Nonetheless, the comparison
highlights areas such as administrative costs which inhibit CrediAmigo's sustainability, while identifying
areas, such as outreach, where CrediAmigo is performing better that its peer group.
- 40 -



Table 1 Comparison of CrediAmigo with other large Latin American Microfinance Institutions
MARKETINDICA TORS
Rate of Consumer Price Inflation (per year)                   3.2%         4.9%         8.9%
Market Reference Rate (per year):                            36.5%        34.1%        15.2%
Exchange Rate (ReaislUS Dollar):                                1.2         1.8           NA
GDP per capita (USS, Northeast)                               2,170        1,388       1,938
KEY FINANCIAL PERFORMANCE RA TIOS
Subsidy Dependence Index                                    239.1%        25.5%           NA
Return on Assets (ROA)                                      -516.4%       -16.8%        5.5%
Adjusted Retum on Assets                                   -705.7%      -147.2%         4.2%
Operational Self-Sufficiency (excluding cost of funds)       35.9%       123.4%       120.5%
CREDITRISKRA TIOSa
Portfolio at Risk (>90 days, after write-offs)                 0.0%        0.0%          1.2%
Portfolio at Risk (> 30 days, after write-offs)                1.3%        2.4%           NA
FINANCIAL MARGINRATIOS
Interest Expense / Avg. Assets                               28.3%        24.0%         8.6%
Portfolio Yield = Interest Income / Avg. Loan Portfolio      76.5%        77.9%        36.8%
Real Portfolio Yield                                         71.0%        69.6%        25.8%
Adj. Profit Margin= Adj. Net Income/Total Operating Income  -201.0%        -5.4%        13.4%
Asset Utilization= Interest Income / Avg. Assets              64.2%       78.3%          30%
PRODUCTIVilTY RA TIOS
Personnel Costs / Avg. Assets                                113.3%       39.5%         9.1%
Personnel Costs/ Avg. Loan Portfolio                         137.1%       40.7%          12%
Administrative Cost / Avg. Loan Portfolio                    193.8%       55.5%          19%
Active Loan Clients per Staff Member (end of period)             55          121          147
HUMAN RESOURCES
Total Staff (end of period)                                     345          311          188
Loan Officers                                                   243          186          NA
Average Salary per staff / GDP per capita                      70%          60%         6.4%
REGIONAL DISTRIBUTION
Branch Offices                                                   50           57           20
Average no. of Employees per Branch                             6.9          5.5          9.4
O UTREA CH INDICA TORS
Avg. Loan: Loan Portfolio/ Clients (US$)                        336          254          714
Avg. Loan/ GDP                                                 16%          26%          50%
Active Clients                                               21,024       37,683       27,420
% women clients                                               45%          45%          65%
LoanPortolio (USS '000s)                                      7,067        9,558       17,222
Sources: CrediArnigo's Finianicial Statenments andMicroBankingBulletin Issue No. 3, July 1999
a CrediAmigo write off bad loans after 90 days of the initial delinquency, which is more aggressive
than the I year policy of the peer-group.
*CrediAmigo writes off bad loans after 90 days of th e initial delinquency, which is more aggressive
than the 1 year policy of the peer-group, but these delinquencies remain in the portfolio at risk figures
indefinitely so that they are not directly comparable with the figures for the peer group.
Outreach Despite its early difficulties, CrediAmigo has achieved impressive growth. Its loan portfolio has
grown an average of 40% per quarter in real terms. After 18 months, its outstanding loan portfolio of
- 41 -



R$16.6 million (US$9.6 million) and 37,683 active clients compares to US$17.2 million and 27,420 active
clients for its peer group, all institutions which have been in business for at least three years and in most
cases over five years.
Profitability. Adjusted return on assets (AROA) summarizes CrediAmigo's overall financial performance.
As shown in Table 1, CrediAmigo is pursuing a rapid path to profitability. Although CrediAmigo's
adjusted ROA has been negative all quarters, consistent with a relatively new program, it has shown
impressive improvements, growing from negative 705.7% in December 1998 to negative 147.2% in
December 1999. This improvement results from controlling operating expenses and increasing loan officer
productivity. At this pace, CrediAmigo management hopes to achieve positive adjusted ROA by December
2000. Overall, most microfinance programs take five to seven years to become fully sustainable, but
CrediAmigo may achieve full sustainability faster due to its relatively higher lending rates..
Decomposing the Return on Assets. The retum on assets can be decomposed into the product of
CrediAmigo's adjusted profit margin (adjusted net income / interest income) and asset utilization (interest
income / avg. assets). In December 1998, CrediAmigo showed an adjusted profit margin of negative 201%.
By December 1999, CrediAmigo presented an adjusted profit margin of negative 5.4%, representing a
significant improvement. CrediAmigo has achieved this by controlling the growth of adjusted operating
expenses and by producing substantial interest income. CrediAmigo's asset utilization, which represents
the gross yield on assets, was 48 percentage points above the peer group. CrediAmigo's portfolio yield
(interest income /avg. loan portfolio) reached 77.9% in Decemberl999.
Controlling Adjusted Non-Interest Expenses. Adjusted non-interest expenses as a share of total operating
income, excluding grants, have fallen every single quarter since CrediAmigo's inception from negative
1,404% in Q 1/98 to negative 92% in Q2/99. A determining factor has been a reduction of the average
monthly salary per staff from R$2,058 in Q1/98 to R$1,415 in Q2/99, reflecting in large part the transfer
of branch management responsibilities from regular BN staff to promoted loan officers. Nonetheless,
relative to GNP, CrediAmigo pays its staff more than what average staff at peer group institutions earn. In
December 1999, its average staff salary was equivalent to 60% of GNP per capita in the Northeast,
compared to 6.4% for its peers, and administrative costs as a share of average loan portfolio were 56%, or
almost three times higher than the average for other large microfinance programs in Latin America.
Loan Officer Productivity. Productivity, measured as average new clients per loan officer per month has
increased dramatically from 2 in June 1998 to 14 in December 1999. This is CrediAmigo's key challenge as
its current 121 active clients per staff member and average loan balance of US$254 per loan compares
unfavorably to 147 clients per staff member and an average loan balance of US$ 714 for its peer group.
CrediAmigo's management has also had some success in reducing the large disparities in productivity
between loan officers. In February 1999, 57% of loan officers had 10 or less new clients per month,
whereas four months latter, this percentage declined to 43 percent.
Portfolio Quality. (Figure 1) Following high delinquency associated with the early expansion of the
programn, CrediAmigo has been able to manage delinquency relatively well considering its growth push.
Portfolio at risk (30 days) reached 2.4% in December 1999. Netting out loans which would be excluded
from the 90 day portfolio at risk indicator for its peer group, CrediAmigo's performance is comparable to
its peer group (1.2%). The program's recent emphasis on increased loan officer productivity has resulted in
the rapid increase in delinquency, but this has remained within the program's target limits and is currently
declining. CrediAmigo's management is implementing preventive actions to control future delinquency
while monitoring trends of portfolio at risk by branch and developing an action plan to solve delinquency
problems. As of July 1999, twelve branches had a portfolio at risk (15 days) above seven percent.
- 42 -



1.     Figure 1 Portfolio Quality
- PtboUo at Rtsk p.30 days)
-PwfoIO atRsk Rp60 days)
-PbWt aotatR1sk (15daysJ
--+ Wrta-offs IAvg. Loan Ptofoo Lagged 180 days (Rlght-tdaSea)e)
C%                         ~                        ..........  20%
Oi?:¢:>~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ .    .: ...  .:?: .+
~~~ ~~18%
5%    -E     r7..7-Q- ........ ---.--n-:--;---.r......... --- -., .. -----,- - -m. .. . . ....  1---r-
14%
4%~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~2
...a. .-:....-.- ...... {.?:.-l.......................  :';126
3%   ~~~~~~~~-10%
6%
1% ---ti-- f
2%
0% -                                               0%
12/7   3/98    6/8    9/98   12/98    39    &W99
Capital Adequacy. For the purpose of the analysis, CrediAmigo's equity was defined as retained profits
(losses), which implies that CrediAmigo has negative equity. However, a wider definition will include all of
BN's transfers, resulting in 100% equity funding from BN. For this reason, capital adequacy issues are not
relevant for CrediAmigo as part of BN. Creation of a CrediAmigo trust fund is intended to pernit the
program to retain any future profits as contributions to equity as well as seek extemal investors.
CrediAmigo S Subsidy Dependence Index
An import indicator of CrediAmigo's sustainability is the subsidy dependence (SDI). The SDI is the
percentage by which the yield obtained on loan portfolio would need to be raised, over the interest rate
actually collected, in order to fully cover the cost of both explicit and implicit subsidies.
CrediAmigo receives subsidies from the following sources:
* Implicit subsidies from concessional liabilities. A market reference rate serving as a shadow price for
CrediAmigo is derived using the interest rate for 30 days deposits, a reserve requirement of 15 percent,
and an administrative cost of mobilizing and servicing deposit of three percent per year.
*   Implicit subsidies related to opportunity cost of equity. Because CrediAmigo's liabilities are greater
than accumulated earnings and BN has not made equity contributions to the program, its equity is
negative. Hence, CrediAmigo has a "negative" subsidy from equity, which is subtracted rather than
added to the total subsidies.
* Explicit Donations for Operating Expenses as reflected in the income statement. The calculation of
the Subsidy Dependence Index, or SDI is presented in Table 2. CrediAmigo's SDI has been improving
since its inception. According to the estimation, the amount of subsidies amounted to R$0.3 million in
Q4/99 (or R$11 per client), a significant reduction from Q2/98, when subsidies reached R$2. 1 million
(R$143 per client). In Q4/99, CrediAmigo had a SDI of 10%, which indicates that the annual yield on
the loan portfolio would have to increase from 74.2% to 81.7%.
- 43 -



This SDI calculation provides a lower bound estimate of CrediAmigo path towards sustainability. For
example, Brazil's Central Bank regulations require an equity assignment when opening a new branch. As
part of BN, CrediAmigo has been able to open branches without the corresponding equity contribution,
which constitute an additional implicit subsidy not accounted for in the SDI.
Table 2 Calculation of the Subsidy Dependence Index for CrediAmigo
Market Indicators
Rate of Consumer Price Inflation (per year):            4.7%    3.7%   2.6%    1.8%    2.3%   3.3%    5.5%   8.4%
CPI (Jun-99=l)                                           1.00    1.00   1.00    1.00    1.00   1.00    1.00   1.00
Interbank lending rate (CDI)                           35.2%   26.7%  28.1%  21.2%   20.3%   19.9%   21.3%  18.2%
Discount Ratel                                         38.5%   29.4%  42.3%  39.4%   46.0%  24.5%   21.8%  21.4%
Derivation of the Market Reference Rate
a. Deposit Rate(per year)                                 32.3%   22.7%  23.8%  33.3%   40.0%  25.4%   19.9%  18.9%
Administrative Cost of Mobilizing and Servicinig Deposits (per
b. month)                                                 3.00%   3.00%  3.00%  3.00%   3.00%  3.00%   3.00%  3.00%
c. Reserve Requirement                                     15.0%   15.0%  15.0%  15.0%   15.0%   15.0%   15.0%  15.0%
d. Rate of Interest on Required Reserves                   0.0%    0.00/s  0.0%   0.0%    0.0%   0.0%    0.0%   0.0%
e. Market Reference Rate (per year) = [a+bl/[I-cl:        41.5%   30.2%/o 31.5%  42.7%   50.6%  33.4%   26.9%  25.7%/
Identification of the Sources of Subsidy
f. Interest Expense                                           79    264    385    760    889   1,153    849    711
g. Liabilities (mothfy avg.)                               2,633   7,388 10,417  15,142  19,001 23,070  23,944 24,862
h. Subsidiy on Concessional Liabilities=Ie*g03-fl:            12    293    435    857   1.513    772    761    888
i. Opportunity Cost of Equity                             41.5%   30.2%  31.5%  42.7%   50.6%  33.4%   26.9%  25.7%
l  Accounting Cost of Capital                               0.0%    0.0%   0.0%   0.0%    0.0%   0.0%    0.0%   0.0%
k. Equity (monthly avg.)                                    -707  -2.866  -4.637  -6.343  -7.281  -8.002  -7.946  -7.558
1. Subsidy on Equity =[i*k*31:                               -24   -216   -365   -677   -921   -668_ -534   486
m. Miscellaneous Grants and Benerits:                          0       0    471    261    239    218       78    206
Calculation of the SDI
n. Total Subsidy Received by CrediAmigo [h + I + m]          -12     77    541    440    832    322    305    608
o. Profit (Loss)                                          -1,383  -2,027  -1,736  -1,639   -738   -497    322    280
p  Net Subsidy = [n - o]                                   1,371   2,105  2,276  2,080   1,570    820    -18    328
a. Interest Income:                                          110    773  1.036  1.405   2.015 QJ  7691 3,345  3.228
r. Subsidy Dependence Index = [p / ql:                    1248%   272%   220%   148%    78%    30%    -1%    10%
Requisite Interest Rate Adjustment
s. Real Yield on Portfolio (per year):                    31.2%   75.8%  80.6%  70.9%   72.1%  72.6%   73.1%  60.7%
t. Current Yield on Portfolio (per year):                 37.3%   82.4%  85.3%  74.0%   76.1%  78.2%   82.6%  74.2%
Increase in the On-Lending Rate Required to Eliminate
u. Subsidy Dependence= [r*t]:                            465.0%  224.2%  187.6% 109.6%   59.2%  23.1%   -0.4%   7.5%
Lowest Subsidy Free On Lending Rate (per month) = [t +
v. ul:                                                   502.3%  306.6% 272.90/o 183.6%  135.3% 101.3%   82.2%  81.7%
Subsidy per Borrower (Rs)
Source: CrediAmigo's Financial Statements and Table                                                 _
I D)iscowit Rate Rate darged by di Central Barik of Brazil on loans to financial iransittiors collateralized by federal securities.
2 Deposit Rate:Aveage Rate offered by banks on certificates of deposit of 30 days or tongeT
- 44 -



Financial Projections - Assumptions
As part of project preparation, CrediAmigo prepared a five-year business plan using the CGAP Microfin
Model. The appraisal mission reviewed the following assumptions with CrediAmigo staff:
Loan Products. For the financial projections, CrediAmigo plans to continue with solidarity group loans and
to add three new loan products: individual working capital loans, individual investment loans, and special
event loans. Investment loans would be available to good standing clients that have repaid two solidarity
group loans. Special event loans would satisfy the demand of current clients to expand their operations due
to seasonal festivities in the region. These loans would be targeted to clients that have received at least three
loans from CrediAmigo.
As shown in Table 3 all assumptions regarding solidarity group loans are consistent or more conservative
than current practices. Assumptions for individual, investment, and special event loans were provided by
Accion Intemational based on intemational experience.
Table 3 Characteristics of Loan Products for Financial Projections
....   .-   -   -  -  ...........   .   .   .-     .....   . . . .   -   .   .  -   ---    .   -   .   .     .........................................    ..    ..    . .............. .
Solidary eGoup    Investtent  Individud a   - -WSci
r:&aHe--: :- -    -.             :--  Actual -- Proiected. Proieced- .i*oededa  F  jiectI
Average loan anount (RS)
First loan                               716        550        1,352       2,000        680
Second loan                              914        825        2,028       3,000
Third loan                              1131        990        3,785       3,600
Fourth loan                             1349      1,139        7,435       4,140
Fifth loan                              1521      1,252        7,435       4,761
Sixth and subsequent loans                        1,628        7,435       5,951
Loan size linked to inflation?                      No       Monthly        No        Yearly
Repayment Term (months)
First loan                                 3          3           12           3          1
Second loan                                3          3           15           3
Third loan                                 4          4           18           4
Fourth loan                                4          4           18           4
Fifth loan                                 5          5          24            5
Sixth and subsequent loans                 5          5          24            6
Repayment frequency                   Every two Every two  Monthly      Monthly     End-term
weeks    weeks
Grace period?                         No        No         Yes         No           No
Fees and Compulsory Savings           No        No         No          No           No
Interest Rates
Interest rate method               Flat      Flat      Declining    Flat         Flat
Interest rate, Month 1                    79.6%      79.6%        79.6%      101.2%     125.2%
Month 60                                  42.6%        60.1%       69.6%     125.2%
Effective yiedd First loan, Month 1      NA          99.8%        66.3%      128.0%     108.5%
Effediveyield; Sixth loan, Month 1       NA         107.9%        66.3%      137.1%    NA
Client Retention Rate
Overall Rate (monthly average)          83%
Second loan                           NA           85%          50%         85%         0%
Third loan                            NA           90%          30%         90%
Fourth loan                           NA           90%          25%         90%
Fifth loan                            NA           90%          20%         90%
Sixth and subsequent loans            NA           90%          10%         90%
Source: CrediAmigo 'sBusiness Plan
'End-of-projections
Interest Rates. The business plan assumes that lending rates would decrease for all loan products except
- 45 -



special event loans. For exarnple, the nominal interest rate for solidarity loans would diminish from its
original 5% per month to the current 4% and eventually to 3%. It is expected that CrediAmigo may fuirtler
reduce its lending rate with reductions in the market price of funds and the entry of new competitors, aifer
having achieved its consolidation.
Client Retention Rates. CrediAmigo's business plan assumes a client retention rate ranging from 85-90
percent, which is slightly higher than the overall retention rate for solidarity loans. This assumption may be
reasonable for solidarity loans, as CrediAmigo is focusing its incentive system towards client retention. In
the case of individual loans, the business plan assumes a similar retention rate than that of solidarity loans,
which is consistent with CrediAmigo's policy of graduating solidarity group borrowers to individual loans.
If this is the case, individual loan clients will consist of individuals that have borrowed from CrediAmigo
for various loans, and thus, are more likely to stay. In the case of investment and special event loans, the
business plan is more cautious regarding retention rates.
Table 4 Loan Officer Productivity Assumptions
Solidarity Group  -nvestment  Individual  Social    Total-:
Characteristic           Actual   Projected Projected   Proiected   Projected
Loan Officer Productivity
New Clients per month          13        14           2           3 NA               19
Clients per loan officer      203       3301         10         561        6        402
Source: CrediAmigo's Business Plan
Loan Officer Productivity. The business plan assumes that loan officers will attract 14 new clients per
month for solidarity loans, which is consistent with CrediAmigo's past perfornance. A point of concem. is
the capacity of loan officers to manage an average of 402 active clients in five years compared to the
present average of 203 clients per loan officer. CrediAmigo plans to focus on developing adequate training
and support systems over the next 12 months to ensure that loan officers will be able to manage 400 clients
without significant increases in loan delinquency and decreases in customer satisfaction.
Portfolio Quality. The projections assume that portfolio at risk (30 days) will increase from its current
level of 2.4% to 50/oat the end of five years. The experience in Latin America with solidarity group suggests
that the portfolio at risk ratio increases when the portfolio is growing rapidly in terms of number of clients.
This increase would not jeopardize the financial performance of the program, as lending rates should cover
those expenses. The assumption regarding loan loss provisioning categories was unrealistic in assuming a
reserve for loan losses equal to zero, and thus, adjusted using 10% for loans with up to 30 days late, 50' %
for loans with 31-60 days late, and 100% for the remainder. With this modification, CrediAmigo's adjusted
and projected financial statements present comparable figures regarding write-off policy and reserve for
loan losses.
- 46 -



Table 5 Portfolio Quality and Interest Rate Assumptions
:-n     Year 1  Year2       Year 3    Year-4    Year 5
Portfolio Ouality
Portfolio at risk (30 davs)   2.4%      3.0%       4 0%       4.0%      5.0c      5.0%
Annual Loss rate                        1.9%        2.4%      2.1%      2.6%      2.6%
Inflation                I    8.4%.       8.0%.       8.0%      8.0%      8.0%1    8.0%
Yield on Loan Portfolio      74.2%1    110.0%        95.0%     84.5%     81.0%1   81.8%
Interest rate on Liabilities  25 .7%     24.1%1      24.8%     20.7%.  19.91   19.2%1
Source: CrediAmigo 's Business Plan
Interest Rate on Liabilities Interest rate on liabilities is projected to fall from 24% to 19% during five
years. The projected cost of debt is consistent with CrediAmigo's current level of 15.7%. To calculate the
projected market rate, the cost of debt is adjusted to take into account the costs of mobilizing deposits and
reserve requirements. Inflation is projected to be constant at 8 percent per year.
Financial Projections and Sensitivity Analysis
In this section, CrediAmigo's financial projections are presented with its actual performance (Table 6) and
standard ratios to assess operational and financial performance. For these projections, some of the initial
assumptions of CrediAmigo were modified using MICROFIN to provide more conservative estimations of
portfolio growth. Namely, (a) provision for loan losses and (b) average loan size of individual loans. The
latter assumption was modified to present an average loan size of US$1,154 at the end of five years. After
these changes, CrediAmigo's projected loan portfolio will increase from US$9.6 million to US$151.2
million, of which US$89.3 million correspond to solidarity lending and US$ 46.8 million to individual
lending (Table 7). At the projected level of performance, CrediAmigo's adjusted ROA will continue its
upward trend, reaching 38 percent at the end of five years, despite reductions in lending rates (Table 8).
- 47 -



Table 6 Actual and Projected Financial Results
BALANCE SHEET                                  ACTUAL_                         p PROJCTE                1
(RS    )                            Dec-97  Dec-98  Dec-99  Dec-00  Dec-01  Dec-02  Dec-03  De_ _4
Current Assets
Cash & Banks                             0     731      741     879    1,766    3,153   4,075   4,960
Net Loan Portfolio                      36   7,577  15,608  38,057  75,907 129,506 176,244 224,772
Gross loan portfolio                  40   8,519   17,614  43,636   87,980 150,769 206,307 263,113
less: reserve for loan losses        4      -941   -2,005  -5,579  -12,073  -21,264  -30,063  -38,341
Short-term Investments                                    0       0        0   9,133   13,816  19,373
Pernanent Assets
Net Fixed Assets                               648      434     356      277     198      120      4l1
Net Deferred Expenses                  494     500      557     445      334     223      111      28
Total Assets                             529   9A57  17.340  39.737  78.284  142.214  194.366 249174
Liabilities
Banco do Nordeste                      553  16,266  24,782
Short-tern Commercial Loans                                    1,185    1,185 100,128  98,588  74,946
Long-term Commercial Loans                                    41,577  66,181       0        0       0
Equity
Accumulated retained earnings/losses   -24  -6,809  -8,183  -3,765   10,177  41,345   95,037 173,487
Accumulated Donated Equitv                              741     741      741     741      741     741
Total Liabilities and Equity             529  .9,457  17.340 1397 3717.2824  142.214  194.366 249.1,14
Source: CrediAmigo's Financial Statements and Projections
Financial projections were generated using Microfmi model.
Note that total assets and total liabilities and equitv are not equal for 6/98-6/99. however the difference is very small.
INCOME STATEMENT                               ACTUAL_____P_____                ROJECTED          __
WRS '000s)                          Dec-97  Dec-98  Dec-99  Dec-00  Dec-01  Dec-02  Dec-03  DecO4
Interest Income                          1   3,323   11,357  30,274  57,715  100,872  149,865  197,308
Interest Expenses                       -3  -1,488  -3,602  -8,047  -13,015  -17,186  -19,856  -17,406
Gross Financial Margin                    -2   1,835   7,755  22,227  44,700   83,686  130,009  179,902
Provision for Loaui Losses              4      -983   -1,433   4,127  -8,002  -11,747  -13,453  -14,349
Net Financial Margin                      -6     852   6,321   18,100  36,698  71,940  116,556  165,552
Non-interest Income                        0     783    1,147       0        0       0        0       0
Total Operating Costs                    -17  -8,421   -8,101   -9,498  -10,968  -14,892  -18,554  -22,592
Administrative Expenses                -17  -8,239   -7,875   -9,687  -11,158  -15,082  -18,743  -22,754
Salaries and Benefits                -17  -5,956   -5,939   -6,932   -8,308  -11,541  -14,763  -18,349
Other Operational Expenses             0   -2,283   -1,936  -2,756  -2,850  -3,541   -3,980  -4,405
Amortization and Depreciation            0    -182    -226      190      190     190      190     162
Net Operating Income (before taxes)      -24  -6,786    -632   8,602  25,730  57,048  98,003  142,960
Amount of taxes paid                                           -3,805  -11,408  -25,501  43,930  -64,186
Net income (after taxes)                 -24  -6,786    -632   4,797   14,322  31,547  54,072  78,774
Total Adjusted Operating Profi t (Loss),  -209  -9,273   -5,528
Pf-w  t- "I                                   IIIIIa
Source: CrediAmigo 's Finantcial Statements and Projections
Financial projections were generated using Microfin model.
aAdiusted by Subsidies and Iiflation.
- 48 -



Table 7 Outreach and Productivity Indicators
.__ACrUAL                        PROJECTED
Dec-97  Dec-98  Dec-99  Dec-00  Dec-01  Dec-02  Dec-03  Dec-04
MARKET INDICATORS                                                                                           777M
Rate of Consumer Price Inflation (per year):  4.9%    3.2%     4.9% 
Market Reference Rate (per year):           34.1%    36.5%    34.1%:;
Exchange Rate (Reais/US Dollar):              1.81     1.16     1.74:~       .             7         7        7
GDP per capita (US$, Northeast)            1,387.5  2,169.7  1,387.5    t        1, .               3       l8
OUTREACH INDICATORS
Clients
Solidarity Group Clients                        80  21,024   37,683  '~O6    0~k   4~s    6                2I
Individual Clients                        80 21                           0     2 37,           J      X  ---  9
Total Clients                                   80  21,024   37,683
Loan Portfolio (US$ '000s)
Solidarity Loan Portfolio                       35    7,067    9,558 .20 88    3S dI 47 .I               . 8
Individual Loan Portfolio                          ~3$~   ~    ~) 
Total Loan Portfolio                            35    7,067    9,558   Z  1     0                  r 6
Average Loan Size (USS)
Solidarity Group Loans                        444      336      254     3 r               3        3        395
Individual Loans66                                                                       I           Q     I19
Average Loan                                                                   ..~      .47         0        1
PRODUCTIVITY & OPERATIONAL MANAGEMENT RATIOS r
Loan Officers                                     20      243      186   w 2          6  , 
Personnel Costs /Monthly Avg. Assets            -3%   -113%    -40%- ,.            9        w    5  W9%
Personnel Costs/ Monthly Avg. Loan Portfolio   -44%   -137%    -41%                 1    "  1                    %
Administrative Cost (excluding provision for
loan losses)/ Monthlv Avg. Loan Portfolio      44%   -194%    -56%                    % N    1        10%      10.
Active Loan Clients per Loan Officer (end of
period)                                       z                                              A58      450 .   45
Solidarity Group Clients                         4      78      203  .             % .                5 
Individual Loan Clients                                                   2        SI                5        61-
Outstanding portfolio per loan officer (USS, end
of period)
Solidarity Loan Portfolio                    1,774   26,540   51,388     3       4       3(         4    £
Individual Loan Portfolio  .~                                              9     04       4916~I5.*2,1
Total Loan Portfolio                                                       S   1 4   2          2
Net Income per:
Loan Officer (RS)                           -1,176  -27,926   -3,399    Z3       82~3   2    0,3  .S~7
Client (R$)                                  -294    -323        -17       9        9 . .            3       Iz5
Source: Credinmizo's Business Plan
-49 -



Table 8 Financial Performance Indicators
ACTUAL                          PROJECTED
Dec-97  Dec-98  Dec-99  Dec-00  Dec-01  Dec-02  Dec-03  Dec-04
FINANCIAL MARGIN RATIOS
Annual Yield on Portfolio                    2%      76%     78%  X          i N       S        .
Annual Average cost of debt                  1%      17%     16%       W          g .
KEY PERFORMANCE RATIOS
SDI Index                                 5367%    239%      26%       G 0   -.
Return on Assets (after taxes)                                                      - 2z%    i2%        3 ;
Return on Assets (before taxes)            -18%   -516%    -17%
Adjusted Return on Assets (before taxes)  -158%   -706%   -147%       M      X
Adjusted Return on Assets (after taxes)   _                        1             v 21%  0        23   zz%
Assets                                     0%     64%      78%    w 6   '  9
Profit Margin (before taxes)=Net Income /
total operating income                 -3537%   -201%      -5%    ,           V .
taxes)=Adjusted Net Income /total
operating income                      -3 1481%   -275%    -47%;.24A         4W      4%       S%'
Interest Expense I Interest Income       434%     45%      32%      2         %    X        W      A
Net Loan Portfolio / Total Assets          7%     80%      90%               7        W    '9     ..91%
CREDIT RISK RATIOS
Portfolio at Risk > 30 days              0.0%     1.3%    2.4%                                      . X
Loan Write-off Ratio                                           -:  19      24%      21% -{ 6         26X
Source: CrediAmizo 's Business Plan
Sensitivity Analysis. A simplified approach incorporate more realistic assumptions is presented in Table 9,
which shows the effect of changing loan officer productivity, number of loan officers, the average loan size
of individual loans, and the exchange rate. Because solidarity group loans and individual loans account for
most of the loan portfolio the simplified projections are limited to these two loan products. As presented in
Tables 9, the most conservative scenario, which assumes 650 loan officers with an average productivity of
280 clients and an average individual loan of US$1,154 shows that CrediAmigo will experience substantial
growth. On average, its portfolio will grow 62 percent per year, which is consistent with programs such as
BancoSol and BRI at similar stages of their development.
-50-



Table 9 Sensitivity Analysis
- 0 ~~~Sensitivity Analysis (end of 5 vears)
End o   End o                             Individua   Total Clients per   No. Loan
Jun-98  Jun-99               .o              I Loan      Loan Officer     Officers
Group Lending                    3.43      8.28                               92.95     78.87     67.60     58.50
Individual Lending                         00                                     8      42        42        00
Total FX 1.8                               8.28           4            
Total FX 1.6                               8.28
Ttal 8X228
Assumptions
Avg. Group Loan (RS)           233       254    X                            380       380       380        375
Avg. Individual Loan                       0~  ~        ...                          1.1541    1154      1154
Group Lending                   59       153    S    3       4               330  d>2
Productivity
Individual Lending Producti vity0                                             56
Group Loan Clients           14.733    32 594                  4         244.845 
Individual LQan Clients                    M                              41m553
FX                                                  51 
FX16
FX2
Loan Officers2174                                                                      71         71
Retention Rate
Portfolio at Risk (30 davs)            2____ _29__   ___
Annual Growth Rate (S
years)
Group Lending Poryfolio           ~i
Total FX 1.8                          142%  ~    ~.~ >.A62%                          57%       52%       48%
Total FXl. 1~~.6                                                           66%       61%       56%       51%
Total FX 2.0                                                .   $59%                 54%       49%       45%
Group Lending Clients                   121%                                 50%       45%       40%       37%
Total Lending                 ~                              ..
Total FX 1.8                                                               77%       69%       65%       61%
Total FX 1.6                                                      __       81%       73%       69%       64%
Total FX 2.0                                                               73%       65%,    62%.        57%,
'As presented in CrediAmigo's business plan.
b Changing average loan size for individual loans in Microfin's assumptions.
- 51 -



Appendix 2.b
Institutional Strengthening Action Plan
Environmental Management Program
Due Diligence Review
L Institutional Strengthening Action Plan
Goal                  Current Status          Strengthening Need      Action
1. Increased market   Good client retention but  Revised              Technical assistance to analyze
penetration for existing  low penetration in markets promotion/marketing  current and potential markeling
loan product          with dense potential client strategy.            tools and messages to identifiy
populations.                                    more efficient and effective
means to reach potential clients.
Training of all project staff to improve
marketing message.
2. Sophisticated risk  Portfolio quality/risk  Introduction of improved   Technical assistance to develop and test
analysis to better target  analysis is rudimentary   risk analysis mechanisms  risk models.
lending and reduce the   and loan officer an branch for Teclhical Unit and
overall level and     perfonnance higlhly     branch staff.            Training of dedicated risk management
variability of arrears  variable.                                      unit and branch staff in use of models.
performance.
3. Increase loan officer  Average new clients per   Introduce teclniques and   Technical assistance to identify and
productivity in terms of  loan officer per month of  equipment which increase  evaluate mechanisms to improve
new clients per month   14 not increasing and loan the productivity of loan    productivity.
and canying capacity of officers canying average of officer time as well as
active clients. Reduce   165 active clients. High   techniques such as transfer Equipment for loan officers.
variability between loan  variability in perfonnance  of active clients from
officers and branches.   of loan officers and  higher productivity to  Training of loan officers in lime
branches.               lower productivity loan    management and use of
officers.               equipment.
4. Cost-effective     Outreach limited        Identify and implement    Technical assistance to identify, pilot and
expansion of geographic  municipalities within  alternative mechanisms to  evaluate alternative outreach
coverage of program.    proximity of 51 branches.  economically service  mechanisms such as posts, rnobile
clients in municipalities   branches, ATMs and non-BN service
and zones with lower client windows.
density.
Training and equipment for
implementation of accepted outreach
mechanisms.
Incremental staff, equipment and
training for new loan officers.
- 52 -



5. Introduction of new,  Single solidarity loan  Development, testing of   Technical assistance to design, pilot and
profitable financial  product which constrains   new financial products and evaluate new products such as
products for current and  client growth and may not modification in Central   longer-term investment loans, housing
new clients.          be attractive to many    Bank regulations.       loans, savings, insurance.
potential clients. Existing
client base and servicing                        Technical assistance to work with
mechanisms represents                            Central Bank in evaluation of legal and
well-known market for                            regulatory issues associated with these
other financial products                         products.
which could be serviced at
low marginal cost. Central                       Equipment and staff training for
Bank restrictions impede                         servicing of new products.
introduction of these
products.
6. Effective mnitigation of No environmental   Program wlich effectively  Technical assistance for design of
enviromnental risk in    mitigation program in  screens client activities and educational materials and training of
client microenterprises.  place.               provides mitigation     business management/environmental
support to identified, risky  mitigation agents.
activities.
Annual, external evaluations of operation
of environmental mitigation program.
7. Increased financial    Fully dependent on BN.   Institutional fonn and  Study of institutional options including
and management        Central Bank regulations   management which      legal and technical characteristics and
independence from BN.  provide few options for    facilitates CrediAmigo's   constraints.
development of          ability to operate and be
transparent, fonnal     evaluated as an          Implementation of new, transparent
distinctions of CrediAmigo independent entity.  structure acceptable to Central Bank.
program.
Annual, extemal due diligence reviews to
assess CrediAmigo as independent
financial entity.
Publication of audited, operating results.
Retention of earnings to build-up own
equity.
Identification and mobilization of
altemative sources of equity and
borrowings.
8. Implementation of    Limited experience with   Capacity to manage    Tecluical assistance for project reporting
Bank loan with minimal multi-lateral loans through disbursement and     and ICB procurement.
delays in procurement or IDB financed project.  procurement processes
disbursements.                                 consistent witlh Bank    External financial audits of loan funds.
guidelines and procedures
and implementation needs
of project.
- 53 -



IL Environmental Management Plan
Assessment of
Environmental Management Program
BN considers environmental concerns to be an integral component of its sustainable development mission
in the Northeast Region of Brazil. As such, in addition to strictly applying the relevant Brazilian
environmental legislation in reference to financial institutions (Law 6.938/81 and Decree 99.274/90), BN
has a number of proactive environmental programs focused on conservation and preservation of natural
resources in the Northeast Region. It has also integrated environmental screening and mitigation into its
standard lending evaluation, approval and evaluation processes.
BN is adapting its environmental management procedures to the specific requirements of the CrediAmigo
program through development of a proactive mitigation program which assists those few microenterprises
which may have significant environmental impacts (mainly focused in the workplace or neighborhood) to
reduce or eliminate these impacts through more efficient productive processes and/or management and
storage of inputs and products. The project will finance external technical assistance to work with BNWs
Environmental Development Unit and CrediAmigo in the development of communications materials and
training programs for CrediAmigo staff and microenterpreneurs, and to carry-out annual external
evaluations of the effectiveness of screening mechanisms and promoting adoption of mitigation measures
where risks are identified.
BN's environmental policy
BN's environmental policy states that it will:
(i) Assist its clients with compliance with the environmental requirements imposed by the law and markets;
(ii) Dissemination and education of its staff and clients regarding environment as an integral factor in the
quality and continuity of life;
(iii) Support prevention and reduction of negative environmental impacts in productive activities;
(iv) Provide economic incentives to businesses which are "eco-efficient" (reduce their effluents) and
activities which are ecologically healthy;
(v) Encourage the use of Environmental Accounting by BN clients as a means of improving their
competitiveness and the differentiation of their products and services in the market.
BN's Environmental Focus Project includes:
(i) Insertion of the environmental variable in the policies, directives and programs of BN;
(ii) Creation of mechanisms and instruments consistent with the implementation and development of BN's
environmental policy;
(iii) Identify, diffuse and provide incentives for the development of businesses based in sustainable
development alternatives (green markets);
(iv) Develop and support inter-institutional actions focused on rational resources use and combating the
principal negative environmental impacts in the region.
Principal Actions to date include:
- 54 -



(i) Training courses, workshop and seminars for over 700 BN staff;
(ii) Development of an environmental communication network including public officials, consultants and
private sector businesses;
(iii) Application of environmental accounting by the Bank management and branches;
(iv) Development of a line of credit to support environmental conservation, including financing of projects
for reforestation, organic agriculture, solid waste recycling, altemative energy generation and protected
area management;
(v) Protocols with national (IBAMA) and state agencies to simplify and speed-up environmental permits;
(vi) Participation in programs with IBAMA, UNDP, universities and state agencies to promote
reforestation, sustainable agriculture and reduce desertification.
BN's Environmental Development Unit
The Environmental Development Unit is housed within the Development Policies area of the Bank but
works closely with the Superintendent of Operational Procedures. The unit has primary responsibility for
development of environmental screening and mitigation procedures which are integrated into BN's credit
processes, as well as staff training. The unit is also responsible for evaluating implementation of the
procedures at the credit analyst and branch levels.
The Environmental Development Unit's permanent staff consists of two full-time professionals and five
part-time professionals with post-graduate training in geography, engineering and business administration -
all with specialization in environmental impact assessment and mitigation. In addition, the unit draws upon
a group of 70 environmental specialists in national and state environmental agencies, consulting firms and
NGOs located throughout the Northeast Region.
Integration of environmental mitigation into BN's standard credit processes
BN has fully integrated environmental screening, development of mitigation plans and impact evaluation
into its standard credit processes. An environmental procedures manual describes the procedures which
must be carried out by each administrative and operational unit of BN, as well as any external agents, in
the process of design, analysis, approval and supervision of each loan. These requirements are reflected in
the various applications and forms which document the loan process and are incorporated in BN's
computerized loan documentation system (SEAP) which automatically identifies environmental risks and
mitigation activities associated with the primary industrial and agricultural activities in the region. BN has
also prepared an environmental guide for rural producers which allows producers to self-evaluate their
environmental practices as related to water and soil conservation, use of agro-chemicals and energy, waste
disposal and relationship with biodiversity conservation.
Application of BN's en vironmental policy and mitigation procedures to tIhe CrediAmigo Program
Consistent with BN's mission of sustainable development, the environmental unit has defined an
environmental screening and mitigation program consistent with the client profile and credit technology of
CrediAmigo. The program consists of:
(i) A specific policy statement for environmental mitigation in CrediAmigo;
(ii) A flow diagram indicating how environmental screening and mitigation will be integrated into the
microfinance loan identification, preparation, approval, supervision and renewal processes;
(iii) Preparation of pamphlets based on market tests with microenterprises which effectively communicate
environmental risks, reasons to take mitigating actions and how to obtain assistance;
- 55 -



(iv) training of environmental/business education agents in branches to provide assistance to identified
high-risk micro-enterprises to define and carry-out improved environmental business management plans;
(v) annual, published descriptions and evaluations of effectiveness of mitigation program in terms of
screening, follow-up and implementation of mitigation plans.
The environmental screening and mitigation process will be integrated into the standard CrediAmigo loan
process according to the flow diagram which also identifies institutional responsibilities:
Project Support of the Environmental Management Program
BN's Environmental Development Unit and CrediAmigo staff are working with the World Bank and PHRD
financed consultants in the final design of the informational pamphlets and development of the training
course for environmental agents. The loan will finance the training of environmental/business education
agents and contracting of external consultants for annual evaluations of the environmental management
program based on Terms of Reference and selection criteria approved by the World Bank. The annual
evaluations will assess: (i) the effectiveness of the screening process in identifying potentially risky
activities; (ii) consistency of follow-up where risks are identified; (iii) the quality of environmental
orientation/training provided to microentrepreneurs; (iv) the effective implementation and maintenance of
mitigation measures; and (v) enforcement of restrictions on new loans to microenterprises which do not
carry-out mitigation activities. In addition, CrediAmigo will evaluate any positive or negative impacts of
the environmental management program on loan officer and branch productivity and client retention.
Based on its review of BN's existing activities, the appraisal mission was confident of BN's ability to
develop these activities successfully by December 1, 1999. Approval of the overall program as part of the
final project implementation manual is a condition of effectiveness of the loan.
- 56 -



CREDIAMIGO
POLITICA AMBIENITAL
0 CREDIAMIGO reconhece a gestao ambiental como uma das prioridades do Programa e como
um fator-chave para o desenvolvimento sustentavel das atividades produtivas.
Dessa maneira, estabelece principios e praticas que fundamentam sua Politica Amiibienltal para a
realizac,o de neg6cios e apoio aos clientes, comprometendo-se a:
1.     Conduzir suas operaq6es de acordo com as leis ambientais e regulamentac,es aplicaveis, cuidando
para que as atividades apoiadas sejam desenvolvidas de maneira ambientalmente responsavel;
2.     Apoiar somente atividades geradoras de produtos e servicos seguros, tanto em rela,co aos
envolvidos nas atividades comno em rela,ao aos consumidores e sociedade em geral;
3;    Elaborar e aplicar manual de procedimentos indicando as ac,es e os responsaveis pela
implementa,cao e condu,co do Programa Ambiental do CREDIAMIGO;
4.     Elaborar cartilha educacional contendo os impactos ambientais negativos potenciais e as medidas
preventivas, mitigadoras e corretivas que devem ser adotadas pelos clientes, em suas atividades, para
combater esses impactos;
5.     Capacitar gerentes, funcionarios e subcontratados para implementa,cao e condu,co do Progranma
Ambiental;
6.     Orientar os clientes no que se refere ao uso racional e protecao dos recursos naturais; combate ao
desperdicio de materias-primas, agua, energia e demais insumos; reduc,o, reutiliza,ao, reciclagem e
disposi,co adequada de residuos; e ado,co de medidas de seguran,a no desenvolvimento de suas
atividades;
7.     Adotar medidas para melhoria continua dos procedimentos do Programa Ambiental;
8.     Monitorar o progresso e publicar anualmente relat6rio de desempenho do Programa Ambiental.
Esta Politica e aceita pelos gerentes, funcionarios e subcontratados do CREDIAMIGO, que
assumem a responsabilidade por sua implementa,ao diaria.
Maria Rita da Silva Valente
Coordenadora do CREDIAMIGO
- 57 -



III. Due Diligence
Description of Annual Due Diligence Reviews of CrediAmigo
CGAP is preparing specialized guidelines for due diligence for microfinance institutions
which are expected to provide the basis for the due diligence reviews. As the guidelines are
not expected to be ready until July 2000, a general description of due diligence issues and
procedures is provided based on the CGAP Handbooklfor External Audits ofMicrofinance
Institutions.
Objective: The due diligence is intended to provide a complete review of CrediAmigo's
performance and operations consistent with the requirements of potential private sector
investors and lenders.
Since its inception, BN's senior management has expressed interest in the program developing
its institutional independence so as to have direct access to equity and the capital markets based
on its financial performance. The due diligence review is intended to provide BN and
CrediAmigo management, potential investors and lenders, and supervisory and regulatory
authorities, with a clear evaluation of the quality of CreidAmigo's portfolio, operational systems
and financial results, and identify and risk factors to be addressed by management.
Skills Required: Substantial knowledge of microfinance institutions, banks, management
information systems, accounting and auditing, bank supervision, Brazilian regulations,
Portuguese (ideal) or Spanish.
Background: CrediAmigo is a microfinance program within BN, headquartered in Fortaleza, Ceara,
Brazil. CrediAmigo began its operations in November 1997 with five pilot branches. In April 1998,
CrediAmigo expanded to its present total of 51 branches. In order to better track its performance, an
independent set of accounts has been established by CrediAmigo which are used to generate quarterly aLnd
annual financial statements.
CrediAmigo has a technical unit responsible for technical support and oversight of the program, including
policy development, MIS support, financial management, training, monitoring, operational support,
strategic planning, product development and program-wide reporting. The auditors will coordinate their
activities with the General Manager of the CrediAmigo Technical Unit, XXXXXX, who will facilitate their
access to staff and information as needed.
Objective: The objective of the extemal due diligence of CrediAmigo is to:
*     Enable the auditor to express a professional opinion on the financial position of CrediAmigo at the
end of the two semesters prior to the review and on the funds received and expenditures for that twelve
month period;
*     Obtain an extemal review of CrediAmigo's loan portfolio systems;
- 58 -



Obtain an external review of CrediAmigo's management information system;
Obtain a review of CrediAmigo's internal controls.
Scope of the external due diligence:
*     The external audit will be carried out in accordance with International Standards on Auditing
(ISAs) and will include such tests and controls as the auditor considers necessary under the circumstances.
The auditor should pay special attention to key account balances, particularly the loan portfolio
and loan loss provisions, cash and equivalents, and fund balances.
Given CrediAmigo's large number of loans, the auditor is encouraged to use statistical smpling
methods to ensure that a representative sample is tested.
*     As part of the audit process, the auditor should visit a representative number of branches each
year. It is expected that the auditor will have visited all branches in a two-year period.
*     For the purposes of testing, the auditor is required to visit a representative number of clients.
Use of CGAP handbook: The auditor must become familiar with both volumes and annexes of the
Estemal Audits of Financial Institutions: A Handbook, produced by CGAP which cover key issues relevant
to audits of microfinance institutions. The auditor will be required, before executing the engagement
agreement, to specify in writing any major elements of the handbook's guidance that the auditor does not
believe should be implemented.
Financial Statements and othler information: CrediAmigo prepares its financial statements according to
Brazilian accounting standards. CrediAmigo will provide the suditor with the following financial
statements:
Income statement
Balance sheet
Cash-flow statement
The auditor will be given access to all leval documents, correspondece and any other information associated
with CrediAmigo and deemed necessary by the auditor.
Prior year audits: CrediAmigo has not been audited in previous years. Thus it is crucial that the external
auditor closely examine all of the opening balances for this fiscal year.
Audit Opinion: The extemal auditor is required to provide an opinion on the financial statements of
CrediAmigo in accordance with ISAs.
Management Letter: In addition to the audit report and opinion, the auditor will be required to prepare a
management letter. In the management letter the auditor should:
Comment on the accounting records, systems, and controls that were examined during the auidt,
including but not limited to systems for handling and recording cash; adherence to policies and procedures
in the loan approval and disbursement process; segregation of duties in loan and cash areas; procedures for
59 -



loan loss provisions; proper recording and cut-off of payables and accruals; and so on.
*      Comment on other specific systems and processes, such as the administration system and
management information system, particularly at the branch level.
*      Recommend improvements where specific weaknesses are identified in any of the above systems
and controls.
*      Communicate any other matters identified during the audit what might significantly affect the
future implementation of CrediAmigo's function, or that that auditor considers pertinent.
*      Comment specifically on the appropriateness, and consistency of application, of policies for loan
loss provisioning, loan write-offs, allocation of indirect costs between financial and nonfinancial services,
and where applicable, cessation and reversal of accrued but unpaid interest on nonperforming loans.
Agreed-upon procedures: In addition to the financial statement audit, the extemal auditor is required to
perfornn the following agreed-upon procedures according to annexed terms of reference and submit a
special report:
Test the loan portfolio delinquency report with respect to real status and amounts of overdue loans,
and- the degree to which stated loan balances reflect actual cash paydown.
Determine the extent of compliance with loan policy and procedures with respect to key credit risk
factors.
*      Prepare an appraisal report of CrediAmigo according to the CGAP Format for Appraisal of
Microfmance Institutions plus calculation of CrediAmigo's Subsidy Dependence Index for each quarter
during the previous year according to "Assessing Development Finance Institutions: A Public Interest
Analysis" World Bank Discussion Paper no. 174.
Timing of the audit: The audit report and opinion, management letter and the report on agreed upon
procedures should be received by BN/CrediAmigo no later than two months after initiation of the due
diligence activities. The auditor should submit the report to CrediAmigo's General Manager and to directly
to the World Bank.
- 60 -



Appendix 2.c
CrediAmigo
Economic and Social Impact Evaluation
Design Summary
BN will implement an impact evaluation of CrediAmigo to assess its effectiveness in promoting
development of the microenterprise sector, raising household incomes, and thus reducing poverty. The
evaluation, which will be implemented in the third year of the loan, is expected to contribute to the
Brazilian Government's understanding of the socio-economic benefits of investing in improved access to
financial services for low-income households. The design of the impact evaluation will be the responsibility
of the Economic Studies Unit (ETENE) of BN, working with technical assistance financed by the loan.
ETENE will also be responsible for contracting and managing technical assistance for implementation of
data collection, analysis and interpretation. Although the detailed design of the impact evaluation is
expected to be carried out during the first year of the loan, the appraisal mission reviewed with ETENE the
broad parameters of the study -in order to assess institutional capacity, technical assistance requirements
and expected costs.
ETENE
ETENE's legally mandated mission is to promote and disseminate research findings financed by BN and its
partners with the objective of generating sustainable economic development in the Northeast Region.
ETENE's activities in support of this mission include: development of economic databases for the
Northeast, economic analysis of the Northeast Region, and design and analysis of surveys. ETENE
operates with a staff of 22 employees, the majority of whom have post-graduate degrees, including four
Ph.Ds.
ETENE has been involved in numerous research projects, such as a market research and evaluation studies
for CrediAmigo, construction and update of an input-output matrix of the Northeast region, evaluation of
support strategies to increase competitiveness of agro-industries, among other studies. ETENE leverages its
resources through partnership arrangements with Brazilian and intemational universities and intemational
organizations, including Universidade Federal do Ceara, Massachussets Institute of Technology, University
of Chicago, lCA, and PNUD.
Issues to be Addressed in Microfinance Impact Evaluation
There is substantial controversy regarding whether it is possible to estimate the impact of microfinance
prograns on client businesses and households. The fungability of funds and the complexity of household
survival strategies, particularly amongst the poor, are among the factors which make the positive or
detrimental impacts of access to credit difficult to isolate.
- 61 -



Objective
The overall objective of the impact evaluation is to assess the costs and benefits of CrediAmigo as an
instrument for poverty reduction. Within this overall objective, study design will consider measurement of
various potential benefits such as increasing household income, increasing overall and individual factor
productivity, reducing income fluctuations. To assess costs, it is important to include not only CrediAmigo'
s costs, but also borrowers' transaction costs, such as travel costs and time spent soliciting and repaying
loans. The welfare effects of application of increased or more stable cash flow and/or income within the
household and any distinctions resulting from client gender will also be examined.
Unit of Analysis.
Because microenterprise and household decisions are intertwined, the proposed unit of analysis is the
household. Most microenterprises are a means of survival, and are important elements of household
diversification strategies. Also, using the household as unit of analysis is consisted with CrediAmigo's
lending technology, which relies on evaluating cash flows not only of the microenterprise, but also of the
overall household.
Geographical Coverage.
The impact evaluation will cover the areas of operation of the CrediAmigo program throughout the
Northeast Region.
Data Collection
ETENE has proposed two approaches for data collection. The first approach, which will be implemented
in the first year of the loan, will follow the evolution of CrediAmigo' clients from program entry through
the various loan cycles based on the changes observed and recorded by loan officers in CrediAmigo's MIS
system and borrowers' dossiers. The sampling design will consider generating a random control group to
calculate the impact of the program using quasi-experimental strategies. This sampling scheme and the data
collection will be implemented in coordination with CrediAmigo. While the data will not control for
self-selection of participating in the program, and thus will not provide the basis for isolating the
contribution of the program or the impact on general household welfare, it does provide an inexpensive
source of data for analysis of client behavior according to different socio-economic criteria.
The second approach to data collection will rely on household surveys, creating a control group of
non-participants. ETENE will work with contacted specialists to evaluate sample design options such as a
panel versus cross-sectional, and design of the survey instrument. Depending on the sampling strategy
selected relative to ETENE's in-house database, ETENE or a contracted service provider will provide lhe
sample-frame for the survey. Training of the survey team and field implementation will be contracted out
with ETENE oversight and data provided in an agreed format.
Methods of Data Analysis
The proposed impact evaluation will use a combination of quantitative and qualitative methods to provide a
range of the cost and benefits of CrediAmigo. Econometric models have been used extensively to analyze
data gathered using quasi- and non-experimental methods. The literature on impact of credit uses a variety
of econometric models to control for sample selection issues, and providing an answer to the question wvhat
would have been the behavior of this microenterprise/household in the absence of credit? Depending on the
- 62 -



sampling design and the nature of the data (cross-section versus panel), switching regression models,
limited dependent variable models, and quartile regressions could be used for this purpose. ETENE will
work with contracted specialists in the design of analytical models and evaluation of quantitative and
qualitative data.
Estimated Cost of the Study
Based on its experience with household surveys, ETENE estimates that the contracted technical assistance
services for the proposed impact study would cost approximately US$250,000.
- 63 -



Annex 3: Estimated Project Costs
BRAZIL: Northeast Microfinance Development Project
1. Expanded Financing of Microenterprises               85.50         0.00        85.50
2. Strengthened Capacity to Support Sustainable Growth  10.50         0.70         11.20
3. Impact Evaluation                                     0.20         0.10          0.30
4. Fee                                                   0.00         0.50          0.50
Total Baseline Cost                                     96.20          1.30        97.50
Physical Contingencies                                  0.00         0.00          0.00
Price Contingencies                                     2.40         0.10          2.50
Total Project Costs            98.60          1.40       100.00
Total Financing Required             98.60         1.40       100.00
Goods                                                      0.70          0.20         0.90
Microfinance Subloans                                     85.50          0.00        85.50
Technical Assistance                                       0.80          0.80         1.60
Training                                                   0.20          0.10         0.30
Incremental Recurrent Costs                               11.20          0.00        11.20
Fee                                                        0.00          0.50         0.50
Total Project Costs    98.40          1.60       100.00
Total Financing Required    98.40          1.60        100.00
-64 -



Annex 4: Cost Effectiveness Analysis Summary
BRAZIL: Northeast Microfinance Development Project
Indicators of Cost-Effectiveness:
The project includes several indicators of cost-effectiveness of provision of microfinance services through
CrediAmigo consistent with monitoring progress in achieving its sustainability objective. The primary
indicator is the subsidy dependence index (SDI) which calculates the required increase in the nominal
interest rate which the CrediAmigo program would have to charge in order to achieve break-even after
adjusting for inflation and implicit and explicit subsidies. The SDI permits: (i) monitoring of the progress
made by an institution in reducing its dependence on subsidies; (ii) comparison of performance with other
microfinance institutions which provide *similar services; (iii) comparison of the cost of the program with
other poverty reduction measures by providing a basis for estimating the "cost" of the program to society,
or amount of subsidy transfer, by simply multiplying the SDI by the amount of funds disbursed. The lower
the SDI, the lower the required interest rate subsidy. A negative SDI indicates that the program is
profitable in real terms even if all subsidies were eliminated.
The CrediAmigo business plan indicates that the current SDI of 10% will become negative by December
2000. Experience in other countries in Latin America suggests that increasing costs of reaching clients in
less dense areas will increase costs considerably, and/or competition from other micro-lenders will force the
program to reduce its real rate of interest. Nonetheless, the program is expected to maintain an SDI of at
least -10% after the second year of the project. In the event that, due to a sharp decline in the CDI and/or
lack of competitive pressure to reduce onlending rates to microenterprises, the SDI falls below -20%,
CrediAmigo and the Bank will review the pricing policy for CrediAmigo lending products.
Operational efficiency will also be monitored through calculation of the ratio of Operating Costs to
Average Earning Assets. This ratio is currently at 56% and is likely to remain relatively high given
CrediAmigo's aggressive expansion plans. However, consistent with other large microfinance programs
operated by banks in Latin America, this ratio is expected to decline to less than 24% by the end of the
project.
Financial Impact on Participants
Sub-borrowers: The project would provide credit assistance to microenterprises in supporting their working
capital and investments, contributing to strengthen their operations and/or incomes. Market studies of
microenterprises in the Northeast suggest that less than five percent of microentrepreneurs have access to
bank credit. Loans from informal money lenders (ajiotas) or suppliers, while often convenient in terms of
access or flexibility of terms, typically charge real effective interest rates of over ten percent per month, or
over 200 percent per year. Microenterprises which do not access credit often incur high costs associated
with time away from their business for daily or weekly purchases of inputs and merchandise.
The main financial impact of the project results from the support of about US$400 million (estimated
cumulative micro-loan disbursements during the project period) of investment under the Expanded
Financing of Microenterprises Component of the project. Loan terms under CrediAmigo would normally be
short-term, ranging between 3-6 months.
Microenterprises are likely to use part of the loans to finance new investments and to expand their
operations. Prior to loan approval, CrediAmigo evaluates all loans to microenterprises to determine their
repayment capacity, pricing loans at market-based interest rates. Solidarity group loans are priced at 4%
- 65 -



per month on the original loan amount, leading to a portfolio yield of 74.2% per year. Consequently, only
microenterprises with solid ex-ante repayment capacity will be financed. For example, in the CrediAmigo
branch in Caixas, which ranks fourth and sixth in terms of outstanding loan portfolio and active clients,
respectively, the average return on assets of active clients was 34% per month, and the median was 15%
per month.. CrediAmigo's high repayment and renewal rates verify the ability of microenterprises to earn
sufficiently high retums to pay market-based interest rates.
Banco do Nordeste (BN: The project is expected to contribute to BN's profitability to the extent that
CrediAmigo's profits are recorded as BN profits or as returns on contributed equity in the event of
CrediAmigo's partial or complete spin-off. In terms of its role as the pass-through mechanism of Bankc
loan funds to CrediAmigo, the project is expected to have a neutral or positive effect on BN's profitability,
although this will depend on actual exchange rate movements of the reals.
BN is expected to charge a transfer interest rate to CrediAmigo that takes into account the foreign
exchange risk and would explore different alternatives to hedge itself from currency devaluation. BN will
charge CrediAmigo branches an on-lending rate equal to or above the inter-bank CDI rate which has
averaged 13 percent per year above the real Bank US$ lending rate from 1996 to 1998. As the CDI rate is
market determined, it is expected that the spread will incorporate market expectations regarding foreign
exchange risk consistent with past behavior. (Table 1)
Table 1: Actual and Projected Annual Interest Rate Differential
1996   1997   19981  2000   2001   2002    2003   2004
a Rate from BNB to CrediAmnigo (Interbank-CDI    26%    24%    28%  25.00%  22.00%  20.00%  18.00%  18.00%
b Brazil inflation rate                     16%      7%      3%   8.00%   8.00%   8.00%   8.00%   8.00%
c Real CDI interest rate: (a-b)/(1+b)      8.62%  15.89%  24.27%  15.74%  12.96%  11.11%   9.26%   9.26%
d Bank Rate (JS$ variable)                 5.87%   6.04%   5.70%   6.00%   6.00%   6.00%   6.00%/o  6.00%
e. US inflation rate                      2.93%   2.34%   1.55%   3.00%   3.00%   3.00%   3.00%/0  3.00%
f. Real Bank Rate (US$ variable): (d-e)/(l+e)  2.86%   3.62%   4.09%   2.91%   2.91%   2.91%   2.91%/  2.91%
g Interest Rate Differential: (c-f)        5.76%  12.27%  20.19%  12.83%  10.05%   8.20%   6.35%   6.35%
Source: CrediArniigo's Butsiness Plan and International Financial Statistics
CrediAmigo: The project would contribute towards the profitability of CrediAmigo. Based on
CrediAmigo's business plan, the contribution to profitability is estimated to total R$183.5 million (US$121
million) over five years with an annual contribution to profits of over R$75 million (US$43 million) at full
development. After tax return on assets (ROA) is forecast at 27% at the end of the five year project period.
Fiscal Impact
The project is expected to have a positive impact on Goveniment finances. Fiscal impact will be
determined by: (i) Government counterpart funding requirements; (ii) Govemment guarantee; (iii) taxes on
net income of BN/CrediAmigo; (iv) taxes on the incremental net income of microenterprise clients.
Counterpart Funding: The loan will be made to BN, a self-financing Government owned entity, with a
Govemment guarantee. All counterpart funding will be the responsibility of BN, based on its commerciial
funding, rather than Govemment.
- 66 -



Guarantee Fee: Govemment has chosen to wave guarantee fees from BN in return for the project's
financing of several activities expected to produce significant benefits to Government in its efforts to
establish an appropriate framework for development of the microfinance industry in Brazil. Specifically,
the socio-economic impact evaluation is expected to provide Govemment with indications of the
cost-effectiveness of microfinance services as a poverty reduction instrument. Legal and regulatory studies
are expected to benefit all actual and potential providers of microfinance services in Brazil. Development
of an environmental screening and mitigation program appropriate to microenterprises will be shared with
other institutions, permitting extension of Brazil's Protocol Verde to this segment of the economy.
Taxes on Net Income of CrediAmigo: The most important fiscal impact from the project is expected to be
the taxes received by Government on the incremental net income generated by the CrediAmigo program.
Based on the CrediAmigo business plan, taxable net income is estimated to generate R$148.5 million (US$
85.3 million) in tax revenues to Government over the five years of the project (Table 2).
Taxes on Net Income of Microenterprises: Since most of CrediAmigo's clients are informal
microenterprises, they may not contribute to increase tax revenues initially. Nonetheless, it is expected that
a proportion of CrediAmigo's clients would expand their operations and become "formal" microenterprises
that are registered with tax authorities. The resulting tax revenues were not estimated, but suggest that the
results of the calculations in table are a lower-bound estimate of fiscal financial benefit.
Table 2: Estimated Cash Flow to Government
Projected ($ '000)    _                                l
CY2000    CY2001    CY2002    CY2003    CY2004
1. Taxes on CrediAmigo Net Income  4,797     11,408     25,501     43,930      64,186
2. Taxes on incremental          NA          NA         NA         NA          NA
microenterprise profits                                                       I
Total                            4,797       11,408     25,501     43,930      64,186
Summary of benefits and costs:
NA
Main Assumptions:
NA
Cost-effectiveness indicators:
NA
- 67 -



Annex 5: Financial Summary
BRAZIL: Northeast Microfinance Development Project
Financial Summary for Bank of the Northeast (Banco do Nordeste)
Balance sheet, income statement and financial ratios based on BN's Audited, Non-Consolidated Published
Financial Statements without adjustment for inflation. (Consistent with Intemational Accounting Standard IAS
29 which states that restatement of financial statements is necessary when "the cummulative inflation rate
over three years is approaching or exceeds, 100%".)
- 68 -



BALANCE SHEET - RS thousands        Disclosure        Disdosure          Disdosure         Disdosure          Disclosuwe        Disclosure
Interbank Placmenb                     361,999   4.7     312,326   4.2      444,804   6.4     366,799   6.9      430,891   9.8     212,532   6.3
Securites (Net of Compulsry Reserves)  565,318   7.3     270,998   37       533,477   7.6     201,934   3.8       97,614   2.2      72,269   2.1
Compulsory Reserves                    123,327   1.6     268,885   3.6      242,793   3.5      88,913   1.7      176,644   4.0      73,691   2.2
InterbankTransactions                  127,145   1.6     178,904   2.4      167,624   2.4     264,565   5.0      221,582   5.1     213,062   6.3
CreditOperations (Netof Provisions)  1,625,194  20.9   1,939,716  26.3   1,581,221  22.6   1,523,320  28.7    1,137,688  26.0      964,145  28.5
Foreign Exchange Portfolio              57,795   0.7      42,553   0.6       U,990   0.6       75,008   1.4      100,055   2.3      93,570   2.8
Provisions                              83,299   1.1      70.492   1.0       48,133   0.7     118,317   2.2       75,422   1.7      23,104   0.7
OtherCurentAuets                        36,251   0.5      38,570   0.5       20,570   0.3      26,283   0.5       24,536   0.6      15,103   0.4
Total CurrentAssts                   2,897,029  37.3   3,052,452  41.3   3,035,479  43.5   2,546,822  48.0   2,189,010  50.0    1,644,372  48.6
Interbank Placements                        0   0.0            0   0.0           0   0.0            0   0.0           0   0.0            0   0.0
Securites(NotofCompulsoyReserves)      260,201   3.4     346,304   4.7      127,009   1.8     195,252   3.7        5,618   0.1           0   0.
Compulsr,y Reserves                     18,609   0.2      17,055   0.2       16,202   0.2           0   0.0           0   0.0            0   0.0
InterbankTransactions                    4,399   0.1       3,355   0.0        6,851   0.1       5,748   0.1        2,907   0.1       5,934   0.2
CreditOperatlons (Net of Provisions)  4,371,755  56.3   3,743,153  50.7   3,559,619  51.0   2,293,863  43.3    1,937,399  44.2    1,515,954  44.8
Foreign Exchange PortfolIo                  0   0.0            0   0.0           0   0.0            0   0.0           0   0.0            0   0.0
Provisions                            1,042,183  13.4    737,127  10.0      716,091   10.3    455,342   8.6      285,122   6.5     100,118   3.0
Other Long Term Assets                      0   0.0            0   0.0           0   0.0            0   0.0           0   0.0            0   0.0
Total Long Term Assets                4,654,964  60.0   4,109,867  55.7   3,709,681  53.1    2,494,863  47.0    1,945,924  44.4   1,521,888  45.0
PermanentAssets                        206,400   2.7     222,477   3.0      238,778   34      261,472   4.9      245,446   5.6     218,277   6.4
Investments                              2,044   0.0        1,752   0.0       1,682   0.0       1,284   0.0         792   0.0          796   0.0
PremisesandEquipment                   160,799   2.1     166,227   2.3      171,806   2.5     175,772   3.3      177,842   4.1     181,503   5.4
Deferred Charges                        43,557   0.6      54,498   0.7       65,290   0.9      84,416   1.6       66,812   1.5      35,978   1.1
TOTAL ASSETS                          7,758,393 100.0   7,384,796  100.0   6,983,938  100.0   5,303,157  100.0   4,380,380 100.0   3,384,537  100.0
Deposds                                804,450  10.4     661,822   9.0    1,207,533  17.3   1,167,836  22.0      959,334  21.9     810,676  24
MoneyMarketRepwrchaseCommitments]       27,303   0.4      10,207   0.1       27,619   0.4      41,398   0.8      175,227   4.0     105,488   3.1
InterbankTransactions                   14,564   0.2      61,521   0.8       18,703   0.3      11,573   0.2       31,113   0.7      16,249   0.5
ShortTerm Borrowings                   145,703   1.9     179,121   2.4      101,813   1.5     123,261   2.3      184,625   4.2     212,938   6.3
Onlendfng - Foreign and Domestic       705,494   9.1     363,025   4.9      327,433   4.7     277,435   5.2      232,395   5.3     176,201   5.2
Other Current Liabities                205,437   2.6     263,632   3.6      450,583   6.5     211,128   4.0      389,146   8.9     238,681   7.1
Total CurrentUabilMtes               1,902,951  24.5   1,539,328  20.8   2,133,684  30.6   1,832,631   34.6    1,971,840  45.0   1,560,233  46.1
Deposits                               235,003   3.0     349,992   4.7       15,785   0.2       1,709   0.0      181,706   4.1          0   0.0
InterbankTransactions                       0   00             0   0.0        5,439   0.1      15,071   0.3       23,387   0.5      32,579   1.0
LongTermBorrovings                     118,449   1.5      68,269   0.9       90,390   1.3      56,496   1.1       48,128   1.1      34,139   1.0
Onlending-ForeignandDomestic         4,031,298  52.0   1,979,522  26.8   1,694,176  24.3    1,154,506  21.8      884,692  20.2     856,821  25.3
Other Long Term Liabilties             514,396   6.6   2,533,738  34.3   2,157,419  30.9    1,504,989  28.4      813,800  18.6     484,048  14.3
Total Long Termn Usbiltes            4,899,146  63.1   4,931,521  66.8   3,963,209  56.7   2,732,771   51.5    1,951,713  44.6   1,407,587  41.6
Deferred Income                           562   0.0          661   0.0         792   0.0        2,461   0.0        2,749   0.1       2,580   01
Minoty Interest                             0   0.0            0   0.0           0   0.0            0   0.0           0   0o0            0   0.0
Capital                                831,000  10.7     831,000  11.3     772,000  11.1      624,000  11.8     366,000   8.4      347,383  10.3
Reserves                                68,646   0.9      82,286   1.1      114,253   1.6     111,294   2.1       88,078   2.0      66,754   2.0
Retained Earnings                       56,088   0 7           0   0.0           0   0.0            0   0.0           0   0.0       .   0   0.0
Net Worth                              955,734  12.3     913,286  12.4      886,253  12.7     735,294  13.9      454,078  10.4     414,137  12.2
TOTAL LIABIUTIES                     7,758,393  100.0   7,384,796  100.0   6,983,938  100.0   5,303,157  100.0   4,380,380  100.0   3,384,537  100.0
- 69 -



Intermediation Revenue               2,317,963  100.0  1,451,798 100.0  1,113,514  100.0  825,118  100.0  778,879  100.0  805,945  100.0
Intermediation Expenses              -1,749,211  -75.5  -1,182,508  -81.5  -805,006  -72.3  -558,375  -67.7  -591,490  -75.9  -606,454  -75.2
Provision Expenses                    -473,971  -20.4  -170,712  -11.8  -283,535  -25.5  -252,935  -30.7  -243,238  -31.2  -74,666   -9.3
Gross Profit from Intermediation        94,781   4.1    98,578    6.8    24,973    2.2   13,808   1.7  -55,849   -7.2  124,825   15.5
Total Non-interest Income & Expenses   -27,721   -1.2   -45,677   -3.1    85,395    7.7   86,782   10.5  133,747   17.2  -96,255  -11.9
Service Fees                           143,221    6.2    70,538    4.9   143,580   12.9  123,537   15.0  129,533   16.6   77,949    9.7
Earnings from Affiliates                     0   0.0          0   0.0          0   0.0         0   0.0         0    0.0   -2,566  -0.3
Administrative and Personnel Expenses  -483,332  -20.9  -236,534  -16.3  -464,350  -41.7  -412,930  -50.0  -406,403  -52.2  -374,968  -46.5
OtherOperating Incomeand Expenses      312,390   13.5   120,319    8.3   406,165   36.5  376,175   45.6  410,617   52.7  203,330   25.2
Operating tncome                        67,060    2.9    52,901    3.6   110,368   9.9  100,590   12.2   77,898   10.0   28,570    3.5
Non-Operafing Income                      2554   0.1        294   0.0    -2,139   -0.2       310    0.0    -540   -0. 1   -1,431   -0.2
Translaton Gains & Losses                    0   0.0          0   0.0          0   0.0         0   0.0         0    0.0       0   0.0
Income before Taxes                     69,614    3.0    53,195   3.7   108,229   9.7  100,900   12.2   77,358    9.9   27,139    3.4
Income Taxes and Social Contributions    5,761    0.2   -24,854   -1.7   -34,034   -3.1  -33,703   -4.1  -34,912   -4.5   -5,622   -0.7
Statutory Profit Sharing Distribution        0   0.0          0   0.0          0   0.0         0   0.0         0    0.0    -431   -0.1
Minority Interest                            0   0.0          0   0.0          0   0.0         0   0.0         0   0.0        0   0.0
NET INCOME (LOSS)                       75,375    3.3    28,341    2.0    74,195    6.7   67,197   8.1   42,446    5.4   21,086    2.6
(+)Depreciabon                          35,333    1.5    17,811    1.2    35,197    3.2   29,377    3.6   20,631    2.6   10,731    1.3
(-) Dividends                           11,650    0.5     7,065    0.5    18,236    1.6   16,595   2.0    5,904    0.8    9,600    1.2
(=) CASH GENERATION                     99,058   4.3     39,087   2.7    91,156    8.2   79,979    9.7   57,173    7.3   22,217    2.8
Dec/I 999          Dec./1998           Dec./1997           Dec./1996           Dec./1995
L%AnnualInflaion                       8.40                1.65                5.22                9.56              22.41
FX-rateR$IUS$l                      1.7695              1.2087              1. 1164             1.0394              0.9725
Source: IPCA
- 70 -



Financial Projections
BALANCE SHEET - RS thousands               Actual      Projected      Projected     Projected      Projected
Current Assets                          2,897,029      3,872,000      4,259,200    4,685,120      5,153,632
Long Term Assets                        4,654,964      5,502,986      6,018,324    6,594,983      7,240,243
Permanent Assets                         206,400        253,000        278,300       306,130        336,743
TOTALASSETS                             7,758,393      9,627,986     10,555,824    11,586,233    12,730,618
Current Liabilities                     1,902,951      2,029,500      2,232,450    2,455,695      2,701,265
Long Term Liabilties                    4,899146       6,610,230      7,271,253    7,998,376      8,798,216
Future Income                                562            770           847           932           1,025
Net Worth                                955,734         987,486      1,051,274     1,131,228     1,230,112
TOTAL LIABILITIES                       7,758,393      9,627,986     10,555,824    11,686,233    12,730,618
Gross Operating Revenue (')             3,600,445      3,015,095      3,463,933    3,980,021      4,588,201
Taxes on Gross Operating Revenue         (45,696)        (57,055)       (65,428)     (75,246)       (86,739)
NET OPERATING INCOME                    3,554,749      2,958,040      3,398,505    3,904,775      4,501,462
Intermediation Expenses                (2,576,082)    (1,948,631)    (2,336,857)    (2,802,578)   (3,361,279)
FINANCIAL MARGIN                         978,667       1,009,409      1,061,648    1,102,197      1,140,183
AdninistrativeExpenses                   (161,943)      (137,791)      (136,726)    (138,187)      (139,664)
Personnel Expenses                      (275,693)       (243,662)      (239,453)    (233,485)      (225,306)
Other                                      2,554
Amnorization of Deferred Expenses                        (21,684)       (21,684)     (21,684)       (21,684)
Provisicins for Doubtful Loans          (473,971)       (537,600)      (589,824)    (630,374)      (663,552)
NET OPERATING MARGIN                      69,614         68,672         73,961        78,487         89,977
Non Operating Income/Expenses                               -              -             -
Income before Taxes and Contributions     69,614         68,672         73,961        78,467         89,977
Income Taxes and Contributions             5,761         (8,455)        (8,239)       (9,909)       (13,232)
NET INCOME                                75,375         60,217         65,722        68,558         76,745
() RECONCILIATION WITH HISTORICAL DATA FROM PREVIOUS WORKSHEET
FNE Incoma                            1,139,261
FNE Expenses                           (826,871)
Net Other Operating Income/Expenses on  312,390
Intermeciation Revenue                 2,317,963
Service Fees                            143,221
Revenue from FNE                      1,139,261
Gross Operating Revenue shown above   3,600,445
- 71 -



Premises BNB used in preparing projections
The projectons submilted by the bank are based on the following premises:
a)    Assets will grow at an average rate of 10°b.
b)    Gains from the securites portfolio will generate 16% of intermediabon revenue.
c)    Personnel expenses: there will be no salary increases. Retirements are included.
d)    Other administrative expenses will increase at a rate of 2% for the years 2000 and 2001 and 1% for the years 2002 and 2003.
e)    Brazil's GOP will grow at an annual rale of 4°%.
f)    The Northeast region's GDP wilt grow at an annual rate of 4.49%.
g)    The interest rate on Interbank CDs (CDI) will be 16% in 2000; 14% in 2001, 13% in 2002; and 11.5% in 2003.
h)    TheLong Term Interest Rate (TJLP) will be 12% in 2000; 11% in 2001; 10% in 2002; and8.5% in 2003.
i)    The US dollar exchange rate will fluctuate 8% in 2000 and 2001, 6% in 2002 and 4% in 2003.
D     Resources from FNE will average R$447 million per year, based on Brazil's GDP.
k)    FNE's equity is accounted for offbalance sheet. The only FNE values that are included in BNB's liabilities are the funds that are about to be disbursed to borrowers.
NOTE: In April 2000, BNB submitted revised projections for revenues and expenses. The projected balance sheet and the premises were left unchanged from whal
was submitted in August, 1999.
- 72 -



BANCODO NORDESTE DOB RASIL - COMPARATIVE RATIOS
BNB Projected
Historical Performance             Performance
Loan Assets / Deposits (Net of
Interbank Ptacements)         337.5% 317.8% 381.8% 486.4% 704.6%    NA    NA    NA    NA
Cunent Aets / Current Liabilities  105.4% 111.0% 139.0% 142.3% 152.2% 190,8% 190,8% 190,8% 190,8%
Lor Ten Assets / Long Term
Provisions- (Past Due+Non-Performing
Loans)) I Loan Assets          -4,8%  -7.0%  -1.7%  -3.9%  -3.8%    NA    NA    NA    NA
rovisions / (Past Due + Non-
erforming Loans)              48.8%  59,4%  88.3%  76,8%  80.3%    NA    NA    NA    NA
Past Due + Non-Performing Loans) I
Net Worth + Provisions)        47.0%  74,5%  49,6%  60,3%  67.3%    NA    NA    NA    NA
Renegotiated Loans / Total Loan
et WorthlTotalAssets          12.2%  10,4%  13,9%  12,7%  12.3%  10.3%  10,0%   9,8%   9.7%
NetWorth/LoanAssets            15,4%  128%  165%  14,9%  13.3%    NA    NA    NA    NA
Return on Average Assets        0.5%   1.1 %   1.4%   1.2%   1.0%   0.7%   0,6%   0.6%   0.6%
Retum on Average Equity         5.2%   9,8%  11.3%   9.2%   8.2%   6,2%   6,4%   6,3%   6.5%
Administrative & Personnel Expenses I
Operatang Revenue      _       78.4%  69.2%  65.84h 63.1%  35.10  41.6%  39.3%  36.8%  34.1%
Mission
BN is one of four Federal Government development banks in Brazil, the others being Banco
Nacional de Desenvolvimento Econ6mico e Social (BNDES), Banco da Amaz6nia (BASA), and Banco
Regional de Desenvolvimento do Sul (BRDES). BN operates in the Northeastern states of Maranhao,
Ceara, Piaui, Rio Grande do Norte, Paraiba, Pemambuco, Alagoas, Sergipe and Bahia, as well as in
Northern Minas Gerais. BN's mission is to contribute to the sustained development of the Northeast region
of Brazil, to promote the region's economic integration with the Brazilian and international economies and
to work towards reducing regional and social inequality. The bank's primary function is that of a
development bank. Its commercial activities play an auxiliary role in fulfilling the BN's development
mission.
Signif cant Milestones since Founding
Established under Law No. 1649 of July 19, 1952, BN began operations in June 1954 through one
branch in Fortaleza. From the bank's foundation until 1967, it was principally funded by a fixed percentage
of federal taxes as provided under Article 198 of the Brazilian Constitution of 1946. This source of funding
ended in 1967, and the bank came to rely on new sources, principally from Government entities, "repassed
funds", as well as its own equity, deposits and commercial borrowing from the private sector. The latter
source of funds enabled the bank to build up its commercial banking activities. In 1974, BN also began
acting as operating agent for FINOR (Investment Fund for the Northeast), which provided an additional
- 73 -



source of revenues and funding.
The Brazilian Constitution of 1988 provided for the creation of a Constitutional Fund for
Financing the Northeast - FNE, which was implemented with Law No. 7827 of 1989. This law establishes
that the objective of this fund is to promote social and economic development in the Northeast through
financial programs to productive sectors, giving priority to small rural producers (annual revenues below
R$80,000). Since then, FNE has provided not only the primary but also a secure and rapidly growing
source of long-term funding for the bank.. BN's main focus has always been on the rural sector, which in
1999 received 52.1% of the bank's applied resources.
Ownership and Management Structure
BN is a mixed capital corporation with limited liability and unlimited duration under the laws of
Brazil. It is the primary government-owned financial agent for the implementation of development policies
in the Northeast region of Brazil, however, as a multiple service bank, BN provides a range of banking and
financial services as well, including deposit accounts, lending to the rural, commercial and industrial
sectors, trade financing, foreign exchange brokerage and fund management. As of June, 1999, the
Government owned, directly and indirectly, 90.63% of the bank's voting stock and 90.82% of its total
capital.
Government ownership is reflected in the govemance structure of BN. Since January, 1989, the
bank has been placed under the control of the Ministry of Finance. The bank is run by a Board of Directors
and an Executive Board. The Board of Directors is comprised of a Chairman, a Deputy Chairrnan and four
other members who represent the shareholders and are elected by the General Assembly for renewable
three-year terms. The Chairmnan is a representative of the Ministry of Finance. The Deputy Chairman is the
President of the bank who is nominated by the President of Brazil. One representative from the
Management and Budget Ministry (Ministerio de Gestao e Oracamento) and one from the Superintendency
for the Development of the Northeast (SUDENE) also are entitled to seats on the Board. The Board of
Directors normally meets once a quarter or more frequently if required and is responsible for setting overall
operational and administrative guidelines. It also approves the bank's financial statements.
Day to day running of the bank is the responsibility of the Executive Board, which nonmally meets
weekly. In addition to the President and the four official board members, the Executive Board includes
BN's seven superintendents who function as executive vice-presidents. Each superintendent is either
responsible for operations in two of the ten states in BN's geographical region, or for the major functional
areas of the bank (business and financial controls, human resources or strategic support). By providing
each member with votes of equal weight, the Executive Board's structure is intended to provide a focus on
the Bank's operational, rather than political objectives by ensuring that the votes of the career bankers
outnumber those of the political appointees, however the bank must follow the broad guidelines set by the
federal government for the application of federal resources, which comprise 80% of its funding base. These
guidelines are:
*     To maintain a stable economy;
To create conditions for sustained growth;
*     To improve living conditions.
BN's management conducts business independently to achieve and maintain reasonable profitability. A
major thrust of reforms being undertaken by BN's current president are to create a more professional,
results-oriented corporate culture which is better insulated from political interventions at the operational
- 74 -



levels. No single individual can approve a loan, and all loans are approved in committees according to
technical criteria.
Significant Changes since January, 1995
New management took office in March, 1995 and embarked on a thorough restructuring of the
bank's operations, including its personnel policies, product development, lending policies and outreach.
Personnel Policies
*  The bank's administrative structure was reduced. Administrative and personnel expenses dropped
from 78.4% to 35.1% of operating revenue. General overtime expenditures were eliminated, and top
management's drive to transfer the majority of administrative employees to branches throughout the
region encouraged many employees to retire. Overall headcount decreased from 5,468 employees in
1995 to 3,832 at the end of 1999, and headquarters staff was sliced from 1,562 in 1995 (29% of total
staff) to 390 employees at end of 1999 (10% of total staff); the remainder either retired or were
re-trained and sent out to branches throughout the Northeast.
* A performance incentive program is being incorporated into the payroll policy. The incentives program,
were introduced for the insurance and certificate of deposit products, and are being extended for
recovery of fully provisioned, past-due loans as well as for general loan portfolio quality.
Product Development
*  As the bank shifted from being product-driven to being customer-driven, the process of product
development was reversed and is now bottom-up, with the input for the identification and prioritization
of financial needs filtering up from clients and communities to branches, and from branches to general
management.
Lending Policies
*  The bank, consistent with restrictions imposed by the Central Bank and Congress since 1988, has
significantly reduced its lending to the public sector. BN is placing increasing focus on micro, small
and medium enterprises.
*  The credit approval process was redesigned. The bank now employs a decentralized loan approval
system which is codified in the form of policy manuals and updates. The bank uses a committee
structure with increased involvement of senior managers as the size of the credit increases. Decisions
are made on majority vote. No singular individual has credit authority in the bank; proper committee
approval is required for all loans.
* Previously the time span between loan request and loan approval averaged 217 days. Today loans are
approved within mandated time limits ranging from 21 to 60 days depending on the amount involved.
Outreach
*  A new, more modem marketing image was created and branches were remodeled. Operations were
automated so that today all 176 branches are on-line.
- 75 -



*   Mobile branches were introduced to reach distant communities. The mobile units (staffed vans) spend
on average one day in each of 473 remote communities. During the first half of 1999, 31,555 loans out
of a total of 125,400 were channeled through these mobile units.
The impact of these reforms on BN's operations is summarized in the table below.
Performance Indicators
(R$ thousands)
Dec.l1999    Dec./1998    Dec./1997    Dec./1996    Dec./1995    Dec./1994
Deposits per Employee                  271         306          254           222           156           99
BNB+FNE Assets/ Employee              3,716      3,036         2,137         1,549        1,070          697
BNB+FNE Assets/Branch                81,852      69,788       53,418        41,893       30,954       21,103
Admin. Exp./ BNB+FNE Assets            3.1%       3.7%          4.3%          5.3%         6.6%         7.9%
No. of New Loan Approvals             404.5       517.4        286.8         144.4         68.0         27.4
No. of Clients                      1,016.9      720.3          399.1        200.9         94.6         78.2
No. of approvals of new loans in
excess of R$10 million
1         3             7            4             5            0
Public Sector/ Total Loan Portfolio   6.7%        9.0%o         11.0%        13.5%        17.2%        21.6%
Private Sector / Total Loan Portfolio  93.3%     91.0%          89.0%        86.5%        82.8%        78.4%
Weighted Average term of Long Tenn    8.1 years  8.3 years    8.6 years    9.8 years    6.4 years    6.5 years
Assets
Weighted Average tenn of Long Term    8.5 years    10.7 years  9.8 years    7.6 years    6.5 years    6.3 years
Liabilities
Exchange Rate R$/US$1. 00           1.7890      1.2087         1.1164       1.0394       0.9725        0.8500
(*) Annualized expenses
Operating Results
Return on assets (ROA) has improved from 0.5% in 1995 to an annualized rate of 1.0% during
1999. Net interest income before provisioning expenses has increased steadily since 1995 and totaled
R$572.6 million for the year ended December 31, 1999, which well exceeds the R$308.4 million earned in
- 76 -



1998. Much of this income came from gains with the securties portfolio, which benefited from increasingly
higher interest rates imposed by the Central Bank since October 1997.
Administrative and personnel expenses have decreased drastically since 1995 and in December
1999 only accounted for 18.0% of intermediation revenue, down from 95.5% at year end 1995. Overall
administrative expenses (personnel and others) shrunk 28.1% between 1994 and 1998, while personnel
expenses shrunk an impressive 49.2% during the same period.
However, it is difficult to evaluate BN's performance with out taking into account the effect of
FNE. BN receives an administrative fee of 3% on the value of assets lent from FNE which is recorded as
"other income". These fees account for over 35% of BN's gross income. The administrative expenses of
managing FNE are included in BN's overall administrative expenses. Interest income and the FNE
adnninistative fee account for 93% of BN's income. While BN would not be profitable without the FNE
administrative fees, BN feels that this is a secure source of income as it is constitutionally guaranteed and
would require a constitutional amendment to eliminate or change significantly. Nontheless, recent
Government studies have suggested alterations to the basis for renumeration for public banks which
administer Govemment funds. Some proposals, such as paying fees only for those funds actually disbursed
by the banks rather than the current practice of providing fees on all funds administered could substantially
reduce BN's fee income.
Asset Composition
BN's asset base grew 129.2% between DecenTber 1995 and December 1999. Most of this increase
was due to a growth of 135.2% in the loan portfolio, including foreign exchange operations. The treasury
portfolio increased 132.6% during the same period. Asset growth for the 18-month period between
December 1997 and June 1999 totaled 46.3%.
The consolidation of both BN and FNE balance sheets results in a total asset base of R$ 14.3
billion, evidencing the importance of FNE to the bank's activities. FNE assets are lent through BN, even
though the operations are accounted for on a separate balance sheet.
Treasury Portfolio: BN's policy limits its treasury activities to investments in highly liquid federal
government securities. As such, BN does not make use of market opportunities, as do other private banks,
to benefit from fluctuations in interest rates that can increase profits and asset liquidity. BN is exempted
from govemment pressures to "load" its securities portfolio with unmarketable paper.
Between December 1995 and December 1999, the treasury portfolio as a percentage of total assets
has varied between 17% and 21%. This small participation translates into liquidity ratios that are below
average when compared to the majority of private banks operating in Brazil.
Liquidity
Liquid Assets / Total Assets: BN's low liquidity ratio of 5.8% in December 1995 improved steadily
through the following years and reached its peak of 15.7% in December 1998 which is low relative to an
average liquidity ratio of 37.2% for the 50 largest banks in Brazil.
CurrentAssets 7CurrentLiabilities. The correlation of BN's current assets and current liabilities is
another measure of the bank's liquidity. The good performance of the current ratio (105.4% as of
December 1997, rising to 152.2% in December 1999) is due to the fact that the bank borrows long term
- 77 -



foreign funds to finance long term projects, and the proceeds from these long term borrowings are
accounted for as current assets until they are disbursed to the client. However, BN's current liquidity
would still be at a good level even if the bank's current assets were adjusted accordingly.
Loan Portfolio - BN plus FNE
Approximately 90% of the bank's outstanding loans are development loans with typical maturities
of five to eiqht years; the remainder are short term commercial loans (under one year) which, though not
directly linked to investment projects, are normally a by-product offered to BN's existing customers.
General credit consists largely of short term loans to the private sector for working capital
purposes. These loans are made primarily to industrial and commercial borrowers. The principal forms of
lending are overdrafts (including an overdraft facility for corporate credits), direct advances and
discounting trade bills. The bank's own funds, principally its repassed funds, provide the funding sources
for these loans. The average maturity of general credit loans is between 90 days and 18 months.
In the case of trade financing, the bank extends trade credit to customers which is matched by
specific funding from a foreign bank or the foreign branch of a Brazilian bank. Maturities average 150
days for export financing, and 180 days for import financing. In the case of free funding, the bank
principally uses dedicated trade financing lines with major international banks or foreign branches of
Brazilian banks. Trade financing is only conducted with private sector clients.
- 78 -



LOAN PORTFOLIO (BNB + FNE)
(R$ thousands)
12131/1999     e      12131/1998      eA     1213111997
Rural                             6.997.263    52.1     4.261.274    39.1      3.604.139
Crop financing and storage        986.669     7,         660.077     6,1        339.757
Investment                      6.010.594    44.       3.601.197    33.C      3.264.382
groindustrial                     403A57      3.0        765.315     7.0        273.675
ndustrlal                        3.402.572    25,       3.553.242    32.6      2.334.951
nfrastructure                    1.287.180     9,6      1.133.449    10,4      1.111A89
Electrification                   315.150     2,         477.686     4.4        588.184
Road building and repairs         335.475     2.          85.417     0.E         51.235
Water and sewage                   47.656     0.          24.476     0.2        132.356
Highways                          175.570     1,         135.463     1,         115.295
Other                             413.329     3.1        410.407     3,.        224.419
General Credit                    1.024.946    7.6        943.857     8.7        825.533
Industrial production             832.579     6.         462.084     4,2        574.401
Commerce                           98.276     0.          33.342     0.          20.672
Public Sector                      53.863     0.          64.567     0;6         44.894
Other                              40.228     0.         383.864     3.5        185.566
Trade financing                    197.563     1.5        143.255     1.3        143.790
Export                            86.875      0.         42.188     0.4         77.272
Import                             91.385     0,          60.076     0.6         39,361
Other                              19.303     0,          40.991     0.,         27.157
FNE Repasses to State Banks        109.371      0.8       100.402      0.c        95.858
Rural                              98.602     0,          86.980     0,          79.495
Industrial                         10.769     0,1         13.422     0,1         16.363
TOTAL LOAN PORTFOLIO             13.422.352   100.      10.900.794   100.       8.389.435
Portfolio Quality
BN's net non-performing loans(BN and FNE) improved from 12.1% in 1996 to 11.2% in June
1999. Considering only BN loans, non-performing loans increased from 17.5% to 19.2% over this period.
This is still better than other large public banks in Brazil such as Banco do Brasil (21.9%) or BANESPA
(22%). On a consolidated basis portfolio quality ratios are somewhat improved, however at 10.5%, BN's
loan portfolio quality is still well below the average of 2.4% for the 50 largest banks in Brazil. In addition,
FNE has legal authorization to reschedule loans of non-performing borrowers, in which case they are
reported as performing loans. BN acknowledges that portfolio quality is a concern and emphasizes that the
problem portfolio is composed primarily of large loans contracted prior to 1995, for activities which have
proven to be non-viable with stabilization of the economy and which typically carried grace periods of two
to three years and so have only come due in the last few years. BN is working with the federal commission
which is developing a coordinated strategy amongst the large, federal banks to improve recovery of these
loans.
- 79 -



Non-Perforning Loans / Total Loans
BNB                   BNB+FNE
Dec./1995                    9.4%                   6.3%
Dec.f1996                   17.2%                  12.1%
Dec./1997                   14.5%                  10.9%
Dec./1998                   16.7%                  10.7%
Dec./1999                   19.5%                  11.2%
BN's policy for loan provisioning follows Regulation 1,748 of the Central Bank. Loans are
classified as overdue when the payment of principal or interest is over 60 days late. In this case, the ban:k
must provision 20% of the outstanding balance (50% if the loan is considered to be insufficiently
secured or guaranteed). The bank is not permitted to continue to accrue income, above the level of
inflation indexing, on loans overdue more than 60 days, but is required to account for any funding costs.,
whether paid or not. After loans are overdue more than 180 days, or are defaulted, all related income
including indexing is accounted for on a cash basis as and when received. Defaulted loans are written off
as an expense after 180 days in default, or are rescheduled.
The above rule only applies to loans where the credit risk is bome by the bank. In the case of loans
where BN has no credit risk, these are never classified as past due regardless of the time that they are
overdue. They remain as current loans until they are either collected or written off.
Unlike BN, FNE is not subject to Central Bank rules on provisioning. FNE adopts different rules
for loans in arrears or in default; these rules are established by the bank as administrator of the fund and
approved by the National Congress. For FNE credits with maturities of up to three years, 25% must be
provisioned after principal or interest is 180 days overdue, after which three more provisions of 25%
each are made in the following 180 days. Therefore after a year the loan is fully provisioned. Loans of
over three years are provided for over a period of two years, with no provision made in the first year, a
25% provision made after 180 days into the second year, and three more provisions of 25% each made in
the following 180 days. Loans deemed uncollectible must be written off and the principle and interest
amount that was for BN's risk must be reimbursed to the FNE within five years, with interest.
Funding Mechanisms
Until 1997, half of BN's funding was short term in nature, which is not compatible with its
developmental role. New management has lengthened the debt profile to better match the long term nature
of its lending. Since Dec./ 1997 the bank has done a better job of funding long tenn lending operations with
long term funding.
- 80 -



Funding Mix
Prior to 1997, BN relied heavily on time deposits for funding. Since then government funds have
played an increasingly important role in the bank's funding base, nearly 46% of which come as FNE funds.
Equity
BN's capital adequacy ratio is in line with private banks. It has been operating with an average of
12.3% of its own resources over the past five years.
Proforma Financials 1999-2004 (year-by-year) based on forecasts provided by BN
BN submitted projections for the years 2000-2003 with the premises used by the bank. Analysis of
the projections indicates that BN expects an initial dip in its profitability in 2001 and 2002 due primarily to
increased provisions for doubtful loans. BN expects profitability to rebound in 2003, more than matching
asset growth. Capital adequacy is projected to decline steadily over the period to 9.7%.
Outlook
Since 1995, BN has taken important steps to improve the efficiency of its operations and reduce
the concentration of its portfolio in government lending and large loans. Consistent with its development
focus to complement the private banking sector, BN has reoriented its activities to service micro, small and
medium enterprises. Nonetheless, BN is faced with continuing challenges over the coming years to
translate its improved operational capacity into improved financial results. Specifically, BN will have to
address the legacy of large, non-performing loans booked prior to 1995. While Central Bank provisions
permit BN to reduce the apparent impact of these loans on its financial statements through rescheduling and
special reporting requirements, they nonethleless have a real impact on the quality of the bank's portfolio,
its profitability and eventually its solvency.
BN is actively working to improve the quality of its portfolio through the introduction of
performance-based staff incentives tied to, inter alia, portfolio quality and profitability. BN is also moving
ahead of many other public banks in Brazil in the implementation of measures to recover loans which have
been provisioned or for which Govemment has delayed provisioning, as a means to strengthen its net worth.
BN should also consider working with Govemment on the redifinition of its provisioning policies,
particularly in the face of concerns regarding the quality of its loan portfolio as a public bank. While
Government guarantees may substantially reduce the risks of loss of principal on a significant proportion
BN's overdue loans, large commercial banks in Brazil uniformly fully provision their non-performing loan
portfolio, regardless of guarantees, in order to generate a more conservative estimate of true net worth.
Central Bank authorizations to avoid liquidation and delay or avoid provisioning for past-due loans distort
operational incentives and undermine the increasing commercial focus introduced by BN's recent
organizational reforms. Special provisions related to management of portfolio quality should be replaced
with explicit, transparent subsidies for development banking activities.
As a development bank, BN provides a number of client and regional services which are not
offered by private banks. While it receives funds at below market rates, it generally is constrained in the
interest rate it can charge final clients, which in turn are well below market rates. As a result, providing a
more transparent picture of its true profitability, including provisioning consistent with commercial bank
practices, coupled with continued progress in reducing administrative costs and arrears, may provide the
- 81 -



basis for negotiation of interest rate ceilings to final borrowers which permit sufficient returns given the
real risk of development lending.
- 82 -



Annex 6: Procurement and Disbursement Arrangements
BRAZIL: Northeast Microfinance Development Project
Procurement
Management of the project under the loan will be the responsibility of the CrediAmigo Technical
Unit working with the relevant areas of BN. The Technical Unit will be responsible for cariying out
procurement of goods and services for the project. A detailed procurement plan has been prepared and the
staff responsible to carry out procurement for the project has been trained in World Bank procurement
procedure. Consultant Services and Goods financed by the Bank under this project will be procured
respectively in accordance with the provisions of the World Bank Guidelines for Selection and Employment
of Consultants by World Bank Borrowers (the Consultant Guidelines) published in January 1997 and
revised in September 1997, and the Guidelines for Procurement under IBRD Loans and IDA Credits,
January 1995, revised January/August 1996 and September 1997. The Request For Proposal (RFP) for
selection of consulting firms and contracts issued by the Bank will be used; the bidding documents prepared
for Brazil for National Competitive Bidding (NCB) for goods, accepted by the Bank, will be used;
shopping procedure will be according to the comparison of at least the quotations. The loan will also
provide funds for CrediAmigo to make solidarity group-backed working capital loans, and individual
working capital loans to solidarity group clients. BN will follow local commercial practices in accordance
with item 3.12 of the World Bank Guidelines, for the disbursement of these funds. BN will be responsible
for overall financial management and repayment of World Bank loan funds.
Procurement methods (Table A)
Consulting Services: the project will finance the employment of consulting services for institutional
development activities. Contracts for firms estimated to cost more than US$200,000 will be procured
following a Quality and Cost Based Selection (QCBS) in accordance with Chapter II of the Consultant
Guidelines for Socio-Economic Impact Analysis, Design of a Risk Management Program, Design and
Evaluation of Improved Outreach Mechanisms, and Development of the Accounting System. There will be
3 contracts for firms, estimated to cost more than US$100,000 and less than US$200,000 equivalent, that
will be procured following Quality Based Selection (QBS) due to the complexity of the studies which
include Due Diligence Reviews, Design and Analysis of Market Studies, and Design and Implementation of
a Loan Officer Productivity Enhancement Program. Contracts for firms estimated to cost less than
US$100,000 equivalent will be procured following Consultant's Qualifications (QCS) and will include
External Evaluation of the Environmental Mitigation Program and Identification and Evaluation of New
Financial Products. Individual Consultants will be selected on the basis of their qualifications for Punctual
Loan Management Assistance for the CrediAmigo Technical Unit, and Legal Reviews related to
Institutional Development: There will be three sole-source contracts all based on continuity of services
already being rendered to BN: (a) one contract with Accion Intemacional estimated to cost US$160,000.
The firm was selected competitively for the first contract with CrediAmigo to provide technical assistance
with transference of the technology used with solidarity credits. The firm assisted in the development of the
micro credit technology that is being used by CrediAmigo; the firm will be hired to continue providing
technical assistance for the program; (b) one contract with UNYSIS estimated to cost US$80,000.
UNYSIS was selected competitively and contracted by BN to provide assistance with their computer
system in the development of new systems, adaptation of new programs, etc. To maintain the continuity
and compatibility of the services for BN at large, CrediAmigo will sign a separate contract with UNYSIS
for the services connected with CrediAmigo program, under the same unit costs contracted for the larger
contract with BN; (c) one contract with TREVISAN estimated to cost US$120,000 for the annual external
- 83 -



auditing of the loan. BN contracted through a competitive selection a firn to do the annual auditing of 13N;
this same firm will also do the auditing of the loan under separate terms of reference and a separate
contract.
Goods: the project will finance the procurement of vehicles, fumiture, computers and printers fcor
mobile units that will service distant areas where there are no agencies of CrediAmigo. Contracts for the
supply of Goods are estimated below US$350,000 and therefore there will be no ICB procedure in this
loan. Contracts estimated to cost US$100,000 to US$350,000 equivalent (with an aggregate amount of
US$800,000) will be awarded on the basis of NCB procedures; contracts estimated to cost below
US$ 100,000 equivalent (with an aggregate amount of US$400,000) will be awarded on the basis of
intemational/national shopping.
Table A: Project Costs by Procurement Arrangements
(US$ million equivalent)
1. Works                           0.00           0.00          0.00           0.00          0.00
(0.00)        (0.00)        (0.00)         (0.00)         (0.00)
2. Goods                           0.00           0.70          0.20           0.00          0.90
(0.00)        (0.60)        (0.10)         (0.00)     _(0.70)
3. Services                        0.00           0.00           1.60          0.00           1.60
Technical Assistance              (0.00)         (0.00)        (1.60)         (0.00)        (1.60)
4. Training                        0.00           0.00           0.30          0.00          0.30
(0.00)        (0.00)         (0.20)        (0.00)         (0.20)
5. Microfinance Subloans           0.00           0.00          85.50          0.00          85.50
(0.00)        (0.00)        (47.00)        (0.00)        (47.00)
6. Incremental Recurrent           0.00           0.00          0.00           11.20         11.20
Costs                             (0.00)         (0.00)        (0.00)         (0.00)        (0,.00)
Total                           0.00           0.70          87.60          11.20         99.50
(0.00)        (0.60)        (48.90)        (0.00)        (49.50)
"Figures in parenthesis are the amounts to be financed by the Bank Loan. All costs include contingencies
v 2. Goods are International/Nationial Shopping.
3. Technical Assistance Services are consulting services (see Table Al).
4. Training includes costs of renting location, training materials and travel and per diem fbr trainees.
5. Microftnance subloans of up to US$ 1000. Procurement by sub-borrowers will be based on connuercial
practices, at a reasonable price and taking into account their quality, as repayment requirement provides
incentive for procuremnent of goods and services at lowest price.
- 84 -



Table Al: Consultant Selection Arrangements (optional)
(US$ million equivalent)
A. Firms            0.54      0.30       0.00      0.10       0.15      0.31       0.00       1.40
(0.54)    (0.30)    (0.00)    (0. 10)    (0.15)    (0.31)    (0.00)    (1.40)
B. Individuals      0.00      0.00       0.00      0.00       0.20      0.00       0.00      0.20
(0.00)    (0.00)    (0.00)    (0.00)    (0.20)      (0.00)    (0.00)    (0.20)
Total   0.54      0.30       0.00      0.10       0.35      0.31       0.00      1.60
(0.54)    (0.30)    (0.00)    (0. 1 0)    (0.35)    (0.31)    (0.00)     (1.60)
1\ Including contingencies
Note: QCBS = Quality- and Cost-Based Selection
QBS  Quality-based Selection
SFB = Selection under a Fixed Budget
LCS  Least-Cost Selection
CQ = Selection Based on Consultants' Qualifications
Other = Single source selection (per Section 111, Paragraphs 3.8 to 3.11 of Consultants
Guidelines).
N.B.F. = Not Bank-financed
Figures in parenthesis are the amounts to be financed by the Bank Loan.
- 85 -



Prior review thresholds (Table B)
Table B summarizes the thresholds for procurement methods and prior review by the Bank.
Table B: Thresholds for Procurement Methods and Prior Review'
1. Works
2. Goods                       100 to 350                  NCB                       All
Less than 100       Intl./National Shopping    First irrespective of value
3. Services TA Firms         More than 200                QCBS                       All
100 to 200                 QBS                        All
Less than 100              LCS, CQ                  TORs only
4. Services TA               Greater than 50       Individual Consultants            All
Individuals                   Less than 50                                 TORs only unless specified
as of critical nature in Loan
Implementation Manual
5. Subloans                                         Commercial Practices            None
6. Training                                                N/A                      None
Total value of contracts subject to prior review: US$4.0 million (4% cf
total project
expenditures or 50% of
non-microfinance loan
portfolio expenditures.
Overall Procurement Risk Assessment
Average
Frequency of procurement supervision missions proposed: One every 12 months (includes special
procurement supervision for post-review/audits)
The above risk assessment and thresholds for prior review was a result of the Procurement Capacity
Assessment conducted in the field in August of 1999 by Procurement Specialist, Irani Escolano.
'Thresholds generally differ by country and project. Consult OD 11.04 "Review of Procurement
Documentation" and contact the Regional Procurement Adviser for guidance.
- 86 -



Disbursement
Allocation of loan proceeds (Table C)
The allocation of loan proceeds by disbursement category is shown in Table C. The proceeds of the
proposed loan are expected to be disbursed over a period of 5 years. The project is expected to be
completed by June 30, 2005 and the project closing date is December 31, 2005.
Retroactive Financing of up to US$5 million (10% of the loan amount) would be provided for eligible
expenditures incurred since September 1, 1999 (but not earlier than 12 months before loan signing).
Table C: Allocation of Loan Proceeds
xpeit-re Categorif--c USn millio n ,- F(                            F  ca . 
Incremental Microfinance Portfolio         47.00                         55%
Technical Assistance                        1.60                         100%
Equipment                                   0.70                         80%
Training                                    0.20                         80%
Fee                                         0.50                         100%
Total Project Costs                        50.00
Total                                      50.00
Use of statements of expenditures (SOEs):
The financial management systems of BN/CrediAmigo were reviewed by a Bank Financial Management
Specialist during pre-appraisal for compliance with OP/BP 10.02 and the Loan Administration Change
Initiative (LACI) Implementation Handbook. Based on this review, the project was certified as a "B",
indicating that the project satisfies the Bank's minimum financial management requirements. However, the
project financial management system cannot currently generate quarterly project management reports
(PMRs). Disbursements would be made on the basis of statements of expenditure (SOEs), except for
contracts with consulting firms above US$100,000 equivalent: and with individuals above US$50,000.
The information required for the compilation of SOEs would be maintained by the CrediAmigo Technical
Unit in the MIS data base. An action plan was prepared and agreed for implementation of a project-specific
financial management module able to generate PMRs within six months of project effectiveness. The
annual financial audit will include a separate opinion on the eligibility of expenditures disbursed on the
basis of PMRs.
Special account:
In order to facilitate project implementation, the Implementing Unit in BN/CrediAmigo will establish a
special account in US dollars in a commercial bank acceptable to the Bank with an authorized allocation of
US$3.5 million (based on projected disbursements for four months). The initial allocation will be limited to
US$1.0 million until the cumulative disbursments from the Special Account total US$3.0 million at which
time the authorized allocation of US$3.5 million will be in effect.
Upon compliance with the requirements for PMR-based disbursements, the authorized allocation for the
Special Account will be US$8.0 million reflecting the expected peak six-month disbursement requirements.
The special account will be replenished quarterly on the basis of PMRs submitted by the Implementing
Unit and approved by the Bank project team. In the case of a faster than expected draw-down of the special
account, an interim PMR may be submitted to request a supplemental disbursement prior to the next
- 87 -



scheduled quarterly disbursement request. All supporting documentation authenticating the expenditures
reported in the PMRs will be maintained by the Implementing Unit in BN/CrediAmigo and made availaLble
for review by auditors and Bank missions as requested. The special account will be audited in conjunction
with the annual financial audit of the project accounts for the period January 1 to December 31 of the year
carried out by a qualified auditor according to terms of reference acceptable to the Bank and selected in
accordance with Bank guidelines. The audit report will be submitted to the Bank no later than June 30 in
the year following the year for which the project accounts are audited. Selection of a qualified auditor
acceptable to the Bank is part of the certification process for use of PMR disbursements and as such is a
condition of disbursements.
- 88 -



Annex 7: Project Processing Schedule
BRAZIL: Northeast Microfinance Development Project
> . ~ta'° <.',,c;. .tW4uIe                         Plan  d
Time taken to prepare the project (months)
First Bank mission (identification)             07/15/98                     07/15/98
Appraisal mission departure                     09/01/99                      08/23/99
Negotiations                                    11/15/99                     03/21/2000
Planned Date of Effectiveness                   07/01/2000
Prepared by:
Bank of the Northeast/CrediAmigo
Preparation assistance:
Japanese PHRD Preparation Grant
Bank staff who worked on the project included:
Na0--td gme            V==; 0xL =- - X;0 Speciality
Steven N. Schonberger             Task Manager
Irani Escolano                    Procurement Specialist/Cost Tab
Susana Sanchez                    Financial Economist
Carlos Cuevas                     Principal Financial Economist
Robert Christen                   Senior Microfinance Advisor
Fred Levy                         Principal Economist
Tulio Correa                      Financial Management Specialist
Marta Molares-Halberg             Senior Counsel
Morag van Praag                   Senior Disbursement Officer
Luis Coirolo                      Portfolio Manager
Jacob Yaron                       Peer Reviewer
Khalid Siraj                      Peer Reviewer
Arie Chupak                       Peer Reviewer
Richard Rosenberg                 Peer Reviewer
Beatriz Iraheta                   Language Program Assistant
- 89 -



Annex 8: Documents in the Project File*
BRAZIL: Northeast Microfinance Development Project
A. Project Implementation Plan
Manual de Implementacao do Emprestimo BIRD pelo Programa CrediAmigo
B. Bank Staff Assessments
1. Trip Report, Banco do Nordeste/CrediAmigo (Technical/Institutional Review)
2. Cost Tables
3. Evaluation of Banco do Nordeste (Due Diligence)
4. Microfinance Prospects in Brazil (Business Environment)
5. Financial and Economic Analysis of CrediAmigo and Business Plan
6. Financial Management Certification
7. Procurement Assessment
8. Environmental Mitigation Assessment
9. Social Assessment
10. Design Issues for Impact Evaluation
C. Other
1. Manual Basico CrediAmigo
2. Modelo de Gestao CrediAmigo
3. Piano de Negocios CrediAmigo
4. Projecoes do Resultado Financeiro Programa CrediAmigo
5. Politicas e Acoes de Recursos Humanos do Programna CrediAmigo
6. Gestao de Risco e Controle de Qualidade da Carteira CrediAniigo
7. Projeto de Expansao da Atuacao do CrediAmigo
8. Balanca Social do Banco do Nordeste 1998, 1997, 1996, 1995
9. Demanda por Microcredito No Nordeste Brasileiro
10. Trabalho Avaliacao Social Crediamigo
11. Politica Ambiental e Programa de Mitigacao Ambiental
12. Various Central Bank Laws and Regulations Related to Microfinance Institutions
*Including electronic files
- 90 -



Annex 9: Statement of Loans and Credits
BRAZIL: Northeast Microfinance Development Project
Difference between expected
and actual
Original Amount in US$ Millions         disbursements
Project ID    FY   Borrower                     Purpose                              IBRD      IDA         Cancel.   Undisb.      Orig  Frm Rev'd
BR-PE43874    1999 GOVERNMENT OF BRAZIL        DISEASE SURVEILLANCE                  100.00       0.00        0.00      96.52     11.52      0.00
BR-PE-48869    1999 FEDERATIVE REPUBLIC OF BR SALVADOR URBAN TRANS                   150.00       0.00        0.00     150.00      0 00      0.00
BR-PE-50763    1999 GOV. OF BRAZIL             FUNDESCOLA2                           202.03       0.00        000      202.03      000       0.00
BR-PE-54120    1999 GOVERNMENTOF BRAZIL        AIDS2                                 165.00       0.00        0.00     14473      19.73      0.00
BR-PE-55386    1999 FEDERAL GOVT OF BRAZIL    ANIMAL&PLANT DIS. CO                    44.00       0.00        0.00      44.00      0.00      0.00
BR-PE-58129    1999 FEDERAL GOVERNMENT         EMER. FIRE PREVENTIO                   15.00       000         0.00      15.00      0.00      0.00
BR-PE-35728    1998 STATE OF BAHIA             BAHIA WTR RESOURCES                    51.00       0.00        0.00      39.36     21.05      0.00
BR-PE-38695    1998 GOVERNMENTOFBRAZIL         FED.WTRMGT                            198.00       0.00        000      171.58     43.57      0.00
BR-PE-38947    1998 GOVERNMENT OF BRAZIL       SC. &TECH 3                           155.00       0.00        0.00     137.67     27.67      0.00
BR-PE40033    1998 THESTATEOFMINASGERAIS  MGSTATEPRIV.                               170.00       0.00        000      170.00    160.00      0.00
BR-PE42565    1998 STATE OF PARAIBA            PARAIBA R.POVERTY                      60.00       0.00        0.00      45.26      -0.44     0.00
BR-PE-43420    1998 FED. REPUBLIC OF BRAZIL    WATER S.MOD 2                         150.00       0.00        0.00     150.00     41.51      0.00
BR-PE43421    1998 STATE OF RIO DE JANEIRO     RJ M.TRANSIT PRJ.                     186.00       0.00        0.00     186.00     93.64      0.00
BR-PE-48357    1998 REPUBLIC OF BRAZIL         CEN.BANKTAL                            2000        0.00        0.00      16.83     11.33      0.00
BR-PE-50762    1998 GOV. OF BRAZIL             FUNDESCOLA1                            62 50       0 00        0 00      27.13    -20.36      0.00
BR-PE-51701    199S STATE OF MARANHAO          MARANHAO R.POVERTY                     80 00       0.00        0.00      59.52     -0.37      0.00
BR-PE-57910    1998 GOVERNMENT OF BRAZIL       PENSON REFORM UL                        5 00       0.00        0 00       5.00      5.00      0.00
BR-PE-6474    1998 STATEOFSAOPAULO             LANDMGT3(SP)                           55.00       0.00        0.00      5500       9.50      0.00
BR-PE-6549    1998 TBG                         GASSCTRDEVPROJECT                     13000        000         0.00     130.00     92.00      0.00
BR-PE-6559    1998 THE STATE OF SAO PAULO    (BF-R)SP.TSP                             45.00       0 00        0.00      45.00     25.00      0.00
BR-PE-34578    1997 RIO GRANDE DO SUL          RGS HWY MGT                            70.00       0.00        0.00      65.90     25.91      0.21
BR-PE-38898    1997 STATE OF RGN               R.POVERTY(RGN)                         24.00       0.00        0.00      14.77      4.88      0.00
BR-PE42566    1997 STATE OF PERNAMBUCO         R.POVERTY(PE)                          39.00       000         0.00      13.51     -0.18      0.°0
BR-PE43668    1997 STATE OF RGS                RGS LAND MGTIPOVERTY                  10000        0.00        0.00      88.48     21.28      0.00
BR-PE43871    1997 STATE OF PIAUI              (PIAUI)R.POVERTY                       30.00       0.00        000        8.76      -3.14     0.00
BR-PE-43873    1997 FED.REP.OF BRAZIL          AG TECHNDEV.                           60.00       0.00        0.00      46.96     16.15      000
BR-PE46052    1997 THESTATEOF MATO GROSSO  CEARAWTR PILOT                              9.60       0.00        0.00       7.46      7.46      0.00
BR-PE-48870    1997 FED. REP. OF BRAZIL        MT STATE PRIV                          45.00       0.00        0.00      20.09     20.09      0.00
BR-PE-6475     1997 FEDERAL GOVERNMENT         LAND RFM PILOT                         90.00       0.00        0.00      58.34     18.84      0 00
BR-PE-6532    1997 STATEOFBAHIA                FEDHWY DECENTR                        30000        0.00        0.00     252.19    10219       0.00
BR-PE-6562    1997 STATEOFPARANA               BAHIAMUN.DV                           100.00       000         0.00      9279      3379      -4.21
BR-PE-37828    1996 FEDERATIVE REPUBLIC OF BR (PR)R POVERTY                          175.00       000         0.00     13807      95.68      000
BR-PE40028    1996 CVRD                        RAILWAYS RESTRUCTURG                  350.00       0 00       50.00      37 42     47.42     20.00
BR-PE-6512    1996 FED. REP. OF BRAZIL         ENV/CONS(CVRD)                         50.00       0.00        000       20.75     11.80      0.00
BR-PE-6554    1990 GOVT OF BRAZIL              HLTH SCTR REFORM                      300.00       0.00        0.00     224.52    147.01      0.00
BR-PE-35717    1995 FED REPUBLIC OF BRAZIL     RURAL POV. (BAHIA)                    105.00       0 00        0.00      42.13     1615       0.00
BR-PE-38882    1995 GOVTOFBRAZIL               RECIFEM.TSP                           102.00       0.00        0.00      71.95     48.96      0.00
BR-PE-38884    1995 GOVTOFBRAZIL               RURALPOV.- CEARA                       70.00       0.00        000       19.31      0.31      0.00
BR-PE-38885    1995 STATE OF CEARA   ZIL       RURAL POV.-SERGIPE                     36.00       0.00        0.00       957       0.07      0.00
BR-PE-6436     1995 FEDREPUBLICIBRAZIL         CEARAURDVIWATERCO                     140.00       0.00        0.00      57.34     51.32    -1568
BR-PE-6564    1995 ST.OF ESPIRITO SANTO        BELO H M.TSP                           99.00       0.00        0.00      41 15     28.68      0.00
BR-PE-6522    1994 ST.OFMINASGERAIS            ESPSANTO WATER                        154.00       000         4.00      7297      72.56      6.13
BR-PE-B524    1994 GOVERNMENT                  MINASMNC.DEVELOPMT                    150.00       000         500       29.44     34.41      0.00
BR-PE-6543    1994 STATE GOVTS                 M. GERAISBASC EDUC                    15000        0.00        0.00      20.31     16.30      0.00
BR-PE-6555     1994 REPUBLIC OF BRAZIL         STE HWY MGT II                        220.00       0.00       36.00       374      39.74      3.74
BR-PE-6558    1994 S PAULO/PARANA STS.         PARANA BASIC EDUC                      96.00       000         000       17.44     12.43      0.00
BR-PE-6541    1993 FED.REP.OF BRAZIL           WTR OIPLN(SP/PARANA)                  245.00       0.00        930       2561      34.90      1.10
BR-PE-6547    1993 GOVERNMENT                  METRO TRANSP. RIO                     12850        0.00        0.00       0.29      0.30      0 00
BR-PE-6386     1992 GOB                        WATER SECTOR MODERNI                  250.00       0.00        0.00       1.24      1.24      0.00
BR-PE-6454     1992                            RONDONIA NTRL RES. M                  167.00       0.00        0.00      27.60     27.58      0.00
- 91 -



Difference between expected
and actual
Original Amount in USS Millions        d;isbursements
Project ID   FY   Borrower                     Purpose                             iBRD         IDA      Cancel.   Undisb.      Orig  Frm Rev'd
BR-PE-6505    1992 GOVERNMENT OF BRAZIL        MATO GROSSO NAT RES                  205.00       0.00       0.00      53.09     53 06      0.00
Total:   6,103.63       0.00     104.30    3,473.82  1,527.56    11.29
- 92 -



BRAZIL
STATEMENT OF IFC's
Held and Disbursed Portfolio
3 1-Jul-1999
In Millions US Dollars
Committed                       Disbursed
IFC                             IFC
FY Approval        Compaiy                       Loan  Equity   Quasi   Partic   Loan  Equity   Quasi  Partic
1973/78/83         CODEMIvIN                     0.00    0.00    4.34    0.00    0.00    0.00    4.34    0.00
1975/96            Oxiteno NE                   22.50    0.00    0.00    0.00   22.50    0.00    0.00    0.00
1980/87/97        Ipiranga                      40.00    0.00    6.32   150.00   40.00    0.00    6.32  150.00
1980/88            OPP                           0.00    0.00    0.00    0.00    0.00    0.00    0.00    0.00
1980/92            DENPASA                       0.00    0.12    1.00    0.00    0.00    0.05    1.03    0.00
1981               Brasilpar                     0.00    0.00    0.04    0.00    0.00    0.00    0.04    0.00
1982/84/86         PISA                          0.00    0.00    3.90    0.00    0.00    0.00    3.90    0.00
1987/92/96         MBR                           7.02   10.00    0.00    6.23    7.02   10.00    0.00    6.23
1987/96            Perdigao                     26.25    0.00   10.00   12.00   26.25    0.00   10.00   12.00
1987/96/97         Duratex                      19.00    3.00    0.00   72.17   19.00    3.00    0.00   72.17
1987/97            SP Alpargatas                25.00    5.00    0.00    0.00   25.00    5.00    0.00    0.00
1989/95            Politeno Ind.                13.15    0.00    0.00    0.00   13.15    0.00    0.00    0.00
1990               ENGEPOL                       0.88    0.00    0.00    0.00    0.88    0.00    0.00    0.00
1990               Ripasa                        1.43    0.00    5.00    0.00    1.43    0.00    5.00    0.00
1990/91/92         Bahia Sul                     7.14    0.00   20.97    0.00    7.14    0.00   20.97    0.00
1991               Bradesco-AL                  26.03    0.00    0.00    0.00    0.00    0.00    0.00    0.00
1991               Bradesco-Bahia                3.00    0.00    0.00    0.00    3.00    0.00    0.00    0.00
1991               Bradesco-Eucatex              7.50    0.00    0.00    0.00    7.50    0.00    0.00    0.00
1991               Bradesco-Petrofl              7.50    0.00    0.00    0.00    7.50    0.00    0.00    0.00
1991               Bradesco-Roini                1.19    0.00    0.40    0.00    1.19    0.00    0.40    0.00
1991               Rhodia-Ster                   5.71    0.00    5.95    0.00    5.71    0.00    5.95    0.00
1992               CRP-Caderi                    0.00    0.00    1.93    0.00    0.00    0.00    0.68    0.00
1992/93            TRIKEM                        0.00    0.00   12.86    0.00    0.00    0.00    12.86    0.00
1993               BACELL                        6.00    0.00   15.70   16.20    6.00    0.00    15.70   16.20
1993               Macedo Alimentos             14.50    0.00    0.00    0.00   14.50    0.00    0.00    0.00
1993               Votorantirn                  11.71    0.00    0.00    0.86   11.71    0.00    0.00    0.86
1993/96            CEVAL                         0.00    0.00   20.00    0.00    0.00    0.00   20.00    0.00
1994               GAVEA                         9.38    5.50    0.00    0.00    9.38    5.50    0.00    0.00
1994               GP Capital                    0.00    0.00   14.04    0.00    0.00    0.00   14.00    0.00
1994               ParaPigmentos                30.00    9.00    0.00   31.03   25.50    9.00    0.00   25.78
1994               Portobello                   12.14    0.00    5.00    0.00   12.14    0.00    5.00    0.00
1994/95/97         Sadia                        44.00    9.33   10.00  178.65   44.00    9.33   10.00  178.65
1994/96            CHAPECO                      25.00    0.00    0.00    5.00   25.00    0.00    0.00    5.00
1994/96            S.A.I.C.C.                    0.00    6.87    7.85    0.00    0.00    6.87    7.70    0.00
1995               Bradesco-Hering               7.50    0.00    0.00    0.00    7.50    0.00    0.00    0.00
1995               Brahina - BRA                25.00    0.00    0.00   49.20   25.00    0.00    0.00   49.20
1995               Carrbuhy/MC                  16.88    0.00    0.00    0.00   16.88    0.00    0.00    0.00
1995               Lojas Atnericana             24.00    5.00    0.00   12.00   24.00    5.00    0.00   12.00
1995               LATASA - Brazil              13.00    0.00    0.00    2.00   13.00    0.00    0.00    2.00
1995               Rhodiaco/PTA                 20.00    0.00    0.00    18.00   20.00    0.00    0.00   18.00
1995/96/98         Globocabo                    32.09    0.00   27.97   103.25   32.09    0.00   27.97  103.25
1996               Banco Bradesco               40.00    0.00    0.00   54.36   15.23    0.00    0.00   22.84
1996               Mallory                       7.27    0.00    0.00    0.00    7.27    0.00    0.00    0.00
1996               TIGRE                        23.08    5.00    0.00    17.09   23.08    5.00    0.00   17.09
1996/97            Lightel                      25.00    0.00   18.17    0.00   25.00    0.00    18.17    0.00
1997               Bompreco                     25.00    5.00    0.00    0.00   25.00    5.00    0.00    0.00
1997               Copesul                      37.50    0.00    0.00  167.14   37.50    0.00    0.00  167.14
- 93 -



Committed                       Disbursed
IFC                            IFC
FY Approval        Company                      Loan  Equity   Quasi  Partic   Loan  Equity   Quasi  Partic
1997               Guilmana-Amorim              28.92    0.00    0.00   81.42   28.92    0.00    0.00   81.42
1997               Rodovia                      35.00    0.00    0.00   79.50   33.07    0.00    0.00   75.13
1997               Samarco                      16.20    0.00    0.00   13.33   16.20    0.00    0.00   13.33
1997               Sucorrico                    15.00    0.00    0.00    0.00   15.00    0.00    0.00    0.00
1997               Wembley                       0.00    0.00   10.00    0.00    0.00    0.00   10.00    0.00
1997/93           Coteminas                     15.00    0.00    4.00   18.18   15.00    0.00    4.00   18.18
1998              Arteb                         20.00    0.00    7.00   20.00   20.00    0.00    7.00   20.00
1998              BSC                           14.00    0.00    0.00    7.50   14.00    0.00    0.00    7.50
1998              Dixie Toga                     0.00    0.00   15.00    0.00    0.00    0.00   15.00    0.00
1998               Empesca                       5.00   10.00    0.00    0.00    5.00   10.00    0.00    0.00
1998              Fosfertil                     20.00    0.00    0.00    0.00    0.00    0.00    0.00    0.00
1998               Fras-le                      10.00    0.00   10.00    0.00   10.00    0.00    6.70    0.00
1998              Icatu Equity                   0.00    0.00   30.00    0.00    0.00    0.00    0.28    0.00
1998               Randon                       7.00    3.00    0.00    0.00    7.00    3.00    0.00    0.00
1998               Saraiva                      15.00    0.00    3.00    0.00   15.00    0.00    3.00    0.00
1998               Tecon Rio Grande              7.50    5.50    0.00   18.00    0.00    0.00    0.00    0.00
1999               Eliane                      32.00   13.00    0.00    0.00    0.00    0.00    0.00    0.00
1999               Vulcabras                    20.00    0.00    0.00    0.00   20.00    0.00    0.00    0.00
Total Portfolio:      922.97   95.32  270.44 1,133.11  806.24   76.75  236.01 1,073.97
Approvals Pending Commitment
FY Approval       Companiy                         Loan    Equity    Quasi    Partic
Total Pending Comunitment:      0.00      0.00      0.00     0.00
- 94 -



Annex 10: Country at a Glance
BRAZIL: Northeast Microfinance Development Project
Latin    Upper-
POVERTY and SOCIAL                                           America   middle-
Brazil  & Carib.  Income       Development diamond*
1998
Population, mid-year (millions)                      165.9       502        588                 Life expectancy
GNP per capita (Atlas method, US$)                   4.570      3.940     4,860
GNP (Atlas method, USS billions)                     758.0      1978      2,862
Average annual growth, 1992-98
Population (%)                                          1.4       1.6       1.4
Labor force (%)                                         1.7       2.3       2.0     GNP                              Gross
Most recent estimate (latest year available, 1992-98)                                per                            primary
capita                       enrollment
Poverty (X of population below national poverty line)   17
Urban population (% of total population)                80        75         77
Life expectanev at birth (years)                        67        70         70
Infant mortalitv (per 1. 000 live births)               34        32         27
Child malnutrition (% of children under 5)               6          8                          Access to safe water
Access to safe water (% of population)                  69         75        79
Illiteracv (% of population age 15+)                    16         13       11
Gross primary enrollment (% of school-age population)  123        113       108        -Brazil
Male                                                                                 -     Upper-middle-income group
Female
KEY ECONOMIC RATIOS and LONG-TERM TRENDS
1977     1987      1997      1998
Economic ratios'
GDP (US$ billions)                          176.2    294.1      820.4     750.8
Gross domestic investmenVGDP                 22.1     22.3       21.3      21.2
Exports of goods and serviceslGDP             7.3      9.5        7.6       6.9                     Trade
Gross domestic savings/GDP                   21.4     25.6       18.6      18.8
Gross national savingslGDP                   19.7     21.8       16.9      16.6
Current account balance/GDP                   -2.9    -0.5       -4.1      -4 7
Interest pavmentslGDP                         1.2      2.1        1.2       14      Domestic                     Investment
Total debttGDP                               23.9     40.7       23.6      28.2     Savings
Total debt servicelexports                   42.5     41.7       57.4      67.7
Present value of debtlGDP                                        22.5
Present value of debtlexpouts                                   277.4
f977-87  1988-98     1997      1998   1999-03                   Indebtedness
(average annual growth)
GDP                                  3.0      2.4       3.2       0.2       3.0               Brazil
GNP Per capita                       0.5      0.5       1.9      -1.4       1.0               Upper-middle-income group
Exports of goods and services       10.1      4.8       1.8       0.2       6.2
STRUCTURE of the ECONOMY
1977     1987      1997      1998      Growth rates of output and investment 1%)
(% of GDP)
Aariculture                                   14.7     10.0       8.1       86      12 .
Industry                                     386      45.9       35.2      375
Manufacturing                               29.3     32.0      22.8      24 3
Services                                     46.7     44.1       567       539       o                       s       s
Private consumption                          69.2     62.3       63 2      68 5      ,           94   SS   26   s7   98
General government consumption                9.4      12.2      181       12.7                      GDI      e6GDP
Imworts of goods and services                 7.9      6.2       10.2       9.2
(average annual growth)                   1977-87  1988-98      1997       1998      Growth rates of exports and imports (V.
Acriculture                                   3.5       2.5       1.9       0.5    40 -
Industrv                                      2.7       1.8       5.5       0.5
Manufacturing                                2.3      0.7       3.8        0.5    20
Services                                      3.2       2.6       3.5       1.2
Private consumption                           3.6      5.3        2.4      -3.4      o                             7    9 
General government consumotion                4.0      -1.5       8.0       2.1             93 _ss   s4 _S _s   97   as
Gross domestic investment                     -1.3      2.1       6.2       0.1    20
Importsofgoodsandservices                     -2.6    134        139        8.9                    Exports   .-Imports
Gross national product                        2.7       2.0       3 3       0.0
Note: 1998 data are preliminary estimates.
* The diamonds show four kev indicators in the countrv (in bold) compared with its income-oroup average. If data are missing, the diamond will
be incomplete.
- 95 -



Brazil
PRICES and GOVERNMENT FINANCE
Domestic prices                              1977    1987       1997      1998      Inflation (%)
(% change)                                                                         3,000
Consumer prices                                 ..   228.3        6.9       2.7     2       .000  
Implicit GDP deflator                        46.2   204.1         7.8      0.0      1,000)
Govemment finance                                                                      o 
(9 of GDP, includes cuwentgrants)                                                      0s    96   97   98
Current revenue                                 .    10.4        18.6     21.2    -reon                             9
Current budget balance                         ..    -1.4        -1.8      -4.6                   GDP deflator   OCPI
Overall surplusideficit                        ..    -2.8        -2.7      -5.7
TRADE
1977    1987       1997      1998      Export and import levels (USS millions)
(US$ migglonsJ
Total exports (fob)                             .  26,225    52,990    47,176      90,000
Coffee                                        ..   2,185      3,094     2,505
Soybeans                                      ..   2,325      5,729     4,580     60,000
Manufactures                                  ..  14,331    32,736    27,601
Total imports (cif)                            ..  15,053    61,354    53,012      40,000
Food                                          ..    500       3,290     2.961     20,000
Fuel and energy                               .. 4,674        3,220     3.903
Capital goods er                                    3,958    26,232    25,262        0
92  93  94  95  96  97  99
Export price index (1995=100)                   ..      78        96        92
Import price index (1995=100)                   ..      81        95        84               INExports     0imports
Terms of trade (1995=100)                      ..       97       101       108
BALANCE of PAYMENTS
(U5$ millions)                              1977     1987      1997      1998      Currentaccount balance to GOP ratio (%)
Exports of goods and services              13,003   28,073    56,831    55,479      2
Imports of goods and services              14,646   17,749    74,147    70,517
Resoume balance                             -1,643   10,324   -17,316   -15,038     0
Net income                                  -3,469  -11,699   -18,331   -21,794      1 9    92
Net currenttransfers                            4      -43      2,216     1,886    -2
Current account balance                     -5,108   -1,418   -33,430   -34,946
Financing items (net)                       5,629      363    25,629   26,455
Changes in net reserves                      -521    1,055      7,801    8,491     .91
Memo:
Reserves including gold (US$ millions)      7,256    6,420    51,729    43,366
Conversion rate (DEC, locaYUSS)          5.14E-12  1.43E-8        11        1.2
EXTERNAL DEBT and RESOURCE FLOWS
1977     1987      1997      1998
(US$ millions)                                                                     Composition of total debt, 1998 (USS millions
Total debt outstanding and disbursed       42,037  119,820   193,663  212,069                      A: 6,298
IBRD                                      1,371    9,384      5,743    6,298                           c: 5,310
IDA                                           0        0         0         0           G49,229               D: 5,264
Total debt service                          5,737   11,956    38,091    44,049                                     E:12,644
IBRD                                        204    1,555      1.428    1.373
IDA                                           0        0         0         0
Composition of net resource flows
Official grants                               5       35        63        80
Official creditors                          415       10    -1,820    -2,571
Private creditors                         5,708     -690    19.890   -268999
Foreign direct investment                 1,833    1,225    19,652    23,737
Portfolio equity                              0       78      5,300    -1,852                             r: 133,324
World Bank program
Commitments                                 319    1,394      1,104    1,291      A -IBRD0                     E-Bilateral
Disbursements                               299      915      1,416    1,240   |8-IDA       D-Othermutilateral   F-Private
Principal repayments                        101      867      1,049      995      C - IMF                      G - Short-termn
Net flows                                   198       48       368       245
Interest payments                           104      688       380       378
Net transfers                                95    -641         -12     -133
Development Economics                                                                                                  91919EI
- 96 -



Additional
Annex No.: 11
Framework for Microfinance in Brazil
(Extractedfrom the Report: "Microfinance Prospects in Brazil" prepared in conjunction with tlhe
proposed project.)
Background
1.    Brazil, the largest country in Latin America in terms of land area, population and Gross Domestic
Product, is well behind most other countries in Latin America in the development of its micro-finance
industry despite having a large and dynamic micro-enterprise sector. This is particularly surprising given
that many micro-finance practitioners point to the city of Recife, in the Northeast Region of Brazil, as the
home of the first "modem" micro-finance organization in Latin America, Projeto Uno, an NGO founded in
1971 which was a predecessor of the current CENAPE programs in Brazil..
2.     The most common explanations for the slow growth of micro-finance are: (i) macro-economic
instability until fairly recently; (ii) the "crowding -out" effect of subsidized Government credit lines; and
(iii) legal and regulatory impediments faced by non-bank institutions. While all of these factors
undoubtedly create constraints on micro-finance development, intemational experience suggests that none,
in and of itself, is a sufficient impediment to account for Brazil's relative lag in the supply of micro-finance
services. However, review of the micro-finance environment in Brazil does point to several factors which
warrant attention if Government wishes to provide a more conducive framework for future development of
the industry.
Basic Indicators
3.    Brazil has the world's fourth largest land area, at 8.55 million square kilometers, the fifth largest
population, at 164 million people, and the eighth largest economy. It's gross domestic product of over
$784 million in 1997, approaches that of China and is well over twice that of Mexico, the second largest
economy in Latin America. The Brazilian economy is highly diversified with services and industry
representing the highest share of GDP (Table 1). Agriculture, which represents only 10 percent of GDP,
contributes 30 percent of the value of total exports and is the basis of Brazil's important agro-processing
industry which accounts for a further 20% of GDP.
Table 1: Brazil: Sectoral Distribution of GDP and Growth, 1997.
Agriculture   Industry      Services       TOTAL
% GDP                 10.0          38.34         51.6            100
Sectoral Growtlh      0.3%           1.1%          5.3%           3.1%
Source: IBGE/BACEN
4.    While Brazil is a large and relatively prosperous country in overall terms, it also has the dubious
distinction of leading the Latin American region in terms of the number of people below the poverty line,
and is a world leader in income inequality (Gini-Index). The poorest 10% of Brazil's population account
- 97 -



for less than one percent of income, while the top ten percent accounts for almost half (48.9%). While
several estimates of poverty exist, the World Bank conservatively estimates that about 24 million
Brazilians fell below the poverty line in 1990, equivalent to 17.4 percent of the population.
5.     The incidence of poverty is not distributed equally throughout Brazil. The share of population
below the poverty line ranges from 6.9 percent in Sao Paulo, to almost a third of the population in the
Northeast Region. In fact, the Northeast Region, while accounting for only about a quarter of Brazil's
population and 20 percent of its land area, contains over half of Brazil's poor. Despite rapid urbanization,
rural and urban areas contribute about equally to national poverty, reflecting the much higher poverty rates
in the countryside.
6.     Basic education remains a major challenge in Brazil. Per student educational expenditures have
varied from US$130 to US$1,000. Although primary enrollments have improved steadily from just over
60 percent in the late 1960s to well over 80 percent at present, high dropout rates result in low school
completion. Only 45 percent of children in the relevant age group are enrolled in secondary school,
compared to an average of 53 percent for the Latin American Region and 60 percent for all middle-income
countries worldwide.
Macro-Economic Management
7.     Brazil was, for many years, synonymous with high inflation, reaching a peak of 2,668 percent
annualized rate in 1994. Better than most countries, Brazil was able to adapt to high inflation rates
through widespread indexation of prices. However, the additional costs to the economy of price instability
and the inequitable burden of the "inflation tax" on the poor led Government to institute an aggressive
stabilization program, the Real Plan, in mid-I 994. The Real Plan introduced an exchange rate anchor
within a fairly rigid band, and combined with de-indexation of the economy and tight credit and monetary
policies, resulted in a rapid decrease in annual inflation to 10 percent by 1996, a rate which has remained
relatively stable to-date despite the recent devaluation.
8.     Economic stability contributed significantly to acceleration of the annual growth rate from close to
zero in 1992, to an average of almost 4 percent since 1994. International financial markets reacted
favorably, with direct foreign investment increasing to US$9.2 million in 1996 compared with US$1.3
million in 1993. Spreads on new public borrowings declined from about 530 basis points over US
Treasuries in 1993, to below 200 basis points in 1997, and maturities lengthened significantly.
9.     The Real Plan suffered its first serious test in late 1998, when the financial crisis in East Asia and
Russia resulted in massive withdrawals of short-tenm foreign capital by investors fearful of a devaluation.
In order to stem the capital outflows, Government allowed the real to float outside the band and initiated a
number of reforms aimed at reducing Government's fiscal deficit. The swift action on the part of
Government appears to have stabilized the real, which lost almost 60 percent of its value in early 1999,
from 1.25 to 1.95 realize per dollar.
The Informal Sector
10.    High poverty rates and an open economy are generally consistent with large numbers of
micro-enterprises. Nationwide statistics prepared by SEBRAE estimate almost 9.5 million
micro-enterprises, with over two million non-agricultural micro-enterprises located in the Northeast Region
alone. According to SEBRAE's relatively broad definition of micro-enterprises as industrial firms with up
to 19 employees, and service and commerce firms with up to 9 employees, as much as 90 percent of all
- 98 -



firms are micro-enterprises, accounting for 35 percent of employment and 16 percent of gross receipts.
These "micro-enterprises" are most prevalent in commerce and services, where they represent 94 percent
and 91 percent of firms, respectively. Applying a stricter definition of microenterprises as those firms with
up to four workers irrespective of sector, micro-enterprises still account for 46 percent of industrial firms,
78 percent of firms in commerce, and 82 percent of service firms.
11.    Not surprisingly given its economic profile, the Northeast Region has the highest percentage of its
labor force, 61 percent, working in enterprises with up to five employees. This is particularly true in
agriculture, commerce and services (Table 2).
Table 2: Distribution of Economically Active Population by Sector in Northeast %
(figures in parenthesis are for Brazil as a whole)
Sector/           Overall      Agriculture  Manufacturing.  Construction  Commerce  Services
Firm Size
I to 5 persons   61            77            37               54             74          85
(50)         (74)          (17)             (55)          (57)         (81)
6 to 10 persons    7           10            10               6              6           5
1(7)          (10)          (8)             (5)            (10)         (6)
Morethan 10       32            13           54               40             21          10
persons           (43)         (16)          (76)             (40)           (33)        (13)
12.    There is a little information in Brazil which provides a profile of the microentrepreneurs as well as
the micro-enterprises One survey which did cover both was carried out by the Banco do Nordeste in late
1997 as part of market research in preparation of its micro-finance program, CrediAmigo. The survey
included 1,381 interviews with micro-entrepreneurs in five locations throughout the Northeast Region, as
well as interviews with key community informants (church leaders, police, merchants). The survey
locations included two large, state capital cities (Recife and Fortaleza), a smaller state capital city (Sao
Luis), a medium-sized commercial town in the interior (Picos), and a smaller commercial town (Limoeiro
do Norte), and an agricultural marketing town (Timbauba). The average number of workers, including the
owner, in each micro-enterprise was less than two, suggesting that the SEBRAE's larger definition of
micro-enterprises may not be at all representative of the informal activities normally supported through
micro-finance programs.
13.    Table 3 summarizes the main results of the survey as relates to the micro-entrepreneurs, most of
whom worked in commerce (77 percent) followed by services (15 percent) and production (8 percent). The
survey indicated a surprisingly high proportion of men amongst the sample, which is inconsistent with
many other countries where micro-enterprise activity is dominated by women. (This may be explained by
the fact that women entrepreneurs often work from home businesses which are not easily identified by an
interviewer.) Despite the common perception of the poor as transient in the Northeast Region, Sao Luis
was the only location where the majority of those interviewed had migrated from elsewhere. Most
micro-entrepreneurs had completed primary and at least part of first grade, although up to 11 percent
declared themselves to be illiterate. Educational level did not vary with respect to gender, but there was
some positive correlation between educational level and sales volume. Those who had established
micro-enterprises tended to have lived in the location for more than five years and generally had close to ten
years experience in their business.
Table 3: Social Profile of Microentrepreneurs in the Northeast Region
- 99 -



% Male   Avg. Age   Family        % Native   Time in      Education    Time in
Location                            Size        to Local    Location    Level         Business
Fortaleza     62.1      35          4           54.1        >5          First         10 lyrs
Recife        62.7       33         4           76.4        >5           First        12 yrs
SaoLuis       56.9       32         5           43.8        >5           Primary      8 yrs
Picos         74.7       34         5           66.0        >5           First        9 yrs
Limeiro do    74.2       35         5           76.1        >5           First        8 yrs
Norte
7Tmbauba    56.7        45          5           83.1        >5          First         11iyrs
14.   The survey also provides information on the origin and frequency of purchases of and payments for
stock and raw materials, important detenninants of the potential savings in financial and transactions costs
from use of an efficient, microfinance loan product. The majority of micro-entrepreneurs (over 80 percent)
purchased their stock and raw materials from commercial suppliers in the same municipality. Only in the
case of the rural market town, Timbauba, did a majority of businesses (57 percent) indicate that their
purchases came from ariother city or state.
15.   The figures in table 4 show that while the frequency of purchases demonstrated some variability
between locations, payments for purchases were more consistently done on a cash basis. This suggests th,at
supplier credit is unavailable or too expensive for most microentrepreneurs who finance their inventory
with their own funds or by borrowing. In addition, as close to half of all micro-entrepreneurs purchase
their stock on a daily or weekly basis, access to longer-term financing may reduce the transactions costs
represented by the time spent traveling to and from suppliers. Except in the case of highly perishable
goods, this time away from the business of selling represents a high, avoidable opportunity cost for the
micro-entrepreneur.
Table 4: Frequency of Purchases and Payments in %
Daily         Weekly            Bi-weekly        Monthly           Others
Location      (Cash)
Fortaleza     27.5           35.1              14.25            19.85             3.3
(Purchases)    8.4              6. 3             35.6              1.6
48.2
(Payments)
Recife         18.5          25.6              9.4              40.1              6.4
86.0          3.6               2.0              7.4               1.0
Sao Luis       17.4          38.4              9.3              31.1              3.9
81.8          4.4               2.4              7.1               4.4
- 100-



Picos         2.7            54.8             12.3             26.7             3.4
100.0         0.0              0.0              0.0               0.0
Limeiro do    4.7            39.5             5.8              48.8             1.2
Norte         1.8            8.2              0.0              4.7              85.9
TImbauba      5.0           43.3              15.0            28.3              8.3
68.4          0.0              5.3              14.0              12.3
16.   Frequency of sales and monthly cash-flow provide a good indication of the ability of
micro-entrepreneurs to potentially service a formal loan obligation. In the case of the micro-entrepreneurs
interviewed, almost all of those in large cities (Fortaleza, Recife, Sao Luis) were able to tum-over their
inventory within a week. In the case of Picos, Limoeira do Norte and particularly Timbauba, tum-over
tended to be much slower, requiring up to a month or more. In all locations, the months of October,
November and December were identified as the months of greatest sales.
Access to Formal Financial Services
12s,000 mEE .E 
8,000                  MI'O.  =-                         Population per Bank Branch
4,000
2,000  XE
o~~~~~~~~o
Figure 1: Population per Bank Branch
17.   Brazil, compared to many of its Latin American neighbors, is a relatively well-banked country both
in terms of the geographical coverage of its retail infrastructure and the variety of financial institutions
operating in the market. Brazil's financial sector is comprised of 223 banks and a total of 1,936 financial
institutions authorized by the Central Bank whose assets are roughly equivalent the country's GDP.
Brazil's bank branch density - measured as population per branich - is equal to just under 10,000
inhabitants per branch, which is comparable to other upper middle income countries in Latin America, but
well below that of OECD countries (Figure 1). (Bank branch density is becoming a less accurate indicator
of access to financial services as banking services are increasingly provided through the internet, smart
cards and ATMs throughout both developed and developing countries.) These branches are divided
between both private and public commercial and multiple banks, public savings banks, investment banks
and development banks (Table 5).
Table 5: Number of Banking Institutions and Branches by Type (August 31, 1999)
-101 -



Type of Bank                              Institutions    Branches
Commercial Banks                          24             3,923
Federal Govemment-Owned                  2              2,986
State Government-Owned                   1             256
Brazilian Private                        1              1
Brazilian wlForeign Control              3              622
Foreign w/Brazilian Subsidiary           15             53
Cooperative                              2              5
Multiple Banks                            172            10,735
Federal Government-Owned                 4              982
State Government-Owned                   11             1,593
Brazilian Private                        97             4,905
Brazilian w/ Foreign Control             46             2,446
Brazilian w/ Foreign   Participation     14             809
Savings Banks                             1              1,692
Federal Govemment-Owned                  1              1,692
Development Banks                         5              8
Federal Govemment-Owned                  1              2
State-Govenmment-Owned                   4              6
TOTAL                                     202            16,358
18.   The number of branches has declined from 1994 to 1998, reflecting the on-going consolidation of
the banking sector (Table 6). The reduction in branches has been uneven across regions, with the poorer
regions of the North, Northeast and Central West accounting for a disproportionate share of reduced
- 102 -



banking infrastructure
Table 6: Bank Branches by Region (December 31 of year indicated)
Region                            1994               1998              % Change
North                             704                552               -21.5
Northeast                         2857               2360              -17.3
Southeast                         8684              8527               -1.8
South                             3724              3363               -9.6
Central West                      1431               1200              -16.1
Brazil Total                      17400              16002             -8.0
19.   This has aggravated the inter-regional disparities in banking infrastructure whose presence reflects
economic activity more than population density. Figure 5 shows that in terms of the public policy
perspective of access to financial services as measured by the rough proxy of population per bank branch,
the North and Northeast Regions are significantly under-served relative to other regions of Brazil.
However from the commercial banker's perspective of potential funds intermediated as measured by the
rough proxy of GDP per bank branch, the North and Central Regions may represent opportunities for
profitable expansion of branches relative to the rest of the country, while the Northeast is relatively better
served. This suggests that the opportunities for private banks to increase their presence in the Northeast
are iimited, unless they can significantly reduce their overhead and operational costs or identify lines of
business with superior profitability to those in other regions.
60000 
40000-~~
Figue 02 ReginaluopultionpereankBranc
30000^ | 2      g    g    X    | lBranch
20000                                        0        GDP per Bank
10000   LXL            X      _lLBranch
0
2    (~~~~
Figure 2: Regional Population per Bank Branch
20.   Despite the presence of a dynamic, innovative and retail-oriented private banking sector and
increasing privatization, public banks continue to play an important role in Brazil's financial sector. Public
banks account for 46 percent of bank branch infrastructure and for 55 percent of financial sector assets. In
- 103 -



the Northeast Region, the primary Government-owned development bank, Banco do Nordeste, accounls for
86 percent of all bank financing in the region.
21.    Credit to the private sector, representing 30.7 percent of GDP in 1996, is equal to or higher than
that of most Latin American and middle-income countries, but is well behind high-income and faster -
growing lower and middle-income countries. Lending by private banks is concentrated in loans to industry
and housing loans with agricultural lending primarily handled by the public banks and individual and
commercial lending by non-bank financial and non-financial institutions (supplier and retail credit).
Despite the dominant presence of the public sector, and in particular the Caixa Economica Federal, in
housing finance, private bank participation is significant, due in large part to incentives provided through
requirements on the application of savings.
22.    The ability of Brazil's private banking sector to assume an increasing share of financial services
provision from the public sector is limited, in the short-run, by the high cost of private credit. Real
interbank rates have remained above 16 to 24 percent on short-term borrowings despite macroeconomic
stability over most of the past five years. Real-denominated commercial, term lending by private banks is
generally limited to sixty days at typical interest rates of over 65% per year. Consumer loan rates (rates
for retailer financing, overdrafts and personal loans), while declining, currently average between 95 peircent
for personal and direct consumer credit, to 178 percent per year for check overdrafts. This compares to an
average funding cost (30-day Certificate of Deposit (CDB)) of 21 percent per year, implying an average
annualized spread of 62 percent.
Table 7: Operating Costs of Commercial Banks
Country                              Op. Exp./Total Assets
Brazil                               8.0%
Argentina                            5.7%
Chile                                2 to 4%
Germany                              2 to 3%
U.S.                                 I to 2.5%
23.    The Central Bank, concerned about the high cost of borrowing for both businesses and individuals,
has undertaken a thorough review of the cost of bank credit in the Brazilian financial system. The study
has extended the traditional view that large spreads reflected the relative inefficiency of Brazilian banks
(Table 7). While the study verified high administrative costs, particularly in the case of individual loans
(administrative costs account for 29 percent of the spread for individual loans compared to 19 percent for
loans to companies), which in part reflects the low leverage of Brazilian banks (15 percent average capital
to asset ratio); the Central Bank review has identified taxes on financial transactions and bank profits, and
high default rates as equally significant sources of costs (Figure 3).
- 104 -



100%
80%
8  Profit Margin
60%/. | | |  | l S @ ¢ g   -    m L   | | S |  |   W     ODefault
40%                                     0~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ Taxes
20%t * §. l                                          U Administrative Costs
20%
Total    Individual    Business
Figure 3: Composition of Banking Spreads for Individual and Business Loans
24.   In order to address these issues, the Central Bank announced several measures on October 14,
1999 aimed at reducing the cost of credit. First of all, the tax on financial transactions (IOF) for individual
loans was reduced froni 6 percent to 1.5 percent per annum, equivalent with the existing IOF for business
loans. Further tax relief through elimination of the turnover tax (COFIN) is included in the general tax
reformn program expected to become effective in CY200 1.
25.    The Central Bank has also focused on the largest, individual component of banking spreads - the
high level of default. Default costs account for an average of 28 percent of the spread on individual loans,
and 40 percent of the spread on commercial loans. Past due loans (60 day portfolio-at-risk measure) for the
fifty largest banks in Brazil in December 1998 averaged 3.2 percent of loan assets, although in the largest
public banks this ratio ranged from 14 percent to 22 percent. (Banco do Brasil, Banco do Nordeste and
Banco do Estado de Sao Paulo. The Central Bank is providing banks with greater recourse for credits
with real guarantees in the case of client bankruptcy, and the right to continued collection of principal
payments during judicial proceedings conceming the interest portion of the loan.
26.    Accompanying these efforts to reduce the costs incurred by the banks, the Central Bank has also
taken measures to ensure that final borrowers benefit from lower lending rates. The Central Bank intends
to facilitate comparison of the cost of credit by disclosing the lending rates charged by each bank on the
Internet and requiring banks to post all rates and fees in their branches. Loan contracts will also have to
present detailed information regarding the full cost and conditions of the loan.
27.   In addition to these efforts to reduce costs directly associated with lending, the Central Bank is also
taking measures to reduce the costs associated with mobilizing funds from the public through demand
deposits, time deposits and investment funds. The reserve requirements on demand deposits has been
reduced from 75 percent to 55 percent. Reserve requirements for time deposits have been reduced from 20
percent to zero. Reserve requirements for investment funds were also reduced to zero from 50 percent for
deposits of less than 30 days and 5 percent for deposits of 30 days or more.
28.    These measures are not expected to have an immediate impact on availability of funds. Increased
savings, particularly for term funds, depends on continued macro-economic stability, on confidence in the
banking sector, and on development of attractive, longer-term, contractual savings instruments, which in
tum is dependent on developments in the pension, insurance and housing finance sectors. The World Bank
is assisting the Central Bank of Brazil in addressing issues of banking supervision and wider financial
sector development issues in the context of its Capital Markets Technical Assistance Loan.
- 105 -



29.   Almost all real-denominated term lending is provided by the public banks, largely through
specially-designed lines of credit intended to promote specific economic activities or socio-economic
groups. The National Bank for Economic and Social Development (BNDES) provided over US$7.6 billion
in termn credit in 1995. Banco do Nordeste lent almost $1.4 billion in 1998 alone on directed credit
programs (Table 8) funded by the Constitutional Fund for the Northeast (FNE), the Worker Assistance
Fund (FAT), and funds provided by BNDES.
Table 8: Banco do Nordeste Credit Lines, 1998
PROGER       PRONAF        PROTRABALHO    PROCERA               Cedula (Pilot  Total
(Development (National     (Program to Promote   Land Reform    Project to
Program for   Program to    Employment and      Program         Assist Land
Employment  Strengthen    Improve the Quality of (PROCERA-FN Reform)
Generation and Family       Life of Workers)    E)
Income)      Agriculture)
Numberof  44,737         156,343       22,871               35,185         207           259,343
Loans
Value (R$  276,416       671,326       299,783              94,585         30,298        1,372,408
million)
30.   PROGER, for example, is targeted to households with annual incomes below R$48,000.
PROGER finances working capital for up to two years, and investment capital for up to five years with
two years grace period. Borrowing is limited to a total of R$48,000 for both working and investment
capital and both are charged a nominal annual rate of 8.75 percent.
31.   PRONAF also finances both working capital and investment, but limits borrowing for working
capital to R$5,000 per household for up to two years at a 5.75 percent nominal, annual rate. Investmen"
loans of up to R$ 15,000 per household are provided for up to eight years, with a two year grace period, at
an interest rate of TJLP (Official long-term interest rate) plus 6 percent. Other directed credit programs
have similar characteristics in terms of loan size, interest rate, term and grace period.
32.   While most private banks and other private financial entities, to the extent they are permitted under
their Central Bank charter, provide a broad range of financial services, including savings and payments,
public banks tend to have more restricted functions. For example, BNDES works essentially as a second
tier bank which supplies funds to public and private institutions at preferable rates consistent with its
economic and social development orientation. The Federal Economic Savings Bank (CEF) is the principal
lending agent of the national housing system. Banco do Brasil, which is the largest government-owned
bank, is the main lender to the agricultural sector in Brazil. While many of these entities offer multiple
banking services, they tend to be focused on administration of credit lines, with few incentives to provide
customer-oriented savings or payment services.
Access of Micro-enterprises to Financial Services
33.   Despite Brazil's extensive banking infrastructure and the large number of Govemment sponsored
credit lines, few micro-enterprises have access to bank credit. According to SEBRAE statistics, 84 percent
- 106 -



of micro- and small enterprises in commerce and 88 percent in the service sector do not receive credit. It
should be remembered that this definition of micro-enterprises includes firms much larger than the
traditional micro-enterprise working in the informal sector.
34.   For the smaller micro-enterprises, the Banco do Nordeste study provides a more accurate picture,
at least for those operating in the Northeast Region. According to the survey, as little as 2 percent of the
micro-entrepreneurs have access to bank credit, depending more on suppliers, family and money-lenders (
ajiotas). In fact, the majority do not borrow at all (Table 9).
Table 9: Sources of Financing in the Northeast
Area            Banks            Moneylender    Supplier          Family           No Credit
Fortaleza       3.0              9.7              17.9            2.2              63.8
Recife          2.5              2.3              14.0             18.0            63.2
Sao Luis        1.9              0.8              7.8              1.2             88.7
Picos           4.8              2.4              23.0             10.6            58.5
Limoeiro do     5.7              1.1              12.5             10.2            70.5
Norte
Timbauba        3.3              3.3             6.7              3.3              83.3
35.    Average monthly interest rates paid, primarily to suppliers and moneylenders, are very high in real
terms, particularly in relation to the directed credit lines offered by the public banks (Figure 4). The
primary reasons given by microentrepreneurs for not obtaining bank credit is their difficulty in meeting
documentation and guarantee requirements. In addition, suppliers and moneylenders tend to provide a more
flexible lending environment and greater convenience.
Ei Fortaleza
25 r                           .Recife
15                             OSao Luis
10                             OPicos
0    * Linmoeiro do
0                    -Norte
E Timbauba
Figure 4: Monthly interest rates on loans in the informal sector in the Northeast
- 107-



36.   While the "intimidation factor" of banks and bank branches is often suggested as a major
impediment to micro-entrepreneurs seeking bank credit, the survey indicated that a much higher proportion
of micro-entrepreneurs have savings accounts in banks (Figure 5). This suggests that it is the lending
service provided, as well as the application requirements which discourage many micro-entrepreneurs frorn
seeking bank credit.
25 
15                                                                  M . 1  1  Loans
10       I       E' 
5
Fortaleza            Sao Luis            Limoeira
do Norte
Figure 5: Percentage of microentrepreneurs interviewed with loans vs. saving
accounts with commercial banks in the Northeast
Microfinance Programs in Brazil
37.   Given the huge, potential market for micro-finance services, the high interest rates paid to inforrial
lenders, and the lack of penetration by the formal financial sector, it is not surprising the there are several
micro-finance programs operating in Brazil. The list of programs included in Table 10, while representing
many of the best-known programs in Brazil, is not exhaustive. The market for micro-finance services is
evolving very rapidly in Brazil with new programs emerging almost monthly. With the exception of the
Federacao Nacional de Apoio aos Pequenos Empreendimentos (FENAPE) network, the micro-finance
programs have been operating for three years or less and so are still developing and refining their
methodology. In order to contrast these programs with a mature, "international best-practices" experience
in Latin America, similar information is provided for BancoSol in Bolivia (Information for PRODEM is
for December 1988 and for BancoSol is for June 1995). Given the short history of most of the Brazilian
micro-finance institutions, information for PRODEM (the NGO predecessor of BancoSol) at a similar
stage of development (32 months of operation) is provided in parentheses.
38.   The four Brazilian programs can be distinguished into two categories. VivaCredi of Rio de
Janeiro, and PortoSol of Porto Alegre, are focused exclusively on their local market. CrediAmigo, which
is a program of Banco do Nordeste, and the FENAPE netwvork define their market as regional or national
and have pursued high growth strategies accordingly. Unlike BancoSol, none of the programs is leveraged
with funds from deposit accounts or private bank loans, though several receive subsidized loans from the;
- 108 -



National Bank for Social and Economic Development (BNDES).
Table 10: Overview of Selected Microfinance Programs in Brazil (Figures are as of July 31, 1999)
Program Name   CrediAmigo       VivaCredi        PortoSol             FENAPE            BancoSol
(PRODEM)
Institutional Type Bank Division   NGO            Civil Association   NGO                Private Bank
Includes Municipality                 (former NGO)
of Porto Alegre, State
of Rio Grande do Sul,
Federation of
Commercial
Associations and
Association of Young
Business Owners of
Porto Alegre.
Operations Began: 11/97         3/97              1/96                 5/87              3/87 (32
months)
Source of funds   Transfers from   Equity, IDB, Govt. Grants, Govt. loans,   Equity, IDB, Govt. Equity,
parent Banco do  loans, private  international grants   loans, UNICEF   USAID,
Nordeste, IBRD  financial company  (GTZ, IAF)                           Government,
donation                                                commercial
loans, deposits
Geographic Area  Northeast Region Municipality of   Municipality of Porto  Urban - South,    Urban towns
Rio de Janeiro   Alegre and suburbs    Southeast,      throughout
Northeast, North   Bolivia with
Regions          focus on La
Paz
Estimated Market 2.5 million     15,000           19,000               6.8 million       1.0 million
No. of branches " 51            3                 1                    45                42 (2)
branches" refers to
any permanent
physical location
used as an
operational base
by the MFI.
Guarantees      Solidarity Group Cosigner,        Cosigner, collateral or Cosigner or    Solidarity
collateral, proof of solidarity group  solidarity group    group
salary
Avg. term       3               6                 6                    4                 9.6 (4)
(months)
- 109 -



Nominal Interest  5%             3.9% plus 1%     3.5%                 5.5%              4.0%/t (4.0%)
Rate (monthly)                  administration fee.
Frequency of    Every 15 days   Weekly, bi-weekly Weekly, bi-weekly and Monthly          Mainly
repayment                       and monthly       monthly                                monthly but
some weekly
and
bi-m,onthly
Total disbursed    US$39.1 million  US$2.6 million    US$7.8 million   US$68.2 million    US$448.7
million
(US$'3.7
million)
No. of loans     121,444        2,798             8,751                152,797           936,953
disbursed                                                                               (15,245)
Outstanding     US$8.2 million   US$631,000       US$1.2 million      US$7.3 million     US$67.3
Portfolio                                                                                million
(US$;359,000)
No. of loans     34,085         951               1,864                23,310            76,679 (5,288)
outstanding
Avg. outstanding  US$241        US$654            US$660               US$314            US$878
balance                                                                                  (US$131)
Portfolio Quality  4.0%         5.1%              3.7%                 4.0%              5.0%1, (less than
30 day                                                                                   2.0%/6)
portfolio-at-risk
measure.
No. of loan     213             6                 14                   75                246 (20)
officers
Clients/loan     153            158               133                  311               312 (267)
officer
Loan office     Secondary grads Secondary grads   Secondary grads      College students   Secondary
education level   and college   and college                                              grads and
students       students.                                                college
students
Base Salary Loan  US$211        US$368            US$326               US$289            US$438
Officer                                                                                  (US$275)
Incentive (% base  Average 40%  Average 30%%    Average 60%            Average 70%       Average 15%
salary)                                                                                  (none)
-110-



38.   Based on a comparison of the infomnation presented, several characteristics emerge common to
most, if not all programs:
*     CrediAmigo is the only program within a regulated financial institution with its own disbursement
and repayment windows. The other programs, similar to PRODEMIBancoSol are NGOs, and disburse
through checks which are cashed at banks which also accept repayments. This is representative of
microfinance development to date in Brazil where the dominant institutional model has been the NGO with
or without Government participation. Programs are funded primarily by their own equity, based on grant
funding, in some cases, by low-interest, long-term loans. CrediAmigo has accessed commercial funds
through its parent Banco do Nordeste and VivaCredi has equity investment from Finivest, a financial
corporation associated with Unibanco. All programs received grants from intemational institutions for
institution building activities, and have benefited from intemational technical assistance in the design of
their programs.
*     PortoSol and VivaCredi define a relatively restricted geographic area based on the area in and
around the municipality where they currently operate. This is in contrast to CrediAmigo which is pursuing
a market which mirrors that of Banco do Nordeste. FENAPE has developed an interesting strategy to
provide NGOs with some of the benefits of the economies of scale enjoyed by banks by linking individual
CENAPE NGOs throughout Brazil to ensure consistency in the quality of administration and training
support.
*     All programs emphasize shorter-term (up to 6 months) working capital loans. Solidarity group
lending is the dominant means of addressing the absence of "real guarantees" for microlending. VivaCredi,
whose lending technology was developed based on an individual loan product, is considering moving into
solidarity group lending as there has been greater than expected acceptance of this requirement by the
microfinance market in Brazil. Unlike PRODEMlBancoSol which has emphasized solidarity group lending
throughout its development, the Brazilian programs all offer or plan to offer individual loans for solidarity
group customers and new customers who qualify for larger loans than those of typical group members.
*     Interest rates, while differing in nominial terms, are similar in real terms once administrative fees,
prompt payment rebates and repayment calculation differences are accounted for. These rates are
consistent with the 4% real effective monthly rate charged by PRODEM/BancoSol and demonstrate that
there is considerable demand for credit at interest rates well in excess of those charged by
government-financed lines of credit. Also, similar to PRODEM/BancoSol, all programs currently or plan
to provide flexibility in repayment frequency so as to better match client cash-flow. These interest rates are
consistent with those charged by Brazilian banks for personal loans to individuals who, unlike
microentrepreneurs, can provide proof of adequate, salaried income. (The personal loan program of Banco
Fricrisa Axelrod in Porto Alegre, charges an effective interest rate of 81.8% per year (6.8% per month)
and does not incur the cost of group formation or evaluation of microenterprise cash-flow.)
*     The historic volume of funds and number of loans disbursed shows that VivaCredi and PortoSol
have approached or far exceeded PRODEM's cumulative volume of lending at a similar point in its
development, but have fallen far short in terms of loans disbursed. This reflects an historic average loan
size of just over US$900 for these programs compared to US$243 for PRODEM. CrediAmigo's historical
average of US$322 is closer to that of PRODEM and well below the US$479 average for BancoSol.
FENAPE's much slower growth than BancoSol is reflected in a significantly lower cumulative number of
loans and total disbursed, despite a similar average, historic loan size of US$446. The increasing historic
average loan size between PRODEM and BancoSol, and between CrediAmigo and FENAPE demonstrate
- 111 -



the tendency for average loan size to increase as borrowers establish repayment capacity and demand larger
loans.
The current, outstanding loan portfolios of the Brazilian institutions reinforces the distinctions
between the localized NGO programs and the more expansive programs. Both VivaCredi and PortoSol
have relatively small portfolios in terms of number of loans relative to PRODEM. Their average
outstanding loan balances are equivalent to 14.5% of per-capita GDP in Brazil compared to PRODEM's
17.8% of per capita GDP for Bolivia in 1989. Despite its longer history and much larger historical
lending, FENAPE's current lending portfolio is smaller than CrediAmigo's both in terms of the number
and value of outstanding loans. The average outstanding balance for FENAPE (6.9% of per capita GDP)
and CrediAmigo (5.2%) are much smaller than that of the two localized NGO lenders or BancoSol (81.8%
of per capita GDP). Even if adjusted using the much lower per capita GDP of the Northeast Region (Per
capita GDP for Brazil according to the Atlas method was US$4550 in 1998, while for the Northeast it wa's
US$1,423. Per capita GDP in Bolivia was US$734 and US$1073 in 1989 and 1998 respectively.), the
average outstanding balance for CrediAmigo (17 percent) and FENAPE (22 percent) suggest that the
Brazilian programs have a greater focus on lending to the poor than BancoSol. (FENAPE is also adjusted
using the Northeastern GDP figure as over 70 percent of the portfolio of its affiliates are located in the
Northeast Region.)
*     All of the Brazilian programs lend roughly equally to women and men. This is in sharp contrast to
BancoSol whose clients are over 70 percent women. While all of the Brazilian programs emphasized that
they consider women clients to be easier to work with and more reliable in repayment, they indicated that iin
Brazilian society many women allow their husbands to sign for their loans. All programs are developing
strategies to improve their outreach to potential women clients.
*      Only one Brazilian program, FENAPE, has been able to achieve levels of loan officer productivity
consistent with PRODEM/BancoSol. The other three programs have average numbers of clients per loan
officer well below both PRODEM and BancoSol for which the PRODEM figure represented an historical
minimum. All of the Brazilian programs include new loans per month (new clients and renovations) in their
salary incentive formulas. Most programs consider an increase in new clients per loan officer of 15 to 20
per month to be achievable on a regular basis.
Low average salaries for loan officers compensate, in part, for the low productivity of staff.
CrediAmigo salaries and incentive payments typically amount to US$300 per month or about 80% of
Brazil's per capita GDP on an annual basis. The other three programs all typically provide salary and
incentives equal to about US$500 per month or 130% of per capita GDP. In the case of FENAPE, the
higher salary is due primarily to higher incentive payments resulting from the greater productivity of its
loan officers. This compares to a total average monthly salary of US$504 for BancoSol, equivalent to
564% of per capita GDP in Bolivia. Adjusting the average salaries for CrediAmigo and FENAPE using
the Northeast Brazil per capita GDP (250% and 420% respectively), the programs' salaries are still low
compared to BancoSol.
Additional client services in the Brazilian programs are limited to training. With the exception of
VivaCredi, the Brazilian programs include training. There is a general belief amongst the Brazilian
programs that client training will result in improved management of the microenterprise, resulting in a
higher capacity for growth and repayment. Training is not a condition of loan approval or disbursement
and, in most cases, clients are required to pay for the training.
CrediAmigo, as a program of Banco do Nordeste, is the only regulated financial institution, and as
- 112-



such is the only one authorized to provide deposit, savings and other financial services in addition to
lending. CrediAmigo is currently considering development of a savings product. Voluntary savings has
become an important source of funding and loan clients for BancoSol and was a primary motivation for
PRODEM's conversion into a regulated financial institution.
Government and Donor Support of Microfinance Development
39.   Throughout the world, local microfinance initiatives have been dependent on Government and
donor support for financing and technical assistance during the initial development period when lending
technologies are adapted to specific country contexts and track records are established to attract
commercial financing and eventually deposits from the general public. In Brazil, with the exception of the
FENAPE network which was supported by UNICEF and is affiliated with ACCION, Intl. this support has
only emerged in the past two years. The largest assistance program is the Popular Productive Credit
Prograrn of BNDES, supported by a US$300 million loan from the Inter-American Development Bank
(IDB). The program has two lines of assistance. The first is BNDES Worker which assists in the
establishment of productive credit programs in each interested state or municipality, based on the
PORTOSOL mixed public/private institutional model. The program criteria require that at least 40 percent
of the funds for establishment of the credit programs come from local govemment and the private sector.
The amount of BNDES' participation depends on the numnber of municipalities in the state, varying from
R$6 million to R$15 million. BNDES funds are lent to the state government for seven years with nine
months grace period at a rate equal to the TJLP. Individual credits to final borrowers must be between
R$150 and R$5,000 with a maximum term of 18 months and maximum grace period of 3 months. BNDES
monitors portfolio quality and if arrears over 30 days exceeds 6 to 8 percent any two consecutive quarters,
or exceeds 8 percent in a single quarter, BNDES can request immediate reimbursement of the funds it lent
to the program.
40.   BNDES Solidarity is targeted to NGOs which already have at least six months experience in
providing micro-credit services. The NGO must demonstrate that it was able to mobilize at least 25% of
its capital from Brazilian or international public or private donors. BNDES can provide up to R$3 million
per loan limited by the size of the NGO's existing loan portfolio. The loan to the NGO is for eight years
with six months grace period with quarterly interest payments equivalent to TJLP. The NGO is required to
establish a risk fund by retaining one percent of repayments from final borrowers until the fund reaches a
total equal to 15 percent of the funds lent by BNDES. Controls on loan portfolio quality are similar to
those for BNDES Worker.
41.   The Community Solidarity Program under the direction of the Office of the First Lady has taken a
proactive stance in microfinance development in Brazil. This organization recently convoked a high-level
panel including the Central Bank, BNDES, Banco do Nordeste, microfinance NGOs and private sector
bankers to review the legal and regulatory framework for microfinance development.
42.   Amongst international donors, UNICEF was an early supporter of microfinance in Brazil,
providing much of the start-up capital to the FENAPE network, the longest running and most successful
program to-date. FENAPE has received significant international technical assistance as an affiliate of
ACCION, Intl
43.   The IDB has also provided support to NGO programs through its small grants program by which
US$500,000 equivalent grants are provided to NGOs which have demonstrated superior technical
performance. Recipients of the grants include a number of the CENAPEs in the FENAPE network, and
- 113-



PortoSol.
44.    The World Bank has focused its support on development of the CrediAmigo program with the
Banco do Nordeste in Fortaleza, Brazil. Through reassignment of funds under an existing loan, Banco do
Nordeste was able to undertake study tours to successful micro-finance institutions in Latin America and
Asia, and to contract international technical assistance from ACCION, Intl. The World Bank has also
assisted Banco do Nordeste in obtaining a Japanese PHRD Grant for training and development of their
management information systems in anticipation of loans from the World Bank and IDB.
45.    VivaCredi was initiated with private donations and financing from the community assistance
foundation of UniBanco. Technical assistance was provided by International Project Consult, a German
firm which specializes in the development of microfinance programs.
Policy Environment for Microfinance in Brazil
46.   There are a number of regulatory and legal issues associated with the development of microfinance
institutions. Amongst the most commonly encountered are:
*     Legal Status oJ'NGOs;
*      Usery Laws and Interest Rate Restrictions
*     Financial Sector Entry Requirements;
*     Prudential Supervision;
*     7Loan Loss Provisions;
*      Capital Adequacy Requirements;
*      Treatment of Non-traditional Collateral;
Frameworkfor Secured Transactions;
Loan Documentation Requirements;
*      Operational Restrictions;
*      lDeposits and Savings;
Credit Reporting.
47.   Legal Status of NGOs. NGOs play an important role in the development of a country's
microfinance industry. NGOs, as altruistic, non-profit institutions with relatively low overhead costs, are
generally more willing to test alternative lending technologies focused on the poor, long before commercial
banks or other formal financial intermediaries enter the market. The laws which regulate NGOs, and in
particular their ability to mobilize donor funds for lending, can have an important impact, particularly in
the early years of microfinance development. Programs which are unable to mobilize funds effectively
cannot grow at rates sufficient to demonstrate potential commercial viability and may not be able to even
serve the growing requirements of existing clients. Brazil has traditionally restricted the ability of NGOs to
receive funds from foreign donors, requiring Central Bank approval on a case-by-case basis which resulted
in delays and often loss of funding.
48.    Usery laws. Brazil's usery law is often mentioned as the most obvious impediment to development
of the microfinance industry. Although the law, which restricts nominal interest rates to 2 percent per
month and 12 percent in real terms per year, is not systematically enforced, it does create a climate of
uncertainty for actual and potential microfinance service providers and investors.
49.   Financial sector entry requirements. Entry regulations, such as minimum capital requirements,
serve primarily to establish the formal financial landscape by determining the number, types and sizes of
- 114-



institutions operating in the market. While many requirements are ostensibly for the protection of those
financing new institutions (investors, commercial creditors and depositors), they often function primarily to
ensure that the regulatory authorities are able to prudently monitor and regulate the financial sector. Most
entry requirements, such as review of the institution's financial and management structure, are generally
neutral with regard to the institution's target clientele. However, minimum capital requirements, as
opposed to capital adequacy ratio requirements, can be an important impediment in the transformation of
an NGO microfinance institution into a bank or finance company, or for a microfinance program to be spun
off as a subsidiary or independent organization from the sponsoring public or private bank.
50.   In many countries in Latin America, successful microfinance programs which began as NGOs
have transformed themselves into formal financial institutions in order to facilitate their ability to mobilize
debt and equity from the general public in order to finance their expansion. In most cases, NGOs have first
converted to financial companies, with their lower minimurn capital requirements, in order to gain access to
commercial equity and debt financing and develop a branch network. As the programs continued to grow,
these financeras have applied for banking licenses in order to mobilize savings and expand the financial
services offered to clients.
51.   Brazil's minimum capital requirements (Table I 1), while not the highest in Latin America, are
nonetheless relatively high, particularly for an NGO considering transformation into a bank. Utilizing the
weighted average outstanding loan balance of US$286 for the four Brazilian programs in Table 10,
suggests that full leverage would require a minimum of over 240,000 clients for a bank, and almost 97,000
clients for a finance company; portfolios many times that of the largest microfinance programs currently
operating in Brazil. Adjusting this figure for a lower level of leverage of 1:6, consistent with microfinance
institutions in their earlier, high growth stages, still suggests portfolios of over 150,000 clients for a bank
and over 60,000 for a finance company.
Table 11: Minimum Capital Requirements (Central Bank Resolution No. 2607, dated May 27, 1999)
and Required Size of Loan Portfolio
Institution          Minimum Capital  Capital Adequacy   Min. No. of Clients  Min. No. of Clients
Requirement        Ratio              w/ Avg. Loan of    wl Avg. Loan of
$500 (Assumes that  $1000
70% of institution's
assets are in its loan
portfolio.)
Bank                 US$9.2 million      1:10                128,800            64,000
Finance Company      US$3.7 million      1:10               51,800              25,900
52.    A corollary of the barrier presented by minimum capital requirements for the institution, is that
required to establish new branches. In Brazil, the Central Bank requires an increase in an institution's
minimum capital of one percent for each branch established in the country in addition to the "pioneer"
branch. In the states of Rio de Janeiro and Sao Paulo, the increase is two percent for each additional
branch. This represents a potentially important impediment to addressing some of the regional imbalances
in access to financial services through expansion of microfinance institutions.
- 115-



53.    Bolivia and Peru have chosen to support the entry of regulated, microfinance-focused institutions
through the creation of a distinct type of financial entity. These specialized institutions have lower
minimum capital requirements (less than $1 million), but with similar capital adequacy ratios, limitations
on maximum loan size (3 to 5 percent of net capital), and additional operating restrictions. In both cases,
savings deposits are permitted, but not demand deposits. The above approach is consistent with "tiered
banking" in which regulations are adapted to the requirements of the microfinance industry. In a tiered
banking approach, the Central Bank defines intermediate institutional forns with generally lower minimum
capital requirements, limitations on the services - in particular savings services - which can be offered, and
generally more stringent prudential guidelines.
54.    The Central Bank of Brazil has indicated that they consider the banking sector in Brazil to be"
saturated" and have imposed restrictions on entry of new institutions from abroad. Nonetheless, Central
Bank officials have indicated that they have no objections to considering sanctioning new institutional
structures to serve markets not currently serviced by the banking sector. However, they would like these to
emerge from the peculiar needs of the Brazilian market rather than try to anticipate this through laws or
regulations. Undoubtedly, the Central Bank's capacity to carry out off-site monitoring and on-site
inspections will be an important factor in determining its willingness to authorize new entrants.
55.   Prudential Supervision. Although Brazil does not yet have any regulated financial institutions
dedicated to microfinance lending, the rapid growth of CrediAmigo and FENAPE, and their interest in
deposit mobilization suggest that the Central Bank may wish to develop supervisory guidelines for
microfinance portfolios. Microfinance loan portfolios are generally considered to be less "stable" than
banks due to the greater volatility of delinquency rates and the consequent greater threat to equity due to the
high operational cost structure (typically 30 to 50 percent of assets) of microfinance institutions. In
addition, the microfinance lending technology may require regulatory authorities to develop specialized
techniques for their off-site and on-site supervisory activities.
56.    Standard loan loss provisioning requirements generally do no not reflect the value at risk in a
microfinance loan portfolio. Given their rapid turnover and more frequent repayment periods, standard
past-due provisioning requirements often exceed the term of microfinance loans. Brazil's Central Bank
regulations require full provisioning for any loan with a payment overdue at least 180 days. Given thal:
most micro-loans are for no longer than 90 to 180 days, microfinance lending requires a more aggressive
loan loss provisioning policy related both to the time overdue as well as the number of installments missed.
However, any new classification system should take into account the variability in the terms and conditions
of the loans as well as the potential implications for audits of loan classification of institutions with both
micro and standard commercial portfolios.
57.    Standard capital adequacy requirements may also be inappropriate for microfinance institutions,
particularly during periods of rapid growth. Assuming that an institution has been able to meet the
minimum capital requirements to become a regulated financial intermediary, the rapid growth in assets
typical in microfinance is likely to quickly undermine the cushion of safety against business risk. As
discussed above, the potential volatility of microfinance loan portfolios suggests the need for higher capital
adequacy requirements - generally in the range of 15 to 20 percent of risk adjusted assets.
58.   Non-Traditional Collateral. The use of non-traditional guarantee mechanisms, in particular
solidarity group guarantees, poses a special challenge for regulators. As minimum capital, provisioning
and capital adequacy requirements are all based on classification of asset risk, the treatment of
non-traditional guarantees by Central Bank authorities can have an important impact on the perceived and
actual performance of a microfinance institution. Although many institutions utilize the joint-liability
-116 -



arrangement to reduce transactions costs and to achieve high repayment rates, most central bank
authorities, including Brazil's regard solidarity group-backed loans as equivalent to personal loans and
therefore essentially unsecured. The actual classification of these and other non-traditional guarantees
should be based on their historic performance.
59.    Frameworkfor Secured Transactions. Common to most countries rooted in the civil law tradition,
Brazil's framework for the creation, perfection and enforcement of security interests serves as a major
impediment to the use of moveable property as collateral. Difficulties in registration and, in particular,
repossession significantly reduce the willingness of formnal lenders to provide credit secured by property
which could disappear or substantially depreciate during long legal proceedings. Similar to the usery law,
the legal provisions which prevent non-judicial repossession are rarely enforced, however they do create
uncertainty for both borrowers and lenders, resulting in higher costs and a lower volume of credit
transactions secured by non-real estate collateral. These transactions are also, appropriately classified by
the Central Bank as unsecured loans as concerns provisioning requirements when such loans become
overdue.
60.    Limitations in the framework for secured transactions can effectively limit the types of lending
services provided to microenterprises and/or significantly increase their cost. Although classical
microfinance technology, by focusing on cash-flow based lending and solidarity groups, offers effective
means to get around problems associated with the use of physical collateral, most programs microfinance
programs eventually expand beyond working capital loans, offering investment loans for the purchase of
equipment. As these loans represent significantly greater exposure in the case of default, group lending is
generally not a viable means of guaranteeing repayment and most programs attempt to guarantee the loan
with the equipment purchased or other household property, such as appliances, which are physically easy to
repossess. In addition, Use of stocks and inventory can also increase and lower the cost of credit to
suppliers who are often the primary providers of credit to small businesses and farmers.
61.    Several Civil Law jurisdictions, including the province of Quebec in Canada and New Orleans in
the United States, have effectively incorporated key elements of commercial law from Common Law
jurisdictions, in particular, Article 9 of the Commercial Code of the United States. The effectiveness of any
legal reforms hinges on the introduction of harmless, or non-judicial, repossession and sale by which the
lender is able to repossess and sell the property in the first instance and the borrower is obligated to
demonstrate that the repossession was unlawvful. Introduction of harmless repossession requires the
simultaneous introduction Qf consumer protection legislation which permnits claims of damages above and
beyond the value of the collateral in cases of unlawful repossession.
62.    Loan Documentation Requirements: As indicated above, micro-entrepreneurs consider
documentation requirements for loans to be a major impediment to accessing bank credit. Few
microenterprises have updated accounts or even pay taxes on a regular basis. While Brazilian regulations
provide banks with substantial latitude in the definition of documentation requirements, particularly for
consumer loans, many banks, due to their lack of familiarity with the microenterprise sector impose
onerous loan documentation requirements. As the microfinance industry develops and microfinance
institutions become more experienced and sophisticated lenders, development of credit scoring models can
greatly reduce the risk to the lender and the transactions costs to both the lender and borrower in qualifying
a loan.
63.    Operational Restrictions. Regulations which restrict operations of financial institutions are often
holdovers from a time when either economic activity was largely restricted to certain period of the week for
religious reasons or the requirements for manual bank clearing required that banks close in the aftemoon.
- 117 -



Given current technology, not only are many of these restrictions unnecessary, they also impede the ability
of financial service providers to serve clients in a convenient manner. Brazilian labor laws restrict the
operating hours of banks to five days a week and no more than five hours per day. While these restrictions
do not apply to NGO lenders, they could restrict the ability of commercial banks to attend to
microenterprise clients on important market days, many of which fall on weekends and holidays. Care will
also have to be taken not to automatically apply these or other restrictions on client outreach as new
institutional forms are defined for emerging microfinance institutions.
64.    Regulations pertaining to deposits and savings mobilization, particularly as pertains to
restrictions on the application of funds in addition to reserve requirements, will have to be revised if this it
to become an attractive source of finding for qualifying microfinance institutions. Brazilian Central Bank
regulations require, in addition to reserves required for security of the system which must be deposited with
the Central Bank, that a large proportion of demand deposits and savings deposits be used in rural and
housing credit programs (Table 12). As a result, only 10 percent of demand deposits and 25 percent (45
percent in case of national public banks) of savings would be free for funding microfinance activities.
Table 12: Requirements for Application of Deposits and Savings
Deposits/Savings Instrument      Reserve Requirement              Additional Requirement
1. Demand Deposits               65% without remuneration         25% for rural credit of which:
*    40% with ceilings of R$40,000
_ *    60% for specific crop financing
2. Time Deposits                 None                             None
3. Investrnent Funds             None                             None
4. Contractual Savings
4a. Banks authorized for mortgage   15% with remuneration         60% for mortgage credit of which
lending                                                                 80% for SFH
1 0% business real estate
10% percent free of restrictions
4.a. Public Banks not eligible for    15% with remuneration       40% for rural credit programs
mortgage lending Aapplies to Banco
do Brasil, Banco do Nordeste and
Banco Amazonias
65.    The rural and housing credit programs financed under these restrictions impose limits on the
interest rates charged, amounts lent and other terms to the final borrowers. In the case of demand
deposit-financed rural credit, the 60 percent of the funds must be lent through programs in which loan
terms are based on the type .of crop as determined by national agricultural priorities, rather than credit risk
criteria. The remaining 40 percent must be lent through programs aimed at small farmers with loan
ceilings of R$40,000. The majority of these lines of credit are operated by Banco do Brasil, which due to
its near monopsony power and the relatively low return on the loans, provides a low rate of interest to the
banks which provide the mandated funds. In the case of savings-financed housing finance programs, 80
percent of the funding (48 percent of the deposits) goes to SFH which limits the interest rate to 12 percenrt
- 118 -



per year above the referential rate (TR) for loans up to R$S180,000, as compared to a market rate of 15
percent above TR for non-SFH loans.
66.    This policy creates a number of distortions, not only in the application of Brazil's private capital,
but also in the incentives faced by financial institutions and eventually their customers, to mobilize
deposits. As indicated above, savings services are important to microentrepreneurs and their families and
can be an important source of funds for expansion of the microfinance industry. Thus, the directed credit
programs supported by the current policies should be evaluated in terms of their distributional as well as
economic benefits to the housing and rural sectors and costs in the form of lower retums to the numerous
actual and potential low-income savers in Brazil. Proposals to include microfinance within the eligible
applications for mandated rural credit funds are unlikely to result in substantial expansion of microfinance
at this stage of the industry's development due to the limited number of microfinance institutions which
would qualify for the use of the funds without additional Government guarantees. In any case, the high
interest rates charged by the leading Brazilian microfinance institutions suggest that there is no need to
subsidize their funding as this would simply further distort credit allocation and may lead to supply driven
development of micro-lending capacity with the consequent undermining of financial and operational
discipline required for truly sustainable development of the industry.
67.    Credit Information. Brazil is fortunate to have a rapidly developing credit reporting industry.
SERASA, Servicio de Proteccao do Credito (SPC) and Equifax are examples of services which are widely
used by businesses to verify a customer's credit standing. These and similar services draw upon
information from a variety of private and public sources, such as the Central Bank's registry of checks
presented against insufficient funds and overdue utility and tax payments, to provide up-to-date information
on any outstanding delinquent payments owed by a potential client. The wide-spread use of these services
by the banking and retail sectors has made them an effective deterrent to delinquency as most Brazilians are
very concemed to stay out of the reporting systems.
68.   In addition to the current status of clients, these services are increasingly providing centralized
information on individual credit histories which document an individual or firm's on-time repayment record
as well as developing credit scoring models which provide an estimated likelihood of default. Credit
histories and scoring models can help both lenders and borrowers reduce the evaluation costs and
uncertainties involved with character-based or cash-flow based lending. It also provides additional
incentives for prompt repayment by microfinance clients as the positive credit history can be taken with
them and applied to other financing and character verification needs.
69.    However, several legal impediments related to consumer protection and privacy laws have created
uncertainty as to the rights to collect and utilize this information. Laws which require credit information
bureaus to request permission to release information make the sharing of such information overly
cumbersome to operate. In addition, these broad protections do not compensate for the absence of specific
requirements to provide consumers with access to their credit history and rating as well as to reveal who
has requested their credit information.
Recent Policy Initiatives in Support of Microfin ance
70.    Commensurate with the recent growth of its microfinance industry, Brazil has begun to address
legal and regulatory issues which are impeding industry development. The Council of Community
Solidarity, which is attached to the Office of the President of Brazil, initiated in 1997 a review of the laws
and regulations which may impede development of microfinance in Brazil. A working group was
established with participation from the Central Bank to review mechanisms to: (i) facilitate the capture of
- 119 -



extemal resources bvy NGOs for microfinance; (ii) permit microfinance NGOs to operate outside the
restrictions of the usery law which applied to all financial entities not regulated by the Central Bank; and
(iii) define an altemative to bank branches which are limited in their operations but are not subject to
minimum capital requirements.
71.    In March 1999, Law No. 9.790 clearly defined the rights and responsibilities of "Civil Society
Organizations", including their right to mobilize external funds for activities which include development of
microfinance. In July 1999, Central Bank Resolution No. 002627 defined the rights and responsibilities oif
"microenterprise credit societies" (Box 3). Also in July 1999, the Presidency issued provisional measure
No. 1.914-4 which redefined Brazil's usery law specifically excluding qualified microenterprise credit
societies and civil society organizations from its provisions and permitting the National Monetary Council
to identiiy other institutions to which the usery restrictions would not apply.
72.    The working group is also reviewing the establishment of trust-fund-type arrangements for
microfinance programs within regulated banks. The trust funds, similar to the microenterprise credit
societies, are intended to facilitate access to concessional funding by providing a transparent mechanism by
which banks can segregate the accounting and equity of their microfinance activities which wvould facilitate:
monitoring by donors. It is still being determined if these trust funds will provide the basis for special
provisions regarding mi.nimum capital requirements for branches or if branches of microfinance programs
can be treated as "service posts", similar to microfinance credit societies. The ability of these branches or
posts to mobilize savings and their treatment relative to the parent bank is also under discussion.
73.    The above policy measures reflect an expectation of continued NGO-focused and donor-dependeni:
provision of microfinance services. This is consistent with the industry's relatively recent development in
Brazil and the important role of NGOs in establishing the viability of sustainable microfinance in Brazil.
Nonetheless, as the rapid recent growth of the FENAPE network and Banco do Nordeste's CrediAmigo
program demonstrate, there is ample scope for commercially-based provision of microfinance services on a
broad scale. Similar to other countries, it can be expected that the success of these two programs will
attract additional, commercially-oriented entrants with a focus on profitability and provision of a broader
array of financial services. Experience in Latin America has demonstrated that regulatory issues become
most pertinent to the development of the microfinance industry when institutions begin to "graduate" into
regulated financial intemiediaries. As indicated previously, the Central Bank is open to new proposals but
does not wish to try to anticipate the regulatory requirements of the emerging microfinance industry based
on extemal experience, but instead draw on external and internal experience to develop a framework which
responds to the emerging needs of the industry.
Conclusions
74.    Brazil has a large number of microenterprises which account for a significant share of
employment. Not surprisingly, microenterprise employment is most important in the poorest regions of
Brazil, and in particular in the Northeast. Using population per branch as a proxy for access to banking
services indicates that the Northeast and North are the most under-served regions in Brazil. However,
using GDP per branch as an indicator of potential business volume, the Northeast in particular presents
little incentiVe for private bankers to increase their coverage in the region. This disparity is the primary
justification for continued support of publicly-owned banks and directed credit lines. However, survey data
indicates that few microenterprises have access to financial services, particularly lending services, from
either public or private banks, despite attractive cash-flow characteristics and payment of interest rates to
moneylenders and suppliers which are several times those offered by directed credit lines and a
demonstrated willingness to utilize savings services.
- 120 -



75.    Recently, Government, through an NGO-focused apex program with BNDES, and a pilot
microfinance program in Banco do Nordeste, has provided technical and financial assistance, in
conjunction with intemational donors and technical assistance providers, to develop microfinance programs
throughout Brazil. This initiative is consistent with that taken in other countries to test microfinance
technology in the Brazilian context and to demonstrate potential commercial viability. Several of these
programs are applying international best practice methodologies and growing rapidly. The programs are
making very small loans by international standards which appear targeted to the smaller microenterprises.
Administrative costs are low, suggesting that these programs will have to focus on improving the
productivity of their loan officers if they wish to attain long-nin, full financial sustainability.
76.    Consistent with the industry's early stage of development, the commission formed by Comunidad
Solidaria with the pariticpation of the Central Bank, has focused on facilitating the access of these
programs to internal and international donor funding. While consistent with the industry's early stage of
the development, the ability of microfinance to provide a better targeted and more cost-effective means of
providing financial services to an under-served segment of Brazil's economy will require development of a
commercially-oriented industry. The rapid development of programs such as Banco do Nordeste 's
CrediAmigo, and the FENAPE network suggest that this is an appropriate time to identify potential legal
and regulatory impediments to the development of commercially-focused institutions, either commercial
banks which move "down-market" into microfinance, or successful NGO programs which wish to convert
into formal financial intermediaries such as finance companies or banks. This paper has identified several
such potential impediments for the further deliberations of the main actors in the industry - microfinance
programs, BNDES, Banco do Nordeste, Commznidad Solidaria, the Central Bank, and extemal donors
and technical assistance providers.
- 121 -



- 122 -



IBRD 19539
4g°0       <                              44'                                      40 Oe
t s (XA               -                                        ~~~~~~~~~B R A Z i L
NORTHEAST REGION
PARA                                    LUIS
0  l0                                                              / e;                                                           0 ,A Z
RESNA                                           PERNAMU                /
/ ~~     ~    ~~~ so (4       PC                  I A/  U*  IZK3P   G8WE,    
GOIA S,     ',O'SGS                                                   {      PIAUI 
S   A L                  /          tSRESERVOIRO              a                      A        @,<_/~~~RESE
12'~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~2
Tfl,s lop han bee  prep-rd by
Tne World Ba,rksntfteprset
f., th~~~~~ --  f m.                                                           L~~~~~VADOR
Gte IA oe   Tt T    d B.an
m-g h-. F-                                                                               i            , 
Cor,,-ahTh e                                                                     Ce u b, J
-sed ad the boundasee MSyin,                                                                                                  - Roods
on   -sma  do nol 'Wfy, on.trf   s              
Por te  The World rsnk and M).                                                                                    -  - ----  Railroads
Pteratronn;I Fmanne CSorpeeatle                                                      _- -                                R . -  d
anp jdmtodaneten telegDIal b ett       f                     f±§ |@                                                      Pt
ot any ania or any                                       .                                                                ort1
such beondaiPe                                                                                                           Airports
t r                      ,J                    /             Conrqulso f1 ol                               t
e    National Capital
'roll  S                                                                              ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~State CopiroJs
Towns
16'        F DX   Wfl                             /                   *y/               7   }    l                         Stote 4oundorias           le0
6 TtA o',On t§s CIaros                          r                                  ;S / g -. Region Boundaries
,   'IX     tM  I N                                   n                                                   Vcp
GE R AtIS   Tp 010 l 
TRES MARIA  lb                     RAIS T                  <         9nit                . 
RESERVOIR K \                                                                       (                          Y NORTHEAS
o\ \\    t              1                      9\                          1> ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~REGIONJ
0       100      200       300                                                                                          B  R A  Z  IkL
KILOMETERS           I                                                                                              Brasilia     ?
2O3                          ,                    )D BELO HORIZONTE                  tVT&iA
PAULO                     ~~~~~~~~RESERVOIR  44ZATh UNSot   ei
S A O          \          Q  r                                                                                                  FURENAS  1S P I R   T8O
LP A,IUL O                                      44°                     S A N T          4,4 --|Kz, Q Ct O
F EBRUARY 1986



