Report No. PID7117
Project Information Document
Project Name             BRAZIL-Northeast Microfinance Development
Project
Region                   Latin America and Caribbean Region
Sector                   BI-Institutional Development
Project  ID                BRP050776
Borrower(s)              BANK OF THE NORTHEAST
Implementing Agency      BANK OF THE NORTHEAST
Environment Category             B
Date PID Prepared                November 7, 1999
Projected Appraisal Date         September 1, 1999
Projected Board Date             January 27, 2000
1. Country and Sector Background
See Annex 11 for a more thorough review of the framework for microfinance
in Brazil)
Poverty in Northeast Brazil
The Northeast Region, consisting of the states of Maranhao, Piaui, Ceara,
Rio Grande do Norte, Paraiba, Pernambuco, Alagoas, Sergipe, and Bahia,
constitutes the largest concentration of poverty, particularly rural
poverty, in Brazil.   While the Northeast accounts for less than 30t of
Brazil's population (45 million), it contains over 55t (14.6 million) of
Brazil's poor, a poverty rate over twice that of the rest of the country.
Almost half the Northeast population is rural and 60t of the poor in the
Northeast live in rural areas.
According to the Brazil Poverty Assessment (Brazil: A Poverty Assessment,
World Bank Report No. 14323-BR)., 37.4w of all poor household heads are
self-employed, reaching almost 50t in rural areas.    Economic and Sector
Work (Brazil: the Management of Agriculture, Rural Development and Natural
Resources, World Bank Report No. 11783-BR) has identified skewed access to
land and financial services, inter alia, as major constraints to improved
productivity and incomes in the Northeast.
Government is piloting the use of market-based mechanisms to improve the
quality and efficiency of its services targeted to the poor. While the
introduction of demand-driven programs has improved the efficiency and
effectiveness of some social investments targeted to the poor, programs to
facilitate access to land and credit have been less successful, requiring
high, ongoing public subsidies while reaching a limited number of
beneficiaries. Government is now piloting the use of market-based,
alternative mechanisms to improve access to both land and financial
services.
Microenterprises
Despite their important role in the economy, microenterprises have very



limited access to business support services. The most recent available
enterprise statistics indicate that the microenterprises account for over
90t of all firms in Brazil and over 35t of total employment in services,
commerce and industry (Coletanea Estatistica da Micro e Pequena Empresa,
Brazilian Service for Assistance to Micro- and Small Enterprises
(SEBRAE)). Not surprisingly, given its economic profile, the Northeast
Region has the highest percentage of tis labor force, 81- working in
enterprises with up to five employees. A recent survey of
microentrepreneurs in the Northeast Region (Demanda Por Microcredito No
Nordeste Brasileiro, Technical Office for Economic Studies of the
Northeast (ETENE), indicates that most microentrepreneurs have not
completed secondary schooling, have little training in business management
and have virtually no access to lending from banks and other formal
financial intermediaries. Private banks, unable to meet the demand for
lower-cost lending services to medium and large enterprises, have little
incentive to develop the market knowledge and technology required to
profitably provide financial services to microenterprises. The surveys
carried out in urban centers and rural market towns, indicate that
guarantee requirements, transactions costs and inappropriate loan products
discourage microenterpreneurs from accessing government-sponsored directed
credit programs. Limited informal finance is available from suppliers and
moneylenders at effective interest rates as high as 200w per annum.
Government has recognized the importance of supporting the development of
microenterprises as part of its poverty reduction strategy and has
identified improved access to technical and financial services as a
priority development activity (Brasil em Accao, Ministry of Planning).
Access to Formal Financial Services
With just under 10,000 people per branch, this proxy suggests that access
to banking services in Brazil is comensurate with other upper middle
income countries in Latin America, though this number is much higher than
OECD countries. However, this masks important regional disparities. The
Northeast (approximately 19,000 per branch) and the North (20,000 per
branch) are the most under-served regions in Brazil. However, using GDP
per branch ($50,000 per branch for Brazil) as an indicator of potential
business volume, the Northeast ($47,000) in little incentive for private
bankers to increase their coverage relative to other regions (i.e.: in the
North, GDP per branch is $60,000).
This disparity is one of the primary justification for continued support
of publicly-owned banks (which account for 46 percent of bank branch
infrastructure and 55 percent of financial sector assets in Brazil) and
directed credit lines which generally have high arrears, default and
administrative costs. However, survey data from SEBRAE and ETENE
indicates that few microenterprises have access to financial services,
particularly lending services, from either public or private banks,
despite attractive cash-flow characteristics, payment of interest rates to
moneylenders and suppliers which are several times those offered by
directed credit lines, and a demonstrated willingness to utilize savings
services. As a result, Government is seeking alternative mechanisms which
require limited and declining subsidies to initiate, and which could
potentially be provided by the private sector on commercial basis,
reducing or eliminating the need for public interventions such as special
credit lines.
-2-



Microfinance Services
The development of microfinance services in Brazil has lagged behind that
of other countries in Latin America, due in part to the former period of
high inflation, restrictions on the ability of NGOs to serve as financial
intermediaries and mobilize foreign donor funding, and lack of Government
support for industry development - all impediments which have been removed
in the past two years. More recently, a number of Brazilian programs have
demonstrated that Brazilian microentrepreneurs are willing and able to
borrow and repay loans at relatively high rates of interest, but these
programs are all quite small relative to the potential market for these
services. It is important to note that the existance of directed credit
lines has not been an impediment to the rapid growth of these programs
despite the fact that they charge interest rates several times that of the
credit lines for loans of much shorter term and have had very low arrears
rates.
Noting the success of microfinance programs in other countries, such as
Indonesia, Bangladesh and Bolivia, the Brazilian Government has embarked
on an ambitious program to promote the development of microfinance
services in Brazil as a cost-effective mechanism for addressing the public
policy goal of reducing disparities in access to financial services.
Consistent with the experience in these countries where governments and
donors played a critical role during the initial development phase of the
microfinance industry, the Brazilian Government, working with donors, has
taken several important initiatives over the past two years to provide an
appropriate legal framework as well as financial and technical assistance
to microfinance programs. A high-level commission attached to the Office
of the President (Comunidade Solidaria) has been working with the Central
Bank to provide a new institutional context for development of
microfinance institutions ( Law No. 9.790 of March 23, 1999; Central Bank
Circular and Resolution No. 002915; and Presidential Provisionary Measure
No. 1.9414-4 of July 28, 1999). In addition, the National Bank for
Economic and Social Development (BNDES), with support from the Inter-
American Development Bank (IDB), provides technical assistance and loans
to existing Non-Governmental Organization (NGO) lenders and NGO/municipal
start-ups, located primarily in the urban centers of the Southeast Region
of Brazil.
In the Northeast Region, the World Bank has assisted Government in the
development of an alternative strategy, similar to the approach taken in
Indonesia and Chile, where microfinance services were developed in public
development banks. Through the Northeast Rural Poverty Alleviation
Program, a Japanese PHRD Grant and the Consultative Group to Assist the
Poorest (CGAP), the Bank has financed technical assistance for the
development of a pilot microfinance program (CrediAmigo) in the Bank of
the Northeast (BN), a regional development bank with branches throughout
all nine Northeastern states and the northern areas of Minas Gerais. The
pilot, which was initiated in November 1997, had over 35,000 active
clients and an outstanding portfolio of almost US$9 million by September
1999. Portfolio quality, measured as 30-day portfolio-at-risk was just
under 4-.
2. Objectives
The proposed project is part of the Bank's program of targeted assistance
-3 -



to the Northeast Region which constitutes the largest concentration of
poverty in Brazil. The project addresses the lack of access of the poor
to financial services, an important constraint to improved productivity
and incomes. The project would build on a successful two-year pilot
program, financed by the Government of Brazil with technical assistance
from the Bank. The overall objective of the project is to improve the
access of microenterprises throughout the Northeast Region to sustainable,
formal financial services by supporting expansion of the program known as
"CrediAmigo" in Brazil.
3. Rationale for Bank's Involvement
The proposed project fits well within the Bank's focused poverty reduction
program in the Northeast Region. Provision of financial services to
microenterprises complements activities to reduce urban and rural poverty
through projects which improve the quality, cost-effectiveness and
accessibility of education, land reform and infrastructure services. The
Bank's experience working with farmers' groups and community associations
through the Northeast Rural Poverty Alleviation Program provides the basis
for developing outreach strategies for solidarity group lending in rural
areas.
World Bank financing would provide a reliable source of funds to the
microfinance program during a period of financial sector volatility in
Brazil. Worldwide experience has demonstrated that liquidity constraints
during program expansion can severely undermine client willingness to
repay, as the expectation of access to new and possibly larger loans is an
important, if not the primary, incentive for repayment. As indicated
above, the project includes assistance to CrediAmigo to identify and
evaluate alternative sources of funding for its continued expansion beyond
the project period.
In addition, the World Bank's international expertise in microfinance,
gained initially through its experience in Indonesia in support of BRI,
and later through its sponsorship of Sustainable Banking for the Poor and
CGAP provides a reference point for relevant experience which BN can
readily access for program development. CrediAmigo's experience can also
provide the Bank with important lessons in the development of commercial
microfinance in large banking institutions.
Finally, the Bank can draw on its multi-sectoral experience in Brazil and
international experience with microfinance to assist BN and Government
with dissemination of the results of the CrediAmigo program from the
perspectives of both poverty reduction and commercial sustainability. The
Bank's on-going loans and sector work in Brazil provide excellent linkages
for reviewing microfinance in the context of cost-effective poverty
reduction and discussion of legal and regulatory impediments with Central
Bank authorities. In coordination with the IFC, the Bank can establish a
credible forum for discussing microfinance as a commercial, rather than
donor-driven, activity with Brazil's private banking sector.
4. Description
Expanded Microfinance Loan Portfolio (subloans)
Strengthened Capacity to Support Sustainable Growth of CrediAmigo (TA,
- 4 -



training, equipment, incremental loan officers)
Impact Evaluation (TA)
Fee
5. Financing
Total ( US$m)
Government               0
IBRD                     50
IDA
Bank of the Northeast    50
Total Project Cost       100
6. Implementation
The project would be implemented by the CrediAmigo Program in BN. The
CrediAmigo Technical Unit would have overall responsibility for
implementation of project activities, working in conjunction with relevant
areas of BN.    Individual branches would be responsible for lending under
the Microfinance Loan Portfolio Component. The CrediAmigo Technical Unit
would have direct responsibility for implementation of the Institutional
Development Component of the project, and ETENE would manage
implementation of the Impact Evaluation Component.
Due to the importance of the expected demonstration and learning aspects
of the program, the project includes a number of mechanisms to promote
review and evaluation by both primary (BN, Government, CrediAmigo clients,
Bank) as well as secondary (Central Bank, other microfinance institutions,
other commercial banks) stakeholders. The program includes an annual due
diligence review which will be conducted by an outside agency to
thoroughly evaluate the program's progress towards commercial viability
according to several financial sector criteria. The due diligence will be
reviewed jointly by BN, Government and the Bank each year and a report
prepared for general dissemination.
The program MIS will provide a framework for on-going analysis of client
benefits at the enterprise level. A mid-term review will be carried out
no later than 30 months after loan effectiveness, during which BN,
Government and the Bank will review, inter alia, progress toward the
program's financial sustainability objectives, institutional evolution,
results of the impact evaluation, environmental mitigation program, and
the effectiveness of dissemination activities.
7. Sustainability
Development of a sustainable microfinance institution has been a primary
objective of the CrediAmigo program since its inception. Sustainability
is defined as profitability after adjustment for inflation and any
subsidies received. Experience in other countries has indicated that this
can be achieved if (i) the program prices its services at a level which
allows it to cover its full financial costs as well as contribute to its
equity base; (ii) arrears are maintained at a very low level through staff
incentives and an aggressive collections policy; (iii) operational costs
are constantly reduced through incorporation of new technologies and
management techniques in response to internal incentives and external
market pressures; and (iv) the institution and its products evolve so as
to meet the needs of new as well as its historic client base.
- 5 -



8. Lessons learned from past operations in the country/sector
The strong interest in microfinance as a tool to alleviate poverty
provides numerous lessons regarding "best practices" and errors to avoid.
These lessons have been tested in the Brazil context during the pilot
phase. In addition, the Bank has facilitated visits by BN senior
management and CrediAmigo staff to many of the leading microfinance
programs in Indonesia, Bolivia, Chile, Peru and Colombia. Amongst the
most important lessons reflected in the CrediAmigo program and the
proposed project design are:
(i) Focus on sustainability as a goal from the outset of program
development. The pilot phase was designed to minimize operational costs
while charging a high enough interest rate to permit fairly rapid
achievement of profitability. New products and delivery systems will be
subject to feasibility studies to determine their potential profitability,
piloted to test critical business assumptions, and evaluated to determine
their contribution to overall program sustainability;
(ii) Provide appropriate incentives to program staff and clients. During
the pilot phase, CrediAmigo introduced an incentive system based on
repayment performance and portfolio growth, which can account for as much
as 50% of loan officer salaries.   Clients who repay promptly receive an
interest rebate and can renew their loans for a greater amount within 24
hours of their final loan payment. Access to additional products, such as
individual loans and payment services, can serve as additional incentives
to clients with good repayment records;
(iii) A management information system (MIS) which can provide real-time
information on portfolio quality and clear procedures to react to
repayment problems is essential to avoid rapidly accumulating portfolio
deterioration. CrediAmigo, with financial assistance from a Japanese PHRD
Grant, has installed an MIS which is on-line in all CrediAmigo branches.
An operational manual provides clear guidance for loan officers, and the
Technical Unit monitors and assists branches with repayment difficulties.
(iv) The ability to mobilize funds through savings and direct access to
financial markets is an essential element of longer-term sustainability.
In addition, savings and payment services can be as valuable to the poor
as credit and significantly expands the potential client base. Under the
Institutional Development component of the proposed project, CrediAmigo's
development into an independent institution will address internal (BN) and
external (Central Bank) constraints to service expansion and resource
mobilization. As has been done in other successful microfinance programs
(BRI, BancoSol) market studies will be carried out for the design of
savings products tailered to the target clientele. Funds will be
transferred internally by BN to CrediAmigo branches at the inter-bank
lending rate (CDI) so as maintain financial incentives to reduce costs and
seek alternative sources of financing.
(v) Rapid growth early in the pilot phase demonstrated the importance of
developing institutional capacity prior to rapid growth. As a result, the
pilot program has focused on developing the capacity of support systems
including recruitment, training, information and management. During the
first two years of the loan period, CrediAmigo's capacity to support
growth will be consolidated and this is reflected in the loan's
- 6 -



disbursement profile. Substantial program expansion from the current 213
loan officers will not begin until the third year, following establishment
of the capacity required to support an additional 400 loan officers.
9. Program of Targeted Intervention (PTI)     Y
10. Environment Aspects (including any public consultation)
Issues        BN's Environmental Development Unit is adopting its
environmental screening and mitigation tools for general BN loans to the
particular requirements of the CrediAmigo microfinance program. The pre-
appraisal mission reviewed the proposed environmental policy, flow-chart
and institutional responsibilities and found it acceptable. Based on
these initial documents, the Environmental Development Unit is working
with CrediAmigo's training staff to prepare a training program for the
training agents in each branch who will integrate environmental mitigation
training for businesses with potential environmental damage identified
through the loan application process.
Activities currently financed are very small-scale, focused on service
activities, and all are on-going. Based on international experience with
microfinance, this profile is not expected to change significantly as the
program expands. As some on-going activities which would be supported
could have environmental impacts (tanneries, mechanical shops) which could
be fairly easily mitigated. Businesses which fail to implement simple
mitigation activities will not be eligible for follow-up loans.
The Environmental Development Unit will provide oversight for the program.
Annual external evaluations, financed by the loan, will be conducted to
review the information base developed on microenterprises and to verify
the effectiveness of mitigation actions.
- 7-



Annex
Because this is a Category B project, it may be required that the borrower
prepare a separate EA report. If a separate EA report is required,
once it is prepared and submitted to the Bank, in accordance with OP 4.01,
Environmental Assessment, it will be submitted to the InfoShop as an annex to
the Project Information Document (PID).
If no separate EA report is required, the PID will not contain an EA annex;
the findings and recommendations of the EA
will be reflected in the body of the PID.
11. Contact Point:
Task Manager
Steven N. Schonberger
The World Bank
1818 H Street, NW
Washington D.C. 20433
Telephone: 202-473-1385
Fax: 202-522-3132
Note: This is information on an evolving project. Certain components may
not be necessarily included in the final project.
- 8 -



