Page  1
CONFORMED COPY
LOAN NUMBER 4554-BR
Loan Agreement
(Northeast Microfinance Development Project)
between
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION
AND DEVELOPMENT
and
BANCO DO NORDESTE DO BRASIL S.A.
Dated August 3, 2000  
LOAN NUMBER 4554-BR
LOAN AGREEMENT
AGREEMENT, dated August 3, 2000, between INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR 
RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT (the Bank) and BANCO DO NORDESTE DO BRASIL 
S. A. (the Borrower).
WHEREAS (A) the FEDERATIVE REPUBLIC OF BRAZIL (the Guarantor) and 
the Borrower, having been satisfied as to the feasibility and priority of 
the Project described in Schedule 2 to this Agreement, have requested the 
Bank to assist in the financing of the Project;
(B)
by an agreement (the Guarantee Agreement) of even date 
herewith between the Guarantor and the Bank, the Guarantor has agreed to 
guarantee the payment obligations of the Borrower in respect of the Loan 
as set forth in the Guarantee Agreement; and
WHEREAS the Bank has agreed, on the basis, inter alia, of the 
foregoing, to extend the Loan to the Borrower upon the terms and 
conditions set forth in this Agreement;
Page  2
NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:
ARTICLE I
General Conditions; Definitions
Section 1.01. The “General Conditions Applicable to Loan and 
Guarantee Agreements for Single Currency Loans” of the Bank, dated May 
30, 1995 (as amended through October 6, 1999) (the General Conditions) 
constitute an integral part of this Agreement.
Section 1.02. Unless the context otherwise requires, the several 
terms defined in the General Conditions and in the Preamble to this 
Agreement have the respective meanings therein set forth and the 
following additional terms have the following meanings:
(a)
“Central Bank” means Banco Central do Brasil, the 
Guarantor’s central bank;
(b)
“Charter and Statutes” means Law No. 1649 dated July 19, 
1952 establishing the Borrower, and its statutes dated December 9, 1980, 
both as amended to the date of this Agreement;
(c)
“Due Diligence Report” means the report to be prepared each 
year in accordance with the Implementation Manual for purposes of 
measuring and reporting on the quality of the portfolio and operations of 
the Microfinance Program
(as defined below);
(d)
“Eligible Categories” means categories (1) through (4) set 
forth in the table in Part A.1 of Schedule 1 to this Agreement; 
(e)
“Eligible Expenditures” means the expenditures for Subloans, 
goods and services referred to in Section 2.02 of this Agreement;
(f)
“Implementation Manual” means the manual for the operation 
of the Project referred to in Section 3.05 of this Agreement;
(g)
“Investment Project” means a specific project or business 
activity to be carried out by a Microenterprise utilizing the proceeds of 
a Subloan (as defined below);
(h)
“Microenterprise” means any microenterprise operating in the 
Project Area which meets the eligibility criteria of the Microfinance 
Regulations and the Implementation Manual and to which the Borrower 
proposes to make or has made a Subloan (as defined below);
(i)
“Microfinance Program” means the Borrower’s program, 
currently known as CrediAmigo, for the financing of Microenterprises 
through Subloans in accordance with the Microfinance Regulations;
(j)
“Microfinance Regulations” means the lending policies and 
procedures of the Microfinance Program to be adopted by the Borrower 
pursuant to the provisions of Section 6.01 of this Agreement;
(k)
“Monitoring Indicators” means the indictors set forth in the 
letter dated March 23, 2000 from the Borrower to the Bank;
(l)
“Project Area” means the Northeast states of Maranhao, 
Piaui, Ceará, Rio Grande do Norte, Paraiba, Pernambuco, Alagoas, Sergipe, 
Page  3
and Bahia, and the northern parts of the States of Espirito Santo and 
Minas Gerais;
(m)
“Project Management Report” means each report prepared in 
accordance with Section 4.02 of this Agreement;
(n)
“Real” or, in plural, “Reais”, means the Guarantor’s 
currency;
(o)
“Special Account” means the account referred to in Part B of 
Schedule 1 to this Agreement; and
(p)
“Subloan” means a loan made or proposed to be made by the 
Borrower out of the proceeds of the Loan to a Microenterprise for an 
Investment Project.
ARTICLE II
The Loan
Section 2.01. The Bank agrees to lend to the Borrower, on the terms 
and conditions set forth or referred to in the Loan Agreement, an amount 
equal to fifty million dollars ($50,000,000).
Section 2.02.  The amount of the Loan may be withdrawn from the 
Loan Account in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 1 to this 
Agreement for: (a) amounts paid (or, if the Bank shall so agree, to be 
paid) by the Borrower on account of withdrawals made by a Microenterprise 
under a Subloan to meet the reasonable cost of goods, services and 
working capital required for the Investment Project in respect of which 
the withdrawal from the Loan Account is requested; (b) for expenditures 
made (or, if the Bank shall so agree, to be made) in respect of the 
reasonable cost of goods and services required for Parts B and C of the 
Project and to be financed out of the proceeds of the Loan; and (c) in 
respect of the fee referred to in Section 2.04 of this Agreement.
Section 2.03. The Closing Date shall be December 31, 2005 or such 
later date as the Bank shall establish. The Bank shall promptly notify 
the Borrower and the Guarantor of such later date.
Section 2.04. The Borrower shall pay to the Bank a fee in an amount 
equal to one percent (1%) of the amount of the Loan.
 On or promptly 
after the Effective Date, the Bank shall, on behalf of the Borrower, 
withdraw from the Loan Account and pay to itself the amount of said fee.  
The Bank shall promptly notify the Borrower and the Guarantor of such 
withdrawal.
Section 2.05. The Borrower shall pay to the Bank a commitment 
charge at the rate of three-fourths of one percent (3/4 of 1%) per annum 
on the principal amount of the Loan not withdrawn from time to time.
Section 2.06. (a) The Borrower shall pay interest on the principal 
amount of the Loan withdrawn and outstanding from time to time, at a rate 
for each Interest Period equal to LIBOR Base Rate plus LIBOR Total 
Spread.
(b)
For the purposes of this Section:
(i)
“Interest Period” means the initial period from and 
including the date of this 
Agreement to, but 
Page  4
excluding, the first Interest Payment Date occurring 
thereafter, and after the initial period, each period from and 
including an 
Interest Payment Date to, but excluding the 
next following Interest Payment 
Date.
(ii)
“Interest Payment Date” means any date specified in 
Section 2.07 of this 
Agreement.
(iii)
“LIBOR Base Rate” means, for each Interest Period, 
the London interbank 
offered rate for six-month 
deposits in dollars for value the first day of such 
Interest Period (or, in the case of the initial Interest Period, for 
value the 
Interest Payment Date occurring on or next 
preceding the first day of such 
Interest Period), as 
reasonably determined by the Bank and expressed as a 
percentage per annum.
(iv)
“LIBOR Total Spread” means, for each Interest Period: 
(A) three-fourths of one 
percent (3/4 of 1%); (B) minus 
(or plus) the weighted average margin, for such 
Interest Period, below (or above) the London interbank offered rates, or 
other 
reference rates, for six-month deposits, in respect 
of the Bank’s outstanding 
borrowings or portions thereof 
allocated by the Bank to fund single currency 
loans or 
portions thereof made by it that include the Loan; as reasonably 
determined by the Bank and expressed as a percentage 
per annum.
(c)
The Bank shall notify the Borrower and the Guarantor of 
LIBOR Base Rate and LIBOR Total Spread for each Interest Period, promptly 
upon the determination thereof.
(d)
Whenever, in light of changes in market practice affecting 
the determination of the interest rates referred to in this Section 2.06, 
the Bank determines that it is in the interest of its borrowers as a 
whole and of the Bank to apply a basis for determining the interest rates 
applicable to the Loan other than as provided in said Section, the Bank 
may modify the basis for determining the interest rates applicable to the 
Loan upon not less than six (6) months’ notice to the Borrower and the 
Guarantor of the new basis. The new basis shall become effective on the 
expiry of the notice period unless the Borrower or the Guarantor notifies 
the Bank during said period of its objection thereto, in which case said 
modification shall not apply to the Loan.
Section 2.07. Interest and other charges shall be payable 
semiannually in arrears on February 15 and August 15 in each year.
Section 2.08. The Borrower shall repay the principal amount of the 
Loan in accordance with the amortization schedule set forth in Schedule 3 
to this Agreement.
Section 2.09. The President of the Borrower and any person or 
persons whom he or she shall designate in writing is designated as 
representative of the Borrower for the purposes of taking any action 
required or permitted to be taken under the provisions of Section 2.02 of 
this Agreement and Article V of the General Conditions.
ARTICLE III
Execution of the Project;
Management and Operations of the Borrower
Page  5
Section 3.01.  The Borrower declares its commitment to the 
objectives of the Project as set forth in Schedule 2 to this Agreement, 
and, to this end, shall carry out the Project and conduct its operations 
and affairs in accordance with sound financial standards and practices, 
with qualified management and personnel (in particular those assigned to 
the Microfinance Program), and in accordance with the Charter and 
Statutes, the Implementation Manual and the Microfinance Regulations.
Section 3.02.  (a) The Borrower shall account for the cost of the 
amounts of the proceeds of the Loan allocated to Part A of the Project 
and disbursed for Subloans in Reais at an interest rate equal to at least 
the average interest rate for the Inter-Bank Certificate of Deposit as 
published by the National Association of Open Market Institutions in 
financial newspapers in Brazil.
(b)
The Borrower undertakes that, unless the Bank shall 
otherwise agree, Subloans will be made in accordance with: (i) the 
procedures and on the terms and conditions set forth or referred to in 
Schedule 4 to this Agreement, and (ii) the Implementation Manual and the 
Microfinance Regulations.
(c)
The Borrower shall exercise its rights in relation to each 
Investment Project in such manner as to: (i) protect the interests of the 
Bank and the Borrower; (ii) comply with its obligations under this 
Agreement; and (iii) achieve the purposes of the Project.
Section 3.03. Except as the Bank shall otherwise agree, procurement 
of the goods, works and consultants’ services required for the Project 
and to be financed out of the proceeds of the Loan shall be governed by 
the provisions of Schedule 5  to this Agreement.
Section 3.04. The Borrower shall:
(a)
maintain policies and procedures adequate to enable it to 
monitor and evaluate on an ongoing basis, in accordance with the 
Monitoring Indicators, the carrying out of the Project and the 
achievement of the objectives thereof;
(b)
prepare, under terms of reference satisfactory to the Bank, 
and furnish to the Bank, on or about September 30 each year, commencing 
September 30, 2000 a report integrating the results of the monitoring and 
evaluation activities performed pursuant to paragraph (a) of this Section 
and of the Due Diligence Report, on the progress achieved in the carrying 
out of the Project during the period preceding the date of said report 
and setting out the measures recommended to ensure the efficient carrying 
out of the Project and the achievement of the objectives thereof during 
the period following such date;
(c)
review with the Bank:
(i)
by December 15 each year, or such later date as the 
Bank shall request, the 
report referred to in paragraph 
(b) of this Section; and
(ii)
by a date thirty months after the Effective Date, or 
when an amount of 
$20,000,000 has been disbursed 
from the Loan Account for Subloans under 
Category (1) of the table in Part A, paragraph 1, of Schedule 1 to this 
Agreement, whichever shall be the earliest, in 
addition to the report referred 
to in paragraph (b) of this 
Section: (A) the effectiveness of the Microfinance 
Program 
in targeting the poor and extending outreach to small towns in rural 
Page  6
areas; (B) the progress made in reaching the 
institutional independence of the 
Microfinance Program 
and introducing additional credit and non-credit 
microfinance services; (C) the general policy framework for 
microfinance; and 
(D) the impact of the Microfinance 
Program on the income of the clients’ 
households; 
and
(d)
thereafter, take all measures required to ensure the 
efficient completion of the Project and the achievement of the objectives 
thereof, based on the conclusions and recommendations of the said 
reviews, and as shall be agreed between the Borrower and the Bank.
Section 3.05. The Borrower shall carry out the Project in 
accordance with an implementation manual (the Implementation Manual), 
said manual to include, inter alia:
(a)
the procedures for the carrying out, monitoring, and 
evaluation of the Project;
(b)
the criteria for the selection of Microenterprises and the 
lending terms of Subloans;
(c)
the accounting requirements applicable to the operation of 
the Microfinance Program, which include, inter alia, separate accounts 
from those of the other lending operations of the Borrower;
(d)
the environmental safeguards and mitigation measures 
required from Microenterprises, and the review procedures to be followed 
by the Borrower to verify their compliance; and
(e)
the procedures for the measurement and reporting of the 
quality of the Microfinance Program portfolio.
Section 3.06.  (a) The Borrower and the Bank shall, from time to 
time, exchange views with regard to the administration and operations of 
the Microfinance Program;
(b)
the Borrower shall furnish to the Bank:
(i)
not later then September 30 each year, commencing 
September 30, 2000, the Due 
Diligence Report;
(ii)
for approval any proposed modifications to the 
Microfinance Regulations 
pertaining to: (A) 
refinancing and parallel financing of Subloans; (B) cost 
basis for accounting of the transfer of funds to the Microfinance 
Program; (C) 
measurement of overdue Subloans and arrears; 
and (D) new loan products; and
(iii)
any proposed modifications to the Microfinance 
Regulations pertaining to: (A) 
the eligibility criteria of 
Subloans not included in the Operational Manual; 
(B) the 
management and organizational structure of the Microfinance Program; 
(C) staff incentives; and (D) the procedures for 
accounting of the 
Microfinance Program;
(c)
the Borrower shall take all necessary measures to achieve in 
each quarter:
Page  7
(i)
(A)
a ratio of Annualized Subloan Losses to Average 
Outstanding Balance of 
Subloans in each quarter 
not higher than 4%;
(B)
for purposes of this Subparagraph: (I) the term 
“Annualized Subloan 
Losses” means the 
total net increase relative to the last day of the 
previous quarter of the outstanding balance of Subloans with 
payments 
overdue by more than 90 days on the last 
day of the quarter in which 
the calculation is 
made, annualized by multiplying such balance by 4; 
and (II) the term “Average Outstanding Balance of Subloans” means 
the 
aggregate of the daily total outstanding 
balance of Subloans which have 
no overdue payments 
or payments overdue up to ninety days divided by 
the number of days in the quarter in which the calculation is made; 
and
(ii)
(A)
a ratio of Average Subloans-at-Risk to Average 
Outstanding Balance of 
Subloans not higher than 
8%;
(B)
for purposes of this Subparagraph: (I) the term 
“Average 
Subloans-at-Risk” means the 
aggregate, in each quarter, of the daily 
amounts 
of: (A) the payments overdue less than 30 days; and (B) 
balances of the Subloans overdue by more than thirty 
days, divided by 
the number of days in the quarter 
in which the calculation is made; and 
(II) the term 
“Average Outstanding Balance of Subloans” means the 
aggregate of the daily total outstanding balance of Subloans 
which have 
no overdue payments or payments overdue 
up to ninety days divided by 
the number of days 
in the quarter in which the calculation is made.
Section 3.07. For the purposes of Section 9.08 of the General 
Conditions and without limitation thereto, the Borrower shall:
(a)
prepare, on the basis of guidelines agreed with the Bank, 
and furnish to the Bank not later than six (6) months after the Closing 
Date or such later date as may be agreed for this purpose between the 
Bank and the Borrower, a plan designed to ensure the continued 
achievement of the Project’s objectives; and
(b)
afford the Bank a reasonable opportunity to exchange views 
with the Borrower on said plan.
ARTICLE IV
Financial Covenants
Section 4.01. (a) The Borrower shall maintain a financial 
management system, including records and accounts, and prepare financial 
statements, all in accordance with accounting standards acceptable to the 
Bank, consistently applied, adequate to reflect its operations and 
financial condition and to register separately the operations, resources 
and expenditures related to the Project.
(b)
The Borrower shall:
(i)
have its records, accounts and financial statements 
(balance sheets, 
statements of income and expenses 
Page  8
and related statements) and the records and 
accounts for 
the Special Account for each fiscal year audited, in accordance 
with auditing standards acceptable to the Bank, consistently 
applied, by 
independent auditors acceptable to the 
Bank;
(ii)
furnish to the Bank as soon as available, but in any 
case not later than six 
months after the end of each such 
year: (A) certified copies of the financial 
statements 
referred to in paragraph (a) of this Section, for such year as so 
audited; and (B) an opinion on such statements and report of 
such audit, by 
said auditors, of such scope and in such 
detail as the Bank shall have 
reasonably 
requested; and
(iii)
furnish to the Bank such other information concerning 
such records, accounts 
and financial statements, and the 
audit thereof, and concerning said auditors, 
as the Bank 
may from time to time reasonably request.
(c)
For all expenditures with respect to which withdrawals from 
the Loan Account were made on the basis of Project Management Reports or 
statements of expenditure, the Borrower shall:
(i)
maintain or cause to be maintained, in accordance 
with paragraph (a) of this 
Section, records and 
separate accounts reflecting such expenditures;
(ii)
retain, until at least one year after the Bank has 
received the audit report 
for the fiscal year in which the 
last withdrawal from the Loan Account was 
made, 
all records (contracts, orders, invoices, bills, receipts and other 
documents) evidencing such expenditures;
(iii)
enable the Bank’s representatives to examine such 
records; and
(iv)
ensure that such records and accounts are included in 
the annual audit 
referred to in paragraph (b) of 
this Section and that the report of such audit 
contains a separate opinion by said auditors as to whether the Project 
Management Reports or statements of expenditure 
submitted during such fiscal 
year, together with the 
procedures and internal controls involved in their 
preparation, can be relied upon to support the related withdrawals.
Section 4.02. (a) Without limitation upon the provisions of Section 
4.01 of this Agreement, the Borrower shall carry out a time-bound action 
plan acceptable to the Bank for the strengthening of the financial 
management system referred to in paragraph (a) of said Section 4.01 in 
order to enable the Borrower, not later than by a date six months after 
the Effective Date, or such later date as the Bank shall agree, to 
prepare quarterly Project management reports, acceptable to the Bank, 
each of which:
(i) 
(A) sets forth actual sources and applications of 
funds for the Project, both 
cumulatively and for the 
period covered by said report, and projected sources 
and 
applications of funds for the Project for the six-month period following 
the period covered by said report; and (B) shows 
separately expenditures 
financed out of the 
proceeds of the Loan during the period covered by said 
report and expenditures proposed to be financed out of the 
Page  9
proceeds of the 
Loan during the six-month period 
following the period covered by said report;
(ii)
(A) describes physical progress in Project 
implementation, both cumulatively 
and for the period 
covered by said report; and (B) explains variances between 
the actual and previously forecast implementation targets; and
(iii)  sets forth the status of procurement under the 
Project and expenditures under 
contracts financed out of 
the proceeds of the Loan, as at the end of the 
period covered by said report.
(b)
Upon the completion of the action plan referred to in 
paragraph (a) of this Section, the Borrower shall prepare, in accordance 
with guidelines acceptable to the Bank, and furnish to the Bank not later 
than 45 days after the end of each calendar quarter a Project Management 
Report for such period.
Section 4.03. The Borrower shall continue to take steps as shall be 
necessary to protect itself against risk of loss resulting from changes 
in the rates of exchange between the currencies (including the currency 
of the Guarantor) used in its operations.
Section 4.04.  Without limitation to the provision of Section 4.01 
of this Agreement, the Borrower shall maintain separate financial 
accounting records for the Microfinance Program so as to measure the 
financial performance of the Microfinance Program independently from 
those of the Borrower’s remaining operations.
ARTICLE V
Remedies of the Bank
Section 5.01. Pursuant to Section 6.02 (p) of the General 
Conditions, the following additional events are specified:
(a)
The Charter and Statutes shall have been amended, suspended, 
abrogated, repealed or waived so as to affect materially and adversely 
the Borrower’s ability to carry out the Project or to perform any of its 
obligations under this Agreement.
(b)
The Guarantor shall have enacted legislation or the Central 
Bank shall have issued regulations which establish interest rate 
ceilings, or require rescheduling of debt or debt forgiveness in terms 
which affect materially and adversely the Borrower’s ability to perform 
any of its obligations under this Agreement.
ARTICLE VI
Effective Date; Termination
Section 6.01. The following event is specified as an additional 
condition to the effectiveness of the Loan Agreement within the meaning 
of Section 12.01 (c) of the General Conditions, namely, that the 
Implementation Manual and the Microfinance Regulations have been approved 
by the Bank and adopted by the Borrower.
Section 6.02.  The following is specified as an additional matter, 
within the meaning of Section 12.02 (c) of the General Conditions, to be 
Page  10
included in the opinion or opinions to be furnished to the Bank, namely, 
that the Loan Agreement has been duly registered by the Central Bank.
Section 6.03. The date November 1, 2000 is hereby specified for the 
purposes of Section 12.04 of the General Conditions.
ARTICLE VII
Representative of the Borrower; Addresses
Section 7.01. The President of the Borrower is designated as 
representative of the Borrower for the purposes of Section 11.03 of the 
General Conditions.
Section 7.02. The following addresses are specified for the 
purposes of Section 11.01 of the General Conditions:
For the Bank:
International Bank for
    Reconstruction and Development
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America
Cable address:
Telex:
Facsimile:
INTBAFRAD
248423 (MCI) or
(202) 
477-6391
Washington, D.C.
 64145 (MCI)
For the Borrower:
Banco do Nordeste do Brasil S.A.
Av. Paranjana, 5700 Passaré
Fortaleza
Ceara
Brazil
Facsimile: 
(85) 299 3674
With copy to:
Ministério do Planejamento, Orçamento e Gestaõ
Secretaria de Assuntos Internacionais
Esplanada dos Ministérios, Bloco “K” - 5º andar
70040-906, Brasília, D.F.
Brazil
Facsimile:
(61) 225 4022
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their duly 
authorized representatives, have caused this Agreement to be signed in 
their respective names in Fortaleza, Ceará, Brazil, as of the day and 
year first above written.
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR
Page  11
   RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
By /s/ Gobind Nankani
Acting Regional Vice President
Latin America and the Caribbean
BANCO DO NORDESTE DO BRASIL S. A.
By /s/ Byron Costa de Queiroz
Authorized Representative
SCHEDULE 1
Withdrawal of the Proceeds of the Loan
A.
General
1.
The table below sets forth the Categories of items to be financed 
out of the proceeds of the Loan, the allocation of the amounts of the 
Loan to each Category and the percentage of expenditures for items so to 
be financed in each Category:
Amount of the
Loan Allocated
   % of
(Expressed in
Expenditures
Category
Dollars)
to be Financed
(1)
Subloans
   47,000,000
55% of the amount of
a Subloan
(2)
Goods for Parts B
      700,000
80%
and C of the Project
(3)
Consultants’ Services    1,600,000
100%
for Parts B and C of the
Project
(4)
Training
      200,000
80%
(5)
Fee
      500,000
Amount due under
Section 2.04 of this
Agreement
TOTAL
50,000,000
2.
For the purposes of this Schedule, the term “training” means the 
cost of travel and per diem for trainees, training materials, rental of 
training facilities and the fees of organizers and trainers.
3.
Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1 above, no withdrawals 
shall be made:
(a) 
in respect of a Subloan unless the Subloan has been made in 
accordance with the procedures and on the terms and conditions set forth 
Page  12
or referred to in Schedule 4 to this Agreement; and 
(b)
in respect of payments made for expenditures prior to the 
date of this Agreement except that withdrawals, in an aggregate amount 
not exceeding the equivalent of $5,000,000 may be made on account of 
payments made for expenditures before that date but after September 1, 
1999.
4.
The Bank may require withdrawals from the Loan Account to be made 
on the basis of statements of expenditure for expenditures for goods, 
works and services, under contracts in respect of which prior review is 
not required pursuant to the provisions of Section I, Part C.2 and 
Section II, Part D.2, of Schedule 5 to this Agreement,  Subloans and 
training, all under such terms and conditions as the Bank shall specify 
by notice to the Borrower.
B.
Special Account
1.
The Borrower shall open and maintain in dollars a special deposit 
account in a commercial bank acceptable to the Bank on terms and 
conditions satisfactory to the Bank, including appropriate protection 
against set-off, seizure and attachment.
2.
After the Bank has received evidence satisfactory to it that the 
Special Account has been opened, withdrawals from the Loan Account of 
amounts to be deposited into the Special Account shall be made as 
follows:
(a)
until the Bank shall have received: (i) the first Project 
Management Report referred to in Section 4.02 (b) of this Agreement; and 
(ii) a request from the Borrower for withdrawal on the basis of Project 
Management Reports, withdrawals shall be made in accordance with the 
provisions of Annex A to this Schedule 1; and
(b)
upon receipt by the Bank of a Project Management Report 
pursuant to Section 4.02 (b) of this Agreement, accompanied by a request 
from the Borrower for withdrawal on the basis of Project Management 
Reports, all further withdrawals shall be made in accordance with the 
provisions of Annex B to this Schedule 1.
3.
Payments out of the Special Account shall be made exclusively for 
Eligible Expenditures.  For each payment made by the Borrower out of the 
Special Account, the Borrower shall, at such time as the Bank shall 
reasonably request, furnish to the Bank such documents and other evidence 
showing that such payment was made exclusively for Eligible Expenditures.
4.
Notwithstanding the provisions of Part B.2 of this Schedule, the 
Bank shall not be required to make further deposits into the Special 
Account:
(a)
if the Bank determines at any time that any Project 
Management Report does not adequately provide the information required 
pursuant to Section 4.02 of this Agreement;
(b)
if the Bank determines at any time that all further 
withdrawals should be made by the Borrower directly from the Loan 
Account; or
(c)
if the Borrower shall have failed to furnish to the Bank 
within the period of time specified in Section 4.01 (b) (ii) of this 
Agreement, any of the audit reports required to be furnished to the Bank 
Page  13
pursuant to said Section in respect of the audit of: (A) the records and 
accounts for the Special Account; or (B) the records and accounts 
reflecting expenditures with respect to which withdrawals were made on 
the basis of Project Management Reports.
5.
The Bank shall not be required to make further deposits into the 
Special Account in accordance with the provisions of Part B.2 of this 
Schedule if, at any time, the Bank shall have notified the Borrower of 
its intention to suspend in whole or in part the right of the Borrower to 
make withdrawals from the Loan Account pursuant to Section 6.02 of the 
General Conditions.  Upon such notification, the Bank shall determine, in 
its sole discretion, whether further deposits into the Special Account 
may be made and what procedures should be followed for making such 
deposits, and shall notify the Borrower of its determination.
6.
(a)
If the Bank determines at any time that any payment out of 
the Special Account was made for an expenditure which is not an Eligible 
Expenditure, or was not justified by the evidence furnished to the Bank, 
the Borrower shall, promptly upon notice from the Bank, provide such 
additional evidence as the Bank may request, or deposit into the Special 
Account (or, if the Bank shall so request, refund to the Bank) an amount 
equal to the amount of such payment.  Unless the Bank shall otherwise 
agree, no further deposit by the Bank into the Special Account shall be 
made until the Borrower has provided such evidence or made such deposit 
or refund, as the case may be.
(b)
If the Bank determines at any time that any amount 
outstanding in the Special Account will not be required to cover payments 
for Eligible Expenditures during the six-month period following such 
determination, the Borrower shall, promptly upon notice from the Bank, 
refund to the Bank such outstanding amount.
(c)
The Borrower may, upon notice to the Bank, refund to the 
Bank all or any portion of the funds on deposit in the Special Account.
(d)
Refunds to the Bank made pursuant to sub-paragraph (a), (b) 
or (c) of this paragraph 6 shall be credited to the Loan Account for 
subsequent withdrawal or for cancellation in accordance with the 
provisions of the Loan Agreement.
Annex A to SCHEDULE 1
Operation of Special Account When Withdrawals Are Not 
Made On the Basis of Project Management Reports
1.
For the purposes of this Annex, the term “Authorized Allocation” 
means an amount equal to $3,500,000 to be withdrawn from the Loan Account 
and deposited into the Special Account pursuant to paragraph 2 of this 
Annex; provided, however, that unless the Bank shall otherwise agree, the 
Authorized Allocation shall be limited to an amount equal to $1,000,000 
until the aggregate amount of withdrawals from the Loan Account, plus the 
total amount of all outstanding special commitments entered into by the 
Bank pursuant to Section 5.02 of the General Conditions shall equal or 
exceed $3,000,000.
2.
Withdrawals of the Special Account’s Authorized Allocation and 
subsequent withdrawals to replenish the Special Account shall be made as 
follows:
(a)
For withdrawals of the Authorized Allocation, the Borrower 
shall furnish to the Bank a request or requests for deposit into the 
Special Account of an amount or amounts which in the aggregate do not 
Page  14
exceed the Authorized Allocation.  On the basis of each such request, the 
Bank shall, on behalf of the Borrower, withdraw from the Loan Account and 
deposit into the Special Account such amount as the Borrower shall have 
requested.
(b)
For replenishment of the Special Account, the Borrower shall 
furnish to the Bank requests for deposit into the Special Account at such 
intervals as the Bank shall specify. Prior to or at the time of each such 
request, the Borrower shall furnish to the Bank the documents and other 
evidence required pursuant to Part B.3 of Schedule 1 to this Agreement 
for the payment or payments in respect of which replenishment is 
requested. On the basis of each such request, the Bank shall, on behalf 
of the Borrower, withdraw from the Loan Account and deposit into the 
Special Account such amount as the Borrower shall have requested and as 
shall have been shown by said documents and other evidence to have been 
paid out of the Special Account for Eligible Expenditures. Each such 
deposit into the Special Account shall be withdrawn by the Bank from the 
Loan Account under one or more of the Eligible Categories.
3.
The Bank shall not be required to make further deposits into the 
Special Account, once the total unwithdrawn amount of the Loan minus the 
total amount of all outstanding special commitments entered into by the 
Bank pursuant to Section 5.02 of the General Conditions, shall equal the 
equivalent of twice the amount of the Authorized Allocation. Thereafter, 
withdrawal from the Loan Account of the remaining unwithdrawn amount of 
the Loan shall follow such procedures as the Bank shall specify by notice 
to the Borrower.  Such further withdrawals shall be made only after and 
to the extent that the Bank shall have been satisfied that all such 
amounts remaining on deposit in the Special Account as of the date of 
such notice will be utilized in making payments for Eligible 
Expenditures.
Annex B to SCHEDULE 1
Operation of Special Account When Withdrawals Are 
Made On the Basis of Project Management Reports
1.
Except as the Bank may otherwise specify by notice to the Borrower, 
all withdrawals from the Loan Account shall be deposited by the Bank into 
the Special Account in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 1 to 
this Agreement. Each such deposit into the Special Account shall be 
withdrawn by the Bank from the Loan Account under one or more of the 
Eligible Categories.
2.
Each application for withdrawal from the Loan Account for deposit 
into the Special Account shall be supported by a Project Management 
Report.
3.
Upon receipt of each application for withdrawal of an amount of the 
Loan, the Bank shall, on behalf of the Borrower, withdraw from the Loan 
Account and deposit into the Special Account an amount equal to the 
lesser of: (a) the amount so requested; and (b) the amount which the Bank 
has determined, based on the Project Management Report accompanying said 
application, is required to be deposited in order to finance Eligible 
Expenditures during the six-month period following the date of such 
report; provided, however, that the amount so deposited, when added to 
the amount indicated by said Project Management Report to be remaining in 
the Special Account, shall not exceed $8,000,000.
SCHEDULE 2
Page  15
Description of the Project
The objectives of the Project are: (a) to expand the availability 
of financial services for Microenterprises within the Project Area; and 
(b) to ensure the financial viability of such services.
The Project consists of the following Parts, subject to such 
modifications thereof as the Bank and the Borrower may agree upon from 
time to time to achieve such objectives:
Part A:
Subloans
The financing of Investment Projects through Subloans to 
Microenterprises within the Project Area.
Part B:
Institutional Strengthening of the Microfinance Program
1.
Strengthening the capacity for sustainable growth of the 
Microfinance Program through:
(a)
development of promotional and marketing strategies;
(b)
operation of a risk management unit and development of new 
modules for its management information system;
(c)
development of mechanisms to enhance the productivity of the 
loan officers in terms of gaining new clients and better management of a 
larger number of active clients;
(d)
identification of mechanisms to reach clients in low-density 
areas and of the financial and regulatory requirements for implementation 
of such mechanisms; and
(e)
development of new lending products to address the needs of 
Microenterprises, and the financial, legal and regulatory requirements 
for implementation of such products, including evaluation tests thereof.
2.
Training of the Borrower’s staff to implement the strategies, 
mechanisms and products developed or identified under Part B.1 hereof.
3.
Training of the Borrower’s staff as required to fulfill the 
environmental requirements of the Implementation Manual, and evaluation 
of the effectiveness of such requirements.
4.
Provision of technical assistance to review the existing 
institutional structure of the Microfinance Program with a view to 
increase the financial, legal and managerial autonomy of its operations 
including the Due Diligence Reviews and dissemination of operational 
results.
5.
Provision of technical assistance and equipment to support Project 
implementation, including procurement and reporting.
Part C:
Impact Evaluation
Design and implementation of a program to evaluate the impact of 
the Project in alleviating poverty by measuring, inter alia, the growth 
and profitability of the Microenterprises and the variations in the 
Page  16
household income of their owners and employees.
* * *
The Project is expected to be completed by
June 30, 2005.
SCHEDULE 3
Amortization Schedule
 Payment of Principal
Date Payment Due
(expressed in Dollars)*
On each February 15 and August 15
beginning February 15, 2006
through February 15, 2015
     2,500,000
On August 15, 2015
     2,500,000
_________________________
*
The figures in this column represent dollar equivalents determined 
as of the respective 
dates of withdrawal.  See General 
Conditions, Sections 3.04 and 4.03.  
SCHEDULE 4
Procedures for and Terms and Conditions
of Subloans
Section I:
General
1.
No expenditures for goods or services required for an Investment 
Project shall be eligible for financing out of the proceeds of the Loan 
unless the Subloan for such Investment Project shall have been made not 
earlier than thirty days prior to the date on which the Subloan is made.
2.
Each Subloan made by the Borrower shall contain the following 
documentation: (i) a summary description of the Microenterprise and the 
Investment Project, including a description of the expenditures proposed 
to be financed out of the proceeds of the Loan; and (ii) the terms and 
conditions of the Subloan, including the schedule of amortization 
Page  17
therefor.
3.
Subloans shall be made on terms whereby the Borrower shall obtain, 
by written instrument signed by the Microenterprise, rights adequate to 
protect the interests of the Bank and the Borrower, including, in the 
case of any Subloan the right to:
(a)
require that the goods, works and consultants’ services to 
be financed out of the proceeds of the Loan shall be procured at a 
reasonable price and taking also into account their quality;
(b)
inspect, by itself or jointly with representatives of the 
Bank if the Bank shall so request, such goods and the sites, works, 
plants and construction included in the Investment Project, the operation 
thereof, and any relevant records and documents;
(c)
obtain all such information as the Bank or the Borrower 
shall reasonably request relating to the foregoing and to the 
administration, operations and financial condition of the Microenterprise 
and to the benefits to be derived from the Investment Project;
(d)
require the Microenterprise in the event the Investment 
Project is environmentally sensitive to carry out the Investment Project 
with appropriate environmental standards and practices; and
(e)
suspend or terminate the right of the Microenterprise to the 
use of the proceeds of the Subloan upon failure by such Microenterprise 
to perform its obligations under its agreement with the Borrower.
Section II:
Specific Terms and Conditions
1.
The interest rate applicable to Subloans shall be a rate sufficient 
at least to generate a profit
for the Microfinance Program after 
accounting for all financial (including the rate referred to in Section 
3.02 (a) of this Agreement) and non-financial costs incurred by the 
Microfinance Program, including also the implicit cost to the Program of 
services provided by other sections of the Borrower
.
2.
The maximum size of a Subloan shall not exceed US$5,000
 
equivalent
.  
3.
The repayment period for a Subloan shall not exceed two years.
SCHEDULE 5
Procurement
Section I.
Procurement of Goods and Works
Part A:
General
Goods and works shall be procured in accordance with the provisions 
of Section I of the “Guidelines for Procurement under IBRD Loans and IDA 
Credits” published by the Bank in January 1995 and revised in January and 
August 1996, September 1997 and January 1999 (the Guidelines) and the 
following provisions of Section I of this Schedule.
Part B:
Procurement Procedures
Page  18
1.
National Competitive Bidding
Except as otherwise provided in paragraph B.2 hereof, goods for 
Parts B and C of the Project shall be procured under contracts awarded in 
accordance with the provisions of paragraphs 3.3 and 3.4 of the 
Guidelines.  In the procurement of goods in accordance with the 
provisions of this paragraph, the Borrower shall use standard documents 
satisfactory to the Bank.
2.
Shopping
Goods for Parts B and C of the Project estimated to cost less than 
$100,000 equivalent per contract, up to an aggregate amount not to exceed 
$400,000 equivalent, may be procured under contracts awarded on the basis 
of shopping procedures in accordance with the provisions of paragraphs 
3.5 and 3.6 of the Guidelines.
3.
Goods and Works for Investment Projects
Goods and works for Investment Projects shall be procured at a 
reasonable price, and taking also into account their quality.
Part C:
Review by the Bank of Procurement Decisions
1.
Procurement Planning
Prior to the issuance of any invitations to bid for contracts, the 
proposed procurement plan for the Project shall be furnished to the Bank 
for its review and approval, in accordance with the provisions of 
paragraph 1 of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines. Procurement of all goods and 
works shall be undertaken in accordance with such procurement plan as 
shall have been approved by the Bank, and with the provisions of said 
paragraph 1.
2.
Prior Review
(a)
With respect to all contracts procured pursuant to Part B.1 
above, the procedures set forth in paragraphs 2 and 3 of Appendix 1 to 
the Guidelines shall apply.
(b)
With respect to the first contract procured pursuant to the 
procedures referred to in B.2 above, the following procedures shall 
apply:
(i)
prior to the selection of any supplier the Borrower 
shall provide to the Bank 
a report on the comparison and 
evaluation of quotations received;
(ii)
prior to the execution of any contract, the Borrower 
shall provide to the Bank 
a copy of the specifications and 
the draft contract; and
(iii)
the procedures set forth in paragraphs 2 (f), 2 (g) 
and 3 of Appendix 1 to the 
Guidelines shall apply.
3.
Post Review
With respect to each contract not governed by paragraph 2 of this 
Part, the procedures set forth in paragraph 4 of Appendix 1 to the 
Page  19
Guidelines shall apply.
Section II.
Employment of Consultants
Part A:
General
Consultants’ services shall be procured in accordance with the 
provisions of the Introduction and Section IV of the “Guidelines:  
Selection and Employment of Consultants by World Bank Borrowers” 
published by the Bank in January 1997 and revised in September 1997 and 
January 1999 (the Consultant Guidelines) and the following provisions of 
Section II of this Schedule.
Part B:
Quality- and Cost-based Selection
1.
Except as otherwise provided in Part C of this Section, 
consultants’ services shall be procured under contracts awarded in 
accordance with the provisions of Section II of the Consultant 
Guidelines, paragraph 3 of Appendix 1 thereto, Appendix 2 thereto, and 
the provisions of paragraphs 3.13 through 3.18 thereof applicable to 
quality- and cost-based selection of consultants.
2.
The following provisions shall apply to consultants’ services to be 
procured under contracts awarded in accordance with the provisions of the 
preceding paragraph.  The short list of consultants for services, 
estimated to cost less than $200,000 equivalent per contract, may 
comprise entirely national consultants in accordance with the provisions 
of paragraph 2.7 of the Consultant Guidelines.
Part C:
Other Procedures for the Selection of Consultants
1.
Quality-based Selection
Services for the preparation of the Due Diligence Reports and for 
Parts B.1 (a) and (c) of the Project shall be procured under contracts 
awarded in accordance with the provisions of paragraphs 3.1 through 3.4 
of the Consultant Guidelines.
2.
Selection Based on Consultants’ Qualifications
Services for the implementation of evaluations under Part C of the 
Project and for the development of new financial products under Part B.1 
(e) of the Project, estimated to cost less than $100,000 equivalent per 
contract, may be procured under contracts awarded in accordance with the 
provisions of paragraphs 3.1 and 3.7 of the Consultant Guidelines.
3.
Single-Source Selection
Services
for the development of new modules under Part B.1 (b) of 
the Project, and of outreach mechanisms under B.1 (c) of the Project and 
auditing services for the Project accounts may be procured under 
contracts awarded in accordance with the provisions of paragraphs 3.8 
through 3.11 of the Consultant Guidelines.
4.
Individual Consultants
Services for the review to be carried out under Part B.4 of the 
Project, and of a procurement/disbursement expert to assist in the 
implementation of the Project, for tasks that meet the requirements set 
forth in paragraph 5.1 of the Consultant Guidelines, and not exceeding in 
Page  20
the aggregate $200,000 equivalent, shall be procured under contracts 
awarded to individual consultants in accordance with the provisions of 
paragraphs 5.1 through 5.3 of the Consultant Guidelines.
Part D:
Review by the Bank of the Selection of Consultants
1.
Selection Planning
Prior to the issuance to consultants of any requests for proposals, 
the proposed plan for the selection of consultants under the Project 
shall be furnished to the Bank for its review and approval, in accordance 
with the provisions of paragraph 1 of Appendix 1 to the Consultant 
Guidelines.  Selection of all consultants’ services shall be undertaken 
in accordance with such selection plan as shall have been approved by the 
Bank, and with the provisions of said paragraph 1.
2.
Prior Review
(a)
With respect to each contract estimated to cost the 
equivalent of $200,000 or more, the procedures set forth in paragraphs 1, 
2 (other than the third subparagraph of paragraph 2 (a)) and 5 of 
Appendix 1 to the Consultant Guidelines shall apply.
(b)
With respect to each contract for the employment of 
consulting firms estimated to cost the equivalent of $100,000 or more, 
but less than the equivalent of $200,000, the procedures set forth in 
paragraphs 1, 2 (other than the second subparagraph of paragraph 2 (a)) 
and 5 of Appendix 1 to the Consultant  Guidelines shall apply.
(c)
With respect to:
(i)
each contract for the employment of individual 
consultants estimated to cost 
the equivalent of $50,000 
or more, the qualifications, experience, terms of 
reference and terms of employment of the consultants shall be furnished 
to the 
Bank for its prior review and approval; and
(ii)
each contract for the employment of consulting firms 
estimated  to cost less 
than $100,000 equivalent and of 
individual consultants estimated to cost less 
than $50,000 
equivalent, the terms of reference shall be furnished to the Bank 
for its prior review and approval.
The contract shall be awarded only after the said approvals shall 
have been given.
3.
Post Review
With respect to each contract not governed by paragraph 2 of this 
Part, the procedures set forth in paragraph 4 of Appendix 1 to the 
Consultant Guidelines shall apply.
