                                   Document of
                                The World Bank




                                                     Report No: ICR0000179




           IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION AND RESULTS REPORT
                                  (IBRD-45540)




                                      ON A

                                      LOAN

                      IN THE AMOUNT OF US$50 MILLION


                                       TO

                        THE BANK OF THE NORTHEAST

                                      FOR A

            NORTHEAST MICROFINANCE DEVELOPMENT PROJECT




                                September 25, 2007




Sustainable Development Department
Brazil Country Management Unit
Latin America and the Caribbean Region

                       CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS

                    (Exchange Rate Effective 03/31/07)

                      Currency Unit = Real (R$)
                             R$1.00 = US$0.48
                            US$1.00 = R$2.06

                              FISCAL YEAR
                         1 January ­ 31 December



                  ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS


BNB    Bank of the Northeast of Brazil (Banco do Nordeste do Brasil)
BNDES  National Bank for Economic and Social Development (Banco Nacional de
         Desenvolvimento Econômico e Social)
CAS    Country Assistance Strategy
CGAP   Consultative Group to Assist the Poor
CEAPE  Center for Support of Small Entrepreneurs (Centro de Apoio aos Pequenos
         Empreendimentos)
GDP    Gross domestic product
IBGE   Brazilian Geography and Statistics Institute (Instituto Brasileiro de
         Geografia e Estatística)
ICR    Implementation Completion and Results Report
ISR    Implementation Status and Results Report
MFI    Microfinance institution
NGO    Nongovernmental organization
OSCIP  Civil Society and Public Interest Organization (Organização da Sociedade
         Civil de Interesse Público)
QAG    Quality Assurance Group
PAD    Project Appraisal Document
PMR    Project management report
PNAD   National Household Survey (Pesquisa Nacional por Amostra de
         Domicílios)
PRONAF National Program to Strengthen Family Agriculture (Programa Nacional de
         Fortalecimento da Agricultura Familiar)

ROA    Return on assets
SCM    Microentrepreneur Credit Society (Sociedade de Crédito ao
        Microempreendedor)
SDI    Subsidy dependence index
SEBRAE Brazilian Micro and Small Business Support Service (Serviço Brasileiro de
        Apoio às Micro e Pequenas Empresas)




                     Vice President: Pamela Cox
                  Country Director: John Briscoe
                    Sector Manager: Ethel Sennhauser
               Project Team Leader: Susana M. Sanchez
                 ICR Team Leader: Susana M. Sanchez
               ICR Primary Author: Susana Sanchez and Ilias Skamnelos


                                    i

ii

                                                         BRAZIL
                       Northeast Microfinance Development Project


                                                     CONTENTS




Data Sheet
   A. Basic Information ................................................................................................................1
   B. Key Dates.............................................................................................................................1
   C. Ratings Summary.................................................................................................................1
   D. Sector and Theme Codes .....................................................................................................2
   E. Bank Staff.............................................................................................................................2
   F. Results Framework Analysis................................................................................................2
   G. Ratings of Project Performance in ISRs ..............................................................................4
   H. Restructuring .......................................................................................................................5
   I. Disbursement Graph..............................................................................................................5

Main Document
   1. Project Context, Development Objectives and Design......................................................... 1
   2. Key Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcomes......................................................... 6
   3. Assessment of Outcomes.................................................................................................... 12
   4. Assessment of Risk to Development Outcome................................................................... 19
   5. Assessment of Bank and Borrower Performance ............................................................... 19
   6. Lessons Learned.................................................................................................................. 22
   7. Comments on Issues Raised by Borrower/Implementing Agencies/Partners..................... 23

Annexes
   1. Project Costs and Financing................................................................................................ 25
   2. Outputs by Component ....................................................................................................... 26
   3. Economic and Financial Analysis....................................................................................... 41
   4. Bank Lending and Implementation Support/Supervision Processes .................................. 45
   5. Beneficiary Survey Results................................................................................................. 47
   6. Stakeholder Workshop Report and Results ........................................................................ 48
   7. Summary of Borrower's ICR and/or Comments on Draft ICR .......................................... 49
   8. Comments of Cofinanciers and Other Partners/Stakeholders............................................. 59
   9. List of Supporting Documents............................................................................................ 60

IBRD Map 19539




                                                                iii

A. Basic Information

                                                                     Northeast Microfinance
Country:                Brazil                Project Name:
                                                                     Development Project
Project ID:             P050776               L/C/TF Number(s):      IBRD-45540
ICR Date:               09/26/2007            ICR Type:              Core ICR
                                                                     BANK OF THE
Lending Instrument:     SIL                   Borrower:
                                                                     NORTHEAST
Original Total
                        USD 50.0M             Disbursed Amount:      USD 36.6M
Commitment:
Environmental Category: B
Implementing Agencies:
Banco do Nordeste
Cofinanciers and Other External Partners:


B. Key Dates

     Process              Date            Process          Original Date    Revised / Actual
                                                                                Date(s)
Concept Review:        09/18/1998    Effectiveness:         09/06/2000         09/06/2000
Appraisal:             08/01/1999    Restructuring(s):
Approval:              05/30/2000    Mid-term Review:                          03/31/2003
                                     Closing:               12/31/2005         03/31/2007


C. Ratings Summary
C.1 Performance Rating by ICR
Outcomes:                                     Satisfactory
Risk to Development Outcome:                  Low or Negligible
Bank Performance:                             Satisfactory
Borrower Performance:                         Satisfactory


C.2 Detailed Ratings of Bank and Borrower Performance (by ICR)
         Bank                   Ratings              Borrower                 Ratings
Quality at Entry:       Satisfactory          Government:            Satisfactory

Quality of Supervision: Satisfactory          Implementing
                                              Agency/Agencies:       Satisfactory

Overall Bank                                  Overall Borrower
Performance:            Satisfactory          Performance:           Satisfactory


C.3 Quality at Entry and Implementation Performance Indicators
    Implementation                              QAG Assessments
      Performance              Indicators             (if any)               Rating

Potential Problem Project No                  Quality at Entry      Satisfactory


                                              i

at any time (Yes/No):                          (QEA):
Problem Project at any                         Quality of
                          No                                       None
time (Yes/No):                                 Supervision (QSA):
DO rating before
                          Satisfactory
Closing/Inactive status:


D. Sector and Theme Codes
                                                             Original          Actual
Sector Code (as % of total Bank financing)
Micro- and SME finance                                        99                 99
Sub-national government administration                          1                 1


Theme Code (Primary/Secondary)
Legal institutions for a market economy                      Primary           Primary
Other financial and private sector development              Secondary         Secondary
Small and medium enterprise support                          Primary           Primary


E. Bank Staff
         Positions                      At ICR                       At Approval
Vice President:           Pamela Cox                       David de Ferranti
Country Director:         John Briscoe                     Gobind T. Nankani
Sector Manager:           Ethel Sennhauser                 Mark E. Cackler
Project Team Leader:      Susana M. Sanchez                Steven N. Schonberger
ICR Team Leader:          Susana M. Sanchez
ICR Primary Author:       Susana M. Sanchez
                          Ilias Skamnelos



F. Results Framework Analysis

Project Development Objectives (from Project Appraisal Document)
The main objective of the project is to improve the access of microenterprises throughout
the Northeast Region to sustainable, formal financial services by supporting expansion of
the program known as "CrediAmigo" in Brazil. This objective will be achieved by:(a)
supporting the expansion of the microfinance loan portfolio (Component1);(b)
strengthening the institutional capacity of CrediAmigo for sustainable growth
(Component 2);and (c) evaluating the impact of CrediAmigo on microenterprise
dynamics and household welfare (Component 3).

Revised Project Development Objectives (as approved by original approving authority)




                                              ii

(a) PDO Indicator(s)

                                              Original Target      Formally         Actual Value

   Indicator          Baseline Value           Values (from         Revised          Achieved at
                                                  approval           Target         Completion or
                                                documents)           Values         Target Years
Indicator 1 :   Number of active clients
Value
quantitative or 37,683                       150,000                             235,729
Qualitative)
Date achieved 08/31/1999                     12/31/2005                          12/29/2006

Comments        Target value was surpassed. Lessons learnt: a) monitor loan officers closely; b)

(incl. %        monitor targets to take preventive actions; c) marketing campaign to help attract

achievement)    and retain clients; d) new products and personalize services promote client
                satisfaction.
Indicator 2 :   Municipalites with CA clients
Value
quantitative or 52                           900                                 1,420
Qualitative)
Date achieved 08/31/1999                     12/31/2005                          12/29/2006

Comments        Target value was surpassed. The initial target was defined based on the number

(incl. %        of branches of BNB. In practice, each branch serves, in average, 10

achievement)    municipalities.

Indicator 3 :   Adm Costs / Avg. Loan Portfolio (%)
Value
quantitative or 53%                          24% or less                         22%
Qualitative)
Date achieved 08/31/1999                     12/31/2005                          12/29/2006

Comments        Target value was surpassed. Main factors were: improved loan officer

(incl. %        productivity, having a single agency for administrative functions, use of

achievement)    balanced score card for branch performance, growth of loan portfolio, and
                looking at costs-benefits of expenses.
Indicator 4 :   Return on Assets (ROA)
Value
quantitative or -17%                         3% or more                          8%
Qualitative)
Date achieved 08/31/1999                     12/31/2005                          12/29/2006
Comments        Target value surpassed, and CrediAmigo reached financial sustainability. The
(incl. %        increase in profitability is due to better control of costs, reduction of inter-bank
achievement)    rate (cost of funds) as well as size of program.

Indicator 5 :   Institutional status
                Equity from retained earnings and external investors to total equity
Value           CrediAmigo is a cost                                             Independent
quantitative or center at BNB reporting      Spin-off plan                       accounting system
Qualitative)    to the president of BNB      approved by BNB                     established;



                                                  iii

                                                                            CrediAmigo
                                                                            program was
                                                                            internalized within
                                                                            BNB's
                                                                            organizational
                                                                            structure as a
                                                                            specialized unit for
                                                                            microfinance,
                                                                            maintaining its
                                                                            financial and
                                                                            administrative
                                                                            independence;
                                                                            management
                                                                            routines
                                                                            standardized.
Date achieved 08/31/1999                  12/31/2005                        12/29/2006
Comments       Even though a subsidiary with private investors was not created, private investors
(incl. %       (e.g., Banco Real and Finsol, among others) have nevertheless entered the
achievement)   microfinance market and are competing with CrediAmigo.

(b) Intermediate Outcome Indicator(s)

                                          Original Target      Formally        Actual Value

   Indicator         Baseline Value         Values (from                        Achieved at
                                              approval          Revised       Completion or
                                             documents)     Target Values      Target Years
Indicator 1 :  Oustanding loan portfolio
Value
(quantitative  US$9.6 million             US$110 million                    US$83 million
or Qualitative)
Date achieved 08/31/1999                  12/31/2005                        12/29/2006
Comments       CrediAmigo's loan portfolio falls within the projected range of the sensitivity
(incl. %       analysis presented in the PAD (US$80 million­US$175 million). CrediAmigo
achievement)   accounted for 3.7% of BNB's gross loans and 8.8% of loan disbursement in 2006.


G. Ratings of Project Performance in ISRs

                                                                                  Actual
 No.     Date ISR
         Archived               DO                         IP                Disbursements
                                                                             (USD millions)
  1     12/11/2000          Satisfactory              Satisfactory                        4.72
  2     05/01/2001       Highly Satisfactory          Satisfactory                        8.00
  3     12/21/2001       Highly Satisfactory          Satisfactory                        8.00
  4     05/30/2002       Highly Satisfactory          Satisfactory                        9.60
  5     09/04/2002       Highly Satisfactory          Satisfactory                      12.71
  6     03/26/2003       Highly Satisfactory          Satisfactory                      14.71
  7     12/22/2003          Satisfactory              Satisfactory                      16.89
  8     06/17/2004          Satisfactory              Satisfactory                      19.85



                                              iv

  9   12/17/2004        Satisfactory     Satisfactory    19.92
  10  04/29/2005        Satisfactory     Satisfactory    28.80
  11  02/08/2006        Satisfactory     Satisfactory    29.97
  12  06/29/2006        Satisfactory     Satisfactory    36.56
  13  12/29/2006        Satisfactory     Satisfactory    38.49
  14  04/03/2007        Satisfactory     Satisfactory    38.49



H. Restructuring (if any)
Not Applicable




I. Disbursement Profile




                                      v

1. Project Context, Development Objectives, and Design

1.1 Context at Appraisal

Country/Sector Background. Two distinctive features of the Northeast Region of Brazil
are its high poverty rate and high number of microenterprises. The World Bank's 1995
Brazil Poverty Assessment highlighted the fact that Brazil's poverty rate was well above
the norm for middle-income countries and that there were wide disparities in the
incidence of poverty within the country.1 The Northeast accounted for only about 30
percent of Brazil's population (45 million) but more than half of the country's poor.
Another World Bank study (World Bank 2007) cited 2002 poverty rates in Northeast
Brazil of 34 to 38 percent in urban areas and 55 to 57 percent in rural areas.

There is usually a positive correlation between poverty and the prevalence of
microenterprises, which typically involve high rates of self-employment. Both of these
World Bank reports found that almost 40 percent of all poor heads of households in the
Northeast were self-employed. Statistics prepared by the Brazilian Micro and Small
Business Support Service (SEBRAE) estimated that there were about 9.5 million
microenterprises nationwide in 1997, with more than 2 million located in the Northeast
Region alone. Most of those microenterprises were composed of self-employed
individuals and accounted for about 61 percent of the labor force in the Northeast
(compared with 50 percent nationally).

Despite their contribution to the Northeast's economy, microentrepreneurs had very
limited access to banking services. A 1997 survey of microenterprises in five different
cities in the Northeast, conducted by the Banco do Nordeste do Brasil (BNB), found that
only 17 to 42 percent of microenterprises receive any type of credit services and that
access to bank loans was only around 3.5 percent. Most credit to microenterprises was
provided by suppliers and moneylenders. As a result, the average monthly interest rate
paid was about 15.2 percent, compared to the usually very low annual interest rates of the
directed credit lines offered by public banks.

In Brazil there is wide variation in bank accessibility between regions, with the Northeast
having less access to banks and greater dependence on public banks than the rest of the
country.2 For example, in 2000 there were 12 bank branches per 100,000 people in the
South but only 4 per 100,000 in the North and 5 per 100,000 in the Northeast. The
Northeast Region also had the lowest ratio of credit to GDP (19.7 percent). Most of the
formal credit received in the Northeast Region originated from public banks (about 75
percent).3 These characteristics in terms of bank accessibility and credit providers could be
a reflection of the "social" mandate of public banks and a pattern of limited competition


1World Bank (1995). Brazil: A Poverty Assessment. Report No 14323-BR.
2Kumar, Anjali, Thorsten Beck, Cristine Campos, and Soumya Chattopadhyay (2005) "Assessing
Financial Access in Brazil," World Bank Working Paper No. 50.
3According to other studies, the share of public bank lending in the Northeast Region could be as high as
86 percent.


                                                     1

between public and private banks in the region. BNB is one of Brazil's federal public banks
and operates as a development bank for the Northeast Region, providing a variety of
savings, lending, and financial services, including directed credit lines.

The Brazilian government recognized the importance of microfinance for poverty
alleviation and microenterprise development and therefore initiated regulatory changes
and undertook programs in the 1990s to foster development of microfinance institutions.
Such services had lagged behind those of other countries in Latin America, mainly due to
(i) the long period of high inflation that prevailed before the Real Plan pegged the
Brazilian real to the dollar, (ii) restrictions on the ability of NGOs to serve as financial
intermediaries and to mobilize external financing, and (iii) a strict usury law that placed
unsustainably low ceilings on the interest rates charged by NGOs. By the end of 1990s,
the Central Bank had created a new institutional context for microfinance that allowed
two new types of legal entities with more flexibility in terms of both funding and
compliance with usury laws.              4 These measures reflected an expectation that the
microfinance sector would continue to be NGO-focused. In 1997 the National Bank for
Economic and Social Development (BNDES) established an assistance program to
provide revolving wholesale credit lines to microfinance institutions (mainly NGOs).

In November 1997 Banco do Nordeste launched a microfinance pilot program called
CrediAmigo. The Bank provided financing for technical assistance for designing and
launching this pilot as part of project preparation. It reallocated funds from the Northeast
Rural Poverty Alleviation Program, obtained a Japanese PHRD Grant, and involved the
Consultative Group to Assist the Poor (CGAP). CrediAmigo grew into a large-scale
program that dominated the microfinance market in Brazil during the 1990s and that by
December 1999 had more than 37,000 active clients and an outstanding portfolio of almost
US$10 million. Portfolio quality, measured as 30-day portfolio-at-risk, was 2.5 percent.

Apart from CrediAmigo, most specialized microfinance institutions were private NGOs.
The previously mentioned regulatory reforms led to the emergence of many small,
specialized microfinance institutions (most had less than 2,000 clients).5 One of these
institutions, a network of NGOs called the Center for Support of Small Entrepreneurs
(CEAPE), was the second-largest microfinance provider in Brazil after CrediAmigo.



4These were the Organização da Sociedade Civil de Interesse Público (OSCIP) and the Sociedade de Crédito
ao Microempreendedor (SCM). The OSCIPs are nonprofit organizations and are not limited to microfinance
endeavors. Their sources of financing are limited to donor funding, owners' investments, and government
funding. They can own an SCM as a subsidiary. OSCIPs must meet reporting requirements for the Ministry of
Justice, but are not subject to prudential regulations and supervision. The SCMs are for-profit financial
institutions considered to be a part of the national financial system. They are subject to the tax regime for
financial institutions and to the reporting and regulatory requirements of the Central Bank of Brazil, which
supervises them. Their sources of financing include all those allowed to OSCIPs (including the OCSIPs
themselves), plus loan or credit lines from other national and foreign financial institutions. SCMs cannot
accept or hold deposits from the public, but they can operate through microcredit servicing branches that have
no additional capital requirements and enjoy flexibility in terms of their location and hours, etc.

5Sirtaine, Sophie (2001) "The Role of Microfinance Institutions," unpublished background paper for
Kumar and others (2005). Also see Project Appraisal Document.


                                                       2

There were also several small municipal or state-supported microfinance NGOs. Banco
do Povo de Sao Paulo was the largest, followed by PortoSol, the first microfinance
institution in Brazil (established by the municipality of Porto Alegre).

Rationale for Bank Involvement. The World Bank's ongoing activities in urban and rural
poverty reduction in Northeast Brazil included a project to support provision of financial
services to microenterprises. The CrediAmigo program, the largest provider of
microfinance services in the Northeast, was a good candidate to expand the supply of
formal financial services for microenterprises. BNB was emerging from a major reform
and was looking for ways to satisfy its regional development mandate more efficiently,
such as creating better staff incentives, information systems, client focus, and
flexibility--all key elements for successful microfinance. The commitment of BNB's
senior management to develop a sustainable microfinance program was strong. Because
the private banking sector was still in the process of consolidation and was operating with
high spreads and operating costs, it was expected that CrediAmigo could entice private
banks into the market by demonstrating that microfinance services could be profitable.

The Bank's support had significant value-added for CrediAmigo. The project was
expected to provide a reliable source of funds during a period of volatility in the financial
sector. Furthermore, CrediAmigo would benefit from the Bank's international expertise
in microfinance and its experience working with farmers groups and community
associations through the Northeast Rural Poverty Alleviation Program.

The Bank's involvement helped provide (i) financial services to microenterprises that
would complement the Bank's ongoing projects in education, land reform, and
infrastructure aimed at reducing poverty; (ii) important lessons in development of
commercial microfinance within large banking institutions; (iii) a linkage for discussing
legal and regulatory impediments with Central Bank authorities; (iv) material for
reviewing microfinance within the context of cost-effective poverty reduction and for
discussing microfinance with Brazil's private banking sector as a commercial rather than
donor-driven activity; and (v) experience gained by the Bank and the International
Finance Corporation (IFC) in supporting commercial microfinance development in Brazil
to mobilize resources for small and medium enterprises.

1.2 Original Project Development Objectives (PDO) and Key Indicators

The objective of the Northeast Microfinance Development Project was to improve the
access of microenterprises throughout the Northeast Region to sustainable, formal
financial services by supporting expansion of the program known as "CrediAmigo" in
Brazil.

Key indicators for monitoring progress toward achievement of the project objective were:

    i. Extent of outreach: At least 150,000 additional active clients.
    ii. Depth of outreach: Average outstanding loan balance less than 65 percent of
        Northeast per capita GDP.




                                              3

    iii. Breadth of outreach: Number of municipalities in Northeast with CrediAmigo
        clients.
    iv. Financial sustainability: Subsidy dependence index of zero, adjusted return on
        assets greater than 3 percent.
    v. Operational efficiency: Operational costs (annualized) less than 24 percent of
        average net outstanding portfolio.
    vi. Institutional independence: Spin-off plan approved by BNB Board of Directors.
        Equity to earning assets ratio of at least 15 percent.

1.3 Revised PDO and Key Indicators, and reasons/justification

The original project development objective and key indicators did not change during
project implementation.

1.4 Main Beneficiaries

The end beneficiaries were microenterprises in the area of operation of BNB (Northeast
Brazil and Espiritu Santo) that would benefit from improved access to sustainable, lower-
cost, formal financial services. The financial benefits are measured in terms of lower
financial and transaction costs and higher returns to economic activities, but the eventual
impact in terms of reduced poverty and improved standard of living at the household
level is more difficult to measure. Nonetheless, the program was designed to use
information from CrediAmigo's management information system (MIS) and a formal
impact evaluation focused on the microenterprise household to assist BNB and the
government in assessing to what extent and through what mechanisms access to
microfinance services improves household welfare.

The CrediAmigo program within BNB was the intermediate beneficiary of the project as
it would receive technical assistance to strengthen its operations. Also, BNB could
benefit from Bank financing as a reliable source of funds to the microfinance program
during a period of finance-sector volatility in Brazil; the Bank's international expertise in
microfinance (gained initially through its experience in Indonesia in support of the Bank
Rakyat Indonesia and later through its sponsorship of Sustainable Banking for the Poor
and CGAP); and the Bank's experience developing outreach strategies for solidarity
group lending (working with farmers' groups and community associations through the
Northeast Rural Poverty Alleviation Program). Finally, the demonstration and learning
aspects of the program were expected to have spillover effects for other programs within
BNB, increase private bank entry into the microcredit market in Northeast Brazil, and
improve microfinance policies.

1.5 Original Components

The project included three components with a total cost of US$100 million. The Bank
financed 50 percent of total project costs. The design of all components was clearly
linked to the project's development objective and built on the Bank's experience during
the pilot phase of CrediAmigo.




                                               4

Component 1--Expanded Microfinance Loan Portfolio (US$85.5 million). The output of
this component supported an increased portfolio of microfinance subloans. The
component was designed to provide funds for CrediAmigo to make loans for working
capital and investment to solidarity groups and individual solidarity group clients who
"graduated" by virtue of having a good loan repayment record. Demand was expected to
be high given the limited availability of formal loan products designed for the
microenterprise sector in the Northeast. Competition from NGO lenders was restricted to
a few large cities and these institutions had not pursued aggressive growth strategies.
Informal lenders provided loans whose characteristics were equally or more convenient
for microenterprise borrowers but at interest rates that were at least twice as high as
CrediAmigo. As a result of the component, CrediAmigo's loan portfolio was expected to
expand from about $10 million in December 1999 to $110 million and its active clients
from 37,000 to 150,000.

Component--Strengthened Capacity for Sustainable Growth of CrediAmigo (US$13.7
million). This component supported a set of activities to strengthen CrediAmigo's
capacity to expand its operations in a sustainable manner. The subcomponents were:

    · Marketing (US$1,130,000). To support marketing studies and help develop new
       promotional mechanisms for financial services.
    · Risk Management (US$120,000). To improve portfolio quality as well as variation
       in arrears by supporting the creation of a Risk Management Unit (with risk model
       operational and staff training in use of system).
    · Loan Officer Productivity (US$230,000). To develop mechanisms to enhance the
       productivity of loan officers in terms of gaining new clients and better managing a
       larger number of active clients.
    · Geographic Coverage (US$11,170,000). To support identification of mechanisms
       to reach clients in low-density areas and the financial and regulatory requirements
       for implementation of such mechanisms.
    · New Financial Products (US$330,000). To support development of new lending
       and financial products to address the needs of microenterprises and the financial,
       legal, and regulatory requirements for implementation of such products.
    · Environmental Management (US$110,000). To support an Environmental
       Management Program (with an effective screening process and follow-up client
       orientation program) that identifies risky microenterprises and mitigates identified
       risks).
    · Institutional Independence (US$310,000). To establish the basic components
       needed to increase the independence of CrediAmigo within BNB (legal studies,
       due diligence reviews, dissemination activities, etc.).
    · Loan Administration (US$300,000). To support the coordination unit team for
       loan administration, including annual financial audits, due diligence, maintenance
       of project reporting system, project midterm review, procurement assistance for
       bidding documents and contracts, and annual reports.

Component 3--Impact Evaluation (US$0.30 million). This component included financing
to support a Socioeconomic Impact Evaluation (technical assistance for survey design,


                                              5

field testing and training, fieldwork, data analysis, and interpretation) to identify the
impact of access to CrediAmigo services on microenterprise development, income
growth, and client household welfare. Such impact evaluation would help the government
determine the public welfare aspects of microfinance in relation to other potential poverty
reduction tools.

1.6 Revised Components

The project components were not revised to any significant degree.

1.7 Other significant changes

The project had two loan amendments to modify the definition for portfolio-at-risk and
loan losses. The first one was an amendment to the minutes of negotiations and the
second one (July 2004) was to update the definitions of the above indicators according to
guidelines from the Central Bank.

Other changes were the cancellation of US$10,233,876 from the loan and a 15-month
extension of the closing date from December 31, 2005 to March 31, 2007, which are
discussed in Section 2.2. Finally, about US$1.2 million remained undisbursed at the time
of closing.

2. Key Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcomes

2.1 Project Preparation, Design, and Quality at Entry

The project's preparation, design, and quality at entry is rated Satisfactory, based on (i)
consistency with Bank and government priorities; (ii) incorporation of lessons learned
during the pilot-phase of CrediAmigo in the project design; (iii) the strong
implementation capacity of Banco do Nordeste; (iv) establishment of realistic objectives
and components to achieve them; and (v) identification of risks and associated mitigation
measures. The project received a Quality at Entry rating of "Satisfactory" from the
Quality Assurance Group (QAG), as discussed in Section 10.1 on Bank Performance.

(i) Consistency with Bank and government priorities
The project fit well with the Bank's poverty reduction program for the Northeast Region
of Brazil and was designed based on the goals set out in the June 12, 1997 Country
Assistance Strategy (CAS) (World Bank Report 16582-BR) to reduce rural and urban
poverty in the Northeast Region and to increase the sustainability of poverty reduction
activities. Furthermore, the project also supported the government's recognition of the
importance of microfinance as part of its strategy to reduce poverty and develop the
financial sector (Brasil em Acção, Ministry of Planning). Banco do Nordeste's pilot of
CrediAmigo was designed using best practices in microfinance with a focus on
sustainability while targeting low-income microentrepreneurs.




                                             6

(ii) Incorporation of lessons learned during the pilot
The project built on the success and lessons learned through the Bank-financed (in the
form of technical assistance) pilot of CrediAmigo within BNB, as well as the knowledge
gained by the (Bank-facilitated) visits of BNB senior management and CrediAmigo staff
to many of the leading microfinance programs in Indonesia, Bolivia, Chile, Peru, and
Colombia. The most important lessons from the pilot (reflected in the project design)
were that (i) there should be a focus on sustainability as a goal from the outset of program
development; (ii) appropriate incentives should be provided to program staff and clients;
(iii) a management information system that can provide real-time information on
portfolio quality and clear procedures to react to repayment problems is essential to avoid
rapidly accumulating portfolio deterioration; (iv) the ability to mobilize funds through
savings and direct access to financial markets is an essential element of longer-term
sustainability, and savings and payment services can be as valuable to the poor as credit
and can significantly expand the potential client base; and (v) it is important to develop
institutional capacity prior to the kind of rapid growth that occurred early in the pilot
phase of CrediAmigo.

(iii) Building on strong support from the implementing agency's management and
directors
The implementing agency, BNB, was strongly committed to the implementation and
sustainable expansion of CrediAmigo. The project was initiated by the president and
board of directors of BNB, who requested technical assistance from the World Bank to
develop an alternative mechanism for providing financial services to the poor. BNB had
devoted significant resources, including funds for loans under the pilot program as well
as the efforts of staff and senior management in project development. Study tours to
successful microfinance institutions in other countries had been followed by presentations
to senior management as well as the board of directors of BNB. More importantly, BNB
had emphasized its goal of developing a sustainable institution as reflected by its decision
to charge a higher interest rate than most NGO programs to more quickly achieve
profitability, covering all financial and non-financial costs.

The commitment of BNB's management to developing a world-class program was
particularly evident in its rapid refocusing of objectives after early implementation
mishaps during the pilot. BNB's senior managers decided to expand CrediAmigo from 5
branches to 50 despite warnings on repayment performance risk that they received from
the technical assistance advisors of the Bank, CGAP, and the program itself. The
expansion resulted in rapid deterioration of portfolio quality and heavy loan losses.
However, BNB's management focus rapidly returned to sustainability and growth with
quality, providing important insights into risk management, including:
· Allow programs to develop their capacity to manage growth with portfolio quality
     before providing significant funding for program expansion, even when this may
     delay lending targets.
· Keep discussions focused on the institutional commitment to financial sustainability
     when portfolio quality deteriorates. The strong commitment of BNB's senior
     management to developing a world-class program, along with a pressing need to
     develop substantial microfinance retail capacity in the Northeast Region, explain the



                                              7

    Bank's ongoing engagement with CrediAmigo despite its initial reluctance to support
    a large, state-owned development bank, even one that had undertaken significant
    internal reforms.

(iv) Establishment of realistic objectives and components to achieve them
Incorporating the lessons learned during the pilot and international best practices, the
project objective focused on expanding CrediAmigo's reach to microenterprises in a
sustainable manner. The Bank established realistic objectives and a strong framework to
monitor progress with quantitative and qualitative targets, which were met and exceeded
well ahead of schedule (see Section F of the Datasheet). The project designed appropriate
components to achieve these goals, addressing the expansion (Component 1),
sustainability (Component 2), and the measurement of impact for demonstration purposes
(Component 3) accordingly. The sustainability component benefited from the important
lessons of the expansion during the pilot phase, as described earlier.

(v) Assessment of risks and identification of mitigation measures
The Project Appraisal Document (PAD) identified three main risks and mitigation
measures: (i) BNB management would not maintain focus on sustainability objectives,
mitigated by agreed sustainability indicators in the Loan Agreement and the development
of institutional structures to strengthen CrediAmigo's independence and transparency; (ii)
BNB's subsidized credit lines would limit the market for microfinance loans and/or
undermine the repayment discipline of clients, mitigated by CrediAmigo's product and
client service differentiation from BNB credit lines and by client and staff incentives
focusing on repayment; and (iii) Brazilian macroeconomic/financial sector conditions
would serve as a disincentive to external equity investors and/or commercial lenders,
mitigated by the provision of high-quality information on the financial performance of
CrediAmigo through published operating results and annual, external due diligence. At
the time of appraisal, these were the most important risks affecting the PDO. However,
the project had originally hoped to have BNB spin off CrediAmigo into an independent
institution with private investors, which did not happen. Nevertheless, the demonstration
effect of CrediAmigo has attracted private investors to set up their own microfinance
operations in the Northeast of Brazil, increasing competition.

2.2 Implementation

The main factors behind the successful performance of CrediAmigo and achievement of
the PDO are the strong commitment of BNB management to sustainability and the close
cooperation between BNB and the Bank team to respond to challenges. These are
exemplified by project implementation actions that averted negative impacts on the
project's development objective and indicators that could have resulted from three risk
factors during implementation: (i) the 2002 devaluation of the Brazilian real; (ii) the
development of new microfinance policies in 2003; and (iii) a political environment in
Brazil that prevented a spin-off plan for CrediAmigo.

(i) The 2002 devaluation of the real resulted in a lower growth rate for the loan portfolio
in U.S. dollars (because CrediAmigo clients work mainly in the nontradable sector,



                                              8

showing limited sensitivity to foreign exchange fluctuations) as well as an economic
slowdown that also resulted in lower portfolio growth.

(ii) The 2003 microfinance policies introduced by the Central Bank of Brazil, discussed
in Section 5.2(b), had a direct influence on the pricing, profitability, and client
composition of CrediAmigo, as well as in the use of alternative funding, namely funds
from the Fundo de Amparo ao Trabalhador (FAT) and funds originating from National
Monetary Council (CMN) Resolution 3109.6

Response to factors (i) and (ii): CrediAmigo's management dealt with these factors
successfully by tightening expenditure control and enhancing loan officer productivity.
Both of these actions were consistent with the project's development objective of
improving access to sustainable, formal financial services. Furthermore, BNB started
using the newly available sources of funding to support the expansion of CrediAmigo,
which together with the devaluation of the real, slowed Bank disbursements (in
November 2005, disbursements stood at 57.6 percent of the total loan amount). The Bank
team worked with the management of BNB to explore an alternative constructive use of
the funds, such as financing of municipal infrastructure projects that fitted the Bank's
strategy for municipal lending in Brazil. However, such proposals did not progress with
the federal government's Commission on External Financing (COFIEX) / Secretariat of
International Affairs (SEAIN). This shows that both the Borrower and the Bank
supervision team acted proactively to avoid finance charges for funds that would not be
disbursed by the project.

In December 2005, at CrediAmigo's request, the Bank canceled US$10,233,876 from the
loan (US$10,000,000 from expenditure category 1 and US$233,876 from category 3). It
is important to point out that the lag in disbursements and the cancellation had no impact
on achievement of the project's development objective and indicators. At the same time
the Bank also extended the closing date of the loan by 15 months, to March 31, 2007, to
allow the project to design a new model for providing sustainable financial services to
microenterprises through Civil Society and Public Interest Organizations (OSCIPs) and to
allow more time to complete the impact evaluation of the program. Even though, the
impact evaluation was not implemented, an important indication of the demonstration
effect of CrediAmigo is the entry of private sector providers into the microfinance market
in the Northeast. Furthermore, these private financial institutions have recruited about
120 CrediAmigo loan officers, illustrating the soundness of CrediAmigo's training
program for loan officers. CrediAmigo remains committed to focus on sustainability and
to deepen its focus on poorer clients.




6Under the new regulations, microcredit operations will be funded by a minimum of 2 percent of banks'
sight deposits, or alternatively, such deposits will be held as unremunerated reserves. The regulations also
provided guidance on interest rates for credit based on such funds: interest rates will be capped at 2 percent
per month with loan originating fees of 2 to 4 percent, loan amounts are limited to R$600 for individuals
and R$1,000 for small business owners, and loan maturity may not be less than 120 days.


                                                      9

(iii) Instead of creating a subsidiary with private investors (as originally discussed with
CrediAmigo), the Bank worked closely with BNB's management to ensure
CrediAmigo's de facto institutional independence. An important step was the mapping
of CrediAmigo into the newly created Superintendency of Microfinance and Special
Projects, providing gains for the program both in institutional recognition and in
decision-making flexibility (including the selection of BNB staff to work with
CrediAmigo). This was further enhanced by the creation of a fully independent
                7

accounting framework for CrediAmigo and the outsourcing of its credit officers through a
single institution, the Northeast Citizenship Institute (Instituto Nordeste Cidadania), an
OSCIP.

Even though a subsidiary with private investors was not created, private investors (e.g.,
Banco Real and Finsol, among others) have nevertheless entered the microfinance market
and are competing with CrediAmigo. At the time of this ICR, about 120 loan officers
from CrediAmigo had been hired by private banks.

2.3 Monitoring and Evaluation (M&E) Design, Implementation, and Utilization

The project designed a strong monitoring and evaluation framework with a large number
of indicators for CrediAmigo's outreach, loan officer productivity, financial sustainability,
and portfolio quality, among other performance areas. Those indicators were generated
by CrediAmigo's MIS, the project management reports (PMRs), and due diligence
reviews. More specifically the project designed:

    · Development objective indicators to track progress toward achieving the
        CrediAmigo program's objective of "providing sustainable financial services
        accessible to microentrepreneurs throughout the Northeast Region."
    · Output indicators to measure progress in achieving the planned loan-financed
        outputs and associated outcomes.
    · Input indicators covering disbursements by component and disbursement category.
    · Risk management indicators to monitor key risks to project implementation (inputs
        to outputs), results (outputs to development objectives), and impacts (development
        objectives to CAS goals).
    · Impact indicators to measure the impact of access to the CrediAmigo program on
        client business development.

Data reporting, collection, and quality was excellent throughout project implementation,
with monthly indicators generated throughout the project. These indicators were used to
evaluate CrediAmigo's progress and to discuss strategic issues for the program.
Importantly, through the use of multiple indicators, the Bank distanced itself from
operational details and instead helped BNB's management to keep its focus on key




7As a Superintendency, the CrediAmigo program was placed at the same level as the Regional
Superintendencies (one for each state).


                                               10

performance targets.8 As in the pilot stage, the Bank focused on the sustainability of
CrediAmigo, with day-to-day management of CrediAmigo left to BNB. The annual due
diligence reviews faced delays in the early stages of program implementation, but this
problem was resolved promptly by contracting a different firm.

The monitoring indicators are now fully institutionalized in CrediAmigo's MIS and are
utilized in annual reports and program management, making sustainability of these
arrangements after the end of the Bank's operation highly likely.

2.4 Safeguard and Fiduciary Compliance

The project was designed to support an environmental mitigation program for at-risk
microenterprise clients and training of CrediAmigo's business managers and
environmental officers in the branches. This subcomponent was the result of a cautious
approach toward expanding CrediAmigo's clientele in recognition of the possibility that
some clients may pose potential environmental impacts. However, more than 97 percent
of CrediAmigo clients are from sectors without significant environmental impacts, such
as commerce. Therefore, the subcomponent's scope was refocused to provide
entrepreneurs with environmental guidance on business practices. A firm was contracted
to develop an educational plan that emphasized such environmental guidance for
entrepreneurs, with 15 seminars expected to take place in 2007. Furthermore, over
100,000 pamphlets on environmental issues have been systematically distributed during
field visits by CrediAmigo loan officers.

With regard to fiduciary compliance, all financial management aspects related to
implementation were rated as Satisfactory, with the internal control representing best
practice within the Brazil portfolio. The PAD did not include a financial management
supervision plan supported by audit report reviews and follow-ups. However, the
financial        management         team        identified       a      misunderstanding          in      the
consolidated/accumulated PMRs that led to them not reflecting both the canceled loan
amount and a reallocation requested on December 28, 2005. The technical unit updated
the PMRs accordingly.

2.5 Post-completion Operation/Next Phase

The development objectives of CrediAmigo's outreach and sustainability have been fully
institutionalized, and the appropriate monitoring instruments (MIS and indicator
reporting) are in place. No next phase has been planned, other than the continuation of
technical assistance for the socioeconomic impact evaluation.




8The loan agreement included policies on maintenance of portfolio quality (portfolio-at-risk less than 8
percent and write-offs less than 4 percent), restrictions on re-aging and refinancing as well as on lending
rates (interest income should cover financial and non-financial costs).


                                                      11

3. Assessment of Outcomes

3.1 Relevance of Objectives, Design, and Implementation

The objective, design, and implementation of the project remain Highly Relevant with
regard to the country and Bank development objectives. The relevance of the project
objectives to the Bank's assistance strategy is exemplified by the latest CAS (27043-BR,
December 9, 2003) and Progress Report (36116-BR, June 6, 2006). Building on the
Brazilian government's multi-year plan, Plano Brasil de Todos: Participação e Inclusão
(A Brazil Plan for All: Participation and Inclusion), the CAS objective for the period
2003­07 was to improve the well-being of Brazilians--especially the poorest--by
fostering greater equity, sustainability, competitiveness, and macroeconomic stability.
The CAS sets the goal of improved access by the poor to financial services as a key
medium-term outcome in the effort toward building a broader and more efficient
financial sector, which in turn is a central element for making Brazil more competitive.
The CAS Progress Report of June 6, 2006 singles out increasing CrediAmigo's loan and
client base as key indicators of progress in the World Bank Group's microfinance
activities and reiterates the importance of microfinance lending to achieving
competitiveness results.

Furthermore, microfinance has been a priority for the Brazilian government, with
historically proactive, direct government policies in the sector. Section 5.2(a) examines
the most recent efforts by the Brazilian government, including the 2003 measures
emphasizing access and the role of individual specialized schemes through public banks.
The design and implementation of the project, establishing good monitoring for the
expansion and sustainability of the program, and spillover mechanisms for the lessons
learned and policy challenges faced by CrediAmigo, become all the more relevant within
this context of government intervention.

3.2 Achievement of Project Development Objectives

The overall PDO of the project, to improve the access of microenterprises throughout the
Northeast Region to sustainable, formal financial services by supporting expansion of the
program known as "CrediAmigo" in Brazil, was satisfactorily achieved. By the end of
2006 CrediAmigo:

    · Had 235,729 active clients, with an outstanding loan portfolio of R$177.6 million
       (US$82.6 million) and had made 3.2 million loans with a total disbursement of
       R$2.7 billion.
    · Was serving smaller clients than originally planned and about 30 percent of its
       clients were beneficiaries of Bolsa Familia (Brazil's conditional cash transfer
       program for the poor).
    · Had active clients in 1,420 municipalities in the Northeast Region of Brazil.
    · Had an adjusted return on assets (ROA) of 8 percent, achieving financial
       sustainability.




                                            12

       · Had a ratio of operating expenses to average outstanding loan portfolio of 22.3
           percent, consistent with target values.
       · Gained greater institutional recognition and independence by becoming a
           superintendency (i.e., top-tier level within BNB's organizational structure) within
           BNB rather than a special program of BNB's president. CrediAmigo accounted for
           3.7 percent of BNB's gross loans in December 2006, generated 8.8 percent of
           disbursed amounts in 2006, and contributed 7.9 percent to BNB's unadjusted net
           income (before taxes).

The project's objectives were to extend, deepen, and broaden CrediAmigo's outreach and
to achieve institutional, financial, and operational sustainability. These objectives were
quantified and reflected by core indicators identified in the PAD.

         Figure 1: Core PAD Indicators for CrediAmigo (Actual vs Projected)

                       Extend of Outreach                                                  Breadth of Outreach
                Number of active clients   PAD Projected                          Number of municipalities covered   PAD Projected
 250,000                                                    235,729
                                                                      1600
                                                                                                                                 1,420
                                                                      1400
 200,000

                                                                      1200

 150,000                                                              1000

                                                                       800
 100,000
                                                                       600

                                                                       400
  50,000

                                                                       200

      0                                                                  0
           2000    2001     2002     2003     2004    2005   2006             2000    2001    2002      2003    2004      2005   2006




                      Operational Efficiency                                              Financial Sustainability

              Adm. costs/ Avg. outstanding loans  PAD Projected                    Adjusted Return on Assets   PAD Projected
                                                                      9%
 50%                                                                                                                              8.0%
                                                                      8%

 40%                                                                  7%

                                                                      6%

 30%                                                                  5%
                                                             22.3%
                                                                      4%
 20%
                                                                      3%


 10%                                                                  2%

                                                                      1%

  0%                                                                  0%
         2000    2001     2002      2003     2004     2005   2006            2000    2001     2002     2003     2004      2005    2006



                         Depth of Outreach                                                 Intermediate Indicator
               Average loan size over NE Brazil Per Capita GDP                        Outstanding loan portfolio (R$ '000)
               PAD Projected
  80%                                                                  200,000
                                                                                                                                 177,621
                                                                       180,000
  70%
                                                                       160,000
  60%
                                                                       140,000

  50%                                                                  120,000

  40%                                                                  100,000

                                                                        80,000
  30%

                                                              19%       60,000
  20%
                                                                        40,000

  10%                                                                   20,000

   0%                                                                      -
         2000    2001      2002     2003     2004     2005   2006                2000    2001    2002     2003    2004     2005   2006




                                                                    13

(i) Extent of outreach. CrediAmigo had almost 236,000 active clients as of December
2006, up from about 58,000 in 2000 (and 266 in December 1997). The initial goal of
150,000 by the end of 2005 was surpassed. The annual growth rate of active clients
dropped from a rapid 75 percent in 1999 to an average of about 20 percent after 2003.
The average number of active clients per branch increased from 527 in 2000 (and 53 in
1997) to almost 1,400 in 2006. Loan officers were handling an average of 400 clients
each by the end of 2006, almost double the number in 2000 (228).

(ii) Depth of outreach. The ratio of average loan size to GDP per capita in Northeast
Brazil reached a high of 27 percent in 1999 and has since fallen incrementally to 19
percent in 2006. The PAD projected a ratio of 35 percent in 2000 that would grow to 65
percent by 2002 then level off, but the actual figures were substantially lower. The
primary reason has been the shift in focus by CrediAmigo toward lending to the lower
income population of the Northeast, with particular emphasis on reaching those without
access to bank services. This reorientation in CrediAmigo's client profile resulted in a
smaller average loan size (US$350 in 2006) than originally projected in the PAD
(US$518 in 2004). Indicative of the client base reached, about one-third of CrediAmigo's
clients are beneficiaries of Bolsa Familia, a conditional cash transfer program targeting
the poor.

(iii) Breadth of outreach. The number of municipalities covered by CrediAmigo grew
from 358 in 2000 to 1,420 in 2006, increasing coverage from 21 percent to 83 percent of
municipalities in the Northeast. This dramatically exceeded the projections in the PAD,
which anticipated reaching only 150 municipalities by 2004. Based on a market estimate
using data from the Brazilian Geography and Statistics Institute's (IBGE) 2000 National
Survey of Households (PNAD), CrediAmigo serves about 12 percent of its estimated
potential market (2 million microenterprises).

(iv) Financial sustainability. Between 2000 and 2006, CrediAmigo's adjusted ROA
increased from 1.1 percent to 8 percent, easily surpassing its target of 3 percent.9 This
dramatic growth in profitability accelerated in 2003 after the microfinance measures
introduced by the Central Bank (see footnote 6). As a result, CrediAmigo reduced its
interest rates, and correspondingly, its yield on loans (interest income over average
outstanding loans) dropped 10 percentage points, from 58.4 percent in 2003 to 48.1
percent in 2004. At the same time, CrediAmigo implemented a series of actions to control



9Since CrediAmigo's financial statements account for most expenses incurred in using BNB's existing
branch network, the adjustment made were: a) to subtract the non-operational income that CrediAmigo
receives as compensation for using the CDI-rate as its transfer rate rather than the current subsidized
interest rate of funds available for microfinance; and b) to subtract the input expenses on the increase in
retained earnings originated from such income tranfers. Since 2003, Brazilian banks have had a reserve
requirement of 2 percent for on-lending for microfinance. About a quarter of the microfinance institutions
in Latin America and the Caribbean had an ROA of 6 percent or more in 2006 according to the
Microfinance Information eXchange organization.


                                                    14

costs and increase loan officer productivity (see Annex 2) and its average cost of funds
(the inter-bank lending rate) also dropped due to improvements in Brazil's
macroeconomic performance.10 This combination of factors contributed to improvements
in CrediAmigo's financial self-sufficiency (ratio of interest income to total expenses) as
well as its ROA.

(v) Operational efficiency. In terms of operational efficiency (ratio of administrative costs
to average outstanding loan portfolio), CrediAmigo exceeded its target of 24 percent,
dropping from 43 percent in 2000 to 22.3 percent in 2006.

(vi) Institutional independence. The original goal of creating a subsidiary with private
investors was not possible given the prevailing political environment in Brazil.
Nevertheless, BNB achieved the objective de facto of giving CrediAmigo institutional
independence by mapping the program as a Superintendency of Microfinance and Special
Projects.11 Because a Superintendency ranks at the top of BNB's organizational structure,
vis-à-vis regional superintendencies, CrediAmigo gained both in terms of institutional
recognition and decision making flexibility. Furthermore, CrediAmigo has a fully
independent accounting framework since its inception, its credit officers are outsourced
through a single institution, and its management routines have been standardized.

Given the profitability and quality of CrediAmigo's portfolio, but more importantly the
commitment of its management, the program is expected to continue to operate according
to the development objectives and principles established in the Bank project. CrediAmigo
plans to continue expanding its coverage in the Northeast as well as the rest of the
country with a correspondent banking model. As private banks have started to enter the
microfinance market in the Northeast, CrediAmigo would need to differentiate its
products and services from those of private banks.

At the regional level, CrediAmigo has become one of the leading microfinance
institutions in the Latin America and the Caribbean region. When compared with the
average of three types of peers (namely, banks, MFIs with individual and solidarity group
loans, and financially-self sufficient large MFIs), CrediAmigo emerges as a large
program that provides smaller loans than its peer and that has very good portfolio quality.
Compare to its regional peers, CrediAmigo's annual yield on gross loans and return on
assets are higher, which may appear high for a microfinance program operating within a
development bank.




10As specified in the Loan Agreement, BNB transfers funds to CrediAmigo at the inter-bank lending rate
(CDI) irrespective of the source of funding.
11A Superintendency is a top-tier level within BNB's organizational structure.


                                                  15

 Table 1: CrediAmigo and Microfinance Institutions (MFIs) in Latin America
 and the Caribbean, 2006
                                                          Latin America and Caribbean MFI average
                                                                                          Financially
                                                                         Individual /    self-sufficient
 Indicator                                 CrediAmigo       Banks         solidarity     (large-scale)
 Number of MFIs                               n.a.            17              86               69
 Age (years)                                   10             12              11               15
 Number of active borrowers                 235,740        100,883           8,072           49,474
 Percent of women borrowers                   63%            50%             70%              53%
 Gross loan portfolio (US$ million)           88.8          129.8             4.0             49.9
 Average loan balance per borrower            377           1,500            470             1,401
 (US$)
 Return on assets                            17.3%          0.9%             1.9%            3.0%
 Adjusted return on assetsa                   8 %             n.a.            n.a.            n.a.
 Annual yield on gross portfolio             49.7%          26.0%           34.6%            29.1%
 (nominal)
 Operational expenses/loan portfolio         20.7%          18.9%           26.7%            15.2%
 Borrowers per loan officer                   400             272            263              241
 Portfolio at risk >30 days                  1.30%          2.70%           3.60%            2.30%
 Write-off ratio                             0.87%          1.30%           1.70%            2.00%
 a.When using CrediAmigo's adjusted ROA, CrediAmigo ranks at the 85th percentile among MFIs in
 LAC.
 Source: Microfinance Information eXchange (MIX), "Latin America and the Caribbean 2006 Regional
 Benchmarks Report."



CrediAmigo's interest rates, approximated by the yield on loans, may appear to generate
large amount of profits on small loans. One method to analyze CrediAmigo's interest
rates is to examine the application of interest income. The largest share of interest income
goes to cover for operating expenses (see Table 2). Because CrediAmigo has made
substantial gains in controlling costs and increasing loan officer productivity,
inefficiencies are not driving CrediAmigo's interest rates. The increase in the share of
profits in 2006 was mainly driven by a similar reduction in the cost of funds and
operating expenses between 2005 and 2006. It is expected that the application of interest
income for profits will decrease in 2007 as CrediAmigo reduced its interest rates due to
competition with private banks as well as reduction in its cost of funds.

Table 2: Application of CrediAmigo's Interest Income
 Percent of Gross Loans           Dec-01     Dec-02       Dec-03       Dec-04       Dec-05      Dec-06
 Loan loss provision (net)          5.2%       4.7%         4.3%         1.9%         0.9%         1.2%
 Cost of funds                      18%         18%         22%           17%         21%        18.2%
 Operating expenses                 38%         36%         29%           25%         23%        22.3%
 Profits                              2%          0%          3%           4%           4%       8.00%
 Interest Income                   62.8%      58.2%       58.4%         48.2%        49.5%       49.7%




                                                    16

3.3 Efficiency

The project was expected to provide substantial public benefits. First, it demonstrated that formal
financial services can be profitably provided to micro-entrepreneurs in the Northeast of Brazil. As
such, it has had spillover effects on the entry of private banks as well as on directed credit lines
offered by BNB. For example, BNB started the AgroAmigo program by adapting CrediAmigo's
lending practices to serve PRONAF Group B farmers (through a directed credit line for farming
activities). This demonstration effect could influence the design of PRONAF and other directed
credit lines.

CrediAmigo operates as a profit/cost center within Banco do Nordeste, with an independent
accounting system. As such, its financial statements are generated are integral part of those of
BNB, and follow the guidelines from the Central Bank in terms of accounting for loan loss
provision, loan classification, Basle II documentation, among other accounting practices for
financial institutions.

The economic evaluation of the project also require both an evaluation of the efficiency with
which the services are provided and the benefits to clients. To measure the cost-effectiveness in
the provision of CrediAmigo, we used three indicators. First, the ratio of administrative costs to
outstanding loan portfolio measures operational efficiency.               This ratio decreased from 51.2
percent in December 1999 to 22.3 percent in December 2006. Second, CrediAmigo's adjusted
ROA increased from 1.7 percent to 8 percent in the same period. Finally, CrediAmigo's Subsidy
Dependence Index became negative, consistent with observed profitability.12

3.4 Justification of Overall Outcome Rating

Rating: Satisfactory

The project's overall outcome rating is Satisfactory. It remains highly relevant to the
country and Bank development objectives at the time of the ICR, having achieved the
three objectives of microfinance loan portfolio expansion, strengthened institutional
capacity for sustainable growth, and demonstration spillover effect through the
institution's impact. This was achieved by accounting fully for subsidies and achieving
an adjusted ROA of 8 percent and negative SDI.




12The SDI measures the increase in interest rate required to break-even, after adjustments for inflation and
all explicit and implicit subsidies. A negative SDI indicates that the program is subsidy independent, and
as such, does not depend on subsidized financing to be profitable. At project appraisal, the market interest
rate was calculated under the assumption that CrediAmigo will be spin-off and that it would be relying on
savings mobilization to fund its operations. However, BNB has fully incorporated CrediAmigo within its
organizational structure, and thus the inter-bank rate used for transferring funds to CrediAmigo is an
adequate measure of the opportunity cost of funds.


                                                      17

3.5 Overarching Themes, Other Outcomes and Impacts

(a) Poverty Impacts, Gender Aspects, and Social Development

The project planned an impact evaluation of CrediAmigo to assess the links between the
use of credit and microenterprise development, household welfare, and poverty reduction.
This component was not implemented during the project, but CrediAmigo remains
committed to doing such an evaluation in the future (see Annex 2 for more details).
During the life of the project, various impact methodologies were evaluated and two
methodologies were aborted soon after starting implementation.           With the recent
intensification of competition between CrediAmigo and private lenders, the chance of
having the control group getting loans from private lenders offering similar products was
too high.

Even though the impact evaluation was not implemented, CrediAmigo's high repayment
rate and large number of repeat clients verify the ability of microenterprises to earn
sufficiently high returns to pay current interest rates. For example, in 2006 about 45
percent of borrowers had borrowed from CrediAmigo on more than five occasions.

Another indication of the impact of CrediAmigo is that it created a demonstration effect,
and thus promoted the entry of many actors into the microfinance arena. The presence of
private banks suggests that the project objective of improving the access of
microenterprises to sustainable, formal financial services will be strengthened beyond
CrediAmigo.

By providing financial services to microenterprises, CrediAmigo targets a segment of the
population that has a high incidence of poverty. About one-third of its clients are
beneficiaries of Bolsa Familia (Brazil's conditional cash transfer program for the poor).

A social assessment of CrediAmigo's clients, which was carried out by FINCA in 2007,
shows that about 11 percent of clients interviewed were severely poor and 27 percent
were moderately poor, based on their daily per capita expenditure. A recent study on the
profile on CrediAmigo's clients shows that they are most likely to be female (62 percent),
have between 30-50 years of age (55.3 percent) and with low educational levels.

At CrediAmigo, the share of female clients has expanded from 49 percent in 2002 to 62
percent in 2006, mainly attributed to increase focus on serving smaller clients.

Another indication of benefits for clients is the menu of services available. CrediAmigo
has expanded beyond credit services and now offers its clients basic savings accounts,
life insurance, and training.

(b) Institutional Change/Strengthening

BNB managers have repeatedly said that the example of CrediAmigo is having a catalytic
effect in the rest of the bank. Indeed, BNB adapted the lending methodology of



                                            18

CrediAmigo to create AgroAmigo, which provides subsidized financing for small family
farms as part of the National Program to Strengthen Family Agriculture (PRONAF).

At the regional and country level, in addition to the effect covered earlier for the
microfinance sector of the Northeast and the increasing competition in the field indicative
of the institutional change linked with the success of CrediAmigo, the program
experience could be replicated in the World Bank municipal lending project in Rio
Grande do Sul. Also, CrediAmigo is exploring the possibility of expanding into the rest
of the country using a correspondent banking model.

(c) Other Unintended Outcomes and Impacts (positive or negative)

N/A

3.6 Summary of Findings of Beneficiary Survey and/or Stakeholder Workshops

N/A

4. Assessment of Risk to Development Outcome

Rating: Negligible to low

The internal risk to CrediAmigo's sustainability is low. The development of a sustainable
microfinance institution was a primary objective of the program since its inception, with
sustainability defined as profitability after adjustment for inflation and any subsidies
received. Under the program, the outreach of CrediAmigo has grown alongside
establishing the de facto institutional and financial independence from BNB and the
program's financial sustainability. The strong commitment of CrediAmigo's current
management to sustainability is demonstrated by the early lessons learned from the rapid
expansion under the pilot and overcoming the interest rate consequences stemming from
the government's policy, and the operational strengthening achieved through the
agreement with the OSCIP on loan officer hiring.

5. Assessment of Bank and Borrower Performance

5.1 Bank Performance

(a) Bank Performance in Ensuring Quality at Entry

Rating: Satisfactory

Bank performance in ensuring quality at entry is Satisfactory. As noted earlier, (i) the
project's identification and design were compatible with the CAS, (ii) the project built
directly on the lessons learned from a pilot phase at BNB with minor funding through an
existing Bank loan for technical assistance and training, and (iii) the project was
consistent with the government's development strategy for the sector.




                                            19

Furthermore the Bank team (i) worked closely with CGAP and other specialists in
microfinance (ACCION International) since the pilot phase of the project, (ii) correctly
assessed the implementation agency's management commitment and capacity, whose
actions during the problems of the pilot phase due to the accelerated implementation
quickly returned CrediAmigo to high portfolio quality and productivity improvements,
(iii) built historical knowledge of the CrediAmigo program and developed strong
monitoring mechanisms based on the quality of its information systems, thus needing
only a single preparation/appraisal mission to prepare the loan, (iv) considered the
potential environmental impact of the project and developed mechanisms for this
contingency, and (v) recognized the most likely risks and identified mitigation measures.

The project received a Satisfactory performance rating from QAG for its identification,
preparation, facilitation, and appraisal toward achieving the PDO. In particular, it was
found to be well conceived, with clear and realistic objectives, good pilot experience,
valid technical approach, and strong commitment by the implementing institutions.
However, the project was also found to be risky, primarily as the result of the
government's distorted interest rate policy and competing lines of credit channeled
through state banks.


(b) Quality of Supervision

Rating: Satisfactory

Bank supervisory performance is rated Satisfactory. Throughout project implementation
there has been intensive supervision based on (i) regular monitoring of a wealth of
indicators, (ii) 11 supervision missions, and (iii) a close working relationship and
cooperation with the implementation agency.

The Bank team has proactively identified threats to the achievement of the PDO and
resolved them through a close working relationship with the implementing agency based
on mutual trust and respect. This is exemplified by the following actions:

· Government policies. After the government introduced new microcredit policies in
    2003 that affected CrediAmigo's charges on loans below R$1,000 and its profitability,
    the Bank team helped establish a transparent mechanism for BNB's compensation
    transfers to allow the calculation of CrediAmigo's sustainability excluding subsidies.
    Furthermore, alongside alternative funding as a result of government policies, the
    2002 devaluation of the Brazilian real resulted in low project disbursals. The Bank
    and Borrower teams acted proactively in taking the decision to cancel a portion of the
    loan instead of waiting.

· CrediAmigo's independence. In the face of a political environment in Brazil that
    created difficulties in achieving the original goal of creating a subsidiary with private
    investors, the Bank team concentrated on the de facto achievement of institutional
    independence through alternative means. This was achieved by mapping CrediAmigo
    under a Superintendency of Microfinance and Special Projects within BNB,


                                             20

    establishing a fully independent accounting framework, outsourcing CrediAmigo's
    credit officers to a single institution (Instituto Nordeste Cidadania), and standardizing
    CrediAmigo's management routines.

· Environmental management. The subcomponent designed to support an environmental
    mitigation program was a contingency and was of limited relevance because more than
    97 percent of CrediAmigo clients are from sectors without significant environmental
    impact. The Bank team supported the broadening of this component's scope, placing
    emphasis on developing an environmental guidance educational plan for entrepreneurs
    and systematically distributing pamphlets on environmental issues during field visits by
    CrediAmigo loan officers.

Importantly, the quality of supervision throughout project implementation has resulted in
the institutionalization of best-practice microfinance principles by CrediAmigo, ensuring
the continuation of its success beyond the end of the Bank project.

(c) Justification of Rating for Overall Bank Performance

Rating: Satisfactory

Based on the above, the overall Bank performance in ensuring quality at entry and quality
of supervision is Satisfactory toward achieving the development outcomes.

5.2 Borrower Performance

(a) Government Performance

Rating: Satisfactory

The government's performance in creating an enabling environment was Satisfactory.
The Brazilian government has recognized the importance of microfinance and has been
active in policymaking, placing great emphasis on microcredit as an alternative approach
to job generation and poverty reduction. However, during the project's long
implementation period, policies have been introduced by the government that have had
mixed impacts for the sector, some positive and others with a more questionable effect.

As an example of favorable reforms, the government allowed for the introduction of (i)
simplified deposit accounts (a basic package of bank services, free of charge up to certain
transaction limits) and simplified conditions for opening a bank account, (ii)
correspondent banking, and (iii) the creation of OSCIPs. These measures contributed to
greater access to formal services, enhanced the efficiency of banking, and benefited the
general investment climate in the country. The simplified deposit accounts had a positive
impact on access to savings and checking products, while correspondent banking helped
overcome restrictions posed by high bank branch costs and provided electronic access to
the national payments system through retail locations. The creation of OSCIPs allowed
for more flexibility in funding and lending outside the limitations of the Usury Law,
which in the past stipulated that microfinance could be extended only by NGOs, only



                                               21

allowed funding to come from donations, and set unrealistically low ceilings on interest
rates.

However, other government policies associated with subsidized sources of funding and
interest rate caps contradict best practice in the sector. In particular, as already noted, the
government's microcredit policies of 2003 affected the flexibility to price loan products, with
smaller loans subject to lower rates.

(b) Implementing Agency or Agencies Performance

Rating: Satisfactory

The performance of the implementing agency, Banco do Nordeste do Brasil, was
Satisfactory throughout project preparation and implementation. The implementing
agency has shown a high level of commitment to achieving the development objectives,
as discussed earlier in regard to management actions during the pilot expansion and the
introduction of the some adverse government policies in 2003. Monitoring data was
promptly produced and utilized in decisionmaking. The proactive identification and
resolution of threats to the achievement of the development objective is commendable, as
well as the close working relationship with the Bank team to overcome obstacles.
Importantly, best practice guidelines have been fully institutionalized during
implementation, making the sustainability of the project's impact highly likely.

(c) Justification of Rating for Overall Borrower Performance

Rating: Satisfactory

Based on the above, the overall Borrower performance is rated Satisfactory.

6. Lessons Learned

A number of lessons can be drawn from the early pilot of CrediAmigo and the project's
implementation that are useful for other microfinance institutions, the Bank, and other
donors for the design of microfinance operations. In particular,

    · Outcomes may be better when large lending follows rather than precedes the
        development of proven retail capacity. Allow programs to develop their capacity
        to manage growth with portfolio quality before providing significant funding for
        program expansion because the biggest constraint to the spread of microfinance
        services is a shortage, not of funding, but rather of competent retail capacity.
        Notably, Bank management showed patience in allowing CrediAmigo to proceed
        at its own pace.
    · Pursue the best available opportunities in a country rather than impose a universal
        model. Freedom from dogmatic presuppositions (for instance, "large state-owned
        banks can never do good microfinance") is more likely to yield positive results.
    · After proper pilot work, a bank with a large preexisting branch network can roll
        out microfinance much more rapidly than a new microfinance-only institution can.


                                              22

    · Donors can be effective with a limited technical role, setting benchmarks
       consistent with international best practice and putting the client institution in
       contact with top microfinance practitioners.
    · Maintain focus on program objectives rather than short-term performance issues
       and the missteps that are inevitable during program development, especially in
       large organizations. When missteps occur along the way but the client's
       institutional commitment to the program's objectives is strong, keeping the focus
       on the commitment and de facto results can prevent overreaction.
    · Transparency can be a powerful tool to keep the focus on sustainability. Explicitly
       taking into account subsidies in the assessment of the workings of development
       financial institutions will help management and donors keep the emphasis on low
       costs on the one hand and portfolio quality on the other.
    · Human resource management is central in microfinance. In comparison with
       normal loans, microloans are tiny yet staff-intensive, and loan officer training and
       monitoring affects both costs and portfolio quality. Instruments to be considered
       would include performance-related compensation (credit risk included), or the
       streamlining of procedures to permit more time for field visits.
    · Define and organize objectives and risk monitoring based on the measurable end
       development result the project seeks to accomplish. Allow for flexibility in
       implementation to adjust inputs and activities toward the de facto achievement of
       the targeted results.
    · Media promotional campaigns, utilizing both mainstream and alternative means
       (such as adds on cars, motocycles, and bikes), should be planned on a frequent
       basis (e.g. yearly). Their impact can be significant for both visibility and product
       demand.

7. Comments on Issues Raised by Borrower/Implementing Agencies/Partners

(a) Borrower/implementing agencies

The World Bank played an important role in CrediAmigo's growth and success in
becoming the largest provider of microfinance services in Brazil. The main benefits of
this partnership included the World Bank task team's technical assistance in the
development of project components to achieve sustainability, knowledge regarding
microfinance benchmarking in other countries, field missions, establishment of target
performance indicators, and the implementation of a corporate governance model.

The environmental and socio-economic evaluations as well as the creation of a subsidiary
agency were some of the challenges encountered throughout the implementation of the
Loan Agreement.

In future collaborations, we would suggest an increase in flexibility on behalf of the
World Bank regarding the development of objective indicators, as well as the appropriate
project components to achieve these goals. In addition to this, we would encourage a
clear design and methodology for impact evaluation.




                                           23

We acknowledge the World Bank's positive performance and Banco do Nordeste's plans
to continue this partnership.

(b) Cofinanciers

(c) Other partners and stakeholders




                                       24

Annex 1. Project Costs and Financing


(a) Project Cost by Component (in USD million equivalent)

                                       Appraisal estimate    Actual/latest estimate   Percentage of
Components                               (USD million)         (USD million)   a        appraisalb

Expanded Microfinance Loan
   Portfolio                                    85.5                 67.3                 78.7

Strengthened Capacity to Support
   Sustainable Growth of                        13.7                 12.3                 89.5
   CrediAmigo
Impact Evaluation                                0.3                   0.1                19.6
      Total Baseline Cost                       99.5                 79.6                 80.0
Physical contingencies                           0.0                   0.0                 0.0
Price contingencies                              0.0                   0.0                 0.0
      Total Project Costs                       99.5                 79.6                 80.0
Project Preparation Fund                         0.0                   0.0                 0.0
Front-end fee IBRD                               0.5                   0.5                100.0
      Total Financing Required                100.0                  80.1                 80.0
a. US$10.233 million was cancelled from the Bank loan and US$1.277 million was undisbursed.
b. Percentages calculated from actual amounts before rounding.


(b) Financing

                                                           Appraisal       Actual/latest  Percentage
                                           Type of         estimate          estimate         of
Source of funds                          cofinancing    (USD million)     (USD million)   appraisal
International Bank for
   Reconstruction and Development                           50.0              38.5           77.0

Borrower: Banco do Nordeste                                 50.0              42.6           85.2




                                                   25

Annex 2. Outputs by Component

This Annex summarizes the outputs that have been realized under the project. It assesses output
targets against those set out in the PAD. As described in Section 1.7, in December, 2005,
following BNB's request, the Bank canceled the amount of US$10,233,876 (US$10,000,000 from
category 1 and US$233,876 from category 3) from the loan and extended project implementation
for another 15 months. The cancellation had no impact on project implementation, namely at the
project indicators level. The revisions are reflected below by component. The table at the end of
this annex presents all data to document outputs per component. The analysis below uses data
through December 2006, instead of March 31, 2007. There are no material differences in the
outputs presented between those two dates.

Component 1. Expanded Microfinance Loan Portfolio--US$85.50 million (revised to
US$67.27 million)

This component provided funds for CrediAmigo to make subloans for microenterprises in the
Northeast Region of Brazil. CrediAmigo currently offers a variety of financial products, such as
solidarity group loans, individual loans, fixed-investment loans, life insurance, and simplified
checking accounts (see Subcomponent 2.5 for a description of these products).

CrediAmigo's loan portfolio
                                                            Figure 1: CrediAmigo's Loan Portfolio ('000)
amounted to US$83 million            200,000                     107%                                                           120%

by December 2006, below the
                                                                            86%
target indicated in the ISR,         150,000

                                                                                     62%
but within the projected range       100,000                                              46%                                   60%

of the sensitivity analysis
                                     50,000                                                       18%      22%      27%    26%

presented in the PAD (US$80
million­US$175 million). Its             -                                                                                      0%
                                               1997     1998      1999      2000    2001 2002    2003      2004     2005   2006
loan portfolio increased 5.4
                                            Annual Growth Rate (Reais, nominal, %)        Loan Portfolio (Reais, nominal)
times, from US$17 million in                Loan Portfolio (Reais, real, CPI base 2000)   Loan Portfolio (US$, nominal)

2000 (and about US$35,000
in 1997), consistent with sustained growth rate. Two main factors explain the difference between
projected target and actual values in CrediAmigo's loan portfolio in U.S. dollars. First, the
projections assumed that individual loans would account for 34 percent of CrediAmigo's loan
portfolio, instead of the actual value of 18 percent. Since individual loans are larger than
solidarity group or village bank loans, the loan portfolio grew slower than originally projected.
Since reaching a peak in 2001, the average loan size, in real terms, has being steadily declining to
85 percent of its 2000 value. Second, during that period, Brazil experienced substantial variations
in its exchange rate (devaluation and then appreciation with respect to the U.S. dollar). In local
currency, CrediAmigo's loan portfolio reached R$178 million, also within the projected range
(R$154 million­R$280 million). CrediAmigo exhibited very high annual growth rates in its loan
portfolio during its early years, stabilizing to around 25 percent per year after 2003, instead of the
projected 48 percent.




                                                          26

In terms of active clients, CrediAmigo surpassed its target of 150,000 clients by almost 90,000
clients, remaining still within the projected range. The growth rate of active clients declined until
2003 when it stabilized at around 20 percent per year. With almost 236,000 clients, CrediAmigo
provide loans to about 12 percent of its potential market. Using data from the IBGE/PNAD 2000,
CrediAmigo estimates its potential market comprises 2 million microenterprises (self-employed
and employers with up to 11 years of school and at least 18 years old) in the commerce, services,
industry, and transport sectors.13 The data indicates that there are substantial variations in market
penetration across different states in the Northeast Region. In the state of Ceará, CrediAmigo
estimates that it serves about 20 percent of the market, while in Bahia it is only 6 percent.


                               Figure 2: CrediAmigo's Active Clients


     250,000                                                                                      80%


     200,000
                                                                                                  60%

     150,000
                                                                                                  40%
     100,000

                                                                                                  20%
      50,000


         -                                                                                        0%
                 1997    1998    1999     2000     2001     2002    2003   2004      2005    2006


                      Active Clients       Projected Active Clients     Annual Growth Rate (%)



               Figure 3: CrediAmigo's Active Clients and Market Penetration per
                                                State, 2006


    80,000                                                                                        25%

    60,000                                                                                        20%
                                                                                                  15%
    40,000
                                                                                                  10%
    20,000                                                                                        5%
        -                                                                                         0%

           Alagoas     hia     ara               ais                                rte
                     Ba      Ce    Maranhao    Ger      raiba    buco   Piaui            rgipe
                                                      Pa
                                          Minas              rnam            R.G. No    Se

                                                            Pe


                                    Active Clients       Market Penetration (%) *




13CrediAmigo's 2006 Annual Report.


                                                      27

Project Component 2. Strengthened Capacity for Sustainable Growth of CrediAmigo--
US$13.70 million (revised to US$13.57 million of which US$12.26 million was implemented)

2.1 Marketing (US$1,130,000). Under this subcomponent CrediAmigo implemented a series of
activities to promote its products among the potential market and hired consultants to help in
designing its marketing strategy. Initially, CrediAmigo adopted various marketing policies, with
actions through the regional media (TV and radio, announcements using car and motorcycle-
mounted speakers, banners). However, it found that (i) it was more cost effective to invest in
local marketing activities, such as local radio, and promotional activities in the street
(CrediAmigo, the Big Friend); (ii) existing clients play an important role in getting new clients,
and marketing events could be organized by them, such as "tea for friends" in which, with the
assistance of the loan officer, existing clients invite friends to hear a presentation about the
program from loan officers as well as the experiences from existing CrediAmigo clients; (iii) it
was important to harmonize marketing and promotional material (e.g., pamphlets, banners) across
branches; and (iv) marketing efforts should be directed towards retaining clients, for example
through negotiated discounts in stores, the possibility of earning points that could be redeemed
for promotional goods with the CrediAmigo brand, and awards for best microenterprises.

2.2 Risk Management (US$120,000). The objective of this subcomponent was to provide
CrediAmigo with tools for improving and maintaining portfolio quality and reducing variability
in portfolio quality between loan officers and branches. To focus CrediAmigo's management on
maintaining low arrears and financial sustainability, the project included policies in the Loan
Agreement on maintenance of portfolio quality and restrictions on re-aging, and refinancing. Two
indicators of portfolio quality were included: portfolio-at-risk and loan write-offs.


                                                          Figure 4: Portfolio Quality
                        6.0%

                        5.0%

                        4.0%

                        3.0%

                        2.0%

                        1.0%

                        0.0%
                                 1998       1999      2000        2001      2002        2003    2004       2005      2006




                         Portfolio-at-risk 30 days after write-offs / Loan Portfolio (%)   Write-offs / Avg. Gross Loans (%)



                                         Figure 5: Portfolio Quality Indicators by State, 2006


                        2.00%


                        1.50%


                        1.00%


                        0.50%


                        0.00%

                             Alagoas       hia      ara                 rais
                                         Ba      Ce      Maranhao
                                                                Minas Ge        raiba            Piaui             rgipe
                                                                             Pa       rnambuco
                                                                                    Pe                R.G. Norte Se



                                                Arrear Rate       Portfolio-at-risk (operational definition)




                                                                         28

As measured by portfolio-at-risk 30 days,14 CrediAmigo's portfolio quality always remained
below the trigger value in the loan agreement (8 percent).15 In its initial years, portfolio-at-risk
showed a seasonal pattern: deteriorating until mid-year and then improving by December. At the
end of 2003 a new downward trend started and CrediAmigo's portfolio-at-risk dropped to about
1.4 percent by the end of 2006. Similarly, the write-off ratio16 dropped to less than 1 percent by
the end of 2006. This marked improvement in portfolio quality can be attributed to a number of
factors. In 2003, the Project Coordination Unit (PCU) created the Unit for Financial and Risk
Management, which centralized financial management procedures and oversight. In 2006 this
unit established a decentralized monitoring system, with monitoring teams auditing all units of
CrediAmigo throughout the fiscal year and producing reports on their performance with regard to
process adequacy and conformity. Second, the program redesigned its compensation policy for
loan officers (see next subcomponent) to create greater rewards for portfolio quality. Third,
CrediAmigo introduced the "popular solidarity group loan" with a lower interest rate, following
the guidelines of the 2003 microcredit policies.17 As a result, the program started attracting clients
demanding smaller loans as well as more women, both of which are associated with better credit
risk.

Portfolio quality still presents wide variations across states, although much lower than at the start
of the project. Using CrediAmigo's operational definition of portfolio-at-risk,18 historically the
state of Ceará has had the best portfolio quality, while the state of Bahia the worst. Nevertheless,
the standard deviation was reduced by half between 2003 and 2006, from 1.15 percent to 0.47
percent.19 Using another indicator of portfolio quality, the arrears rate (installments up to 90 days
in arrears over gross loan portfolio) also presented a reduction of its standard deviation across
states.

2.3 Loan Officer Productivity (US$230,000). This subcomponent aimed to enhance loan officer
productivity in terms of number of active and new clients. Consistent with its portfolio growth,
the number of loan officers also increased substantially between 2000 and 2006, reaching almost
590 by the end of 2006. They account for about 53 percent of CrediAmigo's employees.




14Portfolio-at-risk 30 days is defined as the ratio of outstanding balance of all loans with at least one
payment at least 30 days overdue to gross outstanding loans. In its accounting, CrediAmigo writes off loans
at 360 days according to Central Bank regulations.
15The trigger value was selected based on the performance of microfinance institutions.
16Loans written off during the period over the average gross loan portfolio.
17See Kumar and others (2005) for a summary of the 2003 microcredit policies.
18For its daily management CrediAmigo uses a modified version of the portfolio-at-risk because it wants
its loan officers to focus on promptly collecting payments in arrears. The operational portfolio-at-risk
equals the ratio of installments in arrears up to 30 days plus the outstanding balance of all loans with at
least one payment at least 30 days overdue to gross outstanding loans. In the operational system, loans are
written off after having 90 days in arrears because the probability of recovering a loan is very low after 90
days.
19See 2006 CrediAmigo's Annual Report.


                                                       29

                                                                            Loan     officer    productivity
                   Figure 6: Loan Officer Productivity
                                                                            improved dramatically during the
  700                                                                       life of the project. By 2006,
  600                                                                       CrediAmigo's loan officers were
  500                                                                       managing     about  400   active

  400                                                                       clients on average, up from 228

  300                                                                       in 2000. However, loan officers

  200                                                                       were attracting an average of 18

  100                                                                       new clients per month, roughly

    0                                                                       the same as in 2000 (17 new
         2000    2001     2002       2003     2004         2005       2006  clients).

              Number of Loan Officers  Active Clients per loan officer
                                                                            A    combination    of   factors
contributed toward increasing loan officer productivity. With the reduction in interest rates in
2003 (due to the microfinance policies the Central Bank), CrediAmigo refocused its attention on
finding cost reduction actions and increasing loan officer productivity. An important step was the
signing of a partnership agreement with Instituto Cidadania (an OSCIP created by BNB
employees) in 2003 to centralize the hiring and oversight of CrediAmigo's staff, cancelling
contracts with all the NGOs that were then being used to hire loan officers.20 Under this
agreement, Instituto Cidadania selects, hires, trains, and evaluates loan officers for CrediAmigo,
thereby allowing for the centralization of personnel expenses in a single organization and a
reduction of fees and commissions for staff management. In this process, all loan officers were
dismissed with severance payments, with selective rehiring under the Instituto Cidadania.
CrediAmigo introduced a career development plan for loan officers, placed greater emphasis on
training loan officers, and introduced an improved performance-based compensation system
(which resulted in better portfolio growth and quality).

CrediAmigo embarked in a process of revising not only its organizational structure, but also its
procedures and processes. For example, it revised its lending methodology, eliminating
unnecessary steps and merging others.21 The approval of loans by regional managers was
transferred to a web-based system, thus speeding the lending process. Furthermore, CrediAmigo
hired consultants to develop operational routines for loan officers to optimize the time loan
officers spend in the street as well as for harmonizing procedures across branches.

Training has been an important component of enhancing officer productivity, and the curriculum
has evolved to reflect the needs of the program. This consists of internal (in-house) and external
courses, with the former accounting for about 80 percent of the total. The table below summarizes
the internal courses offered and their attendance in the period 2004­06. The basic internal course
offered from the early years of CrediAmigo is the "Training for Microfinance Officers--
Methodology I," while throughout the years, with the changing client profile, the addition of new
products, and higher market share competition, the courses increased in number, depth, and


20Except for about 30 people that work in CrediAmigo's central unit, as well as regional managers,
CrediAmigo subcontracts its personnel in order to have more flexibility. Before the creation of Instituto
Cidadania, CrediAmigo had contracts with about 10 local NGOs to hire staff.
21See request for no-objection.


                                                            30

 Table 1: Courses Offered and Staff Participation
                                                                                Year

 Course                                                               2004     2005        2006

 Internal                                                              760      943       1,099

    Learning in Action                                                  45       74          21

    CrediAmigo Comunidade--In Practice                                   -        -          88

    CrediAmigo Comunidade--In Theory                                     -        -         183

    Forum of Coordinators                                                -        -         212

    Training of Officers Specializing in Monitoring                      -        -          10

    Training of Officers Specializing in Human Resources                 -       22          16

    Training / Refresh course for Facilitators                           -       14          21

    Training for Facilitators of Administrative Routines                 -       12           5

    Training for Microfinance Officers--Methodology I                  265      338         325

    Training for Microfinance Officers--Methodology II                 262      191          91

    Administrative Routines                                              -      244         127

    Leadership Coaching                                                188       18            -

    Training for Trainers of the course "Entrepreneurship" (Client
    training)                                                            -       30            -

 External                                                              131      254         271

 Total                                                                 891    1,197       1,370

complexity. The external courses include Client Loyalty, Communication skills, Negotiation
Skills, Leadership Skills, Motivation skills, Management, Sales, Information Technology, Human
Resources, Accounting and Finance, Internal Auditing, Credit and Payments, Entrepreneurship,
and Marketing.

2.4 Geographic Coverage (US$11,170,000). This subcomponent was designed to finance
feasibility studies and pilot evaluations of outreach technologies, including financial projections,
legal and regulatory requirements, and staff training and support needs.

Using the existing branch network of Banco do Nordeste was the first strategy to expand its
operation. The geographic expansion of CrediAmigo into BNB's branches occurred very steadily.
Thus, the geographical distribution of CrediAmigo's branches reflects the priorities of BNB
rather than a market decision of where to expand. The number of subbranches increased rapidly
from 2000 to 2002, but experienced a decline in subsequent years. With its 170 branches and 23
subbranches, CrediAmigo has clients in about 1,420 municipalities (about 83 percent of all
municipalities in the Northeast).

To expand into low density areas as well as to target low-income borrowers, in 2005 CrediAmigo
launched a new loan product, CrediAmigo Comunidade, after an initial pilot phase. CrediAmigo
Comunidade uses the village banking methodology where loans are granted to a bank formed by
a group of microenterprises. Currently, CrediAmigo Comunidade has about 11,000 clients with a
loan portfolio of R$2.5 million.




                                                        31

More recently, BNB started negotiating bilateral agreements with other Banks for the use of their
infrastructure for payment services for loans and savings. CrediAmigo has not taken advantage of
the 2003 correspondent banking legislation that provided the legal foundations for a
correspondent relationship. Correspondence banking is an arrangement referring to bank
partnerships with nonbanks (including lottery outlets, post offices, supermarkets, grocery stores,
petrol stations, and other retail outlets) to provide distribution outlets for financial services.
Nevertheless, it is part of its expansion plan after project closing to develop a model of
correspondent banking agreements and to diversify operational risks.22



2.5 New Financial Products (US$330,000). This subcomponent was designed to support
feasibility studies and pilot evaluations of loan and savings products. Table 2 presents
CrediAmigo's current financial instruments and their characteristics.

Table 2: CrediAmigo's Financial Instrument Characteristics
Financial                                                              Group         Monthly
instrument                  Characteristics             Loan size       size      interest rate   Maturity Payments Guarantee
Popular Solidarity                                                                                Up to 6   Biweekly
Loans (Giro         Microenterprises with at list 1       R$100­      3 to 10     1.95% +                   or monthly,    Solidarity

Popular Solidário)  year in operations. /1                1,000                   originating fee months    fixed          group


CrediAmigo          Community group formation for         R$100­                  1.95% +         Up to 6   Biweekly       Solidarity
Comunidade          working capital and small                         15 to 30                              or monthly,
                    equipment financing. /1               1,000                   originating fee months    fixed          group


Solidarity Loans    For microenterprises borrowing      R$1,000­                  2%-3% +         Up to 6   Biweekly       Solidarity
(Giro Solidário)    more than R$1,000. /1                 8,000       3 to 10     originating fee months    or monthly,
                                                                                                            fixed          group


Individual Loans    For existing customers in need        R$300­                  2%-3% +         Up to 6   Biweekly

(Giro Individual)   of complementary resources to                         -                                 or monthly, Cosigner
                    expand activities. /1                 8,000                   originating fee months    fixed
Fixed Investment
Loans               For existing customers to             R$100­                  2.95%           Up to     Monthly,
(Investimento       purchase equipment or reform          5,000           -       (effective) +   36        fixed          Cosigner

Fixo)               business. /2                                                  originating fee months

Life Insurance
(Seguro Vida        Cost of R$15 or R$25,00 to provide payment in case of death (between R$1,000­R$3,000) as well as assistance

CrediAmigo)         with funeral expenses (R$625­R$825).

Simplified
Checking            For accounts with less than R$1,000 turnover per month, these are free from any card fees, maintenance and any

Account (Offered    other bank charges, but subject to an upper limit and restricted number of withdrawals, deposits, and account

by BNB)             statements.

/1 Resources for raw material purchase and/or merchandises (working capital).
/2 Resource for purchase of machines/equipment and/or business/residence reforms (fixed capital).
Note: Loan originating fee (Taxa de Abertura de Crédito) is a fee of up to 3% of the loan amount.


Notably, CrediAmigo today offers products for working capital and the purchase of equipment,
and instruments that go beyond credit, including life insurance and simplified checking accounts.
The introduction of these products has been gradually accelerating in recent years. The program
started with the Solidarity Group Loans in 1997, followed by Individual Loans in 1999, and
Investment Loans in 2001. The Popular Solidarity Group Loans were introduced as a response to




22 The current agreement with the OSCIP Nordeste Cidadania puts CrediAmigo at some level of
operational risk, and all of its non-BNB personnel are being employed by a single institution.


                                                                 32

the 2003 microcredit policies for loans below R$1,000. The main differences between the
Solidarity Group Loans and the Popular Solidarity Group Loans are (i) loan size and (ii) interest
rates. Also in 2003, BNB started offering simplified checking accounts to CrediAmigo clients and
today all borrowers have one. Thus, the savings mobilized through these accounts are not
reflected into CrediAmigo's financial statements. CrediAmigo Comunidade, a village bank loan,
was introduced in 2005, followed by Life Insurance in 2006.

As shown in Figure 7, loans using solidarity group methodology (Popular Solidarity Group and
Solidarity Group) accounted for the largest share of loans in both 2001 and 2006. Individual and
fixed-investment loans have increased the share due to their higher growth rate.

Figure 7: CrediAmigo's Composition of Loans (% of amounts)

                              2001                                                  2006

             Fixed Investment                                                      Crediamigo
                  Loans                                        Fixed Investment   Comunidade
                    9%                                              Loans             1%
                                                                     13%
       Individual Loans                                                                          Solidarity Group

             3%                                                                                      Loans
                                                        Individual Loans                              30%
                                                              6%




                                    Solidarity Group              Popular Solidarity
                                        Loans                       Group Loans
                                         88%                            50%




Environmental Management (US$110,000). The project was designed to support an
environmental mitigation program for at-risk microenterprise clients and training of
CrediAmigo's business management/environmental officers in the branches. This component was
the result of a cautious approach towards the expansion of CrediAmigo's clientele, to account for
the possibility of clients with potential environmental impact. However, more than 97 percent of
CrediAmigo clients are from sectors without significant environmental impact. Therefore, the
component's scope was refocused to include entrepreneurial guidance, the use of educational
pamphlets and workshops for entrepreneurs, and basic training for CrediAmigo loan officers. A
firm was contracted to develop an educational plan that placed emphasis on environmental
guidance for entrepreneurs, with 15 workshops expected to take place in 2007. Furthermore, over
100,000 educational pamphlets on environmental issues have been systematically distributed
during field visits by CrediAmigo loan officers.


Institutional Independence (US$310,000). This subcomponent aimed at supporting efforts to spin
off CrediAmigo into a subsidiary of BNB with the possibility of attracting private investors.
Instead, BNB opted to achieve the subcomponent's underlying goals by providing greater
institutional independence to CrediAmigo within BNB. In 2003, it created a Superintendency of
Microfinance and Special Projects, which provided gains for the program both in institutional
recognition and in flexibility in the decisionmaking process, pricing structure, and respect to



                                                      33

personnel. As such, the current organizational status of CrediAmigo allows it the flexibility and
recognition needed to operate with a focus on financial sustainability. At the same time, by being
within the organizational structure of BNB, CrediAmigo has the possibility of sharing its
experience and influencing the design of other programs run by BNB. For example, the
AgroAmigo program was started by adapting CrediAmigo's lending practices to serve PRONAF
Group B farmers (through a directed credit line for farming activities).

Loan Administration (US$300,000). This subcomponent provided financing to assist in punctual
activities in support of loan administration, including external loan audits and assistance with
development of bidding documents for procurement.


Component 3. Impact Evaluation--US$0.30 million (of which US$0.06 million was
implemented). This component provided financing for the design, implementation, and analysis
of an impact evaluation of CrediAmigo to assess the links between the use of credit and
microenterprise development, household welfare, and poverty reduction. This component was not
implemented during the project, but CrediAmigo remains committed to doing such an evaluation
in the future. Initially, CrediAmigo hired local consultants for the design of the impact evaluation,
but later requested technical assistance from the World Bank to design and implement a
randomized impact evaluation.23 After reaching agreement on an impact evaluation methodology
(randomization of clients with bad credit marks) and questionnaire design, CrediAmigo hired a
firm to carry out the baseline survey. Data collection started in September of 2005. However, the
survey implementation ran into logistical problems24 and after detemining that the identification
assumptions would require a much larger sample (and thus a more costly survey), the World
Bank and CrediAmigo teams agreed on stopping data collection and using a different strategy to
evaluate impacts by randomizing around a credit score model. Just before starting the
implementation of this new design, private banks started entering the microfinance market in the
Northeast and hired away about 10 percent of CrediAmigo's loan officers over a period of a few
months. As a result, both the World Bank and CrediAmigo teams agreed that it would be better to
think about evaluating the impact of CrediAmigo with the forthcoming expansion plan into new
areas, outside the Northeast or within the Northeast (in less populated municipalities).
Nevertheless, the entry of private lenders into the microfinance market and the hiring of
CrediAmigo's loan officers clearly demonstrate the impact of CrediAmigo in changing the
landscape of microfinance in Brazil.




23The World Bank team was led by Emmanuel Skoufias.
24One logistical difficulty was interviewing individuals in the control and treatment group during a 48 hour
window. In order to reduce bias from respondent, the methodology called for interviewing
microentrepreneurs before they will be informed whether their loan application was approved.


                                                    34

CrediAmigo - Indicators


                          Dec-97   Dec-98     Dec-99       Dec-00     Dec-01     Dec-02     Dec-03      Dec-04      Dec-05      Dec-06
      Core Project
        Indicators
Indicator 1: Extent of      266    21,661     37,976        57,967    85,309    118,955    138,497     162,868     195,378      235,729
Outreach: Number of
active clients
Indicator 2: Breadth of     n.a.      n.a.       n.a.          358       635        624       1,172       1,165       1,200       1,420
Outreach: Number of
municipalities in NE
Brazil with CrediAmigo
clients.
Indicator 3: Operational   527%     183%        51%          43%        38%        36%        29%         25%         23%         22%
Efficiency:
Administrative costs
over average
outstanding loan
portfolio (%)
Indicator 4: Financial      n.a.    -111%         2%           1%         2%         0%         3%          4%          4%          8%
Sustainability: Adjusted
Return on Assets
(before taxes)
Indicator 5:
Independent
Institutional Framework
Intermediate Indicator    39,521 8,518,697 17,613,634   32,816,435 53,265,486 77,730,978 91,516,126 111,541,109 141,317,421 177,621,238
1: Depth of Outreach:
Outstanding loan
portfolio - R$
Intermediate Indicator      n.a.     20%        27%          25%        24%        22%        20%         18%         19%         19%
2: Average loan size
over NE Brazil Per
Capita GDP


     Program Wide
        Indicators
Coverage

Active Clients              266    21,661     37,976       57,967     85,309    118,955    138,497      162,868     195,378     235,729

  Growth Rate (%)                  8043%        75%          53%        47%        39%        16%         18%         20%         21%

Women Clients (%)           n.a.      n.a.       n.a.        50%        51%        49%        53%         61%         61%         62%




                                                                   35

                           Dec-97   Dec-98     Dec-99        Dec-00      Dec-01     Dec-02     Dec-03      Dec-04      Dec-05       Dec-06
Municipalities Covered       n.a.      n.a.       n.a.          358         635        624       1172        1165        1200         1420

Percentage of Total          n.a.      n.a.       n.a.          13%        23%        23%        43%         42%         44%          52%
Municipalities Covered
Number of                    n.a.      n.a.       n.a.           n.a.       n.a.       n.a.       n.a.         851         n.a.         250
municipalities with >20
active clients
Branches                       5        50         79           110         160        165        166         170         170          170

Posts                          0         0           0             5         55         56         44           28          23           26

Loan Officers                 17       237        252            254        353        396        441          424         503          589

Portfolio

Loan Portfolio (Reais,     39,521 8,518,697 17,613,634    32,816,435  53,265,486 77,730,978 91,516,126 111,541,109 141,317,421  177,621,238
nominal)
  Growth Rate (%)                  21455%       107%            86%         62%        46%        18%         22%         27%          26%

Loan Portfolio (Reais,     46,389 9,835,818 18,668,743    32,816,435  49,486,014 64,163,285 69,114,652  78,287,529  93,846,792  114,364,569
real, CPI base 2000)
  Growth Rate (%)                  21103%        90%            76%         51%        30%         8%         13%         20%          22%

Loan Portfolio (US$,       35,522 7,071,806  9,562,233    16,721,750  22,551,965 21,442,437 31,341,139  41,046,997  61,853,819   82,614,529
nominal)
  Growth Rate (%)                  19809%        35%            75%         35%        -5%        46%         31%         51%          34%

Portfolio Quality

Portfolio-at-risk 30 days    n.a.   208,105        n.a.    1,303,126   2,640,162  3,183,861  4,441,791   2,094,548   2,244,205    2,511,671
after write-offs (Reais,
nominal)
Portfolio-at-risk 30 days    n.a.    2.50%        n.a.        4.00%       5.00%      4.10%      4.90%       1.90%       1.60%        1.40%
after write-offs / Loan
Portfolio (%)
   St Dev                    n.a.      n.a.       n.a.        0.30%       1.30%      0.42%      0.44%       0.54%       0.11%        0.15%

   Variability (St           n.a.      n.a.       n.a.           8%         26%       10%          9%        29%           7%          11%
Dev/Mean)
Write-offs (Reais,                  202,342    568,243         4,099     432,890  2,405,692  2,717,565   3,446,621   1,426,714
nominal)
Write-offs / Avg. Gross      n.a.       5%         4%            0%          1%         4%         3%          4%          1%           1%
Loans (%)
Financial
Sustainability
ROA: Return on Assets        n.a.    -111%         2%            1%          2%         0%         4%          8%         12%          18%

Adjusted ROA                 n.a.    -111%         2%            1%          2%         0%         3%          4%          4%           8%

Operational Efficiency




                                                                      36

                          Dec-97   Dec-98    Dec-99     Dec-00    Dec-01    Dec-02    Dec-03    Dec-04    Dec-05     Dec-06
Administrative Costs /    526.8%   183.0%     51.2%      42.9%     38.4%     36.1%     29.0%     25.3%     23.1%      22.3%
Avg. Gross Loans (%)


  Branch Indicators

Active Clients

Average Active Clients        53      433       481        527       533       721       834       958      1,149      1,387

Portfolio

Average Loan Portfolio     7,904   170,374   222,957    298,331   332,909   471,097   551,302   656,124   831,279  1,044,831
(Reais, nominal)
 Growth Rate (%)                    2055%       31%        34%       12%       42%       17%       19%       27%        26%

Average Loan Portfolio     9,278   196,716   236,313    298,331   309,288   388,868   416,353   460,515   552,040    672,733
(Reais, real, CPI base
2000)
 Growth Rate (%)                    2020%       20%        26%        4%       26%        7%       11%       20%        22%

Average Loan Portfolio     7,104   141,436   121,041    152,016   140,950   129,954   188,802   241,453   363,846    485,968
(US$, nominal)
 Growth Rate (%)                    1891%      -14%        26%       -7%       -8%       45%       28%       51%        34%

Portfolio Quality

Average Arrears              n.a.     n.a.    2.97%      1.91%     2.65%     2.37%     2.59%     1.37%     1.45%      1.15%
(Portfolio-at-risk 30
days after write-offs /
Loan Portfolio , %)
  St Dev                     n.a.     n.a.    4.71%      1.73%     2.45%     2.28%     1.99%     1.51%     1.28%      0.98%

  Variability (St            n.a.     n.a.    159%         91%      92%       96%       77%      110%       88%        85%
Dev/Mean)
Productivity

Average New Clients          n.a.      348       435        425       425       477       478      467        519        631
(per branch)
  St Dev                     n.a.     183       371         409       406       352       346      341        398        484

  Variability (St            n.a.    53%        85%        96%       96%       74%       72%       73%       77%        77%
Dev/Mean)


      Loan Officer
       Indicators
Active Clients

Average Active Clients        16        91       151        228       242       300       314      384        388        400
per loan officer
Portfolio




                                                                37

                           Dec-97  Dec-98    Dec-99    Dec-00     Dec-01    Dec-02    Dec-03    Dec-04    Dec-05    Dec-06
Average Loan Portfolio      2,325   35,944   69,895    129,199    150,894   196,290   207,520   263,069   280,949   301,564
(Reais, nominal) per
loan officer
  Growth Rate (%)                   1446%      94%       85%        17%       30%         6%       27%        7%        7%

Average Loan Portfolio      2,729   41,501   74,082    129,199    140,187   162,028   156,723   184,640   186,574   194,167
(Reais, real, CPI base
2000) per loan officer
  Growth Rate (%)                   1421%      79%       74%          9%      16%        -3%       18%        1%        4%

Average Loan Portfolio      2,090   29,839   37,945     65,834     63,887    54,148    71,068    96,809   122,970   140,262
(US$, nominal) per loan
officer
  Growth Rate (%)                   1328%      27%       73%         -3%      -15%       31%       36%       27%       14%

Portfolio Quality

Portfolio-at-risk 30 days    n.a.     n.a.     n.a.       n.a.       n.a.      n.a.    2.11%     0.96%     1.18%     0.88%
after write-offs / Loan
Portfolio
   St Dev                    n.a.     n.a.     n.a.       n.a.       n.a.      n.a.    2.28%     1.04%     1.28%     1.01%

   Variability (St           n.a.     n.a.     n.a.       n.a.       n.a.      n.a.    108%      108%      108%      115%
Dev/Mean)
Productivity (loan
officers with >9
months experience)
Average New Clients          n.a.     n.a.     n.a.        n.a.       11        12        12        16        15        18
(per loan officer at
program level)
   St Dev                    n.a.     n.a.     n.a.        n.a.       10        10         8          9         9        12

   Variability (St           n.a.     n.a.     n.a.       n.a.      91%       83%        67%       56%       60%       67%
Dev/Mean)
Average New Clients          n.a.     n.a.     n.a.        n.a.       14        15        13        15        15        18
(per loan officer at
branch level)
   St Dev                    n.a.     n.a.     n.a.        n.a.       10        11         6          9         9        12

   Variability (St           n.a.     n.a.     n.a.       n.a.      71%       73%        46%       60%       60%       67%
Dev/Mean)


      Active Client
       Indicators
Avg. Loan Size (Reais,       149      393      464         566       624       653       661       685       723       753
nominal)
Avg. Loan Size (Reais,       174      454      492        566        580       539       499       481       480       485
real, CPI base 2000)




                                                                38

                        Dec-97  Dec-98   Dec-99    Dec-00   Dec-01   Dec-02   Dec-03   Dec-04   Dec-05   Dec-06
Avg. Loan Size (US$,      134     326      252       288      264      180      226      252      317      350
nominal)


   Other Indicators

Consumer price index      85.2    86.6     94.3     100.0    107.6    121.1    132.4    142.5    150.6    155.3
(2000 = 100)
Exchange Rate (Reais /    1.11    1.20     1.84      1.96     2.36     3.63     2.92     2.72     2.28     2.15
US$)




                                                          39


Annex 3. Economic and Financial Analysis25

The project was expected to provide substantial public benefits. First, it demonstrated that formal
financial services can be profitably provided to micro-entrepreneurs in the Northeast of Brazil. As
such, it has had spillover effects on the entry of private banks as well as on directed credit lines
offered by BNB. For example, BNB started the AgroAmigo program by adapting CrediAmigo's
lending practices to serve PRONAF Group B farmers (through a directed credit line for farming
activities). This demonstration effect could influence the design of PRONAF and other directed
credit lines.

CrediAmigo operates as a profit/cost center within Banco do Nordeste, with an independent
accounting system. As such, its financial statements are generated are integral part of those of
BNB, and follow the guidelines from the Central Bank in terms of accounting for loan loss
provision, loan classification, Basle II documentation, among other accounting practices for
financial institutions.

The economic evaluation of the project also requires both an evaluation of the efficiency with
which the services are provided and the benefits to clients. To measure the cost-effectiveness in
the provision of CrediAmigo, we used three indicators. First, the ratio of administrative costs to
outstanding loan portfolio measures operational efficiency.               This ratio decreased from 51.2
percent in December 1999 to 22.3 percent in December 2006. Second, CrediAmigo's adjusted
ROA increased from 1.7 percent to 8 percent in the same period. Finally, CrediAmigo's Subsidy
Dependence Index became negative, consistent with observed profitability.26

Microcredit projects are based on the assumption that microentrepreneurs have the capacity to
invest and manage their business and that they have opportunities for growth to be tapped.
Measuring the impacts on clients is more difficult because of the fungibility of the use of credit.
Such evaluation of impacts was programmed as a component of the project, but as explained in
Annex 2 it was not carried out. CrediAmigo's good portfolio quality shows that mainly
microenterprises with solid ex-ante repayment capacity will get loans. In that context, the annual
return for the microcredit investment should be at least the interest rates being paid on
CrediAmigo's loans. At the end of 2006, the average return on assets of active clients was 4.8




25The financial indicators presented in this section differ from those in the PAD for the years 1997, 1998,
and 1999. The main reason for the differences is that for this ICR, we are using CrediAmigo's accounting
statements rather than operational systems. For example, CrediAmigo's operational systems define gross
loans as those with arrears up to 90 days, while its accounting system follows the Central Bank policy of
including loans up to 360 days.
26The SDI measures the increase in interest rate required to break-even, after adjustments for inflation and
all explicit and implicit subsidies. A negative SDI indicates that the program is subsidy independent, and
as such, does not depend on subsidized financing to be profitable. At project appraisal, the market interest
rate was calculated under the assumption that CrediAmigo will be spin-off and that it would be relying on
savings mobilization to fund its operations. However, BNB has fully incorporated CrediAmigo within its
organizational structure, and thus the inter-bank rate used for transferring funds to CrediAmigo is an
adequate measure of the opportunity cost of funds.


                                                      41

percent per month, showing that microenterprises earn sufficiently high returns to pay
CrediAmigo's interest rates.

CrediAmigo also appears to have a positive effect on the availability of credit among
microentrepreneurs. Using the informal sector surveys of 1997 and 2003, a recent study finds
that the micro-enterprises in the Northeast region of Brazil made greater gains in having access to
credit than the rest of the country.27 For example, in 1997, only 3.97 percent of informal
microenterprises had access to credit, lower than the rest of the country (5.34 percent). By 2003,
the informal sector survey shows that 6.27 percent of microenteprises had access to credit (an
increase of 2.3 percentage points). During the same period, the rest of the country experienced an
increase of only 0.65 percentage points, and thus had a smaller percentage of micro-enterprises
with access to credit.




27Fundación Getulio Vargas (2007) "Perfil dos Clientes Presentes e Potenciais de CrediAmigo", draft
report.


                                                  42

Table 1: CrediAmigo's Financial Statement
000s                               Dec-98     Dec-99       Dec-00     Dec-01    Dec-02     Dec-03   Dec-04   Dec-05   Dec-06

                                                            Panel A. Balance Sheet

ASSETS                              10,108    17,704       33,079     52,295    76,518     89,982  111,657  141,607  177,823
 Current Assets, of which            8,492    16,714       32,245     51,499    75,697     88,987  110,841  140,827  177,191
   Net Loan Portfolio                8,251    16,714       32,245     51,499    75,697     88,663  110,177  140,230  176,113
     Gross Loan Portfolio            8,519    17,614       32,816     53,265    77,731     91,516  111,541  141,317  177,621
     Less: Reserve for Loan          -268        -900         -571    -1,766     -2,034     -2,853   -1,364   -1,088   -1,509
Losses
 Fixed Assets                        1,616        991          834       796       822        995      816      779      632


LIABILITIES                         16,266    23,597       38,711     56,875    72,618     82,988   95,979  111,324  122,617


EQUITY, of which                    -6,158     -5,893       -5,632    -4,579      3,900      6,994   15,679   30,283   55,206
Capital                                  0          0             0        0      3,312     3,312    3,312    3,312    3,312
Accumulated Earnings                -6,158     -5,893       -5,632    -4,631        553      3,662   12,362   26,970   51,893
  Net Surplus (Deficit)             -6,139        265          261     1,001        233      3,060    7,585  14,744   26,373
  Accum. Net Surplus (Deficit)         -20     -6,158       -5,893    -5,632        320        553    3,662   12,362  26,970
Accumulated Donated Equity               0          0             0       51         36         20        4        1        1

                                                          Panel B. Income Statement

TOTAL INCOME                         3,616    12,257       16,001     26,353    37,246     48,398   50,267   67,748   84,507
 Interest Income                     3,323    11,356       14,739     25,874    36,558     46,839   45,376   59,717   73,505
   Interest rate                     3,323    11,356       14,739     25,874    36,558     44,955   37,231   48,510   55,177
   Fees                                  0          0             0        0          0      1,884    8,146  11,207   18,328
 Non-interest Income                   292        900        1,262       480       687      1,560    4,891    8,031   11,003
   Non-operational income              292        900        1,262       480       687        901    1,539    1,192      936
   Transfer for cost of funds            0          0             0        0          0        658    3,352    6,838  10,067
TOTAL EXPENSES                      -9,754    -12,069      -15,808   -25,770    -37,470    -45,339  -42,682  -53,004  -58,134
Interest Expenses                   -1,488     -3,599       -4,973    -7,327    -11,190    -17,666  -15,513  -22,854  -22,471
Provision for Loan Losses            -314      -1,002         -967    -2,625     -3,611     -4,384   -3,362   -2,222   -2,663
Administrative Expenses, of         -7,953     -7,468       -9,868   -15,819    -22,669    -23,289  -23,807  -27,928  -33,000
which
   Salaries                         -5,956     -5,547       -7,178   -11,636    -16,955    -17,967  -19,061  -23,190  -28,012
NET INCOME                          -6,139        265          261     1,001        233      3,060    7,585  14,744   26,373

                                               Panel C. Adjustments to Financial Statements

Adjustments to Net Income
Transfer for cost of funds                                                                     658    3,352    6,838   10,067
Accum. Additional Equity                                                                       658    4,010   10,848   20,915
Transfer of cost of funds

Interest expenses Accum.                                                                       159      754    2,530    4,467
Additional equity

Actual Cost of Liabilities (per                                                             24.1%    18.8%    23.3%    21.4%
year)
Adjusted NET INCOME                 -6,139        265          261     1,001        233      2,242    3,479    5,375  11,839
Adjusted LIABILITIES                16,266    23,597       38,711     56,875    72,618     83,805  100,902  125,616  151,443
Adjusted EQUITY, of which           -6,158     -5,893       -5,632    -4,579      3,900      6,177   10,755   15,991   26,380
Capital                                  0          0             0        0      3,312     3,312    3,312    3,312    3,312
Adjusted Accumulated Earnings       -6,158     -5,893       -5,632    -4,631        553      2,845    7,439   12,679   23,067
  Adjusted Net Surplus              -6,139        265          261     1,001        233      2,242    3,479    5,375  11,839
(Deficit)
  Adjusted Accum. Net Surplus          -20     -6,158       -5,893    -5,632        320        553    2,845    7,439  12,679
(Deficit)

Accumulated Donated Equity               0          0             0       51         36         20        4        1        1
Source: CrediAmigo's Financial Statements and Authors' calculations.




                                                               43

Table 2: CrediAmigo's Selected Financial Indicators
                                Dec-98 Dec-99 Dec-00 Dec-01 Dec-02 Dec-03 Dec-04 Dec-05 Dec-06

Subsidy Dependence Index
m = Cost of liabilities -market  16.9%  16.2%  16.8%  16.2%  17.5%  24.1%  18.8%  23.3%  21.4%
rate (% per year)

m*E = Opportunity Cost of        -2,174   -978  -968   -829     -60  1,216  1,592 3,119  4,525
Equity
S = m*E - P                      3,965  -1,243 -1,229 -1,830  -292  -1,027 -1,887 -2,256 -7,314
SDI = S/Interest Income          119%    -11%    -8%    -7%   -1%     -2%    -4%    -4%   -10%
Performance Indicators
ROA                            -110.7%   1.7%   1.1%   2.4%   0.4%   3.9%   8.1%  12.2%  17.8%
Adjusted ROA                   -110.7%   1.7%   1.1%   2.4%   0.4%   2.8%   3.7%   4.4%   8.0%
Financial self-sufficiency:      34.1%  94.1%  93.2% 100.4%  97.6% 102.9% 104.5% 107.5% 117.4%
Interest income / Adjusted
Total Expenses
Return on loan portfolio:      -141.3%   1.8%   1.1%   2.4%   0.4%   2.8%   3.7%   4.5%   8.0%
Adjusted net income / avg.
gross loans (%)
Total administrative expenses   183.0%  51.2%  42.9%  38.4%  36.1%  29.0%  25.3%  23.1%  22.3%
/ avg. gross loans (%)

Yield on gross loan porftolio    76.5%  77.9%  64.0%  62.8%  58.2%  58.4%  48.2%  49.5%  49.7%
(nominal): interest income /
avg. gross loans

Cost of funds (nominal):         16.9%  16.2%  16.8%  16.2%  17.5%  24.1%  18.8%  23.3%  21.4%
interest expense/avg.
liabilities (%)
Portfolio -at-risk (30 days       2.5%   3.3%   4.0%   5.0%   4.1%   4.9%   1.9%   1.6%   1.4%
after write-offs) (%)

Loan loss rate : write-offs /     4.7%   3.9%   0.0%   1.1%   3.8%   3.4%   3.7%   1.2%   0.9%
avg. gross loans (%)




                                                      44

Annex 4. Bank Lending and Implementation Support/Supervision Processes

(a) Task Team Members

                                                                   Responsibility/
Names                                  Title                Unit     Specialty
Lending
 Steven N. Schonberger  Senior Rural Development Specialist    LCSES Team Leader
 Irani Escolano         Procurement Specialist                 LCSPT
 Susana Sanchez         Financial Specialist                   LCSFP
 Carlos Cuevas          Lead Financial Economist                FSD
 Robert Christen        Senior Microfinance Advisor
 Fred Levy              Principal Economist
 Tulio Correa           Financial Management Specialist       LCSFM
 Marta Molares-Hoberg   Senior Counsel                        LEGLA
 Morag van Praag        Senior Disbursement Officer            LOA
 Luis Coirolo           Lead Specialist                        LCSAR
 Jacob Yaron                                                        Peer reviewer
 Khalid Siraj           Consultant                                  Peer reviewer
 Arie Chupak                                                        Peer reviewer
 Richard Rosenberg      Consultant                              PSD Peer reviewer
 Beatriz Iraheta        Language Program Assistant             LCSEN

Supervision/ICR
 Susana M. Sanchez      Senior Financial Economist             LCSSD Team Leader
 Jennifer Sara          Sector Leader                          LCSSD
 Susana Amaral          Financial Management Analyst          LCSFM
 Musa S. C. Asad        Senior Financial Analyst               LCSEN
 Tulio Correa           Financial Management Analyst          LCSFM
 Jose C. Janeiro        Senior Financial Management Specialist LCSFM
 Pedro Olinto           Senior Economist                       LCSPP
 Emmanuel Skoufias      Lead Economist                        PRMPR
 Ilias Skamnelos        E T Consultant                         ECSPF
 Luciano Wuerzius       Procurement Analyst                    LCSPT




                                        45

(b) Staff Time and Cost

                                 Staff Time and Cost (Bank Budget Only)
                                                     USD Thousands (including
Stage of Project Cycle          No. of staff weeks   travel and consultant costs)
Lending
  FY97                                                           10.49
  FY98                                                            0.19
  FY99                                                           40.97
  FY00                                 37                       138.59
  FY01                                   9                       35.32
  FY02                                                            0.00
  FY03                                                            0.16
  FY04                                                            0.00
  FY05                                                            0.00
  FY06                                                            0.00
  FY07                                                            0.00
                        Total:         46                       225.72
Supervision/ICR
  FY00                                                            0.79
  FY01                                   6                       39.40
  FY02                                 13                        39.89
  FY03                                 15                        84.89
  FY04                                 17                        80.60
  FY05                                 17                        83.25
  FY06                                 16                        58.81
  FY07                                   7                       25.90
                        Total:         91                       413.53




                                    46

Annex 5. Beneficiary Survey Results

Not Applicable.




                                    47

Annex 6. Stakeholder Workshop Report and Results

Not Applicable.




                                  48

Annex 7. Summary of Borrower's ICR (unofficial translation)28

The Northeast of Brazil covers an area of 1.5 million square kilometers and has a population of 51.6
million, accounting for 27.6 percent of the Brazilian population. The region's GDP per capita in 2004 was
to $1,856.72, equivalent to 51 percent of the GDP per capita in Brazil.

Banco do Nordeste was founded in 1952 with the mission of promoting sustainable development in the
Northeast Region through the provision of financial resources and technical capacity to support regional
entrepreneurship. Its main objective is to execute an effective and selective development policy by
providing financial services to overcome economic challenges in the region.

The loan agreement BIRD 4554/BR--Northeast Microfinance Development Project was signed in August
of 2000. The loan amount was US$100 million, US$50 million of which was financed by BIRD and
US$50million by Banco do Nordeste.

1. Assessment of Objectives, Design, Implementation and Operational Experience

1.1 General Program Objectives
    1. Contribute to the development of the microenterprise sector in the Northeast Region.
    2. Improve access to sustainable, adequate, and timely financial services.
    3. Strengthen and promote new opportunities for income generation and employment growth in the
        region.
    4. Provide microcredit services to low-income populations.
    5. Promote the sustainable expansion of CrediAmigo by at least 120,000 microentrepreneurs in the
        Northeast Region during a five-year period.

1.2 Achievement of Main Program Objectives (2000 to 2006)
    · Made over 3 million loans with a total disbursement of R$2.6 billion.
    · CrediAmigo became the largest provider of microfinance services in the Northeast Region and
        served over 559,821 entrepreneurs.
    · The write-off ratio of clients program was reduced from 1.76 percent to 0.73 percent.
    · The number of active clients between 2000 and 2006 grew from 35,318 to 235,729, representing
        an increase of 200,411 new active clients.
    · The average daily number of contracts grew from 628 to 2,773.
    · The number of collaborators involved in the program's operations grew to 1,060.
    · CrediAmigo launched the following products: Popular Solidarity Loan, Fixed Investment Loan,
        Individual Loans, CrediAmigo Comunidade, and Life Insurance.
    · The government of Brazil introduced microfinance policies that increased funding resources for
        microenterprises.
    · The CrediAmigo project gained membership into the Global Microcredit Summit, the Comite
        Interministerial de Microcredito do Governo Brasileiro, and the ACCION Network; it also
        participated in the ALIDE (Associação Latino Americana de Instituições Financeiras de




28There are some minor differences between the indicators in this annex and those in Annex 3. For this Annex, the
Borrower used information from the management information system, instead of that in CrediAmigo's financial
statements. For example, in the case of loan portfolio, CrediAmigo's MIS includes loans up to 90 days in arrears,
while the financial statements includes those loans up to 360 days.


                                                          49

         Desenvolvimento) forums and events at the Global Microcredit Summit and with governmental
         organizations responsible for reforming the legal microfinance framework in Brazil.


2. Assessment of the Outcome Indicators- Results Achieved by Component

Component 1: Subloans

The subloan portfolio grew from R$25.6 million as of September 1, 2000 to R$170.6 million in
December of 2006.

            Table 1. CrediAmigo's Loan Portfolio Growth from 2000 to 2006 (R$ million)

        180                                                                                        170.6
        160
                                                                                    136.3
        140

        120                                                           106.7
        100                                              85.5
         80                                71.9

         60                    49.8

         40      31.8

         20

          0
                 2000          2001        2002          2003          2004         2005          2006



The amount committed by the World Bank initially totaled US$47 million but was later reduced by
US$10 million. The following factors contributed to the shift from the initial amount:
     · At the time the loan was signed the dollar exchange rate was set at a fixed rate of R$1.80 (one
         real and 80 cents) and following the disbursement of the loan the rate grew to over R$3.00 (three
         reais). The devaluation of the real had a negative impact and resulted in a lower rate of growth in
         the loan portfolio.
     · The access to alternative sources of funding, namely funds from the Fundo de Amparo ao
         Trabalhador (FAT). Also, Central Bank Resolution 3109 directed 2 percent of banks' sight
         deposits to be used for microcredit operations.
     · The increase in competition in the microcredit sector, promoted by the introduction of
         microfinance policies such as those implemented by the Brazilian Central Bank, played an
         important role.

In addition to these factors, the program sought to focus its outreach efforts on low-income populations and
give priority to serving people without access to traditional banking services. This strategic option had the
effect of making the average loan size lower than originally projected.

Component 2: Institutional Strengthening of the Microfinance Program

Strengthened the capacity for sustainable growth of the microfinance program through the following
initiatives:
     · Development of promotional and marketing strategies.
     · Creation of a risk management unit and implementation of new modules in its management
         information system.




                                                      50

     · Development of mechanisms to increase the productivity of loan officers in terms of attracting
        new clients and better managing a larger number of active clients.
     · Identification of mechanisms for attracting clients in areas with low population density, as well as
        the financial and regulatory requirements for implementing those mechanisms.
     · Development of new lines of credit for microenterprises, as well as the financial, legal, and
        regulatory requirements for implementing such products, including their evaluation.

2.1 Achievement of Component 2 Objectives

(i) Developed promotional mechanisms and marketing strategies
The program implemented a structure for ranking its branches and agencies based on the principles of a
balanced score card that will allowed for performance assessment of the CrediAmigo branches and
promoted goal sharing and the standardization of their operations.

In 2005, with support from an external consulting firm, the program created a new marketing plan. The
marketing strategy made important contributions to improving CrediAmigo and included strategic
recommendations that have been and are being implemented. These strategies have strengthened client
relationships by offering personalized customer service and increasing their understanding of the products
offered.

The program implemented a series of marketing activities. One of the campaigns currently being
implemented promotes low interest rates. CrediAmigo found that marketing initiatives through local
media channels such as "tea with friends" events, distribution of brochures, and other marketing efforts
by loan officers were effective in terms of capturing new clients. Following a cost-benefit analysis, the
program focused on investing in these initiatives since they proved to be highly effective marketing
strategies.

(ii) Created a Risk Management Unit and implemented new management information systems methods
In 2003, in order to assess the inherent risk related to the program's loan activities, a risk management
unit, the Cédula de Gestão Financeira e Avaliação do Risco, was created. The role of this unit was to
monitor each of the CrediAmigo branches in order to minimize inherent risks and ensure compliance with
policies, methodologies, processes, and defined procedures.

In 2006, the program implemented a new model for monitoring activities by creating a decentralized
evaluation team to carry out yearly evaluation visits to all CrediAmigo branches. The evaluation team
assessed each unit's performance by focusing on their compliance with bank policies and generated a
report that was required by CrediAmigo's Action Program (Programa do Ação) initiatives.

The microfinance institutions and agencies, Public Interest and Civil Society Organizations (OSCIP) and
CrediAmigo branches are systematically visited by the Banco do Nordeste Auditing Department and
external auditing agencies to evaluate the adequacy of their performance and compliance with established
procedures.

The program complied with Central Bank Resolution 2554 by establishing and implementing internal
control systems. In addition to this, the program kept a record of its business transactions in order to
identify the focus areas of operational risks; these activities were implemented in accordance to the
Brasiléia II agreement.




                                                       51

iii) Developed mechanisms to increase loan officer productivity in terms of recruiting new client and
improving their management of a larger number of active clients.

Table 2. Productivity of Loan Officers (Active Clients/Loan Officer) from Dec. 2000 to Dec. 200

      450
                                                                                       402
      400                                                                  357
      350                                                      321

      300                                       264

      250                          217
            203
      200

      150
                       158
      100

       50

        0
        2000         2001          2002         2003          2004         2005        2006


Loan officer productivity experienced steady growth between 2001 and 2006. The following factors
influenced this increase:
     · CrediAmigo's partnership with the OSCIP Instituto Nordeste Cidadania replaced a previous
         model of partnerships with multiple agencies.
     · Senior loan officers' experience had a positive impact in their daily performance.
     · In 2003 there was a review of the methodology used to assess the loan officers' performance-
        based compensation system. Adjustments made to the output indicators had a positive impact in
        the productivity and quality of the portfolio.
     · The OSCIP Instituto Nordeste Cidadania implemented a career development plan for loan
        officers that contributed significantly to talent retention and played an important role in the
        growth of the program.
     · The credit awarding method was revised, focusing on the stages and procedures of the application
        and award processes.
     · The loan approval process was transferred to a web-based system that simplified the lending
        process and increased the security and rigor of the decisionmaking process.
     · The Executive Unit implemented improvements to the operational and management systems
        (MIS) by including weekly data reports and online inquiries that allowed management to make
        prompt and timely decisions regarding the branches' compliance with established guidelines.
     · The management procedures, operational schedules, and credit policies were incorporated into
        the new system, which helped standardize the procedures carried out in the branches and increase
        their effectiveness.
     · Daily action plans were incorporated into the system and the need to organize and comply with a
        daily agenda was emphasized, which reduced the time required for staff to complete tasks.
     · Investments were made to improve loan officer training. The course curriculum of these trainings
        covered topics such as tasks in the field, sales, and negotiation.

iv) Identified methods to reach clients in low-density areas as well as the financial and regulatory
requirements for the implementation of such methods
In order to increase its outreach in low density areas, the program introduced the CrediAmigo
Comunidade Program (Community Program). This program used a village banking methodology and



                                                      52

sought to empower communities by promoting employment and income growth. The pilot program was
initially established in Fortaleza, a metropolitan area, and continued a steady expansion to other
Northeastern states. It was incorporated into all of CrediAmigo's microenterprise units during the first
half of 2007 and its results have exceeded expectations.

   Table 3. Increase in the Number of Active Clients in the CrediAmigo Comunidade Program

   12,000                                                                                                        10,984


   10,000



    8,000



    6,000



    4,000



    2,000
             767


         0

        Dec-05 Jan-06 Feb-06 Mar-06 Apr-06May-06 Jun-
                                                    06Jul-06Aug
                                                              -06  p-06 t-06                               -07
                                                                 Se    Oc   No
                                                                             v-06 c-06 n-07 Feb-07 Mar-07
                                                                                 De   Ja                 Apr  May-07


v) Developed new lines of credit to target microenterprises as well as the legal, financial, regulatory, and
evaluation tools required for the implementation of those products.
CrediAmigo increased its reach from 297 municipalities with more than 20 clients in September of 2000
to 1,165 municipalities with more than 20 clients in December of 2006. These numbers supported the
strategic decision to expand into a greater number of municipalities in low density areas and targeted low-
income individuals who could benefit from the services of this program.

The program completed a marketing survey of branches located in areas with low density. The purpose of
this survey was to identify the marketing needs and develop better strategies at these locations in order to
reach a higher number of municipalities receiving the CrediAmigo services and better serve the needs of
clients in this target population.

2.2 Training of Loan Officers on How to Implement the Strategies, Mechanisms, and Products that
Were Developed or Identified

In its early years CrediAmigo launched the introductory loan officer training course "Training for
Microfinance Officers--Methodology I," which was followed two years later by "Training for
Microfinance Officers--Methodology II." These training courses underwent some changes, increased in
number and complexity, and were adapted to meet changes in the client profile, new products, more
active competition, and updated procedures.




                                                               53

In 2006, CrediAmigo introduced a "Forum of Coordinators" and a course on Leadership Coaching.
In addition to this, weekly events were offered for the training of officers specializing in monitoring,
Human Resources, and internal training. The course curriculum included updates regarding the program's
procedures and tools.

Table 4: Courses Offered and Staff Participation

 Internal Courses                                                         2004       2005        2006
 Learning in Action                                                          45         74          21
 CrediAmigo Comunidade--In Practice                                           -           -         88
 CrediAmigo Comunidade--In Theory                                             -           -        183
 Forum of Coordinators                                                        -           -        212
 Training of Officers Specializing in Monitoring                              -           -         10
 Training of Officers Specializing in Human Resources                         -         22          16
 Training / Refresh course for Facilitators                                   -         14          21
 Training for Facilitators of Administrative Routines                         -         12           5
 Training for Microfinance Officers--Methodology I                         265         338         325
 Training for Microfinance Officers--Methodology II                        262         191          91
 Administrative Routines                                                               244         127
 Leadership Coaching                                                       188          18           -
 Training for Trainers of the course "Entrepreneurship" (Client
 training)                                                                    -         30           -

 External courses

 Topics include Customer Service, Communications, Sales,
 Negotiation, Leadership, Management, IT, Motivation,
 Accounting and Finance, Human Resources, Internal Auditing,               131         254         271

 Entrepreneurship, Microfinance, and Marketing among other

 Total                                                                     891       1,197       1370


2.3 Training for Borrower Staff on Compliance with the Environmental Guidelines in the
Operational Manual, and Evaluation of the Effectiveness of these Initiatives

As part of our agreement with the World Bank, an environmental guidance education plan was developed
and implemented through brochures and training events for loan officers. The loan officers were
responsible for giving environmental guidance to their clients and for completing annual environmental
performance evaluations for each microenterprise participating in the program. The first phase concluded
in 2001. Environmental education brochures covered environmental aspects, organization, hygiene,
cleanliness, health, and worker and client safety.

The content of these brochures was adapted to target the following industries and sectors, representing the
highest shares of the loan portfolio: furniture manufacturing, yucca flour production, repair and
maintenance of electrical appliances, pressing and dry cleaning, auto repair shops, canning, painting
services, candies and juices, construction materials, food services, manufacture of cleaning and hygiene
products, fish processing, soap and candle production, animal slaughtering, and manufacture of leather
products. The topics covered were tailored to the specific activities and interests of the clients.

Following these initiatives, management concluded that these efforts should be focused on improving
clients' businesses by offering financial and customer service training. This decision was made because
97 percent of CrediAmigo's clients are from sectors without significant environmental impacts. For this



                                                     54

reason, a brochure titled "João Knows Everything" (João Sabe Tudo) was developed and its content
covering improvement of business practices was promoted. In addition to this, environmental brochures
were distributed by the loan officers during their field visits and training events.

In 2005, CrediAmigo agreed with the World Bank that the resources of this component would be used for
the development of an environmental guidance educational plan. The program is currently developing
eight brochures on management and one on environmental issues as part of the program's educational
curriculum.

2.4 Providing Technical Assistant to Achieve Institutional, Financial, Legal, and Managerial
Independence

The program gained official status in 2003. After receiving support from the Strategic Support
Department at Banco do Nordeste, the program was mapped under the Superintendency of Microfinance
and Special Projects. The program was named the Microfinance Unit (Ambiente de Microfinanças) and
was recognized as an independent business unit. In addition, it developed a Unit for Financial
Management and Risk Assessment. CrediAmigo branches operate in the following locations: Alagoas,
Ceará, Juazeiro, Maranhão, Minas Gerais e Espirito Santo, Paraíba, Pernambuco, Piauí, Rio Grande do
Norte, Salvador, Sergipe, and Vitória da Conquista.

Microfinance Unit Objectives:

a) Evaluate and improve policies, methodologies, processes, procedures, and products.
b) Manage marketing and strategic plans.
c) Manage the program's accounting and financial information and ensure consistency and quality of
    this information.
d) Coordinate the planning, execution, and evaluation of the individual CrediAmigo branches according
    to the strategic management of the microfinance program.

                            Figure 1. Microfinance Unit Organizational Chart




CrediAmigo gained a fully independent accounting framework that allowed for performance assessments
of individual branches as well as the program as a whole. The branch has an independent operational
system that facilitates the assessment of their adherence to the objectives and management goals in the
Action Program (Programa do Ação).




                                                      55

2.5 Providing Technical Assistance and Equipment to Support Project Implementation, including
Data Gathering and Reporting

The program contracted the following services to provide technical support for project implementation:

    · Consulting firm to complete feasibility studies regarding the creation of a risk assessment agency
        for the program.
    · Consulting firm to develop new methods for productivity assessment.
    · ACCION International and an independent consultant to develop and create a new microcredit
        product based on a village-banking methodology.
    · Auditing agency.
    · Consulting firm to develop of a new CrediAmigo system and update its versions.
    · Acquisition of 246 computers, 170 printers, and 14 laptops to improve CrediAmigo's technical
        infrastructure.

Component 3: Impact Evaluation

CrediAmigo planned and implemented an evaluation program to identify the project's impact on poverty
reduction through assessment of the microenterprises' growth and profitability and changes in the
household incomes of their owners and employees.

The total amount of US$300,000.00 (three hundred thousand dollars) was designated for a
Socioeconomic Impact Evaluation and was to be used to contract a consulting firm to conduct an impact
evaluation. In 2005 a firm was contracted to complete two field studies and conduct a survey, at a total
cost of R$381,115.00. Banco do Nordeste and the World Bank designed the methodology for this survey.
Over the course of about four months, Banco do Nordeste was to send the consulting firm a list with
information on potential CrediAmigo clients who would be interviewed at their work or home address.
The interviews were expected to be completed within 48 hours. According to the methodology, a total of
4,000 questionnaires would be distributed. The clients selected to participate in the survey would be those
with credit restrictions or who would have difficulty obtaining a loan. A control group of 2,000 potential
clients without access to CrediAmigo loans was created. The experimental group for this study consisted
of 2,000 potential clients who despite their poor credit ratings had access to CrediAmigo loans.

The field surveys began on October 17, 2005 but ran into problems due to the following factors:

    · A significant percentage of the clients from the control group (56 percent) which should not have
        access to loans because of their negative ratings from SPC/SERASA (credit agencies), fixed their
        credit scores and obtained loans.
    · The questionnaires were not being completed within the 48-hour period due to difficulties
        locating the clients' residence or workplace.
    · The amount of clients in the survey's target population was not determined; a higher number of
        surveys resulted in increased costs for the firm doing the survey.

Due to these factors, the World Bank and Banco do Nordeste decided to suspend the survey on July 1,
2007. At that time, 599 questionnaires had been processed. The agency received R$114,334.50 of the
agreed amount to pay for initial expenditures such as training of interviewers and payment of the first
installment of the contract.

Banco do Nordeste's commitment to completing this survey led to the development of a new survey
model. Considering the competitive nature of the microfinance market, in which agencies with similar



                                                     56

methodologies were operating in the same area as CrediAmigo, it was agreed that it would be difficult to
include a control group in the evaluation plan. In addition to this, over the course of 10 months (June
2006 through April 2006) a total of 92 CrediAmigo loan officers left to accept jobs at competing
microcredit agencies located in large and medium-size cities.

As a result, the World Bank and CrediAmigo teams agreed that it would be better to think about
evaluating the impact of CrediAmigo with the forthcoming expansion plan into new areas, both within
and outside the Northeast Region. CrediAmigo's strategy for the next four years is to expand operations
into all of the 1,712 municipalities in the Northeast Region, representing an increase of more than 292
municipalities in the program.

Other evaluation methods in this study involve the use of client history databases. CrediAmigo owns one
of the most complete databases in Brazil, with a wealth of information regarding sources of expenditure
and revenues in businesses, family expenditures, and additional sources of household income, welfare,
and assets. The information from these databases helps to track the financial and economic prosperity of
active clients and to compare this information with other databases from the informal sector, such as the
"Economia Informal Urbana" (ECINF) survey. A database is being generated and will be sent to the
World Bank for research and publication purposes.

4. Evaluation of the Borrower's Performance during the Planning and Implementation Stages of
the Project

CrediAmigo opened branches in new markets and locations and experienced a rapid expansion during this
period by focusing it efforts on contracting and training new loan officers. The following lessons were
learned:
    · There is a need to plan expansion activities such as the creation of efficient managerial reports,
         which will promote compliance and effective performance as well as the creation of a monitoring
         team to provide support to new branches during the growth process.
    · Regional managers were under the direction of two different organizational entities: the
         microfinance Technical Units and the business units of Banco do Nordeste. This created
         management conflicts among collaborators involved in the project. In 2003 management of the
         units was centralized and became subordinate to the Microfinance Unit, which produced greater
         uniformity in the performance of the managing agencies.
    · Due to its excellent performance and results achieved, CrediAmigo's management model was
         replicated in other areas of BNB. In addition, CrediAmigo used partnerships with OSCIPs to
         further disseminate these methodologies. An important example of this replication is the
         AgroAmigo program, which uses a methodology similar to that of CrediAmigo to carry out its
         rural microcredit operations.
    · The nature of the microfinance sector forced CrediAmigo to improve its procedures by
         developing innovative products and implementing solutions to improve its customer service. The
         dynamic of these procedures has been replicated in other areas of BNB.
    · CrediAmigo assessed and evaluated the branches' performance through a balanced score card
         methodology. The indicators used to measure the performance of the program's branches were
         replicated, with input from the Strategic Planning Department at the bank, in other BNB business
         units.




                                                      57

5. Evaluation of the Performance of the World Bank and other Cofinanciers and Partners during
the Preparation and Implementation Stages of the Project, including the Effectiveness of
Interlinkages, with Special Attention on Lessons Learned

The definition of targets to be reached, outlined in the loan agreement, as well as audit and due diligence
reviews required for the program, were important in improving the program's performance.
    · The systematization of this support allowed problems to be identified promptly and contributed to
       achieving the proposed objectives.
    · The supervision missions were useful to exchange experience with counterparts, review results,
       discuss new products, and implement suggestions from the World Bank. All of these activities
       contributed to the improvement of performance indicators and targets reached by CrediAmigo.
    · The partnership with the World Bank facilitated access to information from other institutions in
       the microfinance sector which allowed CrediAmigo to build collaboration with other relevant
       stakeholders.

6. Activities and Strategies for CrediAmigo Projected for the Next Five Years

    · Expand the client service networks through additional banking partnerships which will allow
       opening of new accounts in locations outside Banco do Nordeste, facilitating product sales
       through alternative service channels.
    · Gain a comparative advantage by providing personalized customer service and investing in loan
       officer training and improving services and products in the microenterprise sector.
    · Develop techniques to attract current CrediAmigo clients to use other lines of credit and Banco
       do Nordeste products.
    · Fashion an operational and legal framework that promotes partnerships with other institutions and
       increases the program's outreach in current and new markets.
    · Merge the Banco do Nordeste's rural and urban microcredit products and services into one
       microfinance unit (CrediAmigo and AgroAmigo).
    · Increase the number of credit and financial products in order to meet the banking needs of the
       program's target population.
    · Develop mechanisms to improve the credit procedures and increase client satisfaction.
    · Gather information on clients' socioeconomic indicators in order to measure the role of
       CrediAmigo in promoting business development and improving welfare.




                                                      58

Annex 8. Comments of Cofinanciers and Other Partners/Stakeholders

Not Applicable




                                    59

Annex 9. List of Supporting Documents

Project documents:

 Project Appraisal Document
 Minutes of negotiations
 Loan Agreement
 Amendments to legal documents
 Aide-memoire
 Project Status and Results Reports and Implementation Status and Results Reports
 QAG Project Review

Other documents:

 Kumar, Anjali, Thorsten Beck, Christine Campos, and Soumya Chattopadhyay. 2005.
     "Assessing Financial Access in Brazil." Working Paper 50. World Bank,
     Washington, D.C.

 Sirtaine, Sophie. 2001. "Brazil Access Study: The Role of Microfinance Institutions."
     unpublished background paper for Kumar and others (2005).

 Skoufias, Emmanuel. 2007. "Brazil: Measuring Poverty Using Household
     Consumption." Report 36358-BR, Poverty Reduction and Economic Management
     Sector Unit, Latin America and the Caribbean Region, World Bank, Washington,
     D.C.




                                          60


