Page  1
CONFORMED COPY
GRANT NUMBER TF 028699
GLOBAL ENVIRONMENT TRUST FUND
GRANT AGREEMENT
(Conservation of Priority Protected Areas Project – ROP)
between
REPUBLIC OF THE PHILIPPINES
and
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION
AND DEVELOPMENT
Acting as Trustee of the Global Environment Trust Fund
Dated May 11, 1994
GET GRANT NUMBER TF 028699
Page  2
GLOBAL ENVIRONMENT TRUST FUND GRANT AGREEMENT
AGREEMENT
,
dated  May 11, 1994, between REPUBLIC OF THE PHILIPPINES (the 
"Recipient") and INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND 
DEVELOPMENT acting-as Trustee (the "Trustee") of grant funds provided by Participants of 
the Global Environment Facility into the Global Environment Trust Fund (the "GET").
WHEREAS (A): The International Bank for Reconstruction and Development (the 
"Bank") pursuant to Resolution No. 91-5 of March 14, 1991, of the Executive Directors of the 
Bank (the "Resolution"), established the Global Environment Facility consisting of the GET, 
Co-financing Arrangements with the GET and the Ozone Projects Trust Fund, to assist in the 
protection of the global environment and promote thereby environmentally sound and sustainable 
economic development;
WHEREAS (B): Certain members of the Bank (the "Participants") have provided 
resources by way of grant into the GET and the Participants have requested the Bank; and the 
Bank has agreed, to administer such grant funds as Trustee, for the purposes of, and in 
accordance with, the provisions of the Resolution;
WHEREAS (C): The Recipient, having satisfied itself as to the feasibility and priority of 
the Project described in Schedule 2 to this Agreement, has requested assistance from the 
resources of the GET in the financing of the Project, and the Trustee has determined that such 
assistance would be in accordance with the provisions of the Resolution;
WHEREAS (D): By a Global Environment Trust Fund Grant Agreement of even date 
herewith (the "NIPA Grant Agreement"), between the Trustee and the NGOs For Integrated 
Protected Areas Incorporated ("NIPA"), a non-stock, non-profit, non-governmental corporation 
duly organized and operating under the Recipient's laws and regulations, the Trustee has agreed 
to make available to NIPA a GET grant in an amount equivalent to twelve million one hundred 
twenty-nine thousand Special Drawing Rights (SDR 12,129,000) (the "NIPA Grant") to assist in 
financing part of the Project on the terms and conditions set forth in the NIPA Grant Agreement, 
but only on condition that the Recipient agree to undertake certain obligations with respect to the 
obligations of NIPA in respect of the NIPA Grant and to undertake such other obligations, all as 
provided in this Agreement;
WHEREAS (E): The Recipient, through its letter to the Trustee dated January 12, 1994, 
has agreed that part of the resources of the GET approved for the financing of the Project be 
provided directly to NIPA under the terms and conditions set forth in the NIPA Grant 
Agreement;
WHEREAS (F): The Trustee has received from the Recipient a Memorandum of 
Agreement entered into between the Recipient's Department of Finance and Department of 
Environment and Natural Resources and NIPA, dated February 22, 1994, declaring, inter alia, 
that there are no impediments under the laws of the Recipient, and that otherwise the Recipient 
shall take all action necessary, for NIPA to carry out its respective parts of the Project and 
perform each of its obligations under the NIPA Grant Agreement;
WHEREAS (G): The Recipient, in consideration of, inter alia, the Trustee's entering into 
the NIPA Grant Agreement with NIPA, has agreed to undertake the obligations set forth in this 
Page  3
Agreement; and
WHEREAS (H): The Trustee has agreed, on the basis, inter alia, of the foregoing, to 
extend a GET grant (the "GET Grant") to the Recipient upon the terms and conditions set forth in 
this Agreement.
NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:
ARTICLE I
General Conditions; Definitions
Section 1.01. (a) The following provisions of the General Conditions Applicable to Loan 
and Guarantee Agreements of the Bank, dated January 1, 1985, with the modifications set forth 
in paragraph (b) of this Section (the "General Conditions") constitute an integral part of this 
Agreement:
(i)
Article I;
(ii)
Sections 2.01 (1) , (2) , (3) , (4) , (6) , (8) , (9) ,  (10) , (11) , (15), (18) 
and (20) , 2.02 and 2.03;
(iii)
Section 3.01;
(iv)
Section 4.01 and the first sentence of Section 4.09;
(v)
Article V;
(vi) 
Sections 6.01, 6.02 (a) , (c) , (d) , (e) , (f) , (i)
and (k), 6.03, 6.04 and 6.06;
(vii)
Section 8.01 (b);
(viii) 
Sections 9.01 (a) and (c), 9.04, 9.05, 9.06,
9.07, 9.08 and 9.09;
(ix)
Sections 10.01, with the first sentence thereof
deleted, and 10.03;
(x)
Article XI; and
(xi)
Sections 12.01, 12.02, 12.03, and 12.04.
(b)
The General Conditions shall be modified as follows:
(i)
A new paragraph shall be added to the end of Section 2.01 to read as 
follows: "the term "Special Drawing Rights" and the symbol "SDR" 
mean special drawing rights as valued by the International Monetary 
Fund in accordance with its Articles of Agreement";
Page  4
(ii)
The term "Bank", wherever used in the General Conditions, other than in 
Sections 2.01 (8) and 6.02 (f) thereof and the last use of such term in 
Section 5.01 thereof, means the Trustee except that in Section 6.02, the 
term "Bank" shall also include the international Bank for Reconstruction 
and Development acting in its own capacity;
(iii)
The term "Borrower", wherever used in the General Conditions, means 
the Recipient;
(iv)
The term "Loan Agreement", wherever used in the General. Conditions, 
means this Agreement;
(v)
The term "Loan" and "loan" wherever used in the General Conditions, 
means the GET Grant;
(vi)
The term "Loan Account" wherever used in the General Conditions, 
means the GET Grant Account; and
(vii)
In Section 6.02, sub-paragraph (k) is re-lettered as sub-paragraph (1) and 
a new sub-paragraph (k) is added to read as follows:
"An extraordinary situation shall have arisen in which any further 
withdrawals under the GET Grant would exceed the resources available 
for disbursement from the GET."
Section 1.02. Wherever used in this Agreement, unless the context otherwise requires, 
the several terms defined in the General Conditions, in the Recitals to this Agreement and in the 
NIPA Grant Agreement have the respective meanings therein set forth, and the following terms 
have the following meanings:
(a)
"Beneficiary" means any local indigenous person or community or local 
established resident of a Project Site (as such term is defined hereinafter), acting individually or 
as a group, or private sector entity who proposes to carry out a Subproject and shall have entered 
into a Subgrant Agreement or Subloan Agreement.
(b)
"Category" means a withdrawal category set forth in the table in paragraph 1 of 
Schedule 1 to this Agreement, and the term "Categories" means each of said Category;
(c)
"Charter" means, collectively, the following constituent instruments of NIPA: 
the Articles of Incorporation of NGOs For Integrated Protected Areas, Inc., dated
 
December 9, 
1993, as filed and registered with the Securities and Exchange Commission of the Recipient on 
December 14, 1993 (S.E.C. Reg. No. AN093-005157), and the By-Laws of the NGOs For 
Integrated Protected Areas, Inc., adopted on December 9, 1993, as filed and registered with the 
Securities and Exchange Commission of the Recipient on December 14, 1993 (SEC Reg. No. 
AN093-005157);
(d)
"DENR" means the Department of Environment and Natural Resources of. the 
Recipient, established pursuant to the Recipient's Executive Order No. 192 of 1987, and the term 
Page  5
DENR shall include any successor department or agency thereto;
(e)
"DOF" means the Department of Finance of the Recipient, established pursuant 
to the Recipient's Executive Order No. 127, dated January 30, 1987;
(f)
"Fiscal Year" means the twelve (12)-month period corresponding to any of the 
Recipient's financial years, which period commences on January 1 and ends on December 31 in 
each calendar year, and the term "Fiscal Years" means, collectively, each of said Fiscal Year;
(g)
"IPAF" means the Integrated Protected Areas Fund established under the NIPAS 
Law (as such term is defined hereinafter);
(h)
“IPAF Governing Board” means the governing board of the IPAF, established 
and operating pursuant to the DENR Administrative Order No. 56, Series of 1993, dated 
September 20,1993;
(i)
“LBP” means the Land Bank of the Philippines, a financial institution owned 
and controlled by the Recipient, established and operating pursuant to the Recipient’s Republic 
Act No. 3844, dated August 8, 1963, as
amended
 to the date of this Agreement;
(j)
“Management Plan” means the individual management plans to be prepared for 
the management and administration of each Project Site as a Protected Area, pursuant to the 
provisions of Section 3.03 (b) of this Agreement and Section 3.09 of the NIPA Grant Agreement, 
and as further referred to in Parts A (1), B (3) and C (3) of the Project;
(k)
“NIPA-LBP MOA” means the memorandum of agreement to be entered into 
between NIPA and LBP, pursuant to the provisions of Section 3.03 of the NIPA Grant 
Agreement;
(l)
“NGOs” means non-governmental organizations;
(m)
“NIPAS Law” means, collectively, the Recipient’s Republic Act No. 7586, dated 
July 22, 1991 (otherwise known as the National
Integrated
Protected
Areas
System
Act
of
1992
)
and the DENR Administrative Order No.25, Series of 1992, dated June 29, 1992 (otherwise 
known as the National Integrated Protected Areas Systems (NIPAS) Implementing Rules and 
Regulations);
(n)
“PAMB” means the Protected Area Management Board of a Protected Area 
within the meaning of the NIPAS Law;
(o)
"PCU" means the Project Coordination Unit, to be established by DENR and 
thereafter maintained jointly by DENR and NIPA, pursuant to the provisions of Section 3.04 of 
this Agreement and Section 3.04 of the NIPA Grant Agreement;
(p)
"Performance Monitoring Plan" means the plan to be prepared jointly by DENR 
and NIPA for monitoring the progress of Project implementation, pursuant to the provisions of 
Section 3.05 of this Agreement and Section 3.08 of the NIPA Grant Agreement;
(q)
"Pesos" means the unit of currency of the Recipient;
Page  6
(r)
"Protected Area" means an area of public land which has been designated by a 
law enacted by the Congress of the Recipient as a protected area constituting part of the 
Integrated Protected Area System within the meaning of the NIPAS Law, and the term "Protected 
Areas" means, collectively, each of said Protected Area;
(s)
"Project Sites" means, collectively, the following ten (10) sites within which the 
Project shall be carried out: Subic Bataan Protected Area, Kitanglad Nature Park, Northern 
Sierra Madre Nature Park, Agusan Marsh Wildlife Sanctuary, Mount Apo Nature Park, Mount 
Canlaon Nature Park, Siargao Wildlife Sanctuary, Batanes Landscapes and Seascapes, Turtle 
Island Nature Park and Apo Reef Marine Nature Park, and the term "Project Site" means any one 
of the Project Sites;
(t)
"Special Account" means the account referred to in Section 2.02 (b) of this 
Agreement;
(u)
"Steering Committee" means the National Integrated Protected Areas System 
Policy and Program Steering
 
Committee, established and operating pursuant to the DENR 
Special Order No. 962, Series of 1992, dated October 12, 1992;
(v)
"Subgrant" means a grant, equal to the equivalent of three hundred fifty Special 
Drawing Rights (SDR 350) or less per Beneficiary, made or proposed to be made out of the 
proceeds of the GET Grant to an individual Beneficiary under a Subgrant Agreement to finance 
the carrying out of a subproject (as such terms are defined hereinafter), and the term "Subgrants" 
means, collectively, each of said Subgrant;
(w)
"Subgrant Agreement" means the agreement to be entered into between the 
NIPA and a Beneficiary or Beneficiaries in respect of a Subproject (as such term is defined 
hereinafter) to be financed by a Subgrant;
(x)
"Subloan" means a loan, equal to the equivalent of one thousand four hundred 
Special Drawing Rights (SDR 1,400) or less per Beneficiary, made or proposed to be made out of 
the proceeds of the GET Grant to an individual Beneficiary under a Subloan Agreement to 
finance the carrying out of a Subproject (as such terms are defined hereinafter), and the term 
"Subloans" means, collectively, each of said Subloan;
(y)
"Subloan Agreement" means the agreement to be entered .into between NIPA 
and a Beneficiary or Beneficiaries in respect of a Subproject (as such term is defined hereinafter) 
to be financed by a Subloan;
(z)
"Subproject" means a project, selected and prepared in accordance with the 
Subproject Guidelines (as such term is defined hereinafter), and approved by the Trustee or the 
IPAF Governing Board or a PAMB, as the case may be, in accordance with the provisions of this 
Agreement, consisting of investments and other non-degrading livelihood activities eligible 
under this Agreement which expand employment opportunities and generate income without 
destroying or degrading the bio-diversity or ecological value of the Project Sites; and
(aa)
"Subproject Guidelines" means the guidelines to be prepared by the IPAF 
Governing Board and furnished to the Trustee for approval, pursuant to the provisions of Section 
3.06 of this Agreement and Sections 3.05 of, and Subparagraph 3 (c) (iii) of Schedule 1 to, the 
Page  7
NIPA Grant Agreement, for preparing, appraising, processing, approving, financing, 
implementing and monitoring Subprojects, which Guidelines shall include, inter alia
,
the 
eligibility criteria for the financing of Subprojects under the GET Grant.
ARTICLE II
The GET Grant
Section 2.01. The Trustee agrees to make available to the Recipient, on the terms and 
conditions set forth or referred to in this Agreement, the GET Grant in an amount in various 
currencies equivalent to two million thirty-one thousand Special Drawing Rights (SDR 2, 031, 
000).
Section 2.02. (a) The amount of the GET Grant may be withdrawn from the GET Grant 
Account in accordance with the provisions of Schedule I to this Agreement for expenditures 
made (or, if the Trustee shall so agree, to be made) in respect of the reasonable cost of goods and 
services required for carrying out the Project and to be financed out of the proceeds of the GET 
Grant.
(b)
The Recipient may, for the purposes of the Project, open and maintain in dollars 
a
special deposit account in the Bancrko Sentral 
ng Pilipinas 
on terms and conditions acceptable 
to the Trustee, including appropriate protection against set-off, seizure or attachment. Deposits 
into, and payments out of, the Special Account shall be made in accordance with the provisions 
of Schedule 4 to this Agreement.
Section 2.03. The Closing Date shall be June 30, 2002, or such later date as the Trustee 
shall establish. The Trustee shall promptly notify the Recipient of such later date.
Section 2.04. The Trustee shall not be obligated to make any payment under this 
Agreement, except to the extent it shall have received funds for the purpose of the Project from 
the GET.
ARTICLE III
Execution of the Project
Section 3.01. The Recipient declares its commitment to the objectives of the Project as 
set forth in Schedule 2 to this Agreement, and, to this end, shall: (a) cause DENR to carry out 
Part A of the Project, and cause DENR to take all measures necessary on its part to ensure that 
NIPA shall carry out Parts B and C thereof, in both cases: (i) with due diligence and efficiency; 
(ii) in conformity with appropriate administrative, bio-diversity protection, ecological, economic, 
financial and land conservation practices, and (iii) in accordance with appropriate safety, health 
and environmental standards at all times acceptable to the Trustee; and (b) provide, and cause 
DENR to provide, promptly as needed, the funds, facilities, services and other resources required 
for the Project.
Section 3.02. The Recipient shall at all times ensure that, until the completion of the 
Page  8
Project, the DENR shall be responsible for the general oversight and overall national 
coordination and monitoring of the Project.
Section 3.03. (a) The Recipient shall issue one or more Presidential Proclamations 
declaring each Project Site as a Protected Area and, promptly thereafter, shall certify as an 
administration bill its recommendation to its Congress for the enactment of each said 
Proclamations by a Congressional Act;
(b) Without any limitation or restriction upon its obligation under Paragraph (a) 
hereinabove, the Recipient shall cause DENR to prepare, jointly with NIPA and on the basis of 
terms of reference acceptable to the Trustee and in accordance with the provisions of the NIPAS 
Law, an individual management plan (the "Management Plan”) for each Project Site as a 
Protected Area, which Management Plan shall, in respect of its corresponding Project Site, 
provide for, inter alia
,
each of the following: the strategy for managing and administering the use, 
protection and permanent preservation of the condition of local natural resources; habitat 
conservation and rehabilitation; preparation and implementation of the annual operational 
programs and related budgets; local community organization, representation and coordination; 
recognition and protection of the customary rights and the means of livelihood of indigenous 
cultural communities and other tenured residents;
(c) The Recipient shall cause DENR to take all action required for establishing an 
individual PAMB for the administration and management of said Area in accordance with the 
provisions of the NIPAS Law. The Recipient shall cause DENR to establish at least five (5) 
PAMBs not later than April 1, 1995, and the remaining five (5) PAMBs not later than April 1, 
1996.
Section 3.04. (a) The Recipient shall establish and thereafter maintain, jointly with 
NIPA, until completion of the Project a Project Coordination Unit (the "PCU) with membership, 
functions and terms of reference which shall be at all times acceptable to the Trustee. The PCU 
shall be headed by qualified management acceptable to the Trustee, the Recipient and NIPA, and 
shall be staffed by qualified personnel (including representatives of the Recipient and NIPA) in 
adequate numbers;
(b) The PCU shall be vested at all times with such responsibilities, funds, staff and other 
requisite resources (including, without limitation, a Recipient-NIPA joint PCU Office) as shall 
be required to enable it to undertake the day-to-day supervision and coordination of the 
implementation of the Project; and
(c) The Recipient, through DENR, shall, jointly with NIPA, cause the PCU to prepare, in 
accordance with guidelines acceptable to the Trustee, and furnish to the Trustee for information 
not later than April 30, July 31, October 31 and January 31 in each Fiscal Year a report on the 
progress of the Project and consolidated, statements of Project expenditures and accounts 
referred to in Section 4.01 (a) of the NIPA Grant Agreement.
Section 3.05. The Recipient, through DENR, shall:
(a) Prepare, not later than April 1, 1995, jointly with NIPA and on the basis of terms of 
reference and performance indicators which shall have been approved by the Trustee, and 
thereafter promptly implement jointly with NIPA with due diligence and efficiency, a 
Page  9
Performance Monitoring Plan for monitoring on a regular basis, inter alia
,
the progress achieved 
by both the Recipient and NIPA in carrying out their respective parts of the Project and the 
extent to which the objectives of the Project have been realized;
(b) Prepare, jointly with NIPA, and furnish to the Trustee, not later than March 30 of 
each Fiscal Year, a report, in form and substance acceptable to the Trustee, on the conclusions 
and recommendations indicated by the monitoring and evaluation activities carried out under the 
Performance Monitoring Plan; and
(c) Afford the Trustee a reasonable opportunity to exchange views with both the 
Recipient and NIPA on each report prepared pursuant to Paragraph (b) hereinabove, and 
thereafter promptly take all corrective and remedial action as may be required to conform its 
performance under the Project to said Plan, and as shall have been otherwise reasonably 
recommended by the Trustee pursuant to the exchange of views referred to hereinabove.
Section 3.06. (a) The Recipient shall cause DENR to ensure that the IPAF Governing 
Board is maintained with membership, functions (including, without limitation, the authority to 
review and approve Subprojects, including the financing thereof, all in accordance with the 
subproject Guidelines) and procedural terms of reference acceptable to the Trustee;
(b) The Recipient, through DENR, shall ensure that the Steering Committee causes said 
Board to duly adopt the governing rules and regulations of the IPAF, in form and substance 
acceptable to the Trustee; and
(c) Thereafter, the Recipient, through DENR, shall cause the Steering Committee to take 
all action necessary so as to ensure that the IPAF Governing Board promptly adopts the 
Subproject Guidelines, as approved by the Trustee, and otherwise takes all necessary measures 
for the proper application of said Guidelines in respect of the carrying out of Subprojects under 
Parts B (1) and B (2) of the Project.
Section 3.07. (a) The Recipient shall cause DENR to identify and locate any indigenous 
cultural communities existing within the Project Sites, and, not later than April 1, 1995, shall 
begin, based on the procedures set forth in the NIPAS Law, delineating the boundaries and 
evaluating the merits of the ancestral domains claims of said communities; and
(b) The Recipient shall cause DENR to issue, promptly within six (6) months from the 
time said boundaries shall have been delineated, Certificates of Ancestral Land Claims to those 
ancestral domains claims evaluated as meritorious pursuant to the provisions of Paragraph (a) 
hereinabove.
Section 3.08. The Recipient shall, not later than January 1, 1997, cause DENR to take all 
action necessary to increase the numbers of its personnel assigned on a full-time basis to each 
Project Site to a level acceptable to the Trustee.
Section 3.09. Except as the Trustee shall otherwise agree, procurement of the goods, 
works and consultants' services requi
red for the Project, and to be financed out of the proceeds of 
the GET Grant, shall be governed by the provisions of Schedule 3 to this Agreement.
ARTICLE IV
Page  10
Financial Covenants
Section 4.01. (a) The Recipient shall maintain or cause to be maintained records and 
separate accounts adequate to reflect in accordance with sound accounting practices the 
operations, resources and expenditures in respect of Part A of the Project of the departments or 
agencies (including, without limitation, DENR) of the Recipient responsible for carrying out Part 
A of the Project, or any part thereof.
(b)
The Recipient shall:
(i)
have the records and accounts referred to in paragraph (a) of this Section, including those 
for the Special Account, for each Fiscal Year audited, in accordance with appropriate auditing 
principles consistently applied, by independent auditors acceptable to the Trustee; furnish to the 
Trustee as soon as available, but in any case not later than six (6) months after the end of each 
such year, the report of such audit by said auditors, of such scope and in such detail as the 
Trustee shall have reasonably requested; and
(ii)
furnish to the Trustee as soon as available, but in any case not later than six (6) months 
after the end of each such year, the report of such audit of said auditors, of such scope and in 
such detail as the Trustee shall have reasonably requested; and
(iii)
furnish to the Trustee such other information concerning said records 
and accounts and the audit thereof as the Trustee shall from time to time 
reasonably request.
(c)
For all expenditures with respect to which withdrawals from the GET Grant 
Account were made on the basis of statements of expenditure, the Recipient shall:
(i)
maintain or cause to be maintained, in accordance with paragraph (a) of 
this Section, records and accounts reflecting such expenditures;
(ii)
retain, until at least one (1) year after the Trustee has received the audit 
report for the Fiscal Year in which the last withdrawal from the GET 
Grant Account was made, all records (contracts, orders, invoices, bills, 
receipts and other documents) evidencing such expenditures;
(iii)
enable the Trustee's representatives to examine such records; and
(iv)
ensure that such records and accounts are included in the annual audit 
referred to in paragraph (b) of this Section, and that the report of such 
audit contains a separate opinion by said auditors as to whether the 
statements of expenditure submitted during such Fiscal Year, together 
with the procedures and internal controls involved in their preparation, 
can be relied upon to support the related withdrawals.
ARTICLE V
Other Covenants
Page  11
Section 5.01. Without limitation or restriction upon any of its other obligations under this 
Agreement, the Recipient hereby: (a) undertakes to furnish all required funds, facilities,, services 
and other resources required by NIPA to carry out all of its obligations, all as set forth in the 
NIPA Grant Agreement; and (b) specifically undertakes not to take, or cause to be taken, any 
action or measure which would, directly or indirectly, threaten, impair, obstruct or interfere with 
the ability of NIPA to carry out any of its obligations, under the NIPA Grant Agreement.
Section 5.02. The Recipient shall be responsible for dealing with any claims arising out 
of, or resulting from, either this Agreement or the NIPA Grant Agreement that may be brought by 
third parties against the Trustee. The Recipient shall indemnify the Trustee against any costs, 
claims, damages or liabilities arising out of, or resulting from, any acts or omissions under this 
Agreement.
Section 5.03. The Trustee is not an agent of or trustee for the Recipient and shall not 
have any fiduciary duty toward, or relationship with, the Recipient.
ARTICLE VI
Remedies of the Trustee
Section 6.01. Pursuant to Section 6.02 (1) of the General Conditions, the following 
additional events are specified:
(a)
The NIPAS Law shall have been amended, suspended, abrogated, repealed or 
waived so as to affect materially and adversely either the Recipient's or NIPA's ability to carry 
out any of their obligations under this Agreement or the NIPA Grant Agreement, respectively;
(b)
The Recipient,
or any other authority having jurisdiction, shall have taken any 
action for the dissolution or disestablishment of NIPA, or the suspension of any of its operations 
so as to affect materially and adversely its ability to perform any of its obligations as set forth in 
the NIPA Grant Agreement, or to otherwise carry out its respective parts of the Project or any 
part thereof;
(c)
NIPA shall have failed to perform any of its obligations under the NIPA Grant 
Agreement;
(d)
The Recipient,
or any other authority having jurisdiction, shall have taken any 
action for the dissolution or disestablishment of a Project Site which has been designated as a 
Protected Area, pursuant to the provisions of Section 3.03 of this Agreement;
(e)
The Recipient,
or any other authority having jurisdiction, shall have taken any 
action for the dissolution or disestablishment of the Steering Committee or the IPAF Governing 
Board, or the suspension of any of their respective operations;
(f)
A representation made by the Recipient in or pursuant to this Agreement, or any 
statement furnished in connection therewith, and intended to be relied upon by the Trustee in 
making the GET Grant, shall have been incorrect in any material respect; or;
(g)
The Recipient: (i) shall have been suspended from membership in or ceased to 
be a member of the Bank; or (ii) shall have ceased to be a member of the International Monetary 
Page  12
Fund.
ARTICLE VII
Effective Date; Termination
Section 7.01. The following events are specified as conditions to the effectiveness of this 
Agreement within the meaning of Section 12.01 (c) of the General Conditions:
(a)
All conditions precedent to the effectiveness of this NIPA Grant Agreement have 
been fulfilled, other than those related to the effectiveness of this Agreement; and
(b)
DENR shall have established the PCU pursuant to the provisions of Section 3.03 
of this Agreement.
Section 7.02. The date ninety (90) days after the date of this Agreement is hereby 
specified for the purposes of Section 12.04 of the General Conditions.
Section 7.03. This Agreement shall continue in effect until the GET Grant has been fully 
disbursed and the parties to this Agreement have fulfilled all their obligations  thereunder.
ARTICLE VIII
Settlement of Disputes; Arbitration
Section 8.01. Any dispute arising out of, or relating to, this Agreement or the NIPA 
Grant Agreement which is not settled by agreement of the parties shall be finally settled by 
arbitration in accordance with the UNCITRAL Arbitration Rules as at present in force. The 
parties to such arbitration shall be the Trustee on the one side, and the Recipient and NIPA on 
the other side. The arbitral tribunal shall consist of three (3) arbitrators. One arbitrator shall be 
appointed by the Trustee. A second arbitrator shall be appointed by the Recipient and NIPA. The 
two arbitrators thus appointed shall choose the third arbitrator who will act as the presiding 
arbitrator of the arbitral tribunal. The place of arbitration shall be Washington, D.C., United 
States of America. In the event of a conflict between the UNCITRAL Arbitration Rules-and the 
terms of this Agreement or of the NIPA Grant Agreement, the terms of those Agreements shall 
govern.
ARTICLE IX
Representative of the Recipient; Addresses
Section 9.01. The Secretary of Finance of the Recipient is designated as representative of 
the Recipient for the purposes of Section 11.03 of the General Conditions.
Section 9.02. The following addresses are specified for the purposes of Section 11.01 of 
the General Conditions:
For the Recipient:
Page  13
Secretary of Finance
Department of Finance
Manila
Republic of the Philippines
Cable address:
Telex:
SECFIN
40268
Manila
CB-CONF
For the Trustee:
International Bank for
Reconstruction and Development
East Asia and Pacific Region
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America
Cable address:
Telex:
INTBAFRAD 197688 
(TRT),
Washington, D.C.
248423 (RCA),
64145 (WUI) or
82987 (FTCC).
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their duly Authorized  
representatives, have caused this Agreement to be signed in their respective names in Manila, 
Republic of the Philippines as of the day and year first above written.
REPUBLIC OF THE PHILIPPINES
By 
/s/
Roberto de Ocampo
Authorized Representative
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR
RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
Acting as Trustee of the
Global Environment Trust Fund
By
/s/
Callisto Madavo
Acting Regional Vice President
East Asia and Pacific
Page  14
Page  15
SCEEDULE 1
Withdrawal of the Proceeds of the GET Grant
1.
The table below sets forth the Categories of items to be financed out of the proceeds of 
the GET Grant, the allocation of the amounts of the GET Grant to each Category and the 
percentage of expenditures for items so to be financed in each Category:
Amount of the
GET Grant Allocated
% of
(Expressed in SDR
Expenditures 
Category
Equivalent
____
to be Financed
(1)
Civil works
1,395,000
100%
for part A of
the Project
(2)
Goods for
  318,625
100% of foreign
Part A of
expenditures,
the Project
100% of local
expenditures
(ex-factory cost)
and 85% of local expenditures
for other items
procured locally
(3)
Incremental 
  218,247
40% of expenditures
operating costs
incurred prior to
December 31, 1994:
30% of expenditures
incurred prior to
December 31, 1995;
20% of expenditures
incurred thereafter
(4)
Technical assistance
   99,128
100%
services under part
A of the Project
------------
TOTAL
2,031,000
=======
2.
For the purposes of this Schedule:
(a)
The term "foreign expenditures" means expenditures in the currency of any 
country other than that of the Recipient for goods or services
 supplied from the territory of 
Page  16
any country other than that of the Recipient;
(b)
The term "local expenditures" means expenditures in the currency of the 
Recipient or for goods or services supplied from the territory of the Recipient; and 
(c)
The term "incremental operating costs" means payments made for expenditures 
on account of the operating salaries and allowances of DENR's national parks and Protected 
Areas personnel, including 
vehicle fuel and maintenance expenses, horse feed, office 
supplies, uniform and travel allowances.
3.
Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph I above, no withdrawals shall be made in 
respect of payments made for  expenditures prior to the date of this Agreement.
4.
Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph I above, no withdrawals shall be made in 
respect of payments made for expenditures under Categories (1), (2), (3) or (4) in respect of any 
Project Site, after the aggregate of the proceeds of the GET Grant  withdrawn from the Grant 
Account shall have reached the equivalent  of one million  fifteen thousand Special 
Drawing Rights (SDR 
1,015,000), except for any Project Site which shall have been designated 
a
Protected Area, within the meaning of the NIPAS Law pursuant to the provisions of Section 
3.03 of this Agreement, and the Trustee shall have received evidence thereof acceptable to the 
Trustee.
5.
The Trustee may require withdrawals from the Grant Account to 
be made on the 
basis of statements of expenditure for expenditures under contracts for goods, works and services 
not exceeding the equivalent of seventeen thousand seven hundred Special Drawing Rights
(SDR 17,700), under such terms and conditions as the Trustee shall specify by notice to the 
Recipient.
6.
Without limitation or restriction upon any of the Recipient's other obligations under this 
Agreement, if the Trustee shall have determined at any time that any payment made from the 
GET Grant Account was used for
any expenditure not consistent with the provisions of 
this Agreement, the Recipient shall, promptly upon notice from the Trustee, refund to the Trustee 
for deposit into the GET Grant Account, an amount equal to the amount so used or the portion 
thereof as specified by the Trustee.
Page  17
SCHEDULE 2
Description of the Project
The objectives of the Project are to inter alia
:
(i) have each Project Site designated as a  
Protected Area under the NIPAS Law; (ii) protect the bio-diversity value and future 
sustainability of the Project Sites as Protected Areas; (iii) integrate local indigenous communities 
and NGOs in the management and development of the Project Sites as Protected Areas; (iv) 
establish and protect the land tenure rights of indigenous cultural, communities and long 
-established residents of the Project Sites; (v) develop a permanent funding mechanism for the 
management, administration and development of the Project Sites as Protected Areas; (vi) 
develop sustainable forms of livelihood and restorative activities which are consistent with the 
bio-diversity protection of the Project Sites as Protected Areas; and (vii) strengthen the 
institutional capabilities of DENR and the PCU to carry out their respective activities under the 
Project.
The Project consists of the following parts, subject to such modifications thereof as the 
Recipient and the Trustee may agree upon from time to time to achieve such objectives:
Part A:
Project Site Development
1.
Carrying out of a program of biodiversity protection for each Project Site, on the basis of 
the individual Management Plans referred to in Parts B (3) and C (3) hereinbelow, which 
program shall include: (a) the regular physical security patrolling and inspection of the Project 
Sites; and (b) educational and cultural orientation programs for visitors of the Project Sites;
2.
Carrying out an infrastructure development program for each Protected Area, including 
access road rehabilitation, trail construction and development of visitors facilities;
3.
Construction of on-site housing, offices, dormitories, visitor's centers, watchtowers and 
patrol cabins within each Protected Area; 
4.
Provision of miscellaneous equipment and materials in respect of carrying out the 
foregoing, including utility vehicles, boats, horses, communications equipment, basic office 
equipment and furniture and power generators; and
5.
Provision of technical assistance services to assist DENR in mapping and delineating the 
boundaries of each Project Site for the purpose of establishing said Site as a Protected Area.
Part B
:
Resource and Socio-Economic Management
1.
Identifying, preparing, appraising and monitoring subprojects for developing 
self-sustaining non-degrading alternative sources of livelihood activities for local indigenous 
communities and other local established residents of the Project Sites and Protected Areas;
2.
Provision of Subgrants and Subloans for the carrying out of subprojects in eco-tourism, 
agro-forestry, mariculture, aquaculture, conservation agriculture, handicrafts, processing, 
Page  18
marketing and employment-generating infrastructure;
3.
Preparing and carrying out an individual Management Plan for each Project Site, for the 
purpose of establishing and maintaining it as a Protected Area, including the preparation of 
related occupant, tenure, and ancestral land surveys, ethnographic studies, and land use and 
environmental protection plans, resource management operations programs, financial budgeting, 
and restoration of degraded areas; and
4.
Carrying out of individual time-based action plans for the establishment, organization, 
staffing and operation of a PAMB in each Protected area, including rental or construction, 
equipping, furnishing and staffing of a site management office.
Part C:
Technical Assistance
1.
Provision of technical assistance to assist NIPA in carrying out Parts B (1), (2) and (4) of 
the Project;
2.
Provision of technical assistance services to the PCU to strengthen its capabilities for the 
day-to-day supervision of, and reporting on, the implementation of the Project, including office 
rental or rehabilitation, office furnishing, provision of equipment, operations and travel cost;
3.
Provision of technical assistance services to assist NIPA in preparing and carrying out an 
individual Management Plan for each Project Site as referred to in Part B (3) hereinabove, and 
monitoring the implementation of each of said Plan;
4.
Provision of technical assistance services to each PAMB to strengthen its capabilities 
for: (i) managing and administering its corresponding Protected Area; and (ii) preparing and 
consolidating the annual proposed budgets and work programs for each Protected Area;
5.
Provision of technical assistance services to the Steering Committee to assist it in 
identifying and selecting NGOs for the provision of services referred to in Parts C (1), (2) and (3) 
of the Project;. and
6.
Provision of technical assistance services to NIPA to strengthen its organizational, 
managerial and administrative capabilities for coordinating the overall commencement of the 
Project.
****************
The Project is expected to be completed by December 31, 2001.
Page  19
SCHEDULE 3
Procurement and Consultants' Services
Section I
. Procurement of Goods and works
Part A:
International Competitive Bidding
1.
Except as provided in Part C hereof, goods and works shall be procured under contracts 
awarded in accordance with procedures consistent with those set forth in Sections I and II of the 
“Guidelines for Procurement under IBRD Loans and IDA Credits” published by the Bank in May 
1992 (the "Guidelines").
2.
For fixed-price contracts, the invitation to bid referred to in paragraph 2.13 of the 
Guidelines shall provide that, when contract award is delayed beyond the original bid validity 
period, the successful bidder's bid price will be increased for each week of delay by two (2) 
pre-disclosed correction factors acceptable to the Trustee, one to be applied to all foreign 
currency components and the other to the local currency component of the bid price. Such an 
increase shall not be taken into account in the bid evaluation.
3.
In the procurement of goods and works in accordance with this Part A, the Recipient 
shall use or cause to be used the relevant standard bidding documents issued by the Bank, with 
such modifications thereto as the Trustee shall have agreed to be necessary for the purposes of 
the Project. Where no relevant standard bidding documents have been issued by the Bank, the 
Recipient shall use or cause to be used standard bidding documents based on other 
internationally recognized standard forms agreed with the Trustee.
Part B:
Preference for Domestic Manufacturers
In the procurement of goods in accordance with the procedures described in Part A.1 
hereof, goods manufactured in the territory of the Recipient may be granted a margin of 
preference in accordance with, and subject to, the provisions of paragraphs 2.55 and 2.56 of the 
Guidelines and paragraphs 1 through 4 of Appendix 2 thereto.
Part C:
Other Procurement Procedures
1.
Local Competitive Bidding
:
Works
estimated to cost more than the equivalent of fifty thousand dollars ($50,000) but 
less than the equivalent of two hundred thousand dollars ($200,000) per contract, up to an 
aggregate amount not to exceed the equivalent of five hundred sixty thousand dollars ($560,000), 
and goods estimated to cost more than the equivalent of fifty thousand dollars ($50,000) but less 
than the equivalent of two hundred thousand dollars ($200,000) per contract, a up to an aggregate 
amount not to exceed the equivalent of two hundred and twenty thousand dollars ($220,000), 
may be procured under contracts awarded on the basis of competitive bidding, advertised
locally, 
in accordance with procedures acceptable to the Trustee.
2. Local 
Shopping:
Page  20
Goods
estimated to cost less than the equivalent of fifty thousand dollars ($50,000) per 
contract, up to and aggregate amount not
to exceed the equivalent of two hundred thirty 
thousand dollars ($230,000), may be procured on the basis of comparison of price quotations 
obtained from at least three (3) suppliers or contractors eligible under the Guidelines, in 
accordance with procedures acceptable to the Trustee.
3.
Force Account:
Works estimated to cost less than the equivalent of fifty thousand dollars ($50,000) per 
contract, up to an aggregate amount not to exceed the equivalent of one million four hundred 
thousand dollars ($1,400,000), may be carried out by force account in accordance with 
procedures acceptable to the Trustee.
Part D:
Review by the Trustee of Procurement Decisions
1.
Review of invitations to bid and of proposed awards and final contracts:
(a)
With respect to (i) each contract awarded pursuant to the provisions of Part A 
hereof, (ii) the first contract awarded pursuant to the provisions of Part C (1) hereof, and (iii) 
each contract  estimated to cost the equivalent of one hundred thousand dollars ($100,000) or 
more, the procedures set forth in paragraphs 2 and 4 of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines shall apply. 
Where payments for such contract are to be made out of the special Account, such procedures 
shall be modified to ensure that the two (2) conformed copies of the contract required to be 
furnished to the Trustee pursuant to said paragraph 2 (d) shall be furnished to the Trustee prior to 
the making of the first payment out of the Special Account in respect of such contract.
(b)
With respect to each contract not governed by the preceding paragraph, the 
procedures set forth in paragraphs 3 and 4 of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines shall apply. Where 
payments for such contract are to be made out of the Special Account, said procedures shall be 
modified to ensure that the two (2) conformed copies of the contract together with the other 
information required to be furnished to the Trustee pursuant to said paragraph 3 shall be 
furnished to the Trustee as part of the evidence to be furnished pursuant to paragraph 4 of 
Schedule 4 to this Agreement.
(c) 
The provisions of the preceding subparagraph (b) shall not apply to contracts on 
account of which withdrawals from the GET Grant Account are to be made on the basis of 
statements of expenditure.
2.
The figure of fifteen percent (15%) is hereby specified for purposes of paragraph 4 of 
Appendix 1 to the Guidelines.
Section II
. 
Employment of Consultants
1.
All consultants' services shall be procured under contracts awarded to consultants: (A) 
whose qualifications, experience and terms and conditions of employment shall be satisfactory to 
the Trustee; and (B) who shall be selected in accordance with principles and procedures 
acceptable to the Trustee on the basis of the "Guidelines for the Use of Consultants by World 
Bank Borrowers and by the World Bank as Executing Agency" published-by the Bank in August 
1981 (the "Consultants Guidelines").
Page  21
2.
For complex, time-based assignments, the Recipient shall employ or cause to be 
employed such consultants under contracts using the standard form of contract for consultant's 
services issued by the Bank, with such modifications as shall have been agreed by the Trustee. 
Where no relevant standard contract documents have been issued by the Bank, the Recipient 
shall use or cause to be used other standard forms agreed with the Trustee.
3.
Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1 of this Section, the provisions of the 
Consultants Guidelines requiring prior review by the Trustee, or approval of budgets, short lists, 
selection procedures, letters of invitation, proposals, evaluation reports and contracts, shall not 
apply to contracts with firms estimated to cost less than the equivalent of one hundred thousand 
dollars ($100,000) per contract, and to contracts with individuals estimated to cost less than the 
equivalent of fifty thousand dollars ($50,000). However, this exception to prior review by the 
Trustee shall not apply to the terms of reference for such contracts nor to the employment of 
individuals, to single source selection of firms, to assignments of a critical nature as reasonably 
determined by the Bank and to amendments of contracts raising the contract value to the 
equivalent of one hundred thousand dollars ($100,000) or more per contract with firms and to the 
equivalent of fifty thousand dollars ($50,000) or more per contract with individuals.
Page  22
SCHEDULE 4
Special Account
1.
For the purposes of this Schedule:
(a)
The term "Eligible Categories" means Categories (1), (2) , (3) and (4) ;
(b)
The term "Eligible Expenditures" means expenditures in respect of the 
reasonable cost of goods and services required for the Project and to be financed out of the 
proceeds of the GET Grant allocated from time to time to the Eligible Categories in accordance 
with the provisions of Schedule 1 to this Agreement; and
(c) The term "Authorized Allocation" means an amount equivalent to one Hundred 
seventy seven thousand Special Drawing Rights (SDR 177,000) to be withdrawn from the GET 
Grant Account and deposited into the Special Account pursuant to paragraph 3 (a) of this 
Schedule.
2.
Payments out of the Special Account shall be made exclusively for Eligible Expenditures 
in accordance with the provisions of this Schedule.
3.
After the Trustee has received evidence satisfactory to it that the Special Account has 
been duly opened, withdrawals of the Authorized Allocation and subsequent withdrawals to 
replenish the Special Account shall be made as follows:
(a)
For withdrawals of the Authorized Allocation, the Recipient shall furnish to the 
Trustee a request or requests for a deposit or deposits which do not exceed the aggregate amount 
of the Authorized Allocation. On the basis of such request or requests, the Trustee shall, on 
behalf of the Recipient, withdraw from the GET Grant Account and deposit in the Special 
Account such amount or amounts as the Recipient shall have requested.
(b)
(i) 
For replenishment of the Special Account, the Recipient shall furnish to 
the Trustee requests for deposits into the Special Account at such intervals as the 
Trustee shall specify.
(ii)
Prior to or at the time of each such request, the Recipient shall furnish to 
the Trustee the documents and other evidence required pursuant to paragraph 4 
of this Schedule for the payment or payments in respect of which replenishment 
is requested. On the basis of each such request, the Trustee shall, on behalf of 
the Recipient, withdraw from the GET Grant Account and deposit into the 
Special Account such amount as the Recipient shall have requested and as shall 
have been shown by said documents and other evidence to have been paid out-of 
the Special Account for Eligible Expenditures. All such deposits shall be 
withdrawn by the Trustee from the GET Grant Account under the respective 
Eligible Categories, and in the respective equivalent amounts, as shall have been 
justified by said documents and other evidence. 
4.
For each payment made by the Recipient out of the Special Account, the Recipient shall, 
at such time as the Trustee shall reasonably request, furnish to the Trustee such documents and 
Page  23
other evidence showing that such payment was made exclusively for Eligible Expenditures.
5.
Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 3 of this Schedule, the Trustee shall not be 
required to make further deposits into the Special Account:
(a)
If, at any time, the Trustee shall have determined that all further withdrawals 
should be made by the Recipient directly from the GET Grant Account in accordance with the 
provisions of Article V of the General. Conditions and paragraph (a) of Section 2.02 of this 
Agreement; or
(b)   Once the total unwithdrawn amount of the GET Grant allocated to the Eligible 
Categories, less the amount of any outstanding special commitment entered into by the Trustee 
pursuant to Section 5.02 of the General Conditions with respect to the Project, shall equal the 
equivalent of twice the amount of the Authorized Allocation.
Thereafter, withdrawal from the GET Grant Account of the remaining unwithdrawn amount of 
the GET Grant allocated to the Eligible Categories shall follow such procedures as the Trustee 
shall specify by notice to the Recipient. Such further withdrawals shall be made only after and to 
the extent that the Trustee shall have been satisfied that all such amounts remaining on deposit in 
the Special Account as of the date of such notice will be utilized in making payments for Eligible 
Expenditures.
6.
(a)
If the Trustee shall have determined at any time that any payment out of the 
special Account: (i) was made for an expenditure or in an amount not eligible pursuant to 
paragraph 2 of this Schedule; or (ii) was not justified by the evidence furnished to the Trustee, 
the Recipient shall, promptly upon notice from the Trustee: (A) provide such additional evidence 
as the Trustee may request; or (B) deposit into the Special Account (or, ;if the Trustee shall so 
request, refund to the Trustee) an amount equal to the amount of such payment or the portion 
thereof not so eligible or justified. Unless the Trustee shall otherwise agree, no further deposit by 
the Trustee into the Special Account shall be made until the Recipient has provided such 
evidence or made such deposit or refund, as the case may be.
(b)
If the Trustee shall have determined at any time that any amount outstanding in 
the Special Account will not be required to cover further payments for Eligible Expenditures, the 
Recipient shall, promptly upon notice from the Trustee, refund to the Trustee such outstanding 
amount.
(c)
The Recipient may, upon notice to the Trustee, refund to the Trustee all or any 
portion of the funds on deposit in the Special Account.
(d)
Refunds to the Trustee made pursuant to paragraphs
 6 
(a), (b) and (c) of this 
Schedule shall be credited to the GET Grant Account for subsequent withdrawal or for 
cancellation
 
in
 
accordance with the relevant provisions of this Agreement, including the General 
Conditions.
