Page  1
October 26, 2001
Atty. Egon Cayosa
President
NGOs for Integrated Protected Area (NIPA) Inc.
28 Wisdom St., Carmel Subd.
Bgy. Bahay Toro, Project 6
1106, Quezon City
Dear Atty. Cayosa:
Conservation of Priority Protected Areas Project-NIPA
GEF Trust Fund Number TF 028698
I refer to the Global Environment Trust Grant Agreement dated May 11, 1994, 
between the NGOs for Integrated Protected Areas Incorporated (the Recipient) and the 
International Bank for Reconstruction and Development (the Bank), acting as trustee 
for Global Environment Trust Fund, as amended on November 12, 1997 (the Grant 
Agreement).  I refer also to your letter dated October 17, 2001 requesting certain 
amendments to Schedule 3, "Procurement and Consultants’ Services," of the Grant 
Agreement.
I am pleased to inform you that the Bank agrees with your request and, to give 
effect thereto, agrees to amend the Grant Agreement as follows:
1.
Paragraph 2 of Part C, Section I of  Schedule 3 is amended to read as follows:
"2.
Local Shopping
Goods estimated to cost less than the equivalent of fifty thousand 
dollars ($50,000) per contract, up to and aggregate amount not to exceed the 
equivalent of two million five hundred thousand dollars ($2,500,000), may be 
procured on the basis of comparison of price quotations obtained from at least 
three (3) suppliers or contractors eligible under the Guidelines, in 
accordance with procedures acceptable to the Trustee."
2.
Paragraph 3 of Part C, Section I of Schedule 3 is amended to read as follows:
"3.
Community Participation
Works estimated to cost more than the equivalent of thirteen thousand 
dollars ($13,000) but less than the equivalent of twenty thousand dollars 
($20,000) per contract, up to an aggregate amount not to exceed the equivalent 
of nine hundred thousand dollars ($900,000) may be procured in accordance with 
procedures acceptable to the Trustee."
Except as specifically amended in this letter, all other terms and provisions of 
the Grant Agreement remain in full force and effect.  Upon receipt by the Bank of this 
original letter signed on behalf of the Recipient, the above amendments shall become 
effective as of the date of countersignature by the Recipient.
Please confirm the agreement of the to the amendment set out above by 
countersigning and duly dating the form of confirmation set forth herein below, and by 
returning one fully signed original to us at your earliest convenience and retaining 
an original copy of the letter for your records.
Sincerely,
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR
   RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
By /s/ Robert Vance Pulley
Country Director, Philippines
East Asia and Pacific Region
CONFIRMED:
Page  2
NGOS FOR INTEGRATED PROTECTED AREAS
 INCORPORATED
By /s/ Domingo Cayosa
Authorized Representative
Date:
November 9, 2001
cc:
Hon. Heherson Alvarez
Secretary, DENR
Hon. Isidro Camacho
Secretary, DOF
