Document of
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
14A/ o2 955-
Repor No. 7164-CHA
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
CHINA
BEILUNGANG THERMAL POWER EXTENSION PROJECT
May 12, 1988
Country Department III (China)
Asia Region
This document has a resticted distibution and may be used by recipiens only bn the perfonrance of



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
Currency - Yuan (Y)
Y 1        US$0.27
US$1     -  Y 3.7
(As of December 1987)
FISCAL YEAR
January 1 to December 31
WEIGHTS AND MEASURES
DWT  =    Dead Weight Ton
km   =    Kilometer (= 0.62 miles)
kWh       Kilowatt hour (- 860.42 kcals)
GWh  =    Gigawatt hour (1,000,000 kilowatt hours)
TWh  =    Terawatt hour (1,000,000,000 kilowatt hours)
kW   =    Kilowatt (1,000 watts)
MW   =    Megawatt (1,000 kilowatts)
kV   =    Kilovolt (1,000 volts)
kVA  =    Kilovolt-ampere (1,000 volt-amperes)
MVA  =    Megavolt-ampere (1,000 kilovolt-amperes)
mg   =    Milligram
TCF  =    Trillion Cubic Feet
PRINCIPAL ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS USED
ECEPA      -   East China Electric Power Administration
ECEPDI     -   East China Electric Power Design Institute
ECPS       -   East China Power System
E!PPEI     -   Electric Power Planning and Engineering Institute
GOC        -   Government of China
GVIAO      -   Gross Value of Industrial and Agricultural Output
HIPDC      -   Huaneng International Power Development Corporation
IAEA       -   International Atomic Energy Agency
MOF        -   Ministry of Finance
MWREP      -   Ministry of Water Resources and Electric Power
PCBC       -   People's Construction Bank of China
SAA        -   State Audit Administration
SEC        -   State Economic Commission
SPC        -   State Planning Commission
WREPERI    -   Water Resources and Electric Power Economic Research
Institute
ZPAB       -   Zhejiang Provincial Audit Bureau
ZPEPB      -   Zhejiang Provincial Electric Power Bureau



FOR Os. i LiALU Ubs L 
CHINA
BEILUNGANG THERMAL POWER EXTENSION PROJECT
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
Table of Contents
Page No.
LOAN AND PROJECT SUMMARY        .....................................  iv
I.   THE ENERGY SECTOR.oT...R...........                                     1
A.  Overview.... e.e..o..e...... ........o.oo.o.o....o.eeo....          1
B. Resource Endowment............... ................................   1
C.  Efficiency of Energy Useos.e..eeo.**e...o.o.oo..o.o.o..             2
II.   THE POWER SUB                   S     E     C     T     OR...           2
A.  Background...a c     k geer.. oe......o.u           ndooe. e . e.. e..o..o ..o.  2
B. Market Conditions 9.e.o9.eo.e.o..o.ee.......oo..ee...o....           3
C.  institutions................. ....................0..0.00           3
D* Plann lo*eoan                      nieneg**oeo*eeooooooe             4
Ei  Tariffsaorifofs....                                                 5
F. Technology Transferoeoa           n     sfoe..o.. *9*999999*9*6oe r 999999  5
G.  Subsector Strategy                                                  6
H.  Role of the Bank in the Power Sector                                6
III.   THE BENEFICIARY ..................*o***e**^^@@                          8
A.  Legal Status and Organization..........................             8
B.eaa                          gmn                                      8
C.  Staffing and Ti gi                      n     i     n     g         9
D.  Planning, Budgeting and Control......................o....         10
E.  Accounting.....e.e........ .....  oo........ e.. 999999999990      11
F. Audit....                                         9                 12
G. Ta..f                                            f        s         13
H.  Billing and Collection...............e........ ............        13
I.  I n s u     r      a      n      c      e       ~~~~~~~~~~~~~15
J.  Distribution System.     y       st999e....em                      15
This report was prepared by W. Cao, K. C. Ling and H. Hamaguchi of AS3TE who
appraised the project in February 1988.
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance
of their official duties. Its contents may not othervise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



- ii -
Page No.
IV.   THE POWER MARKET AND THE PROGRAM ............................&.    16
A* The East China Power Gridrit..........e...............e...    16
B. The Zhejiang Power Grid           ..........................    16
C. Load Forecast...      r      ec... .......... ....... ..st. ..  ......  17
D.  The Power Development Program (1987-1995)........*......        19
V.   THE PROJECI.............. *999....o99o999o99.9..9.o.....oo    20
A.  Project Objectives.o ....................... ...*....  ....     20
B.  Project Descriptions c riop tei .o..............oono.....o.   20
C* Cost Estimate......o9999999m               at99 .oo*o*o** ooo  oe*o .  24
D.  Financing Plan                                                  26
E.  Procurement....o9e999.o.o .o.o..999999999999999999999           27
F.  Project Implementationoeom......e... o.e..... oe.........o.     28
Go Disu semn..u               rsooo*ooem e ntooooooooooo            29
H.  Monitoring and Reportingp.or t in...e99.....e.e...... o.o...    29
I.  Environmental Considerations..oo...     o.         999999999    29
VIo  FINANCIAL ASPECTS..oC....                                            31
A.  Introduction..t r o t u c ti999999999.999.9.9.....on. 9999999999  31
B. Financial Ststem                                                 31
C.  Past a&nd Present Financial Performance.f.oorman*.c.e.....      31
D .  Financ ing Pllan..    0000           *00900000*0              3 3
E. Future                              Fnne .....................35
VII.   JUSTIFICATION ...................                 t .               38
A. Need for the Project...ooo..o..o..e...oe..o............          38
B.  Least Cost Studies.t        u      d     i      e      s99oo. o 99    38
C.  Economic Rate of Return e         t      u      rn..o..o.o.. e...oo.o....eee..  38
D.  Risks e.e...   ....99.999999.9....99999999999999999999    40
VIII.  AGREEMENTS REACHED AND RECOMMENDATIONS..oN.......D..ION... S. o    40
ANNEXES
1.   Installed Capacity, Electricity Generation and Sales in the Power
Subsector
2.   Installed Capacity and Electricity Generation by Regional Networks aLd
Provincial Grids (1986)
3.   Performance Indicators
4.   Present Training Capacity within ECEPA (1986)
5.   Planning, Budget and Control of Chinese Power Bureaus
6.   Electricity Tariffs of ZPEPB (1987)
7.  Major Generating Facilities of the East China Region (1987)
8.   Installed Capacity, Energy Generation and Purchased, Energy Supplied
and Sales of Zhejiang Province
9.   Energy Consumption by Categories of Consumers
10.   The Power Development Program (1987-95)
11.   ZPEPB's System Demand and Energy Balance



- iii -
ANNEXES (Cont'd)
12.   Ongoing Major Thermal Power Projects by External Financing Under the
Seventh Five-Year Plan
13. Terms of Reference for a Study on ZPEPB's Reorganization and Kanag emt
Improvement
14. Work Plan for a Study of Distribution Network Improvement and Izpansion
for the Cities of Hangzhou and Ningbo
15.   Project Cost Estimate
16.   Key Dates of Project Implementation
17.   Disbursement Schedule
18.   Air Quality Analysis
19.   Environmental Monitoring Program
20.   Financial System Followed by Chinese Power Bureaus
21.   Annual Financial Statements of ZPEPB
22.   Calculation of Economic Rate of Return
23.   Selected Documents and Data Available in the Project File
CHARTS
1.   Organization of MWREP
2.   Organization of ZPEPB
3.   Project Implementation Schedule
MAP
1.   Beilungang Thermal Power Extension Project (IBRD 20490)



- iv -
CHINA
BEILUNCANG THERMAL POWER EXTENSION PROJECT
Loan and Project Summary
Borrower:             The People's Republic of China
Beneficiary:          Zhejiang Provincial Electric Power Bureau (ZPEPB)
Amount:               US$165 million equivalent
Terms:                20 years, including five years grace, at the standard
variable interest rate.
Onlending Terms:      The proceeds of the loan will be onlent from the
Goverrnment to ZPEPB under a subsidiary loan agreement,
with a 20-year term, including five years grace and at a
variable rate equal to ¶that of the Bank. ZPEPB will bear
the foreign exchange risk and the commitment charges.
Project Objectives   Inadeq;sacies in electric generating capacity have been a
and Description:   major constraint on China's economic growth in the
past. This situation is likely to be continued in the
near term. The Government gives high priority to
electric power development, with a strategy that combines
(a) expanding generating capacity by developing coal-
fired thermal stations at mine-mouths and near ports and
load centers and, accelerating the pace of hydroelectric
development; (b) increasing the financial and management
autonomy of the power bureaus; (c) introducing a more
rational pricing system; (d) adopting modern techniques
in project design and system planning including environ-
mental aspects; (e) constructing extra high voltage
transmission lines for interconnection between regions;
and (f) replacing low-pressure medium size (50-100 MW)
thermal units by higher pressure 300-600 MW units and
converting oil-fired units to burn coal. The proposed
project seeks to: (i) alleviate the acute power shortage
of a major load center in East China; (ii) support the
national policies of developing large coal-fired thermal
power generating units to make effective use of China's
abundant coal reserves; (iii) continue the effort to
introduce the modern technology in plant design and
construction management of 600 MW thermal power units;
and (iv) provide technical assistance to ZPEPB for
reorganizing its operations and strengthening its manage-
ment. This assistance will facilitate its transformation
from a power bureau to a more autonomous power entity.



The project includes a generating unit of 600 MW; con-
struction of a second circuit 500 kV transmission line
and extension of a substation; provision of consulting
services for engineering and procurement; provision of
technical assistance for a study on ZPEPB's reorganiza-
tion and management improvement; a study for extending
and improving the distribution networks for the cities of
Hangzhou and Ningbo; and a training program.
Benefits and          The project will contribute significantly towards
13L*ks:             relieving expected power shortages in Zhejiang in the
early 1990s, thereby enabling planned industrial growth
and improvement in the living standards of the popula-
tion. ZPEPB's financial health will be maintained by
following full fuel cost recovery adjustment in the price
of power and cash generation type financial covenant.
Finally, the project will contribute substantially
towards institutional building to improve efficiency and
management of a power utility. The technical and eco-
nomic feasibility of the project has been well estab-
lished. No significant risks are expected.



- vi -
Estimated Costs                                Local           Forei8n           Total
------------ (US$ million) ----------
Civil works                                   26.4               -              26.4
Plant equipment and materials                 12.4            156.1            168.5
Associated transmission                       18.8               -              18.8
Training                                       1.2               -               1.2
TA on reorganization and management            0.5              0.5              1.0
Distribuiton network studj                     0.4              0.5              0.9
Engineering and supervision                    9.2              2.3             11.5
Base Cost                                 69.0            159.3             228.3
Physical contingenLies                         7.0              5.7             12.7
Price contingenciea                            6.9             13.0             19.9
Total Project Cost /a                     82.9            178.0             260.9
Interest during construction                   7.1             21.7             28.8
Total Financing Required                  90.0            199.7             289.7
Financing Plan                                 Local           Foreign           Total
------------ (US$ million)
IBRD loan                                       -             165.0            165.0
Provincial government                         54.1               -              54.1
PCBC loan                                     35.9             34.7             70.6
Total                                     90.0            199.7             289.7
Estimated Disbursements:
Bank FY                               1989       1990      1991       1992      1993
---------------- (USs million) ---------------
Annual                                   25.0      75.5       39.6      10.9      14.0
Cumulative                               25.0    100.5       140.1     151.0    165.0
Economic Rate of Return: 15.0X
/a   The project is exempt from taxes and duties.



CHINA
BEILJNGANG THERMAL POWER EXTENSION PROJECT
I. THE ENERGY SECTOR
A. Overview
1.1       China is *he fourth largest producer and the third largest consumer
of commercial energy in the world. Coal is the most important source of
energy in the country, accounting for some 75% of commercial energy consump-
tion. Oil also is an important source of energy; since the 1950s oil produc-
tion has grown to provide about 18% of commercial energy and 22% of export
earnings. Hydroelectric power (5%), natural gas (2%), and limited quantities
cf shale oil and geothermal power make up the balance of commercial energy
resources. Non-commercial energy resources amount to about one-third of
commercial production.
1.2       China has made remarkable progress in developing energy resources
over the last three decades. Between 1952 and 1986, annual coal production
increased from about 60 million tons to 894 million tons. During the same
period, annual oil pr-duction increased from 0.1 million tons to 130.9 million
tons, and annual electricity generation increased from about 7.3 TWh to
449.6 TWh. Nevertheless, a higher rate of growth in energy supplies is needed
to sustain the Government's efforts to quadruple the Gross Value of Industrial
and Agricultural Output (GVIAO) between 1980 and the year 2000. If energy
growth is not to constrain economic development, China will need to increase
coal production beyond current targets for the year 2000, at least meet the
official output targets set for other energy resources, and greatly improve
the efficiency of energy use. Achieving these targets will require a moderni-
zation of technology and management throughout the energy sector, an increased
commitment of financial resources, and a strengthening of planning and coordi-
nation among the diverse components of the sector. In its Sixth Five-Year
Plan (1981-85), the Government gave high priority to the development of these
subsectors, and the Seventh and Eighth Five-Year Plans (1986-90 and 1991-95,
respectively) will continue to accord them priority.
B. Resource Endowment
1.3       China is well endowed with primary energy.  Coal and lignite
reserves are large and are concentrated in the north and northeast, which
contain about 70% of the total recoverable reserves (770 billion tons).
Future plans call for significant increases in coal production, but this poses
difficult transport problems because of a shortage of railroad capacity.
Biomass fuels account for more than 25% of final energy consumption.  Recover-
able reserves of oil onshore have been estimated at between 6-15 billion tons.
and estimates of offshore oil reserves range from 3-10 billion tons. Unoffi-
cial estimates of oil shale in China place reserves at 400 billion tons.
Recoverable reserves of non-associated gas so far have been estimated at about
3 trillion cubic feet (TCF); about 90% of these are located in Sichuan prov-
ince. In addition, recoverable reserves of associated gas are estimated at



- 2 --
about 1.8 TCF. China's hydropower potential is among the largest in the world
and is estimated at 1,900 TWh p.a. So far, only 95 TWh p.a. has been devel-
oped because most of the potential is located in basins in the southwest and
the northwest of China, 1,200-1,500 km away from major industrial load
centers. The slow pace of construction also has inhibited the utilization of
hydro resources. Known uranium reserves in China are sufficient to sustain
15,000 MW of nuclear power piant fcr 30 years. Although potential sources of
geothermal energy are abundant in the mountainous southwestern part of the
country, the role of geothermal energy is likely to remain limited due to its
distance from major load centers.
C. Efficiency of Energy Use
1.4       China's consumption of energy per unit of GDP is much higher than
that of any large industrialized or developing country. The country's rela-
tively low level of energy efficiency is due to the structure of industrial
produc.ion, the scale of industrial units, the raw materials used, and the
technology employed. In the late 1970s, the Government began to address these
inefficiencies by instituting regulations on energy use, establishing conser-
vation centers to provide technical assistance, and allocating a larger share
of investment funds for industrial modernization, particularly for projects
which contributed to energy conservation. As a result, energy consumption per
unit of GVIAO declined by 7% p.a. during 1979-81, 3X p.a. during 1982-83, 7%
during 1984, and 3.1% during 1985. Technical and operational improvements
were responsible for an estimated 40% of these energy savings. About 60% is
attributed to a decline in the relative importance of heavy industry, the
czosure of some inefficient small-scale plants, and other structural changes
within industry. Despite these improvements, there is still a need to provide
more autonomy to individual entities and develop an energy price structure
that reflects the cost and relative scarcity of each source of energy.
II. THE POWER SUBSECTOR
A. Background
2.1       Since the 1950s, China has grown to become the fifth largest pro-
ducer of electricity in the world. Annual per capita generation of electrical
energy grew from 8 kWh in 1949 to 420 kWh in 1986. The total installed capa-
city reached 93,818 MW in 1986, of which about 70% was thermal-based and 30%
was hydro-based. Power is distributed through 14 grids, of which 10 (provid-
ing about 84% of total capacity) exceed 1,000 MW each. Between 1949 and 1974,
energy consumption grew at an average annual rate of 13.4%, and at 8.4% since
1974, reaching 379.8 :Wh in 1986.  At that time, 72.9% of consumption repre-
sented industrial uses, 16.4% agricultural uses, 1.2Z transportation, and 9.5%
residential and municipal uses. About 65% of the population has access to
electricity.
2.2       The growth of installed capacity, electricity generation and sales
since 1949 is depicted in Annex 1, and a breakdown of installed capacity and
electricity generation by regional networks and provincial grids is shown in
Annex 2. In recent years, the rate of growth of installed capacity has



- 3 -
fallen; during the Sixth Five-Year Plan it averaged only about 5.6X p.a.,
increasing only 17,500 MW over that period. At present, customer requests
exceed available supplies by 45-50 TWh per year, and this shortage is likely
to continue in the medium term. Electricity presently is allocated through
quotas based on priorities set by central, provincial and county authorities.
2.3       The Seventh Five Year Plan (1986-90) envisages a number of expan-
sions to alleviate power shortages by the 1990s. These expansions would
increase generating capacity by as much as 35,000 MW and raise total genera-
tion to about 550 TWh p.a. by 1990. Included in the expansions are large
thermal power stations, large hydroelectric stations, a nuclear power plant,
500 kV transmission networks, and a direct current transmission line. Large
thermal power stations are being constructed at ports along the 4ea coast and
near major coal mines in Shanxi, Heilongjiang, Henan, Shaanxi, Shandong,
Anhui, Guizhou, Inner Mongolia and Ningxia. The hydroelectric stations are
planned at the middle and upper reaches of the valleys of the Yellow River,
the Yangtze River, and the Hongshui River. The nuclear power plant is being
constructed in Guangdong Province. The 500 kV transmission network is being
extended to supply electricity to northeastern, eastern, sou.'hern and central
China. The first direct current transmission line was commissioned in late
1987 from Gezhouba to Shanghai.
B. Market Conditions
2.4       In recent years, electricity consumption has grown faster than
generation capacity, resulting in a power shortage of about 15% of industrial
electricity requirements in 1986. One reason for this shortage is that elec-
tricity is being used more and more to meet commercial energy requirements.
For example, in 1970, electricity provided about 13X of comm'.cial energy
consumption, in 1975 about 15%, and in 1980, 18%. By the year 2000, electri-
city is expected to provide 26-27% of commercial energy requirements. To meet
this demand, an additional 150,000 MW between 1985 and 2000 will have to be
added to generating capacity, as generation requirements are expected to
exceed 1,200 TWh/year.
2.5       In addition to growth in commercial energy requirements, residen-
tial, manufacturing, and transportation uses are expected to expand. In the
residential sector, electricity use is expected to grow at 11-13% p.a.,
reflecting growth in household incomes. The manufacturing sector will
continue to account for a large share of final electricity consumption,
although electricity use per unit of value added and its share of total con-
sumption may fall slightly. The increasing use of electricity in the trans-
portation sector reflects the growing use of electric locomotives in railway
haulage.
C. Institutions
2.6       Since 1982, the Ministry of Water Resources and Electric Power
(MWREP) has been responsible for overseeing all aspects of electric power
development and water resource management. These responsibilities include
policy making, system planning and design, and the construction and operation
of power and water resource projects of regional importance. Under MWREP,



there are six regional power administrations. These administrations coordi-
nate operations and load dispatching for the regional grids and formulate
long-term development plans for approval by MWREP and the State Planning
Commission (SPC). Below the regional administrations are 21 provincial and
municipal power bureaus operating as parts of the regional grids, while seven
other power bureaus still operate in isolation (see Chart 1). In addition to
the power supplies administered by MWREP, the Huaneng International Power
Development Corp. (HIPDC) was established by the Government in 1985 to attract
foreign investment to establish power plants in the open coastal cities. A
reform of the state government for the energy sector is under waV. It is
expected to be effective by July 1, 1988.
2.7       MWREP has about 2.6 million employees (about 1.7 million in the
electric power wing), of whom about 52% are directly under the Ministry and
about 48% are under the provincial administrations. Only 30% have received
formal education beyond the junior secondary school level, reflecting the
shortage of trained manpower to fill administrative and technical positions.
In the late 1970s, MWREP initiated a long-term training program to upgrade the
quality of staff at all levels. The training program includes periodic in-
service seminars and on-the-job training for managerial and technical staff.
MWREP is also strengthening its capacity for full-time training of potential
employees through its Education Department. This Department sponsors 9 col-
leges, 4 polytechnic institutes, 30 television and correspondence universi-
ties, and 33 secondary-level technical schools. About 30,000 students were
enrolled in these schools in 1986. Each year, about 15,300 new staff are
assigned to MWREP, about 7,000 from colleges and 8,300 from polytechnic insti-
tutes. The proposed project includes a training component in support of
ZPEPB's programs in these areas (para. 5.5).
D. Planning
2.8       Overall system planning is the responsibility of the Planning
Department of MWREP. It reviews the proposals of the regional administrations
and provincial bureaus for short-term (1-year), medium-term (5-year), and
long-term (10-15 year) plans. The planning and design of major hydro projects
is carried out by the regional hydroelectric investigation and design insti-
tutes. Their proposals are reviewed by the Water Resources and Hydro Power
Planning Institute for MWREP. Planning and design for system expansion,
transmission lines and substations above 110 kV and major thermal projects is
done by the regional electric power design institutes. Their proposals are
reviewed by the Electric Power Planning and Engineering Institute (EPPEI) for
MWREP.
2.9       As the planning of China's power development becomes increasingly
complex, up-to-date system planning techniques will need to be adopted. These
techniques are particularly important for evaluating large-scale projects
which have long lead times and for making decisions about generation mix,
power plant location, and grid configuration. Under the Bank's Second rawer
Project (Loan 2493-CHA), least cost investment programming techniques were
introduced through technical assistance from the International Atomic Energy



Agency.!1 Staff of MWREP and the Electric Power Economic Research Institute
(WREPERI) were trained in the use of these techniques. With this training,
WREPERI assisted the Guangxi, Zhejiang, Fujian and Shanghai Electric power
bureaus in formulating their least cost development programs between 1985 and
1986. The programming techniques now are being successfully used in China to
assist with project selection on a regional and provincial basis.
E. Tariffs
2.10      Power tariffs in China have not been adjusted since the 1970s.  In
1986, the national average revenue was about 7.6 fen/kWh (US¢2.05/kWh). There
are five different types of tariff categories, for lighting, small industry
and commerce, large industry, agriculture, and bulk sales. Two-part tariffs
have been applied only to large industry. To support the Government's recent
policy initiative to rely more on prices rather than administrated quotas, the
electricity allocation system (para. 2.2) will need to be revised and more
appropriate tariff structures introduced. To assist the Government in devel-
oping appropriate electricity tariffs, the Bank-financed Beilungang Thermal
Power Project (Loan 2706-CHA) includes an important tariff study. This study
commenced in April 1986 with the establishment of a task force drawn from
personnel of MWREP and East China Electric Power Administration (ECEPA) and
the conduct of a workshop by Bank staff. Focusing on the East China Power
Grid (ECPG), the study covers economic, financial, and administrative aspects
of tariff planning including intersystem purchases. The task force has pro-
duced a final report which was found to be comprehensive and well-conceived.
It produced cor the first time estimates of long-run marginal costs of elec-
tricity at the various voltage and tariff targets required to meet the finan-
cial requirements of the ECEPA. The report has been finalized and will be
used by the Bank to explore with GOC how to formulate the first major tariff
adjustment in the context of China's overall price reform process.
F. Technology Transfer
2.11      The transfer and development of modern technologies will be crucial
if China is to increase energy production and efficiency sufficiently to
achieve its broader economic goals. Technology transfer,including pollution
control,is particularly iLportant for thermal power plants, where increases in
the pressure and size of uvits and greater development of cogeneration
(combined heat and power generation) could reduce net fuel consumption by 20%
by the year 2000. This reduction in fuel consumption would greatly alleviate
pressure on coal supplies and transport. The Government already is implement-
ing this strategy through the gradual introduction of 300 MW and 600 MW stan-
dardized coal-fired units (depending upon the size of the network capable of
accommodating such large units). Thermal generation from coal-fired units is
expected to provide about three-quarters of the total generation until the end
of the century. Several types of technology transfer are needed for hydro-
electric projects. These include environmental assessment, interpretation of
1/   Using IAEA's WASP III computer program (Wein Automatic System Planning
Package).



- 6 -
geological data, judgment of foundation excavation, design of sophisticated
structures, modern constiuction management techniques, and adoption of the
largest possible generating unit sizes. Timely construction will be an
important focus of ongoing projects financed under previous Bank loans, as the
pace of construction will determine the pace of power development in the
future.
C. Subsector Strategy
2.12      The Government's basic policy for the power subsector is to moder-
nize it, increase efficiency, and expand it at a rate sufficient to meet the
requirements of industrial development and improve the living conditions of
the population. The policy includes the following objectives: (a) expanding
generating capacity as rapidly as possible; (b) increasing the financial
autonomy of the power bureaus; (c) introducing a more rational pricing syste
(d) adopting modern techniques in project design and system planning;
(e) accelerating the pace of hydroelectric development; (f) developing coal-
fired thermal stations at mine-mouths and near ports and load centers;
(g) constructing extra high-voltage transmission lines for interconnection
between regions; and (h) replacing medium-size (50-100 MW) low pressure
thermal units with higher pressure (300-600 MW) units and converting oil-fired
units to coal-firing units.
H. Role of the Bank in the Power Sector
2.13      The major thrust of Bank assistance in the power sector has been to
introduce modern concepts of utility management and power system planning and
technology. Each operation has focused on specific aspects of the
Government' s sectoral objectives.
2.14      The first power project to be initiated in China was the 600 MW
Lubuge Hydroelectric Project (Loan 2382-CHA), begun in 1984.  This project
successfully promoted cofinancing arrangements which included export credits
for the major electrical and mechanical equipment and bilateral grants for
engineering servi&es. The project also introduced international competitive
bidding for civil works and modern construction techniques for a rockfill dam,
power tunnel, and undergrotund powerhouse. In addition, the project strength-
ened the financial autonomy of the Yunnan Provincial Electric Power Bureau. A
training component was included under the project in which staff were trained
on design, construction managemlent, quality control, accounting and cost
control through technical assistance, and the upgrading and equipping of an
electrical training school. The project is being carried out successfully;
the first unit is expected to be commissioned by the end of 1988, as
scheduled.
2.15      The second power project (Loan 2493-CHA), begun in 1985, provided
for the transmission of power from a 1,300 MW mine-mouth, coal-fired thermal
power station at Xuzhou to the ECPG. This project promoted a bilateral loan
for the Yangtze River crossing works, and assisted with the transfer of tech-
nology in 500 kV transmission line and substation design, construction,
operation and maintenance. The training component under the project included
the establishment of a training center and the equipping of two technical



schools in Nanjing and Shanghai for the operation and maintenarice of 500 kV
transmission lines and substations. The project also introduced least-cost
programming techniques to be used in power sector planning in China
(para. 2.9). These techniques are being applied by EPPEI and many power
bureaus. The project is expected to be completed by mid-1988, as scheduled.
2.16      Under the third and fourth power projects, begun in 1986, the Bank
is financing a 600 MW integrated coal-fired unit (Beilungang Thermal,
Loan 2706-CHA) and an 1,100 MW hydroelectric project (Yantan Hydro,
Loan 2707-CHA), respectively. These projects are designed to help alleviate
severe power shortages in eastern and southern China. They both were selected
on the basis of least-cost studies (para. 2.15) and will be used to set per-
formance standards for large thermal and hydro plants. Both projects are
being implemented on schedule.
2.17      The fifth power project, initiated in 1987, financed a 1,400 MW
hydroelectric project in Shuikou (Loan 2775-CHA). The project is intended to
help reduce the shortage of generating capacity and energy in the East China
and Fujian provincial grids, assist in developing techniques to speed up con-
struction of large hydroelectric projects, and promote the integrated opera-
tion of a large emerging regional power system. Construction has been under-
way since 1987. There were some initial delays due to preparatory works but
progress is increasing and implementation is expected to catch up to the
original schedule.
2.18      The sixth power project (the 2x300 MW Wujing Thermal,
Loan 2852-CHA), also begun in FY87, will reduce acute power shortages in the
metropolitan city of Shanghai and a major load center in the East China power
grid. The project also will support the development of a master plan for a
modern distribution network for the city, promote efficiency in the Shanghai
Municipal Electric Power Bureau, and encourage financial reform through the
adoption of appropriate financial performance targets.
2.19      The Bank is currently assisting the Government of China in the management
of a feasibility study for the Three Gorges Hydroelectric Project. With a fore-
seeable capacity of 15,000 MW, this would be the largest hydroelectric project
in the world. The final Steering Committee Meeting is scheduled for June 1988.
The feasibility study report will be sent to GOC for review after the Committee
has accepted the study.
Rationale for Bank Involvement
2.20      The Bank project would represent a continaation of support for major
elements of the Government's strategy for electric power development. The six
power projects financed by the Bank so far have successfully introduced inter-              P
national competitive bidding, modern construction techniques, and techriology
transfer in the fields of extra high-voltage transmissioh and construction of
modern, large hydro and coal-fired thermal power stations.  The Bank also has
been instrumental in introducing system planning and least-cost investment
methodologies and helping to strengthen the financial planning and management
capabilities of the power bureaus. Moreover, the tariff study for the East
China Power Grid, initiated under the Beilungang Thermal Power Project



(Loan 2706-CHA), provides an analytical framework for a new tariff structure
in the East China region (para. 2.10). The Bank recently initiated a second
sector study with the government involving organizational and regulatory
policies, load forecasting and planning, and a transmission strategy.
2.21      The rationale for financing the proposed project is that rapid
support is needed to allow for expansion of generating capacity in an area
experiencing acute shortages.  The project also will provide a means for the
Bank to deepen its involvement in the reform process of power entities in
China by providing a wider range of technical assistance. The assistance
should focus on improving the management and financial performance of a power
enterprise that the Government has selected as a test case for increasing
autonomy.
III. BEtEFICIARY
3.1       The beneficiary of the proposed loan would be the Zhejiang
Provincial Electric Power Bureau (ZPEPB). This would be the second Bank loan
to ZPEPB (para. 5.4).
A. Legal Status and Organization
3.2       ZPEPB is a st&te-owned enterprise under the direction of the East
China Electric Power Administration (ECEPA). It is a legal entity with
contractual and self-accounting capabilities. The State has assigned it
responsibility for executing within its jurisdiction the state program for
power generation, capital investment, power sales and tariffs, employment and
payroll, materials consumption, and tax and profit remittances to the state.
A charter for ZPEPB which is acceptable to the Bank has been issued.
3.3       ZPEPB is headed by a director who is appointed by MWREP.  Reporting
to the director are five deputy directors and a chief accountant, respectively
accountable for capital construction and materials; production, technical
matters and safety; power supply, services and rural electrification; person-
nel and education; hydroelectric power; and finance. The deputy director for
production, supply and technical matters also serves as chief engineer.
Operations are carried out through 15 departments in the headquarters and
35 external units engaged in power generation, distribution, construction,
education and repair. Each of these departments and units is headed by a chief
who reports through the line director to ZPEPB management. Chart 2 presents
the current structure of ZPEPB.
B. Management
3.4       Under the current institutional framework, within which the central
government maintains a high degree of control over the power sector, ZPEPB
appears to be well managed. Recent performance indicators show that ZPEPB
has been expanding steadily, that its fuel efficiency has been improving, and
that its transmission and distribution losses are kept to reasonable levels
(paras. 3.27-3.29 and Annex 3). In addition, ZPEPB prepares accounting
information in a timely fashion (para. 3.15) and maintains an effective



- 9 -
billing and collection system (para. 3.24). However, the institutional
framework is becoming less centralized and the power bureau is receiving
greater financial autonomy and responsibility for decision-making so ZPEPB
needs to prepare itself to manage this transition. GOC already has decided
that ZPEPB would be transformed from a power bureau to a power company effec-
tive July 1, 1988.
3.5       To successfully carry out this transition, ZPEPB will need to
upgrade its management (paras. 3.12 and 3.16) and financial planning capabili-
ties (para. 3.13). In particular, managers and administrators need to receive
local and overseas training in modern concepts of utility management. The
implementation of modern management methods and the strengthening of financial
planning will require the introduction of a management information system
(para. 3.12) responsive to the needs of management as well as the reporting
requirements of the Government. These two components already have been ini-
tiated in the training program of Loans 2706-CHA and 2707-CHA.
3.6       ZPEPB is capable of formulating its expansion program and implement-
ing 200 MW thermal units and medium-scale hydroelectric projects. ZPEPB is
implementing the second-stage extension of Zhenhai thermal power plant (4 x
200 MW) with good progress. (Two 200 MW units were commissioned in 1985 and
1986, respectively.) However, for a large project such as Beilungang, outside
assistance will be required for least-cost programming on a regional basis,
engineering and design, procurement and coordination among suppliers of dif-
ferent packages (para. 5.9).
C. Staffing and Training
3.7       At the end of 1987, ZPEPB had about 33,212 employees, most of them
locally recruited. A small core group of key technical and managerial per-
sonnel with formal university education are assigned by MWREP. These staff rep-
resent only about 6% of the total staff employed. Most of the workers have fewer
than nine yeacs of formal education. Except for labor contracted to do
construction work, employees are hired on a permanent basis. As ZPEPB falls
under the auspices of ECEPA, the two entities face similar problems of train-
ing capacity, shortage of teaching staff and facilities and lack of management
skills. Annex 4 shows the training capacity within ECEPA and ZPEPB. ECEPA
currently has about 3,770 trainees and ZPEPB about 820 trainees. The training
capacity is sufficient to meet about 36% of the annual requirements of ECEPA
and ZPEPB. Additional facilities would be made available to increase pre-
employment and in-service training for engineers, technicians and skilled
workers. A simulator and other new equipment to train operators for the
future 600 MW units will be procured under Loan 2706-CHA.
3.8       The Education Division of ZPEPB administers four training insti-
tutes, including one staff college, one electrical technical school, and two
skilled workers' schools. The purpose of these schools is to train junior
engineers, mid-level technicians, and skilled workers. With three-year
courses, the Staff College trains employees who have graduated from high
school and have at least two years of practical experience. The Hangzhou
Electrical Technical School and the two skilled workers' schools (located at
Huzhou and Jingde respectively) educate junior high and high school graduates



- 10 -
for 2-4 years depending on their curricula and background. In 1987, over 400
graduated from these four schools; nearly 60% in fields related to power gene-
ration, about 30Z in transmission and distribution, and about 10% in capital
construction. Specialized training in accounting, finance and management
sciences is limited. Although day-to-day operations of the bureau are ade-
quately manned and on-the-job training is commonplace and generally suffi-
cient, ZPEPB recognizes the need for training where experience and expertise
are± lacking such as for the proposed project and other new undertakings. A
training component therefore has been included in Loan 2706-CHA and in the
proposed project (paras. 5.5 and 5.14).
D. Planning, Budgeting and Control
3.9       All power bureaus are responsible for developing annual and five-
year production and investment plans which are integrated into the national
plans and are approved, through MWREP's auspices, by SPC. In the past, these
plans have emphasized the planning of quantities of inputs and outputs.
Financial planning was confined to attaching monetary values, predetermined by
MWREP, to the quantities being planned. Although a power bureau's plan might
be revised to reflect changes in inputs or outputs arising from changed or
unforeseen circumstances, the plans ordinarily would not be revised merely to
reflect differences between the prices being assumed for planning purposes and
those actually being paid by a particular power bureau. This planning system
functioned effectively in an environment where prices were controlled and were
relatively free of inflation and where investments were financed almost
exclusively by grants.
3.10      However, under initiatives taken in the early 1980s, prices have
begun to move, albeit slowly, toward market levels and the government is
increasingly using loans rather than grants to finance investments. There-
fore, money is taking on the characteristics of other commodities that need to
be planned, including: (a) possible variations in constituent prices on
account of nforeseen circumstances, and (b) a cost, payable over a period of
years, associated with finance for investment. Because of this, MWREP will
need to adjust its planning system to include financial planning.
3.11      Under Loan 2706-CHA, there will be a series of seminars and overseas
study tours for financial planning and management. Recognizing the importance
of financial management in the power subsector in China, MWREP has decided to
organize a comprehensive training program for all power bureaus and other
entities under its control. MWREP already has begun to make adjustments to
the planning, budgeting and control systems. As the power bureaus have grown
larger and technically more complex and the scope of their businesses has
expanded, the manual systems that had been used to compile plans, budgets, and
control accounts have became increasingly unwieldy. MWREP provided many of
the bureaus with small computers to be used for planning, budgeting and
control accounting purposes and the software needed for them to present the
required statements in standardized formats. Information stored on computer
diskettes would then be transferred to MWREP where it would be consolidated
into regional and national data.



- 11 -
3.12      In conjunction with the appraisal of the Yantan Hydroelectric
Project (Loan 2707-CHA), the Bank retained a consultant to assess the impact
of changes in the planning, budgeting and control accounting systems intro-
duced by MWREP. The consultant concluded that the new systems represented a
good first generation of automated management information; however, they still
were not sufficiently flexible to take into account price changes at the local
level or large-scale debt service obligations. Under the proposed project,
the technical assistance will be provided for ZPEPB to: (a) review and
examine the existing information system within and among different depart-
ments/units, and identify constraints to the effective dissemination of infor-
mation; and (b) recommend an MIS system suitable for ZPEPB aiming at an effi-
cient long- and short-term utility corporate planning system (para. 5.12).
3.13      While working towards the development of this management information
system (para. 5.12), MWREP has agreed to introduce a rudimentary financial
planning system for those power bureaus implementing Bank-financed projects.
For the Lubuge Hydroelectric Project (Loan 2382-CHA), the Bank furnished MWREP
with a long-term financial forecasting model which allowed the power bureaus
to study the impact o- their expansion plans and variations in prices on their
future financial positions. MWREP continues to use this model successfully in
preparing projects for appraisal by the Bank. The model also forms the basis
for the rudimentary financial plans which the bureaus are to provide to the
Bark each year. Assurances have been obtained from ZPEPB that, by
December 31st of each year commencing December 31, 1988, ZPEPB will furnish to
thq Bank a rolling financial plan containing projected income statements,
sources and application of funds, and balance sheets for the next eight years.
E. Accounting
3.14      Each of ZPEPB's operating departments maintains financial accounts
which are consolidated with those of all other ZPEPB opera;jng departments.
Only the construction units maintain independent accounts.- Accounts for all
units are prepared on an accrual basis using a double entry system. MOF
establishes the regulations governing the presentation of financial accounts
for all sectors. These regulations cover matters such as accounting methods
and procedures; form of accounts; procedures for distribution of net income
and depreciation; taxation; allocations to and use of proceeds from Special
Funds; etc. MOF reviews the regulations and corresponding accounting stan-
dards on an ongoing basis. These regulations and standards are supplemented
by detailed implementation procedures issued by MWREP.
2/   As these construction units are under MWREP's jurisdiction and have only
an arms-length relationship with ZPEPB, this accounting treatment is cor-
rect. However, since ZPEPB's investments have been financed with grants
that were disbursed directly to the construction units, traditional
Chinese accounting substantially understates ZPEPB's construction work in
progress. For presentation to the Bank in connection with appraisal of
the proposed project, ZPEPB included construction work in progress, taken
from the accounts of the construction units, on its balance sheet for the
period 1981-86 (Annex 21).



- 12 -
3.15      ZPEPB's operating departments prepare accounting information in
a timely fashion once a month; headquarters compiles consolidated accounts
monthly, quarterly, and annually. Although the operating departments furnish
considerable data to headquarters in connection with their monthly accounts,
much of this data is lost in the consolidation process. However, the operat-
ing units themselves exercise some control over operating costs and conduct
simple variance analyses to ascertain why costs vary from planned levels when
this occurs.
3.16      ZPEPB has an extensive accounting staff weLl trained in maintaining
ledgers and compiling accounts according to standard. However, the accounts
are used primarily to document historical financial information, so ZPEPB is
only beginning to develop other analytical financial skills. As it modernizes
its financial management practices, ZPEPB staff will have to learn modern
management techniques and corporate planning. A technical assistance compo-
nent for a study on the improvement of utility management has been included in
the proposed project (para. 5.12 and Annex 13).
F. Audit
3.17      Before 1982, the financial statements of organizations in China were
not subjected to comprehensive audits. Entities such as MOF, the line minis-
tries, tax bureaus, provincial financial bureaus, and banks conducted individ-
ual checks to meet their particular needs. None of them prepared independent
reports on the accuracy or reliability of their annual financial statements.
China had no professional body of auditors to prescribe auditing standards or
regulations.
3.18      With the ratification of China's new Constitution by the People's
Congress in December 1982, this situation changed. A State Audit Administration
(SAA) w5s established in September 1983 and given the status of a ministry
reporting directly to the State Council. Provincial audit bureaus also are
being established in each province and municipality (large cities). MOF has
been responsible for establishing the audit bureaus and has drafted regula-
tions and standards based on international auditing practices in other coun-
tries. These interim regulations have been promulgated by the State Council.
3.19      To date, SAA's Foreign Investment Audit Bureau has been conducting
the audits of Bank-financed projects; it focuses particularly on audits of
enterprises or undertakings with foreign participation in the form of equity
or loan financing. SAA's staff have been receiving training financed under
the Technical Cooperation Credit of the Bank.
3.20      The Zhejiang Provincial Audit Bureau (ZPAB) was established in
December 1983. Under the proposed project, ZPEPB's annual accounts will be
audited by ZPAB under the overall supervision of SAA. This arrangement is
satisfactory. Assurances have been obtained from ZPEPB that it will furnish
the Bank annual financial statements, certified by an acceptable auditor,
within six months from the end of each fiscal year.



- 13 -
Internal Audit
3.21      ZPEPB has an internal audit staff who periodically conduct spot
checks and once a year examine the accounts of each operating unit. ECEPA
staff also may perform occasional spot checks of the accounting records of the
member bureaus. The purpose of these examinations primarily is to test ior
accuracy and compliance with MOF regulations. The internal audit unit does
not review the appropriateness of accounting regulations and procedures; such
reviews are considered to be the respective responsibilities of MOF and MWREP.
The training of ZPEPB' s internal audit staff will be provided through the
financial management training under Loan 2706-CHA (para. 5.14).
G. Tariffs
3.22      Electricity tariffs have not been changed since 1962 (Annex 6).
Under the tariff structure, large industrial consumers pay both a demand
charge, based on maximum demand or capacity of the installed transformer, and
an energy charge based on consumption. All other consumers pay only an energy
charge. Domestic customers pay 15 fen or about USC4.1 per/kWh. This rate is
about twice as high as ZPEPB's average revenue per kWh (8.5 fen or about
US¢2.3). Agricultural and large industrial consumers pay an energy charge of
about 7.5 fen/kWh (USC2.0/kWh), or about 88X of the average revenue. Domestic
consumers do not pay a connection charge to ZPEPB but must provide their own
meter and internal wiring. Industrial consumers pay connection charges, which
include the cost of substations, distribution lines, and service droos.
Electricity tariffs for ZPEPB are shown in Anne AC. TI P$Altion, all
the consumers living in the urban area pay a local government tax of about 10Z
of the electricity bill. Industrial and commercial consumers with the excep-
tion of a few industries which are operated at a loss pay 2 fen/kWh directly
to the local government for the construction of new power stations.
H. Billing and Collection
3.23      At the end of 1987, ZPEPB had 925,277 customers divided into five
categories: heavy industrial, light industrial, agriculture, transportation,
and municipal. The categories are depicted in Table 3.1.



- 14 -
Table 3.1: DISTRIBUTION OF ZPEPB's CONSUMERS
(As of December 31, 1987)
No. of consumers         Consumption
z        (GWh          z
Heavy industrial               21,811       2.3         5,923    37.5
Light industrial               65,580       7.1         3,219    20.4
Agriculture                   370,907      40.1         5,241    33.2
Transportation                  2,743       0.3            67     0.4
Municipal                     464,236      50.2         1,341     8.5
Total                925,277       100       15,791   100.0
Municipal consumers represent the largest number of customers but they only
consume 8.5% of sales. This category consists of households or establishments
being served by ZPEPB's own municipal offices. In some cases, this includes
municipalities purchasing power in bulk from ZPEPB for distribution and
retailing under their own auspices. More often, it includes domestic house-
holds, commercial enterprises, public service establishments such as schools
and hospitals, and specific municipal users such as public transportation
systems and street lighting.
3.24      ZPEPB conducts its billing and collection activities through
79 district offices. All industrial consumers are charged in advance three
times per month at 10-day intervals based on estimated usage derived from
their production or sales plans. At the end of the month, meters are read and
adjustments to reflect actual usage are included in the first bill for the
following month. Industrial and commercial consumers are all metered indivi-
dually. Low voltage customers, are billed once a month based on actual usage.
Many households are metered individually; however, some domestic consumption
is metered at the apartment building level and the charge is distributed among
residents by internal arrangement. Agricultural consumption is generally
metered at ZPEPB's lowest voltage step down transformer serving the particular
commune; the commune arranges appropriate distribution of the charges among
individual farmers.
3.25      Industrial and commercial consumers pay their bills through direct
debit to their bank accounts. Domestic and agricultural consumers render
payments to meter readers who return to metered premies about three days
after presenting the bill. Consumers are responsible for paying at ZPEPB
offices amounts due that were not collected by meter readers. Regulations
stipulate that consumers with unpaid amounts outstanding are disconnected
after ten days; because this regulation is enforced, consumers very rarely
allow themselves to fall into arrears. Any nonagricultural consumer is
required to pay a charge for reconnection. These arrangements have estab-
lished a reliable cash flow from sales and reduced ZPEPB's net accounts
receivable to an unusually low level. At the end of 1987, they were about
Y 45 million on sales of Y 1,208 million, which is satisfactory.



- 15 -
I. Insurance
3.26      Until recently, insurance coverage was not available from the
domestic insurance industry; instead, ZPEPB relied on self-insurance. The
Bureau purchases fleet insurance for its vehicles and fire insurance for its
warehouses since these are now available and required under the law. ZPEPB is
liquid enough to self-ensure all of its assets adequately against normal
levels of risk. However, as agencies such as the People's Insurance Company
of China are now making commercial coverage available, ZPEPB intends to
consider purchasing commercial insurance, particularly for public liability.
The Bureau's current insurance arrangements are satisfactory.
J. Distribution System
3.27      ZPEPB's primary distribution system operates at the 1 kV, 10 kV and
35 kV voltage levels. Unfortunately, the power shortages in China have
focused attention on generation projects and transmission projects at the
110 k7 level and above. When extensions to the distribution network have been
the :esponsibility of the municipal or local governments, this activity has
often been neglected owing to a lack of funds.
3.28      Accurding to ZPEPB, system losses have been averaging less than
1OZ. This level would appear reasonable compared with that of other countries
in the region; however, the modest level of measured losses appears suspect in
view of the inattention given to investment in distribution. In fact, because
ZPEPB sells a very significant percentage of its power in bulk to industrial,
agricultural, and municipal consumers, the system has a lot of room for unmEa-
sured losses. While consumers currently are bearing the financial cost of
these losses, unmeasured losses still neRd to be brought under control if
consumers are to enjoy the full benefits of ZPEPB's extensive investment in
generation and transmission.
3.29      An aging distribution system and unmeasured system losses might
represent problems that are neither fully understood nor peculiar to ZPEPB.
The Bank is discussing with MWREP opportunities for all parties to acquire a
firmer grasp on system losses and distribution requirements. This project
includes a study for extending and improving the distribution network in the
cities of Hangzhou and Ningbo. Assessing distribution losses in the rural
area and methods of reducing such losses will be addressed in that study.



- 16 -
IV. THE POWER MARKET AND THE PROGRAM
A. The East China Power System
4.1       The East China Power System (ECPS) covers the three provinces of
Jiangsu, Anhui, and Zhejiang and Shanghai municipality, with a combined
population of 168 million. The total installed capacity of the East China
region was about 16,460 MW in 1987, consisting of about 14,270 MW of thermal
capacity (87X) and 2,190 MW of hydro capacity (13X). The major generating
stations are listed in Annex 7. The system peak load and energy generation in
1987 were 12,850 MW and 90,700 GWh, respectively. Only 5,439 GWh, or about
6X, was generated from hydroelectric resources.
4.2       A study of the system balance between capacity and demand for 1987
indicates that both hydro plants and thermal plants were derated. Hydro
plants were derated by about 300 MW due to a shortage of water during the dry
season, and thermal plants were derated by 330 MW due to equipment troubles
and adverse weather conditions, etc. About 1,100 MW was out of operation as
cold standby for small and old units or because of oil-fired units being
converted to coal-fired. Furthermore, some units had to be shut down for
scheduled maintenance. As a result, the total dependable capacity of the
system in 1987 waG only 12,952 MW, to serve a peak of 12,850 MW.
4.3       At present, 500 kV is the highest transmission voltage level in ECPS
with a total length of about 699 km. The total length of 220 kV transmission
lines was 8,272 km at the end of 1987 and the total capacity of 220-kV step-
down transformers was 13,415 MVA, (fo, FCPS main grid only) involving 77
substations. A network of 500 kV transrnisL ,'n lines is being implemented in
stages (see Map 1).
4.4       There are four load dispatching centers in the East China grid:
Shanghai, Hangzhou, Hefei, and Nanjing. Shanghai is under the supervision of
ECEPA and has overall responsibility for transferring power between the three
provinces and the municipality. The centers of Hangzhou (in Zhejiang), Hefei
(in Anhui) and Nanjing (in Jiangsu) control the operation of generating
stations, and transmission and subtransmission systems within their respective
provinces. Power is transferred between provinces on the basis of
availability and the relative costs of energy generation.
B. The Zhejiang Power Grid
4.5       Zhejiang province includes 9 municipalities and 67 counties and
extends about 435 km from north to south and 405 km from west to east. The
total installed capacity of the system in 1987 was 3,821.2 MW. Of this,
2,055.8 MW or 53.8% was thermal-based and 1,765.4 MW or 46.2% was hydro-
based. The totai energy generation of the province in 1987 was 16,700 GWh
(Annex 8).
4.6       Table 4.1 shows the growth rates in peak demand and energy
requirements of the ECPS and ZPEPB power grids over the past 18 years, from
1970-1987. ZPEPB has a higher growth rate because of its relativelv small



- 17 -
base and the rapid growth in municipal and industrial (light and rural
industries) uses.
Table 4.1: HISTORICAL LOAD GROWTH
Energy Generation and
Peak Demand (MW)  /a        Energy Purchased (CWh) /a
Year                     ECPS          ZPEPB            ECPS             ZPEPB
1970                   3,224.6        (486.6)        20,315.0          3,117
1971                   3,519.7        (568.5)        24,497.0          3,892
1972                   3,852.2        (575.6)        26,800.0          4,272
1973                   4,335.7        (641.5)        30,350.0          4,777
1974                   4,268.9        (607.2)        29,370.0          4,280
1975                   4,985.1        (711.6)        33,400.0          4,509
1976                   5,180.0        (682.1)        36,260.0          4,889
1977                   5,658.6        (815.7)        39,610.0          6,006
1978                   6,175.5        (908.3)        45,699.0           7,176
1979                   7,071.3      (1,081.8)        50,206.0          8,014
1980                   7,380.1      (1,081.2)        53,875.0          9,074
1981                   7,770.4      (1,224.4)        55,947.0          9,811
1982                   8,306.1      (1,291.6)        58,973.0          10,475
i983                   8,874.7      (1,422.2)        63,011.0          11,669
1984                   9,400.0       1,920.0         68,075.0          12,904
1985                  10,400.0      2,150.0          74,431.0          14,484
1986                  12,400.0       2,400.0         81,741.0          16,098
1987                  12,850.0      2,900.0          90,700.0          18,510
Average rate of
growth (Z p.a.)          8.5          10.2 /a            9.2            11.0
/a    Based on the region or province as a whole, except peak demand for ZPEPB
from 1970 to 1983 which was for ZPEPB's system only.
4.7       Of the 15,791 GWh of energy consumed in Zhejiang province in 1987,
57.91 was consumed by industrial users, 33.2Z by rural users (of which about
19.8X were rural industries) and 7.8X by transportation and municipal users.
Annex 9 presents details of energy consumption by category of user betw-oen
1981 ani 1987.
C. Load Forecast
4.8       As part of the planning process carried out by ZPEPB, load forecasts
were developed by applying a combination of statistical methods and planning
targets to every major consumer category. Industrial loads were estimated on
the basis of a market survey and analysis of projected industrial products and
unit consumption per product for different categories of industries. Rural
loads were estimated based on past growth trends for drainage and irrigation



- 18 -
loads, rural industrial loads, and lighting. Municipal loads were estimated
based on market surveys of hotels, buildings, and government projects to be
put into operation over the next decade. Population growth and increasing use
of home appliances were taken into consideration in estimating residential and
commercial loads. Transportation loads, which are relatively small, were
estimated according to past growth trends for airports and railway stations
and the projected load for railroad electrification. Table 4.2 presents the
resulting forecasts for peak demand and energy requirements for ECPS and ZPEPB
for the period 1988-1995.
Table 4.2: LOAD FORECAST (1988-1995)
Peak Demand (MW)            Energy Requirement (GWh)
Year                     ECPS          ZPEPB            ECPS            ZPEPS
1987 (Actual)           12,850        2,900           90,700           18,510
1988                    15,100        3,200          101,500           20,400
1989                    17,100        3,500          11?,000           22,500
1990                    19,000        3,850          125,600           24,800
1991                    21,000        4,250          137,000           27,300
1992                    23,100        4,700          150,000           30,000
1993                    25,300        5,200          163,500           33,000
1994                    27,400        5,8Q0          176,500           36,100
1995                    29,650        6,400          191,000           39,800
Average rate
of growth (X p.a.)       11.0          10.4              9.8             10.0
4.9       The peak demand for ECPS would increase from 12,850 MW in 1987 to
29,650 MW in 1995; energy generation would increase from 90,700 GWh to 191,00
GWh.  These figures represent average annual growth rates of 11.0% and 9.8Z,
respectively. Peak demand and energy generation for ZPEPB would increase from
2,90!) MW to 6,400 MW and from 18,510 GWh to 39,800 GWh, respectively, growing
at ainual rates of 10.4% and 10.0%.
4.10      This forecast was considerably higher than the original forecast
conducted in 1985 during the appraisal of Beilungang Thermal Power Project
(Loan 2706-CHA). The increase is attributed to the rate of growth of actual
demand during the last three years. The current forecast is reasonable
considering that: (a) East China is one of the most prosperous areas in China
with many important industries and a booming economy which accounts for almost
a quarter of China's gross national product; (b) a number of large users (such
as hotels and certain industries) will be put into operation over the next few
years; and (c) technical modernization is intensive in the region and is
likely to make wider use of electri- power than other forms of energy.



- 19 -
D. The Power Development Program (1987-1995)
4.11      East China is short of natural energy resources.  The Shuikou
(1400 MW) project, which is being built in Fujian province under Loan
2775-CHA, is the only sizable conventional hydro project located within the
region that is capable of providing peaking capacity to the system. Future
development will depend primarily on coal-fired thermal power stations located
at mine mouths or near ports and load centers which use coal from Shanxi
province.
4.12      WREPERI, with the assistance of IAEA, conducted a long-range power
development optimization study for the East China power system (para. 2.9)
under the Beilungang Thermal Power Project (Loan 2706-CHA). This study was
further reviewed an$ revised under Loan 2775-CHA for the Shuikou Hydroelectric
Project. Both studies demonstrated that the Beilungang Thermal Power Project,
with four 600 MW units to be commissioned between 1990 and 1993, forms part of
the system's least cost expansi-n program. The details of ZPEPB's development
program are presented in Annvx 1(0. The balance of ZPEPB's system loads and
capabilities is presented in Ax;nex 11, which indicates that the system will be
short of dependable capacity anc e.iergy up to 1990. Only after the first unit
of the Beilungang project is compLeted, at the end of 1990, will the system's
dependable capacity exceed peak demand and adequate reserves be built up
gradually over the following years. As for energy, the system will barely
meet the requirement after the Beilungang second unit comea into operation.
The Beilungang thermal plant therefore is a key base load plant both for ECPS
and ZPEPB. The program is acceptable to the Bank.



- 20 -
V. THE PROJECT
A.  Project Objectives
5.1       In the past, shortfalls in electric generating capacity have been a
major constraint to China's economic growth. This situation is likely to
continue in the near term unless changes are made. The Government of China
gives high priority to electric power development and has a strategy that
combines (a) expanding generating capacity by developing coal-fired thermal
stations at mine-mouths and near ports and load centers;, and accelerating the
pace of hydroelectric development; (b) increasing the financial and management
autonomy of the power buresus; (c) introducing a more rational pricing system;
(d) adopting modern techniques in project design and system planning including
environmental aspects; (e) constructing extra high voltage transmission lines
for interconnection between regions; and (f) replacing low-pressure medium
sized (50-100 MW) thermal units with higher pressure 300-600 MW units and
converting oil-fired units to burn coal. The proposed project would reflect
the basic conception of these policies.
5.2       The objectives of the proposed project are to:  (a) alleviate the
acute power shortage of a major load center in East China; (b) support the
national policy of developing large coal-fired thermal power generating units
to make effective use of China's abundant coal reserves; (c) continue the
effort to introduce modern technology in plant design and construction
management of 600 MW thermal power units; and (d) provide technical assistance
to ZPEPB for reorganizing its operations and strengthening its management.
This assistance will facilitate its transformation from a power bureau to a
more autonomous power entity.
B. Project Description
5.3       The proposed project is located about 25 km east of the city of
Ningbo in the Jiantang Strait of the East China Sea. It is situated on a site
with favorable topographical conditions and easy access by sea, railroad and
highway. Fresh water will be supplied from an existing reservoir about 8.5 km
away and cooling water will be taken directly from the sea. Coal will be
supplied from the Datong and Xiaoyu mines in North Shanxi and transported
through the Daqin double-track electrified railroad to the port of
Qinhuangdao, then transhiped to the site by 35,000-50,000 DWT ships. The site
is large enough to support the ultimate development of four 600 MW units.
5.4       The proposed project would be the second project involving the
Beilungang Thermal Power Plant. The first project, which was approved by the
Bank on May 29, 1986 (Loan 2706-CHA), is under construction. All the
preparatory and piling works have been completed. Works are under way for the
building foundations, chimney, wharf, and dykes for the ash disposal pond.
The procurement of plant equipment is about 90% complete. The project is
proceeding on schedule.



- 21 -
5.5       The proposed project would comprise:
(a) extension of the Beilungang Thermal Power Plant by adding a second
unit of 600 MW at a site being developed;
(b) construction of the second single circuit of 500 kV transmission
line (145 km) and extension of Pingyao substation;
(c)  provision of consulting services for engineering, procurement, and
review of design drawings and interfacing among various packages of
equipment;
(d) a study for ZPEPB's reorganization and management improvement;
(e) a study for extending and improving the distribution networks for
the cities of Hangzhou and Ningbo; and
(f)  a training program.
Beilungang Thermal Power Plant Extension
5.6       It was originally expected that the second unit would be financed
out of bilateral/export credits or commercial bank loans, possibly in associa-
tion with a Bank "B" loan. During the procurement of the first unit, bidders
were asked to offer an option bid on a cash basis for the second unit with
optional financing offer. However, the results of bidding on the second unit
did not produce financial packages that were any more favorable than what
China was obtaining under other power projects without Bank assistance. The
external debt situation for the power subsector as a whole in 1987 was very
tight; the Government is financing ten other thermal power projects in the
Seventh Five-year Plan with about US$1.5-1.8 billion in supplier's credits
(Annex 12). As a result, the Government has "clamped-down" on further
supplier's credit borrowing in the sector. During the annual review meeting
with the Bank in October 1987, the Government of China requested the Bank's
assistance for financing the second unit.
5.7       Some common facilities such as the wharf, intake, inlet and
discharge conduits, and water treatement plant are being implemented under the
first unit; therefore, works involved for the second unit would include only:
(a) civil works including an additional pumping house for circulating
water, a chimney, and foundations and buildings for the power block;
and
(b)  electrical and mechanical equipment for the second unit including
boiler island, turbine-generator island, extension of two belt
conveyors for the coal handling system, ash disposal facilities,
instrumentation and control island, electrical equipment for plant
use and other necessary auxiliaries.



- 22 -
Transmission System
5.8       A second single circuit of 500 kY transmission line would be
constructed in parallel with the first circuit about 145 km in length. No
extension would be required at the switchyard and the substation at Shaoxin.
However, the substation at Pingyao would have to be extended by adding one
more 500/230 kV step-down auto-transformer and some high voltage switchgear.
Consulting Services
5.9       Following the implementation of the first unit, the need for
consulting services for the proposed project would be greatly reduced. ZPEPB,
with the assistance of the East China Electric Power Design Institute
(ECEPDI), would be able to carry out the conceptual design, cost estimate, and
revision of bidding documents by themselves. However, consulting services
still would be required in some areas in order to meet the tight construction
schedule and to obtain a well-coordinated plant for operational economy and
efficiency. These include:
(a)  assistance in bid evaluation and preparation of an evaluation
report;
(b)  assistance in foundation design and coordination and interfacing of
engineering and design for different islands; and
(c)  assistance in the review of venders' drawings.
5.10      The cost of these services is estimated at US$2.3 million.
5.11      Ebasco of the U.S. is now providing consulting services for the
first unit; it will be retained for these additional services because of its
familiarity with the project and its satisfactory performance to date.
Technical Assistance for Institutional Building
5.12      GOC is reorganizing the power subsector in China and plans to begin
changing ZPEPB into a power company as one of the first test cases for
increased autonomy. ZPEPB has agreed to carry out a study under the proposed
project for reorganizing its operations and strengthening its management with
the terms of reference (Annex 13) and time table agreed with the Bank. Assur-
ances have been obtained that ZPEPB will exc.hange views with the Bank on the
progress and the findings of the study.  The proposed project would allow the
Bank to deepen its involvement in the reform process of power entities in
China by providing a wider range of technical assistance focused on ZPEPB's
reorganization and management improvement. The assistance would include
specialists from the Bank or independently-engaged experts in power utility
management to carry out the following tasks.
Managerial Autonomy and Accountability
(a) Clarify the roles and responsibilities of ZPEPB regarding
investment, finance, pricing, employment and procurement;



- 23 -
(b) Recommend appropriate capital structure policies in view of ZPEPB's
ability to borrow in financial markets in the future;
(c) Recommend possible types of corporate form and ownership;
(d) Recommend ways/mechanisms for governing ZPEPB;
Modern Management Organizations, System and Procedures
(e) Recommend improvements and changes in the performance evaluation
indicators, the monitoring procedures to be used by the management
and by the regulatory bodies;
(f) Recommend improvements in its organization, structure, management
system/procedures, delegation of authority, role clarity and
management effectiveness, incentive system, recruitment and
promotion policies, training etc. to improve ZPEPB's performance,
promote more efficient operations and develop more autonomy;
(g) Recommend a more efficient long and short term utility planning
system (incorporating investment, manpower, financial resources and
materials, etc. into an overall corporate plan;
(h) Recommend a suitable MIS system for ZPEPB; and
(i) Recommend an implementation schedule and a staff training program
for this implementation.
Distribution Network Study
5.13      The distribution network for the cities of Hangzhou and Ningbo is
crowded and out of date. Both systems have to be improved and extended to
satisfy rapid system growth. The same kind of study will be carried out for
the metropolitan city of Shanghai under the Wujing Thermal Power Project
(Loan 2852-CHA). During appraisal, it was agreed that ZPEPB's planning staff
involved in the study will be trained together with the staff of the Shanghai
Municipal Electric Power Bureau (SMEPB) under the consulting services of the
distribution network study for Shanghai.  Actual works will be carried out by
ZPEPB's staff and will include basic data collection, zoning of areas, load
projection for each area, optimization of voltages, and distribution network
planning. Terms of reference are given in Annex 14.
Training
5.14      The training of operation and maintenance staff for the second unit
would be carried out in accordance with the program being implemented for the
first unit, using facilities available in China and those procured under
Loan 2706-CHA. No duplication would be required for other components of the
training program such as management and financial planning, as they are being
carried out or planned under Loan 2706-CHA.



- 24 -
C. Cost Estimate
5.15      The estimated cost of the project is summarized in Table 5.1.  The
cost estimates are made at end 1987 prices and are based on the contract
prices of the first unit and other recent tendering information for 600 MW
units in China. Unit costs for civil works are based on cost data obtained
during the implementation of the first unit. Physical contingencies are
calculated at 4.5 for the foreign costs of plant equipment and transmission
facilities, and at 1OX for civil works and other local costs. The price
escalation for costs expressed in terms of the foreign exchange (US dollars)
is calculated according to anticipated international price movements of 3.0X
p.a. for 1988-90, and 4.0% p.a. for 1991 and thereafter. The price escalation
for costs expressed in local currency is calculated according to projected
local inflation rates of 8.0% p.a. for 1988, and 7.0% p.a. for 1989 and 6.51
p.a. for 1990 and thereafter. Detailed project cost estimates are provided in
Annex 15.



- 25 -
Table 5.1: SUNMARY OF PROJECT COSTS /a
Foreign
cost as Z
Local   Foreign  Total   Local  Foreign   Total  of total
-----(Y mln)-------  ------------(US  mln)-------------
Civil works                    97.7       -      97.7    26.4         -      26.4       -
Plant equipment And
materials                   45.9   577.6    623.5    12.4    156.1    168.5         93
Transmission system            69.5       -      69.5    18.8         -      18.8       -
Distribution network study       1.8     1.5       3.3     0.5       0.4      0.9      44
Technical assistance for
institutional building        1.9      1.8      3.7      0.5      0.5       1.0      50
Training                        4.4       -       4.4      1.2        -       1.2       -
Consulting services             4.1      8.5     12.6      1.1       2.3      3.4      68
Supervision                    30.0       -      30.0      8.1        -       8.1       -
Total base cost            255.3   589.4    844.7    69.0    159.3    228.3         70
Contingencies
Physical                    25.9    21.1      47.0      7.0      5.7      12.7      45
Price                       61.1   115.8    176.9       6.9     13.0      19.9      65
Total Project Cost         342.3   726.3  1,068.6    82.9    178.0    260.9         68
Interest during Construction
IBRD loans                    -      80.3     80.3       -      21.7      21.7    100
Local bank loans            26.3       -      26.3      7.1       -        7.1       -
Total Financing Required   368.6   806.6  1,'75.2    90.0    199.7    289.7          69
/a   The base cost and physical contingency (at end 1987 prices) have been calculated
using an exchange rate of Y 3.70=US$1.
Note:     1.   The project would be exempted from import duties and taxes.
2.   Total physical contingencies are about 5.6% of the base cost; local and
foreign price contingencies are about 9.1% and 7.9% respectively of the
base cost plus physical contingencies, when expressed in US dollars.



- 26 -
D. Financing Plan
5.16      The financing plan for the project is shown in Table 5.2.
Table 5.2: FINANCING PLAN
Local      Foreign       Total
(US$ million) --------
IBRD                                     -       165.0        165.0
Provincial Govt. loan                 54.1          -          54.1
PCBC loan                             35.9        34.7         70.6
Total                           90.0       199.7       289.7
5.17      ZPEPB has requested the Bank's support in seeking grant funds to
finance the technical assistance for institutional building and a distribution
network study. In case such aid would not materialize, an amount of US$0.9
million is provisionally provided in the loan amount. The proposed Bank loan
of US$165.0 million would therefore be used to finance the base cost and
physical contingency of the foreign cost of the following components:
(a) Boiler island package;
(b) Turbine-generator island package;
(c) Belt conveyors for coal handling system;
(d) Ash disposal system package;
(e) Instrumentation and control package;
(f) Electrical equipment for plant use;
(g) Consulting services;
(h) A study on the improvement and extension of the distribution
networks for the cities of Hangzhou and Ningbo; and
(i) Technical assistance for a study on ZPEPB's reorganization and
management improvement.
5.18      Financing of the remaining foreign exchange components--interest
during construction and price contingencies (US$34.7 million)--and part of the
local costs (US$35.9 million equivalent) would be obtained from the People's
Construction Bank of China (PCBC) at 3.6Z p.a. interest. The loan would be



- 27 -
repaid over 15 years, beginning after the project is completed. The balance
of the local cost of about US$54.1 million is expected to be financed by a
loan from the Provincial Government.
5.19      The proposed Bank loan would be made to the People's Republic of
China at the standard variable interest rate for a 20-year term (including
5 years grace for repayment of principal). Assurances have been obtained from the
Goverment that it will onlend the proceeds of the proposed Bank loan to ZPEPB under
a subsidiary loan agreement with a 20-year term (including 5 years ot grace
for repayment of principal) at a variable rate equal to that of the Bank with
no premium. ZPEPB would bear the commitment charges and the foreign exchange
risk. A Project Agreement will be concluded between Bank and ZPEPB. Execu-
tion of a subsidiary loan agreement satisfactory to the Bank and approval of
the Loan Agreement by the State Council would be conditions of effectiveness
of the loan.
E. Procurement
5.20      Equipment and materials financed under the proposed Bank loan will
be procured through international competitive biddings (ICB) in accordance
with the Bank's Procurement Guidelines except two belt conveyors for the coal
handling system and the instrumentation and control package. Because of the
small amount involved (US$0.6 million), the Bank has agreed to have the belt
conveyors be procured by extending the existing contract concluded under the
first unit of the Beilungang Thermal Power Project (Loan 2706-CHA). Due to
technical and safety reasons and the consideration of the economy and effi-
ciency, the Bank has also agreed that instrumentation and control package
(about $8,000,000) will be purchased by direct contracting from the previous
supplier who was selected under ICB procedures for procurement of the first
unit. Items such as testing instruments estimated to cost less than $300,000
per contract, up to an aggregate amount not to exceed $1,000,000 may be pro-
cured through limited international bidding.
5.21      Domestic preference, following Bank guidelines, will be applicable
for selected goods in the evaluation of bids, provided that the domestic
manufacturers can meet the experience requirement specified in the bidding
documents. The margin of preference will be 15% of the CIF price of imported
goods or the prevailing custom duties and other import taxes, whichever is
lower.



- 28 -
5.22      Procurement arrangements are summarized in Table 5.3 below:
Table 5.3: PROCUREMENT ARRANGEMENTS
Procurement method           Total
Item                            ICB       LIB      Others a/  N.A.    Cost
-------- (USS million) --------------
Civil works                           -                  28.8        -        28.8
Ptant eQuipment and materials    180.0           1.0     14.9        -       195.9
(160.2)/b    (1.0)    (0.6)              (161.8)
Transmission system                   -                  22.8        -        22.8
Distribution network study            -                   0.9        -         0.9
1                                                        (0.4)               (0.4)
Technical assistance                  -                   1.0        -         1.0
for institutional building                             (0.5)               (0.5)
Consulting services                   -                   3.4        -         3.4
(2.3)               (2.3)
Supervision                           -                    -        8.1        8.1
Total                          180.0         1.0     71.8       8.1     260.9
(160.2)      (1.0)    T3.8)              (165.0)
aI   Other methods include goods to be procured within the country, civil
works and equipment erection to be executed by ZPEPB or its contractors,
studies, and consulting services.
b/   Figures in parentheses are the respective amounts financed out of the
proposed Bank loan.
5.23      Procurement documents for all bidding packages on goods financed by
the Bank and estimated to cost over US$1.0 million equivalent would be subject
to the Bank's prior review; this covers six major procurements to be financed
out of the Bank loan.
F. Project Implementation
Status of Project Preparation
5.24      Since this is an extension pyoject, all the land needed for the
project already is available. Most of the common facilities have been
completed. The bidding documents for the boiler package and turbine-generator
package which had been revised by incorporating lessons learned from the pro-



- 29 -
curement of the first unit were issued on February 13, 1988. Bids were opened
on April 25, before loan negotiations and are still under evaluation.
5.25      Chart 3 gives the implementatior. schedule for the various components
of the project.  Key dates of project implementation are given in Annex 16.
Piling will be started in January, 1989 and foundation excavation in June,
1989. Forty-two months would be targeted for the commissioning of the second
unit by mid-1992. The project completion date would be June 30, 1992 and the
closing date of the Bank loan would be June 30, 1993.
C. Disbursement
5.26      The Bank loan would be disbursed against:  (a) 100% of the foreign
expenditures for directly imported equipment and materials quoted on CIF
basis; (b) 100% of local expenditures ex-factory for locally manufactured
items; (c) 75% of the cost of other items procured locally; and (d) 100% of
expenditures for consulting services and technical assistance. For expendi-
tures relating to services and contracts for goods valued at less than
$200,000 equivalent, reimbursement would be made on the basis of statements of
expenditures. Documentation supporting such expenditures need not be
submitted to the Bank but should be retained in the ZPEPB office in Hangzhou
and made available for review by the Bank's supervision mission. To facili-
tate disbursements under this project, a Special Account with an authorized
allocation of $6.0 million, representing approximately four months' average
project expenditures, would be established. Applications for replenishment
will be submitted quarterly or when the amounts withdrawn equal 50% of the
initial deposit, whichever comes sooner.
5.27      Annex 17 gives the disbursement schedule for the proposed Bank loan
as well as a Bank-wide profile of disbursements for power projects. Since the
Bank loan will be used to extend ongoing project for which most of the
preparatory works and common facilities were completed during the construction
of the first unit and for which procurement is well underway, the implementa-
tion period for the second unit is expected to be shorter than that for
conventional projects where the site is to be developed. The disbursements
therefore are expected to be faster, scheduled for five years instead of the
Bank-wide profile of seven years.
H. Monitoring and Reporting
5.28      Satisfactory procedures for financial reporting have been agreed
for use in monitoring the progress of the project (paras. 3.13 and 3.20).
Quarterly progress reports on project execution and a project completion
report will be submitted by ZPEPB.
I. Environmental Considerations
5.29      The Beilungang site is located in one of the less populated rural
areas along the sea coast with a population density of about 2,500 and within
1 km and 37,500 within a 5 km radius. The land around the site is primarily
used "or paddy fields, and to grow vegetables and cotton. The prevailing wind
direction is northwest and north-northwest in the winter months and east-



- 30 -
southeast in the summer months. The city of Ningbo is located 23 km west-
southwest of the Beilungang site and the city of Zhenhai is located 14 km west
of the site. It is therefore favorable for flue gas diffusinn.
Environmental Impact
5.30      An environmental impact report has been reviewed and approved by the
Zhejiang Provincial Environmental Protection Bureau. Full support for the
project has been obtained from the local government as well as the resident
population. The design of the project has taken into account the requirement
that the environmental impact on the operation of the station not exceed the
internationally accepted norms, particularly in the following aspects.
5.31      Air quality.  The coal to be used for the plant would be of high
quality, with an ash content of about 20% and a sulfur content of less than
1%. Employing electrostatic precipitators with an average efficiency of 99.7%
for the ultimate development of four units and a stack height of 240 m would
keep ground level concentration of dust particles, and sulfur dioxide and
stack emission within the limit of the national standard and World Bank Guide-
lines (Annex 18).
5.32      Water Temperature.  The layout and design of the circulating water
system will ensure that the residual impact upon the ocean and its life forms
is minimal. Dispersal of the thermal plume from the sea outfall has been
modeled and found to be within acceptable limits (temperature rise about 8°C
in the vicinity of the discharge outlet and estimated thermal pollution zone
about 0.5 km in radius). The Zhoushan fishing ground is located more than
20 km away. There are no fishing activities near the site.
5.33      Liquid Chemical Effluent.  Plant liquid chemical effluents will be
held in a neutralization basin and treated prior to discharge into the
circulating water discharge channel where they will be rapidly diluted before
entering the Jiantang Strait.
5.34      Ash Disposal.  Ash from the power plant will be disposed on
the tidal land along the coast enclosed by dykes with a watertight clay core
to prevent leakage. Three such sites have been identified sufficient for 20
years of plant operation. The PH value of ash water has been tested and is
expected to be within the acceptable limits.
5.35      Entrusted by ZPEPB, the Nanjing Institute of Environmental
Protection of MWREP has completed recently a study to establish the background
levels nearby the site before plant operation and to verifv the impact of the
project on air quality. This type of monitoring program should be continued
in the future. Assurances have been obtained from ZPEPB that it wlll
carry out an environmental monitoring program satisfactory to the Bank (see
Annex 18).
Resettlement
5.36      The transmission facilities will be designed and carried out in
accordance with current technological practices and are expected to cause



- 31 -
minimum disturbance to the environment. The area through which two circuits
of 500 kV transmission lines are going to pass is primarily agricultural,
consisting of 20% of paddy fields, 451 of rivers and swamps, and 35% of hilly
land for the section from Beilungang to Shaoxin. For the section from Sha-zin
to Pingyao, the area contains 34% of paddy fields and swamps, 4.3% of flat
land, 58.5Z of hills, and 3.2% of high mountains. A total of about 250 houses
and 1,500 people would be relocated away from the line route. As these people
would still live in the same neighborhood and the land under the line could
still be utilized for cultivation, no difficulty in resettlement is expecced.
5.37      Assurances have been obtained from ZPEPB that it will carry out a
resettlement plan satisfactory to the Bank.
VI. FINANCIAL ASPECTS
A. Introduction
6.1       ZPEPB is a self-accounting entity reporting functionally to MWREP.
It must follow the financial regulations issued by MOF for all state enter-
prises and the procedures developed by MWREP for adapting those MOF regula-
tions for use by all power bureaus.  Within this framework, ZPEPB manages its
own affairs.  It real zes revenues which in the past have covered its operat-
ing requirements and left it with comfortable liquidity. Most surpluses,
however, have been remitted to the Government; in turn, the Government has
provided all funds necessary for investment in approved projects. His-
torically these funds have been provided on a grant basis, but more recently
they have been provided as loans. In the following discussion, ZPEPB's finan-
cial system as well as its financial performance and future prospects will be
examined.
B. Financial System
6.2       All Chinese power bureaus conduct their affairs according to a stan-
dardized financial system, the salient points of which are described briefly
in Annex 20. As was the case under previous Bank-financed projects for the
Chinese power subsector, ZPEPB is not permitted to retain more than a nominal
amount of its earnings, and the cash corresponding to the earnings that are
retained must ultimately be applied to certain specified categories of
expenditures or investments. Thus, ZPEPB has little incentive to realize
revenues in excess of its obligations. Also, the traditional indicators of
financial performance, such as rate of return and self-financing ratio, have
only a limited applicability to an analysis of ZPEPB at this time. To enhance
ZPEPB's autonomy in the future, the current fiscal arrangement, especially the
taxation system, would have to be reviewed by the Government and revised as
necessary.



- 32 -
C. Past and Present Financial Performance
6.3       ZPEPB's financial statements for the :;eriod 1980-1986 are shown in
Annex 21 and summarized in Table 6.1 below. The Balance Sheet has been
adjusted to include construction work-in-progress, which is normally carried
on the books of KWREP's construction units and not consolidated into ZPEPB's
operating accounts.
Table 6.1: ZPEPB'S KEY FINANCIAL INDICATORS, 1980-1986
Year ended December 31               1980    1981    1982    1983    1984    1985    1986
--------------- (Millions of Yuan) -------
Electricity sales (GWh)              6,357   6,876   7,585   8,436   9,831  11,115  12,386
Average revenue (fen/kWh)              6.9      7.0      7.1     7.2      7.4     7.6      8.1
Revenues                               435      480     538      605      730     846   1,007
Operating income /a                     80       99      100     114      107      81       90
Capital expenditure                    184      104      99      207      166     300      332
Net fixed assets in operation          591      638     760      917   1,112   1,514   1,750
Cash at end of year                     20       32       38      54       88     124      225
Operating ratio (Z)                     82       79      81       81       85      90       91
Rate of return (X) /b                 15.7    16.1    14.3    13.6    10.5        6.6      5.5
Debt service coverage (times)          103       22      22        7        4       4        3
/a   Operating revenues less the aggregate costs of fuel, power purchases,
administration, operation and maintenance, and depreciation.
/b   Based on historically valued average net fixed assets in operation.
6.4       During 1980-1986, ZPEPB's sales increased by about 95% while
revenues increased by about 131Z. Although the tariff has not been adjusted
during this period, average revenues per kWh have increased by about 17X,
reflecting a modest increase in the proportion of higher-priced domestic and
commercial consumption. Despite the increase in average revenues, the operat-
ing ratio increased from about 80Z to 90%, indicating that the increase of
ZPEP8's operating cost is significantly outpacing the increase in average
revenues. During the period, ZPEPB realized an average rate of return of
about 12% based on historically valued net fixed assets in operation. While
this average is satisfactory, the trend has been downward. While ZPEPB's rate
base increased by nearly 25% in 1984, 36% in 1985, 15% in 1986, its rates of
return dropped by similar degrees du.ing the same period. In order to meet
the cost increases expected in the future and to remain financially viable,
ZPEPB will need to increase its tariff modestly. In 1984-86, ZPEPB managed to
increase its liquidity substantially, primarily because increases in cash
receipts for connections, which were not considered as operating revenues and
were allocated entirely to corresponding special funds, considerably exceeded
increases in the cash cost of providing connections. ZPEPB has complied with
all financial covenants under Loan 2706-CHA.



- 33 -
Valuation of Assets
6.5       The Chinese financial system so far has not adopted the concept of
revaluation of fixed assets. Because inflation in China during the past 30
years has been low, and because most existing power-related fixed assets have
very little foreign content, asset revaluation would have a limited financial
impact on ZPEPB in the short- to intermediate-term. Because of incipient
changes in the structure of prices, revaluation of assets will become increas-
ingly relevant for the Chinese power subsector in the longer term. However,
adopting a revaluation policy would have a nationwide impact in a number of
sectors, and therefore should not be addressed solely in the context of the
proposed project. Instead, it will become a component of the continuing
policy dialogue between the Bank and MOF. A pro forma revaluation conducted
during project appraisal, using liberal assumptions, indicated that for the
period 1987-1995, an average rate of return of about 12% on historically
valued assets would decrease by a'third on revalued assets.
Tariffs
6.6       ZPEPB's tariff was established in 1962.  Historically, after
covering operating costs, tariff revenues have provided substantial general
revenues to the State. Currently, the average revenue per kWh sold (8.5 fen
or about USC 2.3) provides ZPEPB wiUL adequate operating revenue (para.
6.3). However, inflation and other specific price adjustments are beginning
to have an effect on ZPEPB's cost structure. In the future, the impact of
price changes is expected to become much more pronounced while the price ZPEPB
pays for coal, the major part of its cost structure, already increased
substantially in real terms in 1985/86 almost up to the long-run marginal cost
of supply of coal. MWREP has authorized ZPEPB to introduce a fuel adjustment
into its primary arrangements in order to recover the full additional
increment of cost resulting from coal price increases. However, price
increases are expected to be gradual. Exactly how price adjustments are to be
implemented has not yet been determined, and a number of policy parameters
have yet to be decided. The Bank will continue to have a dialogue with the
GOC on tariffs in accordance with the findings of the East China Power Pricing
Study (para. 2.10). The important recommendations supported by the study in
applying electricity price increases are: (a) avoiding two-tier pricing; (b)
avoiding real price increases for residential customers; and (c) moving to
peak-load pricing for large customers. Assurances have been obtained that the
Government will take into account the result of the study in determining the
levels and structures of ZPEPB's electricity tariffs. As ZPEPB's energy
available for sale is expected to increase by about 156% during the coming
eight years, it has ample scope for satisfactorily increasing its average
revenues to reflect increases in its costs.
D. Financing Plan
6.7       ZPEPB's financing plan for the period of project implementation
(1988-1993) is displayed in Table 6.2:



- 34 -
Table 6.2: ZPEPB'S FINANCING PLAN 1988-93
Item                                             Y million    US$ million/a   Z
Sources of Funds
Internal cash generation                           4,130           1,116        45
(less) Increment in working capital                   166             45         2
(less) Increment in Special Fund assets               131             35         2
(less) Repayment of loans                          1,715             464        19
(less) Remittances to Government                     475             128         5
(less) Expenditures for maintenance
and employees benefit                      492             133         5
Cash available for investment                       1151             311        12
Proposed IBRD loan                                    611             165        7
Other loans for proposed project                      550             149        6
All other loans                                     6,886           1,861       75
Government grants                                      18               5        -
Total Financing                                     8,065          2,180        88
Total Sources of Funds                              9,216          2,491       100
Application of Funds
Proposed project                                    1,069            289        12
Other construction                                  6,572           1,776       71
Interest during construction                          602             163        6
Renovations                                           633             171        7
Distribution improvements                             340              92        4
Total Application of Funds                          9,216          2,491       100
/a   US$1 = Yuan 3.7.
The Chinese financial system constrains a power bureau from meeting more than
nominal amounts of its investment program from internal cash generation; in
this case more than 84% of the cash available for investment is earmarked for
renovations and distribution improvements through the Special Fund allocation
system, and the rest of the cash available for investment would cover the
portion of interest during construction which, pursuant to regulations, must
be met from net income. The proposed project (excluding interest during con-
struction) accounts for about 12% of ZPEPB's investment program for the
period. The proposed Bank loan, the proceeds of which will be onlent
according to acceptable terms and conditions (para. 5.19), will only meet
about 7% of ZPEPB's financing requirements.



- 35 -
6.8       The estimated foreign cost of the proposed project exceeds the
proposed Bank loan by about US$35 million. Of that amount about US$22 million
represents interest during construction and about US$13 million corresponds to
price contingencies. MWREP has arranged for ZPEPB to borrow the yuan equiva-
lent of the needed additional foreign exchange requirement from the People's
Construction Bank of China (PCBC) at 3.6% p.a. interest, with repayment over a
15-year period beginning upon completion of the proposed project. Arrange-
ments have been made to enable ZPEPB to purchase the needed foreign exchange
from the Bank of China.
6.9       ZPEPB will borrow most of the local currency portion of its
financing requirements from the Zhejiang provincial government and the rest
from PCBC on terms prevailing at the time of commitment.  Currently, these
items include interest at 3.6% p.a. and repayment in equal installments over
15 years beginning upon completion of construction. ZPEPB projects receiving
a very small amount of grants from MWREP for minor projects entrusted by
MWREP. MOF is no longer making grants available to finance new projects.
E. Future Finances
6.10      Projections of ZPEPB's financial performance for the period 1987-95
are displayed in Annex 21 and summarized in Table 6.3. These projections are
based on the assumptions presented in Annex 21.
6.11      During the 1987-95 period, ZPEPB is projected to maintain high rates
of growth. Energy sales are expected to increase by about 156% over 1987
levels, representing a compound annual growth rate of about 7%. Net fixed
assets in operation are expected to increase by about 500% over current
levels, representing a compound annual growth rate of about 23%. Yearly capi-
tal expenditure is expected to increase by about 176% over the 1987 level,
representing a compound annual growth rate of about 8%. If ZPEPB is to main-
tain its financial viability in the face of this growth, the forecast implies
that it will need to increase its average revenue by 99% from 8.5 fen/kWh in
1987 to 16.9 fen/kWh in 1995.  This represents a compound annual growth rate
of about 9% in nominal terms, or slightly more than inflation projected for
the same period.  As early as in 1989, ZPEPB would have to introduce general
tariff revisions in addition to the coal adjustments already approved
(para. 6.6). ZPEPB would have to increase by about 10% over the coal-adjusted
average sales price in 1989 and 1990, and by about 25% in 1991 and thereafter.
6.12      Although conventional indicators of financial performance, such as
rate of return or self-financing ratio, have limited applicability to the
financial analysis of a government-controlled and-directed utility such as
ZPEPB (para. 6.2 and Annex 20), the relationships between pricing, operating
costs, and size of investment program are becoming increasingly important to
MWREP. In its role as nationwide manager of the sector, MWREP must arrange
financing for the currently large and still rapidly increasing investment
programs of the numerous power bureaus. In the process it has become acutely
aware of the need to mobilize appropriate resources from the consumer. To
further MWREP's efforts for resource mobilization, assurances have been
obtained that ZPEPB will take measures, including but not limited to tariff
increases, in order to ensure that annually it earns cash surpluses sufficient



Table 6.3: ZPEPB'S KEY FINANCIAL INDICATORS, 1987-95
(Yuan million)
Estimate --                     -- Forecast -
Year ended December 31                    1987    1988    1989    1990    1991    1992    1993    1994    1995
Energy sales (GWh)                       14,127  14,580  14,835  16,660  20,372  23,857  28,789  31,854  36,175
Average price/kWh (fen)                     8.5      9.0    10.2    11.2    13.4    14.4    15.1    16.1    16.9
Operating revenue                         1,204   1,318   1,520   1,873   2,735   3,386   4,355   5,131   6,118
Operating income                            176      218     291      361      749     808   1,065   1,262   1,456
Remittances to government                    34       23       50      50      105      121     127      233      311
Annual capital expenditure                  704   1,217   1,782   1,571   1,444   1,408   1,745   1,807   1,937
Rate base                                 1,795   2,105   2,553   3,232   4,884   6,606   7,927   9,190  10,275
Long-term debt                            1,352   2,289   3,737   4,860   5,725   6,586   7,468   8,434   9,469
Debt service                                 70      148      162     251      527      583     899      901      965
Cash in banks                               251      275     295      285      261      302     285      315      301
Rate of return
Historically valued assets (Z)            9.8    10.4    11.4    11.2    15.3    12.2    13.4    13.7    14.2
Notionally revalued assets (%)            6.9      7.3     7.9      7.7    11.2      9.1      9.8      9.8     9.8
Self-financing ratio (%)                   17.7    12.9    12.7    13.6    20.1    20.6    24.0    25.6    28.2
Operating ratio (%)                        85.4    83.5    80.8    80.7    72.6    76.1    75.5    75.4    76.2
Debt/total capital (%)                     44.7    55.2    64.6    68.1    68.4    68.7    68.0    67.8    68.1
Debt service coverage (times)               4.3      2.4      2.6     2.0      1.5      1.5     1.3      1.5      1.5



- 37 -
to meet a minimum of 12.5% of its average annual investment program for the
period of 1988-1990, a minimum of 2CZ for the period of 1991-1993, and a
minimum of 252 thereafter. In this case, the earned cash surplus would be
defined as total cash revenues (including income from the sale of electricity
and from connection charges) less the aggregate of (a) cash operating
expenses; (b) interest charged to operations; (c) income taxes; (d) gross
increases in working capital (including changes in cash balances); (e) net
increases in Special Fund Assets; (f) loan repayments; and (g) Special Fund
Expenditures for Maintenance and Employee Benefits. For purposes of this
agreement, the Adjustment Tax would not be considered a reduction in earned
cash because (i) it is a remittance of a residual and not a tax built into the
cost structure; and (ii) the proceeds are generally recycled into investments
in the sector. The average annual investment program would be defined as the
average of (a) the previous year's actual capital expenditure; (b) the current
year's planned capital expenditure; and (c) the next year's projected capital
expenditure. Under Loan 2706-CHA, assurances have been obtained that ZPEPB
will take measures, including but not limited to increasing its tariff, to
ensure that operating revenues are sufficient to meet the aggregate of costs
directly chargeable to operations, all required allocations to special funds,
debt service, income tax and any working capital increases, required to be
financed from operations (i.e. break-even covenant). As the recommended
internal cash generation covenant under the proposed project would supersede
this existing covenant, the project agreement for Loan 2706-CHA will be
amended accordingly.
6.13      During the projection period, ZPEPB is expected to comply consis-
tently with the recommended internal cash generation targets by increasing its
average revenue from 8.5 fen/kWh in 1987 to 16.9 fen/kWh in 1995. Its
notional self-financing ratio is expected to average 20Z; its rate of return
on historically valued assets is expected to average 12%; and its operating
ratio is expected to average 79%. These already acceptable indicators of
financial performance cculd improve substantially as the anticipated tariff
reforms are realized.
6.14      The Government's current policy of using loans rather than grants to
finance capital expenditure is expected to have an important impact on ZPEPB
during the projection period. From a capital structure which included only
about 45% debt in 1987, ZPEPB is projected to move to a debt/total capital
ratio of about 68% in 1995, because all capital investments except renovations
and distribution improvements would be financed solely by loans under the
current fiscal arrangement. While the assumption of 100% debt financing is
the most conservative one and in any case ZPEPB is not allowed to raise debt
for any purpose other than capital investments, ZPEPB's debt/total capital
ratio would not exceed 70% throughout the projection period, which is
acceptable. An understanding has been reached that the debt/total capital
ratio will be used for monitoring ZPEPB's financial operation in the future
and that ZPEPB will report it to the Bank annually. Debt service coverage,
which is projected to drop from about 4.3 in 1987 to about 1.3 in 1993, and
1.5 in 1995, remains satisfactory; however, this ratio should be monitored
carefully. Under Loan 2706-CHA, ZPEPB agreed to maintain its debt service
coverage ratio of at least 1.0. Assurances have been obtained from ZPEPB that
it may incur additional debt only if a reasonable forecast of its revenues and



- 38 -
expenditures indicates that internal cash generacion would provide a debt
service coverage ratio of at least 1.3. This assurance, taken in conjunction
with ZPEPB's undertaking to furnish with the Bank's eight-year rolling finan-
cial projections (para. 3.13) annually is expected to begin directing ZPEPB's
attention to the long-term financial impact of decisions relating to its
investment program. The project agreement for Loan 2706-CHA will be amended
accordingly.
VII. JUSTIFICATION
A. Need for the Project
7.1       East China is one of the most important industrial areas in China,
accounting for about 25% of total national production. ZPEPB is one of the
most important grids in ECPS, providing 23% of the capacity and 18% of the
power generation. Electricity shortages have been one of the major
constraints to economic development. Power curtailment by rotation has been
enforced in almost all industries, limiting their operation to only four to
five days a week and causing considerable underutilization of plant facilities
and manpower. In 1986 the shortage in peaking capacity was about 600-700 MW
and the energy shortage was 2,500 GWh. In addition, there were 167 MW in
capacity of large consumers ready to receive power but not yet connected.
7.2       The energy and capacity balances of the ZPEPB system with and
without the first two units of the Beilungang plant are shown in Table 7.1.
These balances clearly indicate the need for the proposed project in the ZPEPB
system, since without it the system would not be able to meet the demand with
adequate reserve. Even with the project, ZPEPB would have to purchase some
energy from ECPS between 1991 and 1992.
B. Least Cost Studies
7.3       A study entitled "the Economic Analysis of Beilungang Power Plant
Based on Optimization of the East China Power System" was prepared by WREPERI
in June of 1986 using IAEA's WASP III computer program (paras. 2.9 and
4.12). The study confirmed that the development program of ECPS would depend
largely on the construction of large coal-fired base load thermal plants at
mine-mouths, near ports or load centers that use coal from North China. The
report also confirmed that the Beilungang Thermal Power Plant, with four
600 MW units would form part of the system's least cost expansion program.
C. Economic Rate of Return
7.4       The internal economic rate of return (IERR) was calculated using the
estimated economic costs of inputs and ZPEPB's projected average revenue of
16.9 fen/kWh in 1995. However, the figure was adjusted to end 1987 price
levels (10.3 fen/kWh) and used as the minimum proxy for the economic value of
electricity. Added to this figure were a newly-applied 2.0 fen/kWh charge for
power development to all customers except lighting, agricultural use and
industries who operate at a loss, a 10% local government surcharge for urban
consumers, and connection charges to large customers. These charges, amount-



- 39 -
Table 7.1:  CAPACITY AND ENERGY BALANCE
1991                 1992                 1993
Without    With      Without    With      Without    With
project   project   project   project   project   project
Peak demand (MW)                    4,250      4,250     4,700      4,700      5,200     5,200
Dependable peaking capa-
city /a (MW)                      4,083     4,683      5,138      5,738     5,981      6,581
Gross reserve from depend-
able capacity (MW)                 -167        433       438      1,038        781     1,381
Reserve requirements /b (MW)          850        850       940        940      1,040     1,040
Surplus or deficit (MW)            -1,017      -417       -502         98      -259        341
Energy requirement (GWh)           27,300    27,300    30,000    30,000    33,000    33,000
Firm energy /c (GWh)               22,500    22,500    25,900    27,000    29,420    33,320
Average energy (GWh)               23,000    23,000    26,400    27,500    29,920    33,820
Surplus on energy to be pur-
chased (out of firm) (GWh)      -4,800    -4,800    -4,100    -3,000    -3,580           320
/a The dependable peaking capacity of a thermal unit is its rated capacity unless it has
|   to be derated due to special reasons.  The dependable peaking capacity of hydro units
is the working capacity during the peaking hours corresponding to the firm power under
a critical hydro-year condition.
/b The reserve requirement is calculated at 20% of peak demand.
/c The firm energy of thermal units is calculated at an annual capacity factor of 75%
(3,500 hours for the first year after completion and 6,500 hours per year
thereafter). The firm energy of hydro units is defined as the annual energy output
that would be available under a critical hydro-year condition.



- 40 -
ing to 1.8 fen/kWh, weee added to reflect the surplus benefits. On this
basis, the IERR of the proposed project is about 15.0% for the incremental
costs and benefits of the second unit and 10.4% for the two units as a whole
(see Annex 21 for details). This is a conservative estimate, as the economic
value of electricity is considerably higher. In reality, it lies somewhere
between the estimate of "willingness to pay" and the estimate of 'loss in
industrial production" (Y 1.0) for each kWh not served. If electricity
consumption is valued at the level of Y 14.4/kWh, which is the target revenue
arrived at the East China Power Pricing Study after being adjusted to end 1987
prices, the IERR is about 18.8%.
Sensitivity Analysis
7.5       The sensitivity of the IERR of the proposed project was calculated
under two other possible scenarios: (i) with a 10% increase in investment
cost, and (ii) with a one-year delay in commissioning. It is unlikely that
project parameters will exceed these limits. The following results were
obtained.
IERR (%)
Base Case                               15.1
10% cost overrun                        13.8
One-year delay in commissioning         13.4
7.6       There do not appear to be any better alternatives to the proposed
project, considering that base load coal-fired plants play a major role in the
least cost development program for the ZPEPB, and that extension of the
existing Beilungang thermal power station provides the least cost and fastest
method of achieving this objective.
D. Risks
7.7       No special risks are expected with the proposed project, since it is
an extension of an ongoing project. Land is already available and site
conditions are well known. The technical soundness and economic feasibility
of the project have been well established. Consulting engineers, both local
and foreign, will assist in engineering and design, procurement and
coordination.
VIII. AGREEMENTS REACHED AND RECOMMENDATIONS
8.1       The following agreements have been reached at negotiations:
(a)  From the Government, that it will:
(i) onlend the proceeds of the proposed Bank Loan to ZPEPB on terms
satisfactory to the Bank (para. 5.19); and
(ii) take into account the results of the tariff study carried out
under the Beilungang Thermal Power Project (Loan No. 2706-CHA)



- 41 -
between the Government and the Bank dated July 1, 1986, in
determining the levels and structures of ZPEPB's electricity
tariffs (para. 6.6).
(b) From ZPEPB that it will:
(i)    take measures, including but not limited to increasing its
tariffs,to ensure that it earns caah surplus sufficient to meet
a minimum of 12.5% of its annual investment program for the
period 1988-90, a minimum of 20% of its annual investment
program for the period 1991-93, and a minimum of 25% of its
annual investment program thereafter (para. 6.12);
(ii)    incur additional debt only if a reason ble rorecast of its
revenues and expenditures indicates that internal cash
generation would provide debt service coverage of not less than
1.3 (para. 6.14);
(iii)    furnish each year to the Bank a rolling eight-year financial
plan containing projected income statements, sources and
application of funds, and balance sheets (para. 3.13);
(iv)    furnish its annual financial statements, certified by an
acceptable auditor within six months from the end of each
financial year (para. 3.20);
(v)    carry out a study on ZPEPB's reorganization and management
improvement in accordance with the terms of reference and
timing agreed with the Bank, and exchange views with the Bank
on the progress and the findings of the study. (para. 5.12);
(vi)    carry out an environmental monit-ring program satisfactory to
the Bank (para. 5.35); and
(vii)    carry out a resettlement plan satisfactory to the Bank
(para. 5.37).
8.2       Execution of the subsidiary loan agreement between the Government
and ZPEPB and approval of the Loan Agreement by the State Council would be
conditions of loan effectiveness (para. 5.19).
8.3       The proposed project is suitable for a Bank loan of US$165 million
to the People's Republic of China for a term of 20 years, including a 5-year
grace period, at the standard variable interest rate.



- 42-                                -X 
CHINA
BEILUNGANG THERMAL POWER EXTENSION PROJECT
Installed Capacity, Electricity Generation
and Sales in the Power Subsector (1986)
/a                            /a   Energy
Installed capacity (MWT    Energy generation (GWhY   sales/b
Year            Hydro   Thermal    Total       Hydro  Thermal   Total    (GWh)
1949               163    1,686    1,849         710    3,600    4,310    3,460
1952               188    1,776    1,964       1,260    6,001    7,261    6,277
1957             1,019    3,616    4,635       4,820   14,515   19,335   16,407
1962             2,379   10,686   13,065       9,042   36,753   45,795       N.A.
1965             3,020   12,056   15,076    10,414   57,190   67,604   56,802
1970             6,235   17,535   23,770    20,450   95,420  115,870         N.A.
1971             7,804   18,478   26,282    25,060  113,300  138,360  101,274
1972             8,700   20,801   29,501    28,820  123,630  152,450  123,600
1973            10,299   23,626   33,925    38,900  127,860  166,760  135,106
1974            11,817   26,291   38,108    41,440  127,410  168,850  135,708
1975            13,428   29,978   43,406    47,630  148,210  195,840  156,969
1976            14,655   32,492   47,147    45,640  157,490  203,130  164,698
1977            15,765   35,686   51,451    47,670  175,740  223,410  181,691
1978            17,277   39,845   57,122    44,630  211,920  256,550  210,239
1979            19,110   43,906   63,016    50,120  231,827  281,947  233,577
1980            20,318   45,551   65,869    58,211  242,416  300,627  257,300
1981            21,933   47,069   69,002    65,546  243,723  309,269  263,410
1982            22,959   49,401   72,360    74,399  253,279  327,678  280,080
1983            24,160   52,280   76,440    86,450  264,990  351,440  301,600
1984            25,547   54,373   79,920    86,780  290,207  376,987  319,010
1985            26,120   60,373   86,493    92,374  318,315  410,689  330,600
1986            27,542   66,276   93,818    94,480  355,091  449,571  357,057
1987
Average growth
rate (% p.a.)                      11.2                          13.4      13.4
/a On country-wide basis.
/b Energy sales not including uses by captive plants and station use for
mini-hydro.
Source: MWREP.



- 43 -                      ~~~~~~ANNEX 2
- 43-                                     -
CHINA
BEILUNGANG THERMAL POWER EXTENSION PROJECT
Installed Capacity and Electricity Generation by
Regional Networks and Provincial Grids (1986)
Installed capacity/a      Electricity generation/a
Total   Hydro  Thermal      Total    Hydro  Thermal
---(MW)----w          -  ---  (GWh)------
Regional Networks
North China power network         12,479      757   11,722      69,410   1,250   68,160
Northeast China power network   14,631   3,063   11,568         75,180  11,880   63,300
East China power network          14,144   1,889   12,255       76,190   4,390   71,800
Central China power network       13,641   5,246    8,395       66,410  22,370   44,050
South China power network          4,438   2,156    2,282       21,060   7,840   13,220
Southwest China power network    5,774   2,775    2,999         27,500  11,680   15,820
Northwest China power network    5,852   2,494    3,358         30,120  10,660   19,460
Subtotal                       70,959  18,380   52,579    365,880  70,070  295,810
Provincial Grids
Shandong provincial grid           4,633       47    4,586      29,800       50   29,750
Fujian provincial grid             1,820      945      875       7,040   3,550    3,490
Yunnan provincial grid             1,568      825      743       7,260   3,930    3,330
Hu-Bao grid                          753        -      753       4,650        -    4,650
Wulumuqi grid                        480       71      409       2,370      180    2,190
Lasa grid                            128       98       30         260      180       80
Hainan Island grid                   151      118       33         500     440        60
Subtotal                        9,533   2,104    7,429      51,880   8,330   43,550
Total                          80,492  20,484   60,008    417,760  78,400  339,360
/a On networks or provincial grid basis (excluding plants not connected to the
system).
Source: MWREP.



ANNEX 3
- 44 -
CHINA
BEILUNGANG THER14AL POWER EXTENSION PROJECT
Performance Indicators /a
1980     1981      1982      1983     1984      1985      1986      1987
Installed capacity (1MW)      2,204    2,254    2,429    2,562    2,714    3,216    3,442    3,821
Peak demand (MW)                  -         -        -         -    1,920    2,150    2,400    2,900
(1,081)  (1,224)  (1,291)  (1,422)  (1,560)  (1,815)  (2,047)  (2,543)
Energy generation plus
purchase (GWh)             9,074    9,811   10,475   11,669   12,904   14,484   16,098   18,510
Energy generation (GWh)       7,764    9,131    8,848   10,755   11,128   12,696   14,279   16,700
Energy supplied (GWh)         8,014    8,669    9,405   10,514   11,683   13,024   14,517   16,750
Energy sales (GWh)            7,106    7,772    8,507    9,497   10,539   11,819   13,048   15,074
Growth in sales (M)            15.9       9.4      9.5      11.6      ii.0     12.1      10.4      15.5
System losses (S) /b          11.33    10.35      9.55      9.67     9.79      9.25    10.12    10.01
(11.11)  (10.24)   (9.09)   (9.38)   (9.18)   (8.42)   (8.22)   (8.15)
Number of consumers        647,258  618,004  747,592  716,309  737,810  794,286  833,315  925,277
Number of employees               -         -   22,365   23,813   27,818   29,969   31,765   33,212
Consumers per employee            -        -      33.4      30.1     26.5      26.5      26.2     27.9
Sales per employee (kWh)          -         -        -         -  379,000  394,400  410,800  453,900
Average coal consumption
(kg of standard coal of
7,000 kCal/kg per kWh)
Provincial basis,
500 kW above             0.442    0.433    0.429    0.408    0.401    0.396    0.391    0.388
ZPEPB grid                (0.440)  (0.429)  (0.425)  (0.403)  (0.397)  (0.384)  (0.381)  (0.378)
/a Based on the province as a whole; figures in the parentheses are for ZPEPR's grid only.
/b Plant use not included.
Source: ZPEPB.



- 4) -
ANNEX 4
Table I
CHINA
BEILUNGANG THERMAL POWER EXTENSION PROJECT
Present Training Capacity Within ECEPA (1986)
(Planned additions are shown in brackets)
Province                                 Jiangsu  Zhejiang       Anhui    Shanghai          Total
For High School Training
No. of workers colleges                     1      1           1           1              4
No. of staff la                          484    124          117         125            850
No. of teaching staff                     232     58          54          54            400
Capacity (trainees admitted p.a.) /c   440    140            120          80            780
For Middle-Level Technicians
No. of institutions                         1      1           1          (1)             3+ (1)
No. of staff /a                             -lb  211         216          12            439
No. of teaching staff                       -    100          91           4            195
Capacity (trainees admitted p.a.)        360    360          240        (160)           960+ (160)/c
For Skilled Workers
No. of institutions                         3      2           2           2 (1)          9+ (1)
No. of staff /a                          469    231          352         301          1,353
No. of teaching staff                     167     74         121         109            471
Capacity (trainees admitted p.a.)        770    320          440        500+ (160)  2,030+ (160)
/a  The number of staff includes the number of teaching staff.
/b The number of staff is not shown because the institute is jointly operated with the Nanjing
Electrical College.
/c  The total number of trainees enrolled is much greater than the annual admission number, but
due to high internal efficiency, the number of graduates, i.e., the output, is almost equal
to the admission number. Hence the capacity is defined here as trainees admitted p.a.
Source: ECEPA, 1986.



- 46 -                       AbutN     4
Table 2
CHINA
BEILUNGANG THERMAL POWER EXTENSICN PROJECT
Estimation of ECEPA Annual Manpower Requirements
(up to 1990)
Province
Level of education                 Jiangsu   Zhejiang   Anhui   Shanghai   Total
High Level
From universities (bachelor
degree and above)                 275      145        150       210        780
From colleges                       275      145        150       210        780
Subtotal                        550       290       300        420    1560
Middle Level
From technical institutes           550      290        300       430      1,570
Skilled Workers
From skilled workers schools    1,770        760        970     1,370      4,870
Others                                                                       3,400
Grand Total                                                             11,400
Assumptions
1.  Installed capacity in 1990                                          20,000 MW
2   Present number of staff                                                162,500
Number of staff, 1990                                                  191,600
Estimated increase                                                      29,100
3.  Attrition rate                                                      2.5% p.a.
Number of staff to be recruited to replace loss
due to attrition                                                      16,300
Total staff to be recruited betw. n 1986 and 1990                           45,400
Total annual demand in each of the four years                               11,400



- 47 -                         ANN4A 4
Table 3
CHINA
BEILUNGANG THERMAL POWER EXTENSION PROJECT
Assumptions on Breakdown of Manpower by
Job and by Level of Education (1986)
By Job
Administrative and technical jobs                                          25Z
Production workers                                                         65%
Within which, skilled workers - 60%                                     (39%)
general workers = 40%                                    (26%)
Other staff                                                                1O0
Total                                                                  100%
By Level of Education
Present number of staff with high and mid-level education               24,300
Present total number of staff                                          162,500
Percentage at present                                                    15%
With annual intake of 3,130 neu recruits with high-
and mid-level education for four years, the number of
staff with above qualifications in 1990 will be 34,400
(with attrition @ 2.5% being taken into account)
Percentage in 1990                                                         18%



- 48 -                        ANNEX 5
Page 1 of 3
CHINA
BEILUNGANG THERMAL POWER EXTENSION PROJECT
Planning, Budget and Control of Chinese Power Bureaus
1.        41JI power bureaus are responsible for developing annual and five-
year production and investment plans which are integrated with the national
plans and are approved, through MWREP's auspices, by SPC. MWREP plays a majo
role in shaping the bureaus' individual plans. MWREP in conjunction with
regional administrations, uses past operating results received from all the
bureaus to compile the quantities and related prices to be used by the bureaus
in developing their operating plans. The investment plans are developed on a
project by project basis using estimates of quantities and prices of inputs
included in feasibility studies prepared by the regional design institutes;
however, the investment plans do not take account of the movement of prices
after completion of final design. Thus, in the planning process, the bureaus
themselves do not make a direct linkage between their projected costs and
their realized costs. The bureaus' operating plans do include monitoring
indicators; and variance analyses are conducted to compare quantities actually
produced or consumed with plan targets. Because the bureaus themselves do not
link their plan targets directly to realized financial performance, the
variance analyses have limited usefulness as measures of the efficiency of
their operations or the cost effectiveness of their investment programs.
Still, within the environment of a centrally planned economy where large
grants have been used to finance significant portions of investment and prices
have been maintained at stable levels, this approach to planning has served
reasonably well.
2.        Until 1980, all funds required for implementation of the annual
construction plans were provided through grants allocated from the State
budget. The State also provided minor amounts of finance to cover liquidity
requirements through an account entitled Working Capital Funds. Under China's
economic reform program which began about 1978, major changes have been intro-
duced to encourage the economic use of the Government's limited resources.
Funds for major new investments are now being provided in the form of loans
from the People's Construction Bank of China. These loans are made only after
projects have been reviewed extensively and cost estimates have been
approved. In addition to construction loans, now bearing an annual interest
rate of about 3.6%, funds are provided for liquidity by way of non-repayable
government contributions, which carry annual finance charges of 3%. The
construction loans are scheduled for repayment over 15 years after completion
of the work.
3.        Through 1984, the prices the power bureaus have been paying for the
constituents of operating and investment costs have been controlled, mostly at
constant levels. However, the Government has announced that it is relaxing
some controls over the pricing system so that, slowly, prices will move toward
market levels. In coming years, with the power bureaus continuing to expand
their operations rapidly and costs increasingly becoming variable, actual cost



- 49 -                        ANNEX 5
Page 2 of 3
data used together with projections of (a) productivity improvements;
(b) future price movements; and (b) interest rates, will become more important
as the basis for planning and budgeting. Moreover, as the cost of
inefficiency will certainly increase, management will need to enhance ics
ability to evaluat'  and control more closely the operations of individual cost
centers.
4.        The Chinese system of planning and budgeting does not include
provision for long term financial planning. In connection with the Lubuge
Hydroelectric Project (Loan 2382-CHA), the Bank furnished MWREP with a finan-
cial forecasting model to enable the power bureaus to study the impact of both
their expansion plans and variations in prices on their future financial posi-
tions. Under all subsequent Bank-financed power projects, assurances have
been obtained that, by December 31 of each year commencing in the year
following loan signing, the beneficiary power bureau will furnish to the Bank
a financial plan containing forecast income statements, sources and uses of
funds, and balance sheets for the next five years. So far, only the Yunnan
and Jiangsu Power Bureaus have been required to furnish such rolling plans.
5.        MWREP recognizes that it needs to modernize the financial and
management procedures being followed by the power bureaus. It has authorized
numerous power bureaus to acquire microprocessors to be used for financial,
planning, and administrative purposes. Additionally, it has developed some
software aimed at enabling the bureaus to produce computerized standard
reports regularly. For their part, most power bureaus with which the Bank is
dealing have already computerized some of their personnel, payroll, and
administrative records and are adapting software to computerize materials
management, system planning, and production management. Once the bureaus
complete computerization of these records, they will all be expected to
furnish monthly reports to MWREP on diskettes rather than on laper. Most of
the Bank financed projects have included a provision under which the benefi-
ciary power bureaus could obtain additional microprocessors and both they and
MWREP can obtain the software support needed to facilitate implementation of
this first generation of computerized reporting.
6.        The first generation of computerized reporting should enable MWREP,
as well as the power bureaus themselves, to process, compile, consolidate and
retain far more information more rapidly than before. However, the approaches
to systemization made to date have been designed almost exclusively to satisfy
MWREP's reporting requirements. rhe software thus far developed anticipates
neither a more active role for the power bureaus nor a broader use of data by
bureau management. Moreover, the systems under development would still
neither include rudimentary financial planning nor enable the necessary direct
linkages between realized performance and planning forecasts. Thus, while the
systems under development represent substantial progress over the reporting
systems currently in use, a second generation of reporting systems will
inevitably be needed to accommodate changes already in progress in the
managerial environment. In the context of appraisal of the Yantan Hydroelec-
tric Project (Loan 2707-CHA), the Bank retained a consultant to assess the
processes of data accumulation and compilation in several power bureaus, as
well as the manner in which data is used by MWREP and those bureaus. His
findings confirm that the systems which are currently under development are



- 50 -                        ANN.X 
Page 3 of 3
adequate and appropriate to the existing environment but are not sufficiently
flexible to adapt to expected future trends. However, MWREP has doubts about
the extent and substance of these anticipated changes and prefers to be
cautious about making further adjustments to reporting procedures in the near
to intermediate term future.
7.        In considering modernization of financial and management practices,
the Government is taking the initiative in adapting modern methodology for use
in the Chinese environment. However, given the additional adjustments that
will most likely become necessary within a few years, the Government would
benefit from greater exposure to state of the art hard and soft technology and
greater understanding of the internal disruptions encountered by organizations
that have already modernized their management systems. Under the Yantan
Hydroelectric Project (Loan 2707-CHA), the Shuikou Hydroelectric Project
(Loan 2775-CHA) and the Wujing Thermal Power Project (Loan 2852-CHA), the
Government will obtain training in up-to-date financial management and
planning and utility accounting practices. Study tours are included in those
projects, so that senior officials of relevant governmental units can visit
utilities and service organizations in other countries which have been
carefully selected because of their appropriate experiences in introducing
modern managerial techniques. MWREP will design the study tours, with the
assistance of consultants where necessary and appropriate.



ANNEX 6
CHINA
BEILUNGANG THERMAL POWER EXTENSION PROJECT
Electricity Tariffs of ZPEPB (1987)
Tariff category                                            Rate          Unit
Lighting (residential/commercial/small industries)
Up to 1 kV                                               15.30       Fen/kWh
Over 1 kV                                                14.50       Fen/kWh
Average                                                  15.25       Fen/kWh
Commercial and Small Industrial (up to 320 kVA) /a
Up to 1 kV                                                9.27       Fen/kWh
1-10 kV                                                   9.29       Fen/kWh
Above 35 kV                                               8.89       Fen/kWh
Average                                                   9.25       Fen/kWh
Large Industrial (above 320 kVA)
Energy charge
1-10 kV                                                 5.80       Fen/kWh
Above 35 kV                                             5.50       Fen/kWh
Capacity charge (per month) /b
Based on peak de&..'                                    6.00       Yuan/kW
Based on installed capacity                             4.00       Yuan/kVA
Average                                                   7.67       Fen/kWh
Agriculture /c
Up to 1 kV                                                7.95       Fen/kWh
10 kV                                                     7.40       Fen/kWh
Above 35 kV                                               6.00       Fen/kWh
Irrigation pumping                                        4.60       Fen/kWh
Average                                                   7.41       Fen/kWh
Bulk Supply (to rural villages)
10 kV                                                     6.91       Fen/kWh
Above 35 kV                                               6.70       Fen/kWh
Average                                                   6.83       Fen/kWh
Bulk Purchase (from self-generators)                        5.00       Fen/kWh
Internetwork Transfer                                       4.50       Fen/kWh
Overall Average                                        8.50       Fen/kWh
/a  This tariff is applied to productive uses.  Lighting consumption by com-
mercial and small industrial customers is billed at the lighting rate.
/b  Choice of two rates based on availability of demand meters.
7T  Applies only to activities related to agricultural production (e.g.,
drainage and irrigation), not to rural industries or rural residential
consumption.



-52 -
BBILONGANG ThIL  POWlER EMENSION PROJECT
Wajor Generating Facilities of the East Chla8 Region (1987)
Installed
capacity
(NW)                           Unit and year of commissioning
Jiansu Povice
Jtanpiug Thrmai              385.0       2 x 25 (1960), 50 (1967), 50 (1971), 110 (1974), 125 (1975)
Jianbi Thermal           1,625.0       25 (1965), 2 x 50 (1966), 2 x I0 (1970), 100 (1973), 300 (1980),
300 (1983), 300 (1986), 300 (1987)
Xuthou thermal           1,100.0       125 (1977), 125 (1978), 2 x 125 (1979), 2 x 200 (1985), 200 (1986),
200 (1987)
Others                   2,177,0
Subtotal             5.487.0
linjiang Prov,ince         662.5       2 x 72.5 (1960), 72.5 (1961), 72.5 (1964) 75 (1965), 75 (1967),
72.5 (1968), 75 (1975), 75 (1978)
FuCunjiBag Hydro           297.2       57.2 (1968), 60 (1972), 60 (1973), 60 (1976), 60 (1977)
Wuxtjiang Rydro            170.0       2 x 42.5 (1979), 2 x 42.5 (1980)
Sinahuttan IRyro           200.0       4 x 50 (1987)
Zhenbal Thermal            650.0       125 (1978), 125 (1979), 200 (1985), 200 (1986)
Taisbou Thea1l             500.0       125 (1982), 125 (1983), 2 x 125 (1985)
San Shan Thermal           237.0       12 (1960), 50 (1976), 50 (1977), 125 (1984)
Othera                     979.3
Subtotal             3,821.0
Anhui Province
liainan Thermal            601.0       3 x 6 (1956), 6 (1957), 25 (1959), 2 x 25 (1960), 12 (1960),
2 x 120 (1972), 125 (1975), 125 (1977)
HEiatbei Thermal           750.0       2 a 50 (1973), 125 (1977), 125 (1978), 200 (1981), 200 (1982)
Chencun Hydro              150.0       50 (1970), 50 (1972), 50 (1975)
Luohe Thermal              600.0       300 (1985), 300 (1986)
Others                     817.0
Subtotal             2,918.0
Sha9nhati )(tucipality
Ilangting Therial -        800.0       4 x 22 (1958), 2 x 6 (1958), 4 a 25 (1959), 300 (1974), 300 (1976)
Zhabel Thermal             464.6       2 x 10 (1930), 3.6 (1935), 12.5 (1937), 6.5 (1952), 22 (1956),
25 (1958), 25 (1959), 50 (1960), 50 (1966), 125 (1974), 125 (1975)
Vujing Thermal             350.0       2 x 25 (1959), 50 (1961), 100 (1966), 125 (1969), 25 (1975)
Kinlgsilng Therml          818.0       2 x 6 (1959), 2 x 12 (1959), 25 (1960), 25 (1961), 12 (1968),
2 x 110 (1972), 125 (1979), 125 (1980), 125 (1985), 125 (1986)
Jinasban Thermal           251.5       2 x 25 (1966), 2 x 50 (1975), 2 x 50 (1976), 1.5 (1981)
BUoshan Steel 1K111        700.0       350 (1982), 350 (1983)
Othere                     811.9
Subtocal             4,196.0
Total               16,422.0
Source: ECgPA.



- 53                               ANNEX 8
CHINA
BEILUNGANG THERMAL POWER EXTENSION PROJECT
Installed Capacity, Energy Generation and Purchased, Energy Supplied
and Sales of Zhejiang Province
Installed      Energy generation        Energy        Energy
capacity         and purchased         supplied       sales
Year                   (MW)                (GWh)              (GWh)        (GWh)
1962                    440.0              1,011                893           745
1965                    602.0              1,744              1,588         1,404
1970                    916.0             3,117               2,673         2,271
1971                    929.0 *           3,892               3,271         2,724
1972                  1,036.0             4,272               3,681         3,114
1973                  1,146.0             4,777               4,128         3,519
1974                 1,187.0              4,280               3,855         3,191
1975                  1,281.0             4,509               3,948         3,226
1976                 1,385.0              4,889               4,351         3,596
1977                  1,533.0             6,006               5,417         4,603
1978                  1,828.0             7,176               6,333         5,412
1979                 2,076.0              8,014               7,043         6,129
1980                 2,204.0              9,074               8,014         7,106
1981                 2,254.0              9,811               8,669         7,772
1982                 2,429.0             10,475               9,405         8,507
1983                 2,562.0             11,669              10,514         9,497
1984                  2,714.3             12,904             11,683        10,539
1985                 3,216.4             14,434              13,024        11,819
1986                 3,442.1              16,098             14,517        13,048
1987                 3,821.2              18,510             16,750        15,074
Average growth
rate (% p.a.)
Source: ZPEPB.



ANNEX 9
CHINA
BEILUNGANG THERMAL POWER EXTENSION PROJECT
Energy Consumption by Categories of Consumers /a
1981           1982           1983            1984             1985            1986             1987
Consumers            GWh      %      GWh     %      GWh       %     GWh       %      GWh      X      GWh             GWh       X
Municipal              508    6.0    572    6.3       645    6.4      761    6.9       948    7.6   1,100    8.0   1,341    8.5
Industrial
Heavy                 -      -   4,435   49.0   4,715   46.9   4,953   44.6   5,147   41.3   5,506   40.1   5,923   37.5
Light                 -      -   1,732   19.1   1,999   19.9   2,206   19.9   2,466   19.8   2,757   20.1   3,219   20.4
Subtotal       5 808   69.5  6.167   68.1   6,714   66.8   7.159   64.5   7,612   61.1   8,263   60.2   9,142   57.9
Rural               2,006   24.0  2,288   25.2   2,645   26.2   3,135   28.2   3,841   30.8   4,319   31.4   5,242   33.2
Transportation          34    0.5      34    0.4       43    0.6        44    0.4       53    0.4       57    0.4        61    0.4
Total          81356   00.0  9.061  100.0  10,047  100.0  11.099  100.0  12,456  100.0  13,739  100.0  15.791  100.0
/a  Including consumption of self-generation (consumer-owned) plants greater than 500 kW in capacity.
Source: ZPEPB.



- 55 -                                ANNEX 10
CHINA
BEILUNGANG THERMAL POWER EXTENSION PROJECT
The Power Development Program (1987-95)
Installed           Unit
capacity   No. of  size                       Scheduled commis-
Name of plant                    (MW)     units   (MW)   Present status        sioning date
Zhenhai thermal (coal)             400       2      200  No. 5 & 6 under  1989
construction
Taizhou thermal (coal)             250        2      125  No. 5 & 6 under  1987, 88
construction
Beilungang thermal (coal)        1,200       4      600  No. 1 under         1990, 92, 94, 95
construction
Wenzhou thermal (coal)             550        3    2x125 No. 1 & 2 under  1990, 91, 94
1x300   construction
Changxing thermal (coal)           550        3    2x125 Planned             1991, 92, 95
1x300
Xiaoshan thermal (coal)            250        2      125  Planned            1991, 92
Jiaxing thermal (coal)           1,200        2      600  Planned            1992, 93
Jinshuitan hydro                   300        6       50  Under construc-  1987(4), 88(2)
tion
Shihtang hydro                      78       3       26  Under construc-  1988, 89(2)
tion
Wuxijiang hydro extension          100        1      100  Planned            1991
Huangtankou hydro extension         50        1       50  Planned            1992
Source: ZPEPB.



ANNEX 11
CHINA
BEILUNGANG THERMAL POWER EXTENSION PROJECT
ZPEPB's System Demand and Energy Balance
Item                                     Unit   1987    1988    1989    1990    1991    1992    1993    1994    1995                        Remarks
1.  Peak demand                         MW      2,900   3,200   3,500   3,850   4,250   4,700   5,200   5,800   6,400
2.  Energy required                     GWh   18,500  20,400  22,500  24,800  27,300  30,000  33,000  36,100  39,800
3.  Installed capacity                  NW      3,821   4,072   4,548   5,573   6,648   7,501   7,981   8,881   9,781  After deducting retired units
Thermal                           MW     2,056   2,181   2,581   3,306   4 281   5,084   5,564   6,464   7,364
Hydro                             MW      1,765   1,891   1,967   1,967   2,067   2,117   2,117   2,117   2,117
Nuclear                           NW          -       -        -     300      300     300      300     300      300  Located at Qinshan
4.  Maximum generating capacity         MW      3,717   3,821   4,072   4,548   5,573   6,648   7,501   7,981   8,881  Not including units completed towards
5.  Additional retired capacity         NW          -       -        -       -        -       50     170      170      170the end of the year
6.  Derated capacity                    NW        337      370     370      380     410      430     440      450     460
7.  Peaking capacity allocated to       MW        480     480      480     480      480      480     480      480     480
ECEPA                                                                                                                                                           £
8.  Dependable capacity                 MW      2,900   2,971   3,222   3,688  .4,683   5,738   6,581   7,051   7,941  (8) = (4) - (5) - (7)
9.  Capacity balance                    Mw          -    -229    -278    -162    +433  +1,038  +1,381  +1,251  +1,541  (9) = (8) - (1)
10.  Generation in average hydro year  GWh   16,300  16,900  17,500  19,200  23,000  27,500  33,820  36,100  40,300
11.  Generation in dry hydro year        GWh         -  16,400  17,000  18,700  22,500  27,000  33,320  35,600  39,800
12.  Energy purchased                    GWh    1,700   1,800   1,800   1,800   1,300   1,300         400      200     200
From ECPS                         GWh    1,500   1,600   1,600   1,600   1,100   1,100         200        0       0
From small hydro                  GWh       200     200      200     200      200     200      200      200     200  For interconnected hydro units less
than 500 kW
13.  Energy balance in average hydro   GWh           -  -1,300  -2,900  -3,800  -3,000  -1,200  +1,230    +200    +700  (13) - 00) + (12) - (2)
year
14.  Energy balance in dry hydro year  GWh           C  -1,800  -3,400  -4,300  -3,500  -1,700    +720    -300    +200  (14) = (11) + (12) - (2)
15.  Reserve capacity                    KW          -        -       -        -     392      997   1,340   1,210   1,500
16.  Reserve margin                      X           -       -        -        -    9.22   21.21   25.77   20.86   23.44
Source: ZPEPB.



- 57 -                           ANNEX 12
CHINA
BEILUNGANG THERMAL POWER EXTENSION PROJECT
Ongoing Major Thermal Power Projects by External Financing
Under the Seventh Five-Year Plan
Installed   Year of                               Loan
capacity    commis-                              amount
(Unit x MW)  sioning  Source of finance          (USS mln)
East China
Nanton Thermal         2 x 350      1989    USA-GE, supplier's             180
credit
Shedongkon Thermal    2 x 600       1992    USA, Franca, Japan,            350
supplier's credit
Fuzhou                 2 x 350      1989    Japan, supplier's credit       180
Beilungang #1          1 x 600      1990    World Bank                     230
North China
Tienjin Beidagang      2 x 320      1991    Italy, government con-         200
Thermal                                     cess'onal loan and
supplior's credit
Shunan Thermal         2 x 350      1989    Canada, USA-GE, suppli-        180
er's crelit
Northeast China
Dalian Thermal         2 x 350      1989    Japan-Mitsubishi, sup-         180
plier's credit
Central China
Yueyang Thermal        2 x 360      1990    UK, 1/2 government con-        190
cessional loans + 1/2
supplier's credit
South China
Guangdong Shajiao      2 x 350      1987    Japan-Mitsubihsi, sup-         230
Thermal                                     plier's credit
Southwest China
Chongqing Lohuang      2 x 350      1990    UK, France/Japan, 1/2          250
Thermal                                     government concession-
al loan + 1/2 sup-
plier's credit
Total                 9,300                                          2,170



- 58 -
ANNEX 13
Page 1 of 4
CHINA
BEILUNCANG THERMAL POWER EXTENSION PROJECT
Terms of Reference fo" a Study on ZPEPB's Reorganization
and Management Improvement
Background
1.        The Zhejiang Provincial Electric Power 3ureau (ZPEPB) is a state-
owned enterprise under the direction of the East China Electric Power
Administration. It is a legal entity with corcractual and self-accounting
capacity, and is assigned responsibility by the State for executing within its
jurisdiction the state program for power generation, capital investment, power
sales and tariffs, employment and payroll, materials consumption, and remit-
tance of tax profits to the State. ZPEPB is headed by a director who is
appointed by MWREP. Five deputy directors and a chief accountant are func-
tionally responsible to him for, respectively, capital construction; power
supply, services and raral electrification; technical matters and safety;
hydroelectric power; labor, personnel and education; and finance. Operations
are carried out through a number of units engaged in power generation,
distribution, construction, and repair. Each of these units is headed by a
dircetor with line responsibility to the director of ZPEPB.
2.        In 1987, ZPEPB had a total installed capacity of 3,821 MW and sales
of about 15,000 GWh. ZPEPB had about 33,000 employees serving approximately
925,000 customers, giving a consumer/employee ratio of 28:1.
3.        GOC is determined to carrying out the institutional reform of power
utilities in China and plans to use ZPEPB as one of the first test cases for a
more decentralized and autonomous structure. To facilitate this transition,
ZPEPB will need to carry out a study on its organization and improvement of
management performance. This study will be included under the proposed
project.
4.        The principal objectives of the organizational, financial and
management study of ZPEPB are twofold:
(a)  To strengthen managerial autonomy and accountability, to develop
proposals for changes in ZPEPB's organization, institutional rela-
tionship with regional power authorities and central government
authorities, and policy environment in order to establish ZPEPB as a
more autonomous unit with full profit and loss responsibility. This
program should be in line with, and explore to the maximum, the
benefit of the new Enterprise Law expected to be passed by the
Seventh National People's Congress in March i988. If successfully
implemented, this program could serve as a model case to be followed
later in other provinces; and



- 59 -
ANNEX 13
Page 2 of 4
(b) To introduce modern organizational practices, long- and short-term
planning and operational control systems and procedures, and more
specifically to enable ZPEPB to:
(i) Develop a set of goals and priorities to serve as a framework
for evaluating ZPEPB's performance;
(ii) Review and evaluate ZPEPB's performance;
(iii) Develop proposals for changing ZPEPB's organization to improve
its operational performance; and
(iv) Establish an effective corporate planning system including, but
not limited to, long- and short-term investment and financial
planning, operational planning and control, and resource
management.
Wherever possible, the study should draw comparisons between the changes being
recommended for ZPEPB and successful practices adopted by power utilities in
other countries.
Scope of Work
5.        The work will encompass all the activities of ZPEPB which focus on
the core functions of power generation and transmission and distribution in
Zhejiang province, inter alia:
(a) Analysis (Phase 1)
(i) Review previous institutional, financial and management studies
of ZPEPB;
(ii) Investigate all legislative and other general rules and regula-
tions pertaining to ZPEPB for transforming it into a more auto-
nomous an accountable company and determine ZPEPB's priorities
and the level of autonomy it is granted in pursuing these
objectives;
(iii)  Undertake a review of all aspects of ZPEPB's organization and
its financial and management practices;
(iv)  Review and evaluate ZPEPB's past performance, focusing on
widely used performance criteria;
(v) Review and examine the existing information system within and
among different departments/units, and identify constraints to
the effective dissemination of information;
(vi) Review the existing corporate planning system.



- 60 -
ANNEX 13
Page 3 of 4
(b) End Products (Phase 2)
Managerial Autonomy and Accountability
(i) Clarify the roles and responsibilities of ZPEPB, especially on
issues such as investment, finance, pricing, employment and
procurement;
(ii) Recommend appropriate policies for capital structure in view of
ZPEPB's future ability to borrow in financial markets;
(iii) Recommend possible types of corporate form and ownership;
(iv) Recommend ways/mechanism for governing ZPEPB;
Modern Management Organizations, System and Procedures
(v) Recommend improvements and changes in the performance evalua-
tion indicators and in the monitoring procedures to be used by
the management and by the regulatory bodies;
(vi) Recommend improvements in its organization, structure, manage-
ment system/procedures, corporate planning, delegation of
authority, role clarity and management effectiveness, incentive
system, recruitment and promotion policies, etc., to improve
ZPEPB's performance, promote its efficiency, and help it to
develop more autonomy;
(vii) Recommend a more efficient long- and short-term corporate plan-
ning system for ZPEPB that would incorporate investment, man-
power, financial resources and materials, etc. into an overall
scheme to guide the planning and its implementation for all
departments and units concerned;
(viii) Recommend a MIS system suitable for ZPEPB in view of the above
(vii);
(ix) Recommend an implementation schedule and a staff training
program to assist in this implementation.
Method of Implementation
6.        ZPEPB will carry out the tasks stated in (a) and (b) of para. 5 by
establishing a Task Force of Chinese experts including management, technical
and financial staff. Foreign experts will be consulted, when necessary.
7.        When necessary, members of the Task Force and other Chinese experts
will visit power utilities in selected foreign countries to evaluate their
performance monitoring and regulatory systems.
8.        ZPEPB should engage a foreign consultant to advise it on up-to-date
MIS concepts and systems and to assist thie Task Force in reviewing and asses-
sing the existing information system. Chinese and foreign experts should work



- 01 -
ANNEX 13
Page 4 of 4
together to recommend a MIS system suitable for ZPEPB in accordance with
(b) (viii) of para 5. The foreign consultant will assist ZPEPB in preparing
procurement spe^ifications, as necessary.
9.        Bank assistance, if necessary, will be available to ZPEPB staff,
particularly for carrying out the tasks stated in subparas. (a) and (b) of
para. 5. This assistance will cover primarily introducing the Bank's experi-
ence in other countries on: (i) identifying useful indicators for staffing
and operational performance; (ii) developing the performance indicator data
base and reporting requirements; (iii) identifying possible tasks for improv-
ing cost-effectivenss and developing action plans to achieve them; and
(iv) developing reporting documents to monitor the cost-effective improvement
plans and provide management with information needed to manage the utility's
operations. If necessary, the Bank will assist ZPEPB in organizing an initial
briefing seminar and training for the members of the Task Force.
Timetable
10.       It is envisaged that the study will begin during the first half of
1988 and take about two years to cemplete. The implementation schedule is as
follows:
Completion Date
(a) Consultation with a foreign
utility on utility management
and establishment of the Task Force       December 31, 1988
(b) Initial briefing seminar and
training for members of the
Task Force                                August 31, 1989
(c) Completion of Phase 1 and the
first report on (a) of para. 5            May 31, 1990
(d) The second report on
(b)(v)-(viii) of para. 5                  January 31, 1991
(e)  Completion of Phase 2 and the
third report on (b)(i)-(iv)
and (ix) of para. 5                       September 30, 1991
(f)  Comprehensive final report                December 31, 1991



- 62 -
ANNEX 14
Page I of 5
CHINA
BRILUNCANG THERMAL POWER EXTENSION PROJECT
Work Plan for a Study of Distribution Network Improvement and
Expansion for the Cities of Hangzhou and Ningbo
Background
1.        Hangzhou is the capital city of the Zhejiang Province and represents
its political, cultural, commercial and industrial center. The total
population of the metropolitan city of Hangzhou is about 1,285,000. Its
present capacity demand is about 335.4 MW, and about 2,840 CWh of energy
actually is consumed each year. The existing subtransmission and distribution
network comprises about (a) 35 km of 220 kV lines, one 2201110 kV substation
aggregating 120 MVA; (b) 114 km of 110 kV overhead lines and seven 110 kV
substations aggregating 419 MVA; (c) 240 km of 35 kV lines, and 874 km of 10
kV primary distribution lines; and (d) 630.7 km of 380/220 V secondary
distribution lines. Hangzhou has some underground cables, about 3 x 3.23 km
of 110 kV and 62 km of 10 kV cables.
2.        Ningbo is one of the five sea ports that were opened for interna-
tional trade towards the end of the Chin Dynasty.  It is one of the major
ports being developed by the Chinese government for export-oriented industry
and trade. Its total population is about 527,0oo. The present demand for
electricity in Ningbo is about 190 MW, and annual energy consumption is about
1,660 GWh. Electricity demand and energy consumption have been growing at an
annual rate of 10.O and 10.8%, respectively, during the Sixth Five Year
Plan. The existing subtransmission and distribution network comprises about
(a) 230 km of 220 kV lines, one 220/110 kV substation aggregating 240 MVA;
(b) 103 km of 110 kV overhead lines, and seven 110 kV substations aggregating
329 MVA; (c) 53 km of 35 kV, 468 km of 10 kV primary distribution lines and
496 km of 380/220 V secondary distribution lines. Ningbo has few underground
cables.
3.        The existing distribution network for these two cities is old, over-
crowded, and beset with problems. It is in urgent need of improvement and
extension. To meet the planned development of these two cities in the future,
a modern, reliable distribution network is needed.
Objectives
4.        The main objectives of the study are to:
(a) develop an improvement and expansion plan for the distribution
network up to the year 2010;
(b) recommend short-term (5 years), medium-term (10 years) and long-term
(20 years) improvements to the existing distribution network;
(c) transfer modern technology in distribution system planning, design,
construction, operation and maintenance;



ANNEX 14
Page 2 of 5
(d) develop in-house capabilities in distribution system planning and
design, using modern techniques which include computerization; and
(e)  identify training needs, tools (hardware/software) and staffing
requirements for the growing distribution system up to the year
2010, in the areas of planning, design, construction, operation and
maintenance and management.
Scope of Work
5.   General:  The study will cover the cities of Hangzhou and Ningbo with
their industrial zones and will extend to the existing and planned
satellite townships surrounding them. The study will address the
subtransmission and distribution system starting at the level of 220 kV
and extending down to the secondary distribution voltage of 380/220 V,
encompassing urban, suburban, and rural networks.
Phase I (Approximate duration six months)
Review of the Existing Network Problems and Limitations
(a) Study the limitations and major problems associated with the
existing and future network (such as right-of-way and land
availability) and outline remedial measures, indicating phases of
implementation. This may be done on a sampling basis.
(b)  Undertake a critical review of the existing planning and design
capability of ZPEPB's organization, identify training and
development needs, and suggest the most appropriate planning and
design methodology and associated tools (hardware and software) for
future work.
Load Forecast
(c) Prepare a load forecast (demand and energy) up to the year 2010 for
the area and sector, taking into consideration, inter alia: (i) the
historical pattern of load growth in various sectors and the
suppressed demand; (ii) ongoing, medium- and long-term sectoral
development plans and policies; (iii) zoning of urban, suburban, and
rural areas for industrial, commercial and domestic development and
the corresponding norms for load densities. Modern techniques will
be adopted in formulating the load forecast and alternative demand
scenarios will be projected. Demand elasticities will be assessed
in relation to GDP, income and tariff levels.
Network Development Plans
(d) To meet the projected growth in load, prepare overall network
development plans up to the year 2010 covering, inter alia:
(i) optimum choice of EHV, HV and MV voltages; (ii) location and
sizing of EHV and HV substation feeding points; (iii) network



- b4 -
ANNEX 14
Page 3 of 5
configurations for specific reliability criteria; (iv) major
technical parameters such as maximum fault levels, type of earthing,
and phasing of supplies. The network development plans will take
into consideration the limitations of the existing network and the
feasibility of converting it to the proposed system. Alternative
network development plans will be presented with corresponding cost
(capital, operation and outage), reliability, and maintenance
implications.
(e) Prepare the Phase 1 report, including,necessary drawings, charts,
etc. detailing the findings of the above analysis and making
positive recommendations for discussion with ZPEPB and the World
Bank, before embarking on Phase 2.
Phase 2 (Approximate duration twelve months)
(a) Refine the load forecasts prepared in Phase 1 and establish
alternatives for developing the expansion plan. Provide necessary
software and train ZPEPB's personnel in the techniques of load
forecasting. Conduct selective sample surveys to establish the
electricity use patterns of domestic consumers in urban, suburban,
and rural areas.
(b) Firm up overall network development plan, building in adequate
flexibility for change. Provide necessary software and train
ZPEPB's personnel in the planning and design techniques for
independent work in the future. Network development at the MV and
LV levels may be done on a sample basis covering typical areas and
load densities. Prepare relevant cost estimates and implementation
phases, separately detailing improvements to the existing network
and its subsequent growth.
(c) Demonstrate the actual improvements proposed for the existing
network, by actually implementing them on a sample portion of the
network.
(d) Lay down criteria for detailed design of feeders, substations etc.,
considering factors such as voltage regulation, protection, reactive
compensation, grounding, harmonics, etc. Prepare a design manual.
(e) Review standards and practices for ZPEPB's equipment and
construction and provide models which would result in overall
economy consistent with reliability. Develop standard designs for
substations (overhead/underground) for future application. Provide
construction manual.
(f) Introduce modern techniques for evaluating and measuring
distribution system losses. Assess losses in the existing network
through desk studies and actual measurement. Particular attention
will be given to rural systems where power ii. sold in bulk and
distribution is undertaken by rural authorities. Suggest ways to
reduce losses, bringing out their economic implications. This study



- 65 -
ANNEX 14
Page 4 of 5
should cover typical urban, suburban and rural areas, including
distribution undertaken by rural authorities.
(g) Review ZPEPB's operation and maintenance (O&M) practices and suggest
improvements for more cost-effective practices. Identify training
and staffing needs for O&M personnel.
(h) Identify need for Regionai Distribution Control Centers, and provide
guidelines for their implementation. Recommend communication
systems for effective operation and control.
(i) Review management practices for the distribution system and suggest
models for meeting the increasing volume of work. The review will
cover management structure, responsibilities, management information
system, central and regional divisions and their responsibilities,
stores and inventory control, and classification and management of
consumers.
(j) Provide a draft report for review by ZPEPB and the Bank and later
furnish a final report taking their comments into consideration.
Method of Approach
(a) The study will be carried out by the planning staff of the power
supply bureaus of the cities of Hangzhou and Ningbo under the
overall guidance of ZPEPB.
(b) Training of staff assigned to the study will be carried out in
association with the Master Plan Study for Distribution Network in
Shanghai being planned under the Wujing Thermal Power Project by the
Shanghai Municipal Electric Power Bureau (SMEPB). The training will
be accomplished through: (i) on-the-job training and technology
transfer by working with the consultant retained by SMEPB for the
Master Plan Study; and (ii) overseas training to be arranged by the
consultants and SMEPB staff.
(c) Other consultants and experts not mentioned under IV (v) may be
retained as necessary for specific problems.
(d) Tools for measurement of distribution losses, and hardware and
software needed for the study may be procured under the Bank loan.



UV
ANNEX 14
Page 5 of 5
SCHEDULE OF STUDY
ON
DISTRIBUTION NETWORK IMPROVEMENT AND EXTENSION
FOR HANCZHOU AND NINGBO
Item                                Date of Completion
1.   Select consulting firm with SMEPB        December 31, 1988
2.   Complete the study of Phase 1             June 30, 1989
3.   Discuss the interim report with
the World Bank                           August 31, 1989
4.   Complete the study of Phase 2             June 30, 1990
5.   Discuss the final report with
the World Bank                           December 31, 1990



- 67 -                          ANNEX 15
CHINA
BEILUNGANG THERMAL POWER EXTENSION PROJECT
Project Cost Estimate
(US$ million)
Item                                     Local cost       Foreign cost       Total
Power Plant (I)
Site preparation                                     -                        -
Pile & foundation                          6.7                -              6.7
Civil construction                        19.7                -             19.7
Boiler                                     4.3              69.0            73.3
Turbine-generator                          2.5              66.0            68.5
Coal conveying system                      0.1               0.6             0.7
Ash disposal system                        0.8               7.5             8.3
Water supply system                        0.4                -              0.4
Electrical equipment                       1.1               5.0             6.1
Instrument & control system                1.0               8.0             9.0
Construction & office equip& nt            2.2                -              2.2
Training                                   1.2                -              1.2
Distribution network study                 0.5               0.4             0.9
Technical assistance for
institutional building                   0.5               0.5             1.0
Consulting services                        1.1               2.3             3.4
Supervision                                8.1                -              8.1
Base Cost                              50.2             159.3          209.5
Physical contingency                       5.0               5.7            10.7
Subtotal                               55.2             165.0           220.2
Associated Transmission (II)
Base cost                                 18.8/a              -             18.8
Physical contingency                       2.0                -              2.0
Subtotal                               20.8                -             20.8
Price Contingency (I + II)                   6.9              13.0            19.9
Total Project Cost                     82.9             178.0           260.9
Interest During Construction
IBRD loan                                   -               21.7            21.7
Local loan                                 7.1                -              7.1
Total Financing Required               90.0             199.7           289.7
/a Including Y 1.6 million for resettlement.



- 68 -
ANNEX 16
CHINA
BEILUNGANC THERMAL POWER EXTENSION PROJECT
Key Dates of Project Implementation
A. Procurement of Major Plant Equipment
Revision of bidding documents                      December 31, 1987
Review by IBRD                                     January 31, 1988
Issue of bidding documents                         February 13, 1988
Bid opening                                        April 25, 1988
Latest date of bid evaluation and award            July 31, 1988
Contract negotiations and signing                  September 15, 1988
B. Project Implementation
Start foundation piling                            January 1, 1989
Start foundation excavation                        May 1, 1989
Start steel structure erection
Boiler                                        October 1, 1989
T-C building                                  November 1, 1989
Lifting of boiler drum                             Januavy 1, 1990
Oil flushing of T-C                                Septe'mber 1, 1990
Hydraulic test of boiler                           March 1, 1991
Acid cleaning of boiler                            October 15, 1991
Blow-out of boiler                                 December 15, 1991
Test-run of the unit                               February 28, 1992
Co _ rcial operation                               May 31, 1992
Project completion                                 June 30, 1992



- 69 -                             ANNEX 17
CHINA
BEILUNGANG THERMAL POWER EXTENSION PROJECT
Disbursement Schedule
Bank fiscal                                                                 Bank /a
year and           Semester           Cumulative          Project          profile
semester                   (US$ million) --               --   (X)
1988
First                                                                        1.0
Second                                                                      6.0
1989
First               13.0                13.0                7.9            12.0
Second              12.0                25.0               15.0            19.0
1990
First               36.8                61.8               37.5            27.0
Second              38.7               100,.5              61.0            37.0
1991
First               25.3               125.8               76.2            46.0
Second              14.3               140.1               84.9            56.0
1992
First                9.6               149.7               90.7            65.0
Second               1.3               151.0               91.5            73.0
1993
First               10.0               161.0               97.5            81.0
Second               4.0               165.0              100.0            86.0
/a  Bankwide disbursement profile for thermal power plants issued on
October 3, 1985.



AN-EX 18
CHINA
BEILUNGANG THERMAL POWER EXTENSION PROJECT
Air Quality Analysis
Chinese     World                 Efficiency of           Number of 600 MW
national     Bank     Background  electrostatic        units to be installed
Pollutant                 standards  guidelines    level      precipitators      1            2            4
(%)
Dust
Ground-level soncen-
tration (mg/m )
One-year average         0.10        0.10                       -         0.0028       0.0056       0.0112
Daily average            0.15         -         0.097           -         -             -            -         0
Max. 24-hour             0.50        0.26       0.165           -         0.0122       0.0244       0.0488
Stack emission (mg/m3)
Normal                    -         100          -              -          -            -            -
For rural area            -         150                       99.4      75.0         150.0        300.0
99.6      50.0        100.0         200.0
99.7      37.5         75.0         150.0
99.8      25.0         50.0         100.0
Ground-level co cen-
tration (mg/m )
One-year average       0.06        0.05                       -         -             -
Daily average          0.15        -          0.016           -        0.0168        0.033S       0.0672
Max. 24-hour           0.50        0.50       0.019           -         0.074        0.148        0.296



- 71 -
ANNEX 19
Page 1 of 3
CHINA
BEILUNGANG THERMAL POWER EXTENSION PROJECT
Environment Monitoring Program
1.        During the implementation of the first stage development of the
Beilungang site, two coal-fired steam generating units of 600 MW each will be
installed. According to the requirements of the Act of Environmental Protec-
tion of PRC (Provisional) and Regulations for Fossil-Fired Power Plant Envir-
onmental Monitoring (Provisional) of the Ministry of Water Resources and
Electric Power, Zhejiang Provincial Electric Power Bureau (ZPEPB) will arrange
environmental monitoring as described below.
2.        An environmental monitoring station will be established in the
Beilungang Thermal Power Plant (BTPP) under the direct leadership of the plant
director and put into full operation by December 31, 1989. The station will
be responsible for periodically monitoring the contaminants discharged during
the process of generation, supervising the plant discharge to meet the
stipulated indices, and compiling information on the quality of environmental
conditions and the trend of variations. During the above-mentioned activities
the station will receive guidance from the local department of environmental
protection.
3.        The environmental monitoring station will report directly to the
plant director and related authorities any time when the discharge exceeds the
stipulated indices and will offer remedial suggestions about its modifica-
tions.
4.        The environmental monitoring station will accumulate monthly data
about the quantity of waste discharged through each discharge port within the
plant and the quantity of the flue dust and sulfur dioxide discharges.
5.        The environmental monitoring station will periodically monitor the
items of contamination at each of the following points of monitoring:
(a)  pH value and suspended solids at             monitoring during
each discharge port after neutral-           discharge
ization of acid and alkali in
chemical waste fluid.
(b)  pH value, suspended solids, arsenic          once per month
and its compounds, inorganic com-
pounds of fluorine in ash and slag
slu-cing water discharged to the ash
dumping yard.
(c)  pH value, suspended solids, COD              once per month
(KMnO4 method) and oil in sanitary
sewage at the discharge port.



- 72 -
ANNEX 19
Page 2 of 3
(d)  pH value, suspended solids at water          monitoring during rainy
discharge port of open-air coal yard.        seasons
(e)  pH value, suspended solids, COD              once every 10 days
(KMnO4 method), and oil at main
discharge port.
When firing with oil or with a mix-
ture of oil and coal, additional
monitoring of volatile phenol.
When boiler is cleaned with hydro-           monitoring during
,(fluoric acid, additional monitoring         discharge
'of inorganic compounds of fluorine.
When sodium nitrite is adopted as            monitoring during
passivant during boiler acid cleaning,       discharge
additional monitoring of nitrite will
be performed.
(f)  Concentration of dust and sulphur            once per month
dioxide in chimney flue gas.
(g)  Efficiency of dust precipitator.             before and after
each overhaul
(h)  Quantity of dust settlement and con-         once per season
centration of suspended particles in
plant areas and living quarters.
(i)  Environmental noise in production areas    once per year
and living quarters (point for monitor-
ing will be determined by the plant
itself).
(j)  Temperatures of cooling water inlet          once per month
(k)  Ambient monitoring of du. t and S02          every six months,
concentrations outside pLant limits          taking account of
at selected critical locations.              wind directions
6.        The environmental monitoring station will monitor the contaminants
in plant discharge of gas, water, dust and slag according to relevant stan-
dards issued by the State Ministry of Water Resources and Electric Power and
the Zhejiang Provincial Government.
7.        The method, technical specifications of reagent, treatment of moni-
tored data, degree of accuracy and allowance of error, etc., adopted during
monitoring by the monitoring station will conform with relevant national codes
and standards.



- 73
ANNEX 19
Page 3 of 3
S.        The environmental monitoring station will accumulate technical
records of the followings
(a) Hydrological information and data on quality of surface water and
underground water.
(b) Technical records and environmental monitoring (including evalua-
tion) information on source of contamination.
(c) Information about contamination control, design of environmental
purification facilities, and technical modifications.
(d) Monitoring instruments and devices, and calibration certificates.
(e) Information on and record of analysis about all previous events
leading to serioue contamination.
System Diagram
(a) Diagram of plant wastewater and waste slag disposal system.
(b) Height of chimney and distribution diagram of exit gas concentra-
tion.
(c) Diagram of seasonal wind direction and wind velocity on a plane at
the same height as the lowest chimney of the plant.
9.        Reports on the results of monitoring will be compiled by the envi-
ronmental monitoring station according to the requirements of the Zhejiang
Environmental Protection Bureau and ZPEPB.
10.       Details of the environmental monitoring techniques, the instruments
employed and the results and remedial actions proposed will be discussed with
Bank staff during their visits to China. A report on the activities of the
environmental monitoring station and important results will be furnished to
the Bank once a year.



- 74 -
ANNEX 20
Page 1 of 3
CHINA
BEILUNGANG THERMAL POWER EXTENSION PROJECT
Financial System Followed by Chinese Power Bureaus
1.        Power companies such as ZPEPB may accumulate capital from three
separate and distinct sources. These include:
(a) Funds for fixed assets, which are obtained from the Stete in amounts
permitting implementation of approved projects according to agreed
schedules. Until 1980, these funds were provided almost entirely as
grants; since then, the Government has decided to make these funds
available as loans obtained from the banking system or from official
sources. Funds under this category are used exclusively to finance
works classified as capital expenditures. These funds are released
monthly, in accordance with plan provisions, in amounts needed to
cover actually incurred expenditares. Most Chinese enterprises are
not expected to finance any portion of capital expenditure from
operations; rather, they are expected to remit all surplus income to
the Government through payment of taxes;
(b)  Funds for working capital, which are also received from the State
based on a fixed amount established by regulation and subject to
review at intervals of about ten years. These funds make up only a
minor part of the power bureaus' capital and, because most of the
power bureaus have drawn their entire allocations since the last
review, these funds have been used only as a minor source of capital
in recent power projects proposed for Bank financing. Because
current obligations both to and from the power bureaus are settled
virtually as accrued, these working capital funds have been used
primarily to finance operating inventory; and
(c)  A number of Special Funds, each of which is earmarked for distinct
purposes and funded from net operating revenues or cash receipts in
amounts established according to regulations. The power bureaus'
accounts contain four separate categories of Special Funds, includ-
ing Special Funds for: (i) maintenance; (ii) employee benefits;
(iii) renovations; and (iv) distribution improvements. The Special
Funds for maintenance are financed by allocations charged as operat-
ing expenses in determining net operating income before Income Tax.
The Special Funds for renovations are financed by charges against
Government Funds (the balance sheet account showing the Government's
equity investment in a power bureau) equal to the portion of depre-
ciation provisions not used for debt repayment. The Special Funds
for employee benefits are financed using distributions from Net
Income after Income Tax but prior to the Adjustment Tax.
All allocations to the Special Funds (other than those earmarked to
account for revenues and expenses associated with distribution



- 75 -
ANNEX 20
Page 2 of 3
improvements) appear or are reflected on the Income Statement as
though they are operating costs or distributions from earnings,
regardless of whether corresponding cash expenditures have been
incurred. Receipts and withdrawals from the Special Funds associa-
ted with distribution improvements are passed through the Flow of
Funds statement and are specifically excluded from the Income State-
ment.   The moneys expended from the Special Funds would largely be
classified as operating costs or working capital under more tradi-
tional accounting systems. However, items charged to the £pecial
Funds for both renovations and distribution improvements would be
capitalized as fixed assets once the underlying work was completed;
thus, when the renovations or distrib'ition improvements are comple-
ted, their value is deducted from the Special Funds balance and
added to the Government Funds account. As all operating revenues
must be expensed; distributed to cover cash outflows, debt !-Lvice
or taxes; invested in renovations or distribution improvements; or
retained for future expenditure chargeable to the Special Funds, the
power bureaus have only one means of channeling tariff revenues into
cash. They do this by using the excess of Special Fund Allocations
over the sum of (a) Special Fund Expenditures; (b) completed renova-
tions and distribution improvements; and (c) increases in Special
Fund Assets. In turn, cash generated through the Special Funds may
be interchanged with other operating cash; however, allocations to
particular Special Funds create for a power bureau an ultimate obl -
gation to use the accumulated cash only for certain categories of
expenditures.
2.        Until 1983, the power bureaus paid remittances to NWREP equal to
operating revenucs less the sum of cash expenditures charged directly to oper-
ations, all allocations to Special Funds, and debt service. Since 1983, the
power bureaus pay MOF an Income Tax, assessed at 55% of operating revenues
less the sum of costs (including depreciation) charged directly to operations,
all allocations to Special Funds that are treated as expenses, and debt ser-
vice in excess of the portion of depreciation provisions specifically alloca-
ted for debt repayment. From the residual after Income Tax, the power bureaus
must cover the Special Fund allocations that are treated as distributions from
earn.ngs and the amount of debt repayment and capitalized interest during con-
struction to be wet from net income, and remit the remainder to MWREP as an
Adjustment Tax.    MWREP has some flexibility in controlling the powe
bureaus' liquidity, either by changing their allocations to the Special Funds,
making grants for allocation to the Special Funds, or relieving the power
bureaus of a portion of the Adjustment Tax. The power bureaus appear to have
adequate liquidity and MWREP has not indicated any inclination to adjust those
procedures which affect their liquidity.
3.        Under the existing financial system, the Government does not intend
for the power bureaus to retain a surplus.  However, tariff revenues must meet
1/   From an accounting point of view, the Adjustment Tax is treated in a
manner similar to a dividend.



- 76 -
ANNEX 20
Page 3 of 3
debt service requirements; and repayment per se does not represent a charge
against earnings. Regulations provide that certain stipulated amounts of
repayment shall be met from cash that has been generated by depreciation; how-
ever, the remainder of the cash gererated by depreciation must be added to a
bureau's operating cash and a correiponding allocation must be made to the
Special Funds for renovations. As a result, the remainder of repayment, which
must be met for an earmarked increment of tariff revenues, creates an accumu-
Lation of equity in the form of a corresponding undistributed earnings.
4.        Most power bureaus have units which engage in construction manage-
ment and subsidiaries which function as contractors. As a rule, the accounts
of the construction management units are consolidated with those of the power
bureau's operating units. However, the accounts of subsidiaries acting as
construction contractors are, as a rule, not consolidated with those of the
investments; the power bureau's consolidated accounts may routinely have con-
struction in progress. Also, in the past, an average of only about 85% of the
value of government grants used to finance new fixed assets was transferred
from the books of the construction subsidiaries functioning as contractors to
the power bureau's consolidated accounts. The residual was considered to have
been expended in purchasing moving assets, which remained with those conatruc-
tion subsidiaries upon the completion of construction. The change to using
loans rather than grants to finance power sector investments has caused
investment funds to be channeled from the Government through the power bureaus
for payment to construction units acting as contractors. Thus, in the future,
the consolidated accounts of the power bureau should in the future more accu-
rately reflect the value of gross fixed assets and construction .n progress.
5.        Given the existing financial system, the power bureaus have little
financial incentive to increase tariffs at the present time; once a power
bureau has sufficient revenues to meet the aggregate of costs charged directly
to operations, all Special Fund allocations and debt service, any additional
revenues are remitted to the State through Income or Adjustment Taxes. Thus,
once expenses and required distributions have been met, a tariff increase,
even one of major proportions, would not increase a power bureau's financia'.
viability, except to the extent that debt service coverage would be improved.
Therefore, the familiar indicators of financial performan_e, such as rate of
return and seLf-financing ratio, have very limited applicability to the
financial analysis of a Chinese power bureau.



- 77 -
ANNEX 21
Page 1 of 24
CHINA
BEILUNGANG THERMAL POWER EXTENSION PROJECT
ZHEJIANG PROVINCIAL ELECTRIC POWER BUREAU
ANNUAL FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
Table of Contents
Page No.
Key FinancialI ....................................................        2
Income Statement............................................ ......        3
Balance Sheet.....................................................         5
Funds Flow 7................. ............... ...... *99**9*o*9****e       7
Derivation of Average Tariff... ...o..............................ooo      8
Investment Program....o*9.99*99...... .... .. ............... *..          9
Loan Parameters oeo*oe,oe.ooooooo.e...e.o..oeeo.o                         11
Fixed Asset Formatione......................o..............o.........     14
Revaluation of Assets                 ......... 9 .................       15
Beilungang Expenditures and Financing.............................        16
Fuel, Purchases and Operating Expenses..o......................           17
Special Funds Calculations. .......................................o      19
Breakeven Pricing and Self Financing Ratio........................        20
Assumptions to Financial Projections..o....o.....................         21



- 78 -                                   ANNEX 21
Page 2 of 24
CHINA
8EILUNGANG POWER EXTENSION PROJECT
ZHEJIANG PROVINCIAL ELECTRIC POWER BUREAU
KEY FINANCIAL INDICATORS 1986-1995
CYuan Million)
Actual Estimate ------------Forecast----------------------------
Year Ended Deceeber 31             1986    1987    1988    1989    1990    1991    1992    1993    1994   1995
Energy Sates (CWh)                12386  14127   14sso   14835   16660   20372  23587  28789   31854   36175
Average Price/kWh (fen)             8.1    8.5      9.0   10.2   11.2   13.4   14.4   15.1   16.1   16.9
Operating Revenue                  1006    1204    1318    1520    1873   2735   3386   4355    5131    6118
Operating Income                     90     176    218      291     361     749    808    1065    1262    1456
Remittances to Goverranct             8      34      21      S0      50     105    121      127    233    311
Annual Capital Expenditure          332     704    1217    1782    1571    1444    1408    1745    1807   1937
Rate ease                          1632   1795    2105    2553    3232    4884   6606   7927   9190   10275
Long-term Debt                      815    1352    2289    3737   4860    5725   6586    7468   8434    9469
Debt Service                         48      70     148     162    251      527    583    899    901    965
Cash in Banks                       225     251     275     295     285    261      302    285      315    301 Average
1988-1995
Rate of Return                                                                                                       X
Historically VaLued Assets CX)   5.5      9.8    10.4   11.4   11.2   15.3   12.2   13.4   13.7   14.2   12.4
Notionatly Revalued Assets CX)   3.6      6.9     7.3     7.9     7.7   11.2      9.1    9.8      9.8    9.8    8.8
Self Financing Ratio CX)                   17.7   12.9   12.7   13.6   20.1   20.6   24.0   25.6   28.2   19.5
Operating Ratio (X)                91.1   85.4   83.5   80.8   80.7   72.6   76.1   75.5   75.4   76.2   78.5
Debt/Total Capital tX)             34.7   44.7   55.2   64.6   68.1   68.4   68.7   68.0   67.8   68.1   63.7
Debt Service Coverage (times)       3.3     4.3     2.4     2.6     2.0     1.5    1.5      1.3     1.5    1.5    2.1
_-     - -        s      w     s      a     s      s     s    as       t s      t     s    s     _o       s= s



- 79 -
CHINA                          ANNEX 21
BEILUNGANG THERMAL POWER EXTENSION PROJECT  Paae 7 of 24
ZHEJIANG PROVINCIAL ELECl-RIC FOWER 81URE(4U
INCOME STATE.MENTS 1981.-1986
Yuan Million
Year Ended DuLember :1          198v   1981   1 82   198Z.   1984   1985   1986
Sales Increase k%)              1..  8. 2   1).l.   11.2  -           1i .1   11.4
Energy Sales (GWh)              6357   6786   7585    5:36   983.1  11115  12386
Average Price (Fen/kWh)          6.9    7..    7.1    7.2    7.4    7.b    6.1
Operating Revenue                436    48C0   538    605    730    846   1007
Operatinq Costs
Fuel                            97    105    118    15C0   20CZ3   271    377
Purchased povwer               131    137    168    161    196    187    198
Operation & maintenance         29      29     31      36      47     56      73
Administration                   8       9      11     14      21     28      37
Sales tax                       65      72     79      88    1 08    1 70    162
Depreciation                    26      30     32      4C0    47      54      69
Total Operating Costs        355    361    438    491    627    765    916
Oper.ALing Income                 80      99    1 0C)   114    1 u7     el      90
Other Income                      -1       1       C      ()    -1               v
Net Income Before Income Tax    80        99    1:00   114    105       87      90
Income Tax                        C0       0      C0    53       46     37      25
Net Income                   8s       99    IC)")    62     60      49      65
Distribution of Net Income
Remittances to government       75      87     88      3;8    20       6       8
Transferred to gov't funds       0       6      7      16      29     28      55
Employee benefits SF             4       7      6       8      12     15       2
Net Income                    80      99    100      62     60      49      65
Rate Base                        509    615    699    839   1C015   1313   1632
Rate ot Return (%)              15.7   16.1   14.3   13.b   1U.5    6.6    5.5



- 80 -
ANNEX 21
Page 4 of 24
CHINA
BEILUNGANG POWER EXTENSION PROJECT
ZHEJIANG PROVINCIAL ELECTRIC POWER BUREAU
INCOME STATEMENT
(Yuan Million)
Actual Estimate   ------------------------Forecast------------------. --------
Year Ended Decerber 31              198S    1987    1988    1989    1990    1991    1992    1993    199I    1995
.... ----       ....    ....  .    ....  ----.    ....    ....  .    ....  ........ ..... ..... ..... .....
Sates Increase CX)                  11.4    14.1      3.2      1.7    12.3    22.3    15.8    22.1    10.6    13.6
Enerrgy Sales COlh)                12386   14127   14580   14835   16660   20372   23587   28789   31854   36175
Average Price/kWh (fen)              8.1      8.5     9.0    10.2    11.2    13.4    14.4    15.1    16.1    16.9
.......................................................................................................
Operating Revenue                   1006    1204    1318    1520    1873    2735    3386    4355    5131    6118
3UUU3UUDssaU--U--a-US# *-3-Unu*U-inU U- =*------uu-u-i-u-u*z-*u-u.-u--u-auuuaJu-aauuuauu= ~aunanuuaunwaz
Operating Costs
...............
Fuel                               377     427      487     565      746     929    1049    1371    1668    2006
Purchased Power                    198      254     223     207      210     304      563     741     820    1056
Operation & Maintenance             73       98     113      130     155     182      241     277     322      365
Adfinistration                      37       39      44      51       58      67       77      89     102      118
Sales Tax                          162      120     132      152     187     273      339     435     513     612
Depreciation                        69       90     101      123     156     230      309     376     443      505
Total Operating Costs            916    1028    1100    1228    1512    1986    2578    3290    3869    4662
Operating Income                      90      176     218      291     361     749      808    1065    1262    1456
Interest Charged Operations            0        7      23      32       64     181      232     274     299     320
Net Income Before Income Tax          90      170     195      259     297     568      576     792     963    1137
wSsssssws-w=ssJass3-Js =--ss-s- ssssasDs-sss-u-ns=saJa                *MDS=saDasn"Umccan             Mann=
Income Tax                            25      59       44      79       80     149      169     177     307     404
................................................................................................................
Net Income                            65      111     151      180     217     420      407     614     656      733
Distribution of Net Income
..........................
Remittances to Government            8       34      21      50       50     105      121     127     233     311
Tranferred to Govt. Funds           43      63      106     111      151     298     268      433     405     361
Chargeable IOC                       0       0        9       3        0       0        0      37       0      42
Employee Benefits Spec. Funds       14       14      15      15       16      16       17      18      18       19
................................................................................................................
Net Income                            65      111     151      180     217     420      407     614     656      733
Rate Base                           1632    1795    2105    2553    3232    4884    6606    7926    9189   10275
Rate of Return CX)                   5.5     9.8    10.4    11.4    11.2    15.3    12.2    13.4    13.7    14.2
=X--XsB---*-=-9wwssWB3-t---w----wt-   tsssX-a=wss=====W



- 81 -
CHINA                       ANNEX 21
BEILUNGANG THERMAL POWER EXTENSION PROJECT  Page 5 of 24
------------------------------------------
ZHEJIANG PROVINCIAL ELECTRIC POWER BUREAU
BALANCE SHEETS  1980-1986
( Yuan Million )
As at December 31             1980   1981   1982   1983   1984   1985   1986
Current Assets
Cash                          20     32     T8    54    86    124   225
Inventories                   32     36     35    31    51       6L    71
Receivables                   12    -2       0)    it    19    81       58
Total Current Assets        64     66     737    96    138    2b6    '54
Fixed Assets
____________
Plant in service             828    902   1055   1249   1512   1960  22o1
Less depreciation          237    264    295    332    400    446   511
Operating Plant              591    636    760    917   1112   1514   175C0
_______________
Const. work in progress       36    70      49    132    1R4    220   276
Total Fixed Assets         627    708    809   1049   129c   1734   2u26
Special Fund Assets             54     62     83    109    142    231   313
Total Assets               745    836    965   1255   1596   22-31   2693
=   =   _   _   _   _   _   _- --_-_ _    _ _
Current Liabilities
___________________
Accounts payable              24     13    16    30    66    159    267
Due to Government              2      4      2      5      8     35    24
rotal Current Liab.         26     17    18    35       74    194   291
Long-term Debt                  25    70    151    245    259    588    815
Consumers  Deposit               0      1      2      1      2      2      2
Government Funds               602    638    b58    804   10;37   1145   12-11
Working Capital Funds           31     28     32    32    36       36     48
Special Funds                   61     82    104    138    188   266    32o
Total Liabilities          745    836    965   1255   1596  2231  r2693
===================       ====    ==      ==    ==      ==    ==
Debt as '. of Debt8'Equity '7)   3.5    8.6   16.1   20.2  17.1   29.4    4.?
Current Ratio (times)          2.5    3.9    4.0    2.8    2.1    1.4    1.2
Annual Debt Service Coverage   103     22    22       7      4     14      7
(times)



- 8?-                                   ANNEX 21
Page 6 of 24
CHINA
BEILUNGANO POWER EXTENSION PRJECT
ZHEJIANG PROVINCIAL ELECTRIC POWERt BUREAU
8ALANCE SHEET
(Yuen Nittion)
Actuat Estimate -------------Forecast-..............
Year ende Decenbier 31            1986    187   1988   199    1990   1991   1992   199    1994   1995
Assets
Current Assets
Cash                         224.8  251.5  274.?  295.1  284.8  261.2  302.4  284.5  315.0  301.4
Inventorfes                   71.5   73.8   77.0   82.7  109.3  149.9  174.3  220.0  259.4  304.1
Receivables                   57.7   57.0   59.9   62.8   66.0   69.3   72.7   76.4   80.2   84.2
Total Current Assets         354.1  382.3  411.6  440.6  460.1  480.4  549.4  580.9  654.6  689.7
Fixed Assets
Plant In Service            2260.8  2440.4  3073.4 3559.1  4711.6  7248.9 8694.6 10575.3 12039.4 13694.3
Ctess) Accum. Depreciation    511.0  601.0  701.9  825.1  981.2  1211.0  1520.5  1896.5  2339.4  2844.6
Net Plant in Service        1749.8  1839.4  2371.6  2734.0  3730.4 6037.9  7174.2 8678.9 9700.1 10849.6
Construction WIP             276.2  797.2  1357.3  2592.6  2920.7  1787.6  1750.0  13.9  1957.1  2238.8
Total Fixed Assets            2026.0  2636.5  3728.9  5326.6 6651.1  782.5  8924.2 10292.7 11657.2 13088.4
.peciat Fund Assets            312.7  341.4  343.8  358.0  371.3  423.5  470.0  472.2  493.0  510.8
Total Assets              2692.8  3360.2  4484.3 6125.2  7482.5  872.4  9943.7 11345.9 12804.8 14288.9
333  333u*3333333333333333333=3333333333:                                                  
Liabilities
Current Liabilities
Accountts Payable            266.6  260.0  265.2  270.5  275.9  281.4  287.1  29.8  298.7  304.6
Due to Govermsent             23.8   24.0   24.0   24.0   24.0   24.0   24.0   24.0   24.0   24.0
Total Current Liabilities    290.4  284.0  289.2  294.5  299.9  305.4  311.1  316.8  322.7  328.6
zz=*w*l"w333333U333z3U33333Uu333333333U3U333323333333U3333333
Consumers Deposits               2.0    2.0    2.0    2.0    2.0    2.0    2.0    2.0    2.0    2.0
Working Capital Furtds          48.0   48.0   48.0   48.0   48.0   48.0   48.0   48.0   48.0   48.0
Long-temn Debt                 815.1  1351.8  2288.7 3736.8  4859.9  5724.9  6585.5  7468.2 8434.3  9468.7
Goverrmlant Funds             1210.9  1284.8  1429.1  1563.8  1737.7 2007.8  2245.9  2695.1  3093.5  3448.1
Special Funds                  326.3  389.7  427.2  480.1  535.0  641.3  751.2  815.8  904.4  993.5
RevaLuation Reserve              0.0    0.0    0.0    0.0    0.0    0.0    0.0    0.0    0.0    0.0
Totat Liabiitites         2692.8  3360.2 4484.3 6125.2  7482.4  8729.4  9943.7 11345.9 12804.8 14288.9
Debt as X of Debt & Equity        34.7   44.7   55.2   64.6   68.1   68.4   68.7   68.0   67.8   68.1
Current Ratio (times)              1.2    1.3    1.4    1.5    1.5    1.6    1.8    1.8    2.0    2.1



- 83 -
ANNEX 21
Page 7 of 24
CHINA
BEILUNGANG POWER EXTENSION PROJECT
ZHEJIANG PROVINCIAL ELECTRIC POWER BUREAU
FUNDS FLOW STATEMENT
(Yuan Nillion)
Estimote .................... Forecast. .----------                       Total of
Year ended Deceiber 31                      1987    1988    1989    1990    1991    1992    1993    1994    1995 198B-93
---     . .     .. .     . .     .. .    . .     .. .    . .      ...  ..  . .
Internal Sources of Funds
Net Income                               111.0   151.5   179.7  216.8  41i.7  406.8  614.4  656.1   733.0  1988.9
Depreciation                              90.0   100.9   1,3.3   156.0  229.8  309.5   376.0   442.9  505.3  1295.5
maintenance Special Funds                 31.5    34.0    42.8   49.6   65.8   101.3   121.5   147.9  168.4  415.1
Distribution Imprv. Spec. Fds.            69.3    70.0    70.7    71.4   72.1    72.8    73.6   74.3   7s.0  430.6
Totat Internal Sources                   301.8   356.4   416.5  493.9  787.4  890.4  1185.6  1321.2  1481.7  4130.1
Borrowings
Proposed IBRD Loan                         0.0    52.4   193.5   219.4   88.6       4.8    51.8      0.0     0.0   610.5
eei lunrang Project Related Loons        149.9   567.6  728.5   453.6  326.4  194.0   624.5  1074.5  817.4  2894.4
Other Loans                              414.2   404.4   610.6  602.2   789.7  948.9   77.4   431.0   786.2  4129.3
IOC Borrowed                             39.1    52.6   103.6   125.6   45.3    63.5    21.8   61.9    34.0  412.3
Total Borrowings                         603.2  1076.9  1636.2  1400.7  1250.0  1211.2  1471.5  1567.4  1637.6  8046.5
in u U          2 U       U UU n                     U U       3    U    U     3UaUUsUUE3UUmU3 -Uin3-- -          --
Goverrnment Funds                            2.0     2.5     2.5      3.0     3.0     3.5     3.7      4.0     4.3    18.2
ua*suuuuznu2uEmna*3auu3Uz2zu MSz- a#
Total Sources of Funds                 907.0  1435.7  2055.3  1897.6  2040.4  2105.0  2660.8  2892.6  3123.7 12194.8
Capital Expendi tures
. .... . . . . . . .
Proposed BellungMng Ext. Project           0.0    58.9   312.6  381.4  191.1    36.4    99.8         0.0     0.0  1080.1
Other Construction                       566.0   967.9  1222.5  896.7  1016.7  1114.8  1353.6  1509.5  1607.9  6572.3
Interest During Construction             39.1    63.6   118.7  153.0    64.6   63.5    58.4    61.9   76.3  541.7
Completed Renovations                     55.2    71.4   n7.8   83.6    94.3   135.9   174.6   177.2  193.0  632.6
Distribution lImprovewnts                 43.5    55.2    55.9   56.4   57.0    57.6   58.2   58.7   59.3  340.3
................................         ................................................................................
Totat Capital Expenditure                703.9  1217.1  1782.4  1571.2  1443.6  1408.1  1744.5  1807.4  1936.5  9167.0
Operational Requirements
.........................
Inc/dec in Working Capital                 8.0     0.9     3.4    24.3   38.4    22.3   43.6    37.4    42.7   132.8
Inc/dec in Snecial Fund Assets            28.7     2.4    14.2    13.3   52.2    46.5       2.2    20.7    17.8   130.8
Loan Repayment                            63.1   116.1   126.8   186.8  345.7  350.5  588.9  601.3  603.2  1714.7
Remittances to Government                 33.9    21.4   49.7   49.9   1(5.2   121.5   127.2  232.7  311.1   474.9
Special Fund Expenditures                 42.7    45.6    55.0    62.2   78.9   114.9   135.7   162.6  183.7  492.4
Chargeable IOC                             0.0     9.0     3.5      0.0     0.0     0.0    36.6      0.0    42.2   49.1
----------------------............ ......................................................... ............................................................................. .. ....
Total Operational Requirements           176.4   195.4   252.5  336.6  620.3  655.7  934.1  1054.7  1200.7  2994.7
=   S....... D3sYuUUS2U3ss"stss2w3UuUUUU=w-S#X-saS#SUUUUUU83UU*U3UZUUUUUUUuU3UUU3UU8UZUt=UZuUUuUUUU
Total Applications of Funwds           880.3  1412.5  2034.9  1907.9  2063.9  2063.9  2678.6  2862.1  3137.2 12161.8
Incresse/Oecrease in Cash                   26.6    23.3    20.3   (10.3)  (23.6)   41.1   (17.9)   30.5   (13.6)   33.0
Anrnual Debt Service Coverage (times)        4.3     2.4      2.6     2.0     1.5     1.5      1.3     1.5     1.i     1.9
33C5UUu=SUUUU3UU,U                      UU3UU3UWUUUUUUU3U.3UUZ3UEU3UU333UuUn3NUUUU2uU3U2UuUZ- S# SS2S--S=Z31WzU22UUt



-84 -                                   ANNEX 21
Page 8 of 24
CHINA
UEILUNGANG POWER EXTENSION PROJECT
ZHEJIANG PROVINCIAL ELECTRIC POWER BUREAU
DERIVATION OF AVERAGE TARIFF
AUTHORIZED POWER PRICING           1986    1987    1988    1989    1990   1991    1992    1993    1994    1995
........ ...... .... ...... .. ..........   ........... .-...   ....    ---    .....    .. ...   ....   ....    .......
Energy Sales (GYh)                      14127   14580   14835   16660  20372  23587  28789   31854   36175
Domestic                               2825    2916    2967   3332   4074    4717   5758   63n1   7235
Inter grid transfers
Nondomestic retait                    11302   11664   11868   13328   16298  18870  23031   25483   28940
Average Reveme (fen/Kwh)                  8.5     9.0    9.5    10.1    10.6   11.2   11.7   12.3   13.0
Base Revewne (Yuwn/1Mh)        77.6   79.3   83.3   87.4    91.8   96.4  101.2  106.3  111.6  117.2
Inter grid transfers
Auth. Coat Adjustments
Transfers (Current Prs.)              0.0    0.0      0.0     0.0     0.0    0.0      0.0     0.0    0.0
Nand m. Ret. (Comet. Pre.)    3.7     7.4    8.3    8.3    9.1        9.1     9.6     9.6     9.6     9.6
Nondam. Ret. (Curr. Pre.)             7.4     8.6     9.3    10.9   11.6   13.0   13.8   14.7   15.6
Operating Revenu  (mn Y)               1203.9  1314.5  1406.9  1674.4  2152.5  2631.7 3377.2 3928.8 4691.2
Totat energy                         1120.3  1214.0  1297.0  1529.4  1963.6  2387.2 3059.4  3554.4 4238.3
Inter grid transfers
Coal price adJ.
--- Inter grid transfers
--- Nondamestic retail              83.6  100.5  109.9  145.0  188.8  244.5  317.8  374.4  452.9
_ _ _ _ _ _ _uum _                  _      _u___s
BREAKEVEN COAL ADJ. INCREMENT
........ .............. ..  ...
Revenue - Auth. Coat Pr. AdJs.           83.6  100.5  109.9  145.0  188.8  244.5  317.8  374.4  452.9
CPA Revenue Net of Sales Tax             75.3   90.5   99.0   130.5  169.9  220.0  286.0  337.0  407.6
Cost of Coat Price Increment              0.0   27.8   79.4  143.7  223.1  297.2  449.4  614.3  814.8
Coat Adj. Surplus/Deficit             75.27  62.66   19.56  (13.17) (S3.18) (77.24)(163.45)(277.28)(407.17)
Aditianal Req. Req. (fn/Wkh)              0.0    0.0      0.0    0.1      0.4    0.5      0.8     1.3     1.7
Adjusted Oper. Rev. (Y dtn.)           1203.9  1314.5  1406.9  1687.5  2205.6 2708.9 3540.6 4206.1  5098.4
Energy Sales (Gwh)                      14127   14580   14835   16660  20372   23587  28789  31854   36175
Adi. Avg. Sate Price (fan/kWh)            8.5     9.0     9.5    10.1    10.8   11.5   12.3   13.2   14.1
General Tariff Revision                     0X      OX      8X     11X    242      25X    23X    22X    20X
Revised Price (fen/kWh)                   8.5    9.0    10.2    11.2   13.4   14.4   15.1   16.1    16.9
---.-.-..-.................................. ....... ............... . ......................................................... ... ............................... 
AVERAGE SALES PRICE (fan/kih)               8.5     9.0    10.2    11.2   13.4   14.4   15.1   16.1   16.9
SELF -IANIN ATIsO  (2)-                                 _      -     O 1. 129 27 1. 21-06   40      56     28
SELF FINAN"CINIG RATIO (%)                 17.7   12.9   12.7   13.6   20.1   20.6   24.0   25.6   28.2



- 85 -                                  ANNEX 21
Page 9 of 24
CHINA
BEILUNtGUG POWER EXTENSION PROIECT
ZHEJIANG PROVINCIAL ELECTRIC POlER WJREAU
INVESTMENT PROGRAN
uuu=Sauasuuauauu=u
CAPITAL EXPENDITURES              1986   1987   1988   1989   1990   1991    1992   1993   1994   1995  TOTAL
. ...................     .       .....  . ....  ....  ....  ....  ----   ----    ....    ....    ....   ....     . ... .. .... .... ... ..
LOANS
PCRC loans-A 9 Local loans-8
............. ............... .... .....
atIII                        0.0    0.0    0.0    0.0    0.0    0.0    0.0    0.0    0.0    0.0
Mt II                       30.7   22.9    0.0    0.0    0.0    0.0    0.0    0.0    0.0   S3.6
_ -.t III                     40.0   72.8   167.7   95.5   19.1    0.0    0.0    0.0    0.0  395.0
hydro                         55.0   53.0   32.4    0.0    0.0    0.0    0.0    0.0    0.0  140.4
s hydro                            25.0   41.6   28.6    0.0    0.0    0.0    0.0    0.0    0.0   95.2
hydro                           4.7    11.4    8.3    0.0    0.0    0.0         0.0    0.0    0.0   24.4
hydro                           0.0    0.0    6.7    19.1   12.7    0.0         O.U    0.0    0.0   38.5
etion I                     65.3   129.5   124.4    0.0    0.0    0.0    0.0    0.0    0.0  319.2
ction II                     0.0    0.0    0.0   142.8  118.2  137.0    0.0    0.0    0.0  398.0
ction III                    0.0    0.0    0.0    0.0    0.0    0.0  152.2  159.6  150.9  462.7
ase IUinit 1, 500kv Line 1  87.8  188.7  305.3  242.0   57.2    0.0    0.0    0.0    0.0  881.1
iase ItUnit 2, 500kv Line 2   0.0    8.5  130.6  189.5  141.8   31.6   48.0    0.0    0.0  549.9
vnase 11                       0.0    0.0    0.0    0.0   50.8  162.4  576.5  1074.5  817.4 2681.6
t I                         0.0     0.0   44.7  179.0  635.4  812.0  576.S   92.4    0.0 2339.9
ine                        99.4   31.2  193.4  155.1    0.0    0.0    0.0    0.0    0.0  479.1
_ _   _ _l  II                            0.0     0.0    0.0    0.0    0.0    0.0   44.7  179.0  635.4  859.0
PCBC loans-B
Hunanzhen hydro                           0.0    0.0    4.5   10.7    4.4    0.0    0.0    0.0    0.0   19.7
Local loans-A
..............
Talzhou Thermal III                      94.0   41.9    0.0    0.0    0.0    0.0    0.0    0.0    0.0  135.9
IBRD loan
..........
Belliungang Phase I(Unit 1 500kv Line 1  62.1  370.3  292.6   22.1   76.6    0.0    0.0    0.0    0.0  823.6
Beitungang Phase IlUnit 2, SOOkv Line 2   0.0   52.4  193.5  219.4  U8.6    4.8   51.8    0.0    0.0  610.S
Grants
Smell Project                             2.0    2.5    2.5    3.0    3.0    3.5    3.7    4.0    4.3   28.5
Totat                                S66.0  1026.8  1535.1  1276.. 1207.7  1151.2  1453.4  1509.5  1607.9 11335.8
Project Cost Calculation  (USS Million)    1987    1988    1989   1990   1991    1992   1993   1V4    1995  TOTAL
Proposed Beitungwn Extersion Project      ----    ----   --.-    ----   ....         -   ....   ....    -         
.....................................
Foreign Base Cost                                 14.2   52.3   S9.3   24.0    1.3   14.0    0.0    0.0  165.0
Escalated Foreign Cost   (RDV)                    14.4   S4.7   63.8   26.7    1.5   16.9    0.0    0.0  178.0
(Don. Inf.)             14.7   58.5   70.7   30.4        1.8   20.2    0.0    0.0  196.3
Local Base Cost                                    0.0   22.4   26.7   16.5    5.9    4.7    0.0    0.0   76.2
Escalated Local Cost     (MUV)                     0.0   2Z.5   28.7   18.4    6.8    5.7    0.0    0.0   83.1
(Don. Inf.)              0.0   25.1   31.8   21.0    8.0    6.8    0.0    0.0   92.7



- 86 -                                 AINEX21
Page 10 of 24
CHINA
BE; UNGANG POWER EXTENSION PROJECT
ZHEJIANG PROVINCIAL ELECTRIC POWER BUREAU
IWVESTMENTS (INCLUDING IDC)       1986   1987   1988   1989   1990   1991   1992   193    1994   1995  TOTAL
--------------                    ....    ---    ....  .   ....  ....    ....   ....    .....   ....    .... .  . .. ..
LOANS
PCBC loars-A & Local loens-B
...  ... .. .... .  . . . . .
8anshan Thermal III              69.0    0.0    0.0    0.0    0.0    0.0    0.0    0.0    0.0    0.0   69.0
Zhenghei Thermal II             104.0   30.7   22.9    0.0    0.0    0.0    0.0    0.0    0.0    0.0  157.6
Zhenghai Thermal III             .4.5   41.2   76.1  175.4   95.5   19.1    0.0    0.0    0.0    0.0  421.8
Jinshuitan hydro                447.7   72.1   59.6   32.4    0.0    0.0    0.0    0.0    0.0    0.0  611.8
Shitang hydro                    58.4   27.6   45.4   32.1    0.0    0.0    0.0    0.0    0.0    0.0  163.5
Shangbiao hydra                  19.1    5.5   12.5    9.8    0.0    0.0    0.0    0.0    0.0    0.0   46.8
Hunanzhen hydro                           0.0    0.0    6.8   19.7   13.9    0.0    0.0    0.0    0.0   40.4
Other Construction 1             87.4   69.6  137.5  137.3    0.0    0.0    0.0    0.0    0.0    0.0  431.8
Other Construction It                     0.0    0.0    0.0  145.4  125.5  149.2    0.0    0.0    0.0  420.1
Other Construction III                    0.0    0.0    0.0    0.0    0.0    0.0  154.9  168.1  165.2  488.3
9eitunwing Phase I(Unitl,Linel)  38.0   90.7  196.8  322.6  269.7   57.2    0.0    0.0    0.0    0.0  975.0
Beitungang Phase I(Unit2,Line2)           0.0    8.7  133.2  198.0  156.6   31.6   48.0    0.0    0.0  576.0
Beilungang Phase 11                       0.0    0.0    0.0    0.0   51.7  167.2  594.8 1123.1  859.6 2796.4
Jiaxing Thermal I                        0.0    0.0   45.5  183.8  655.0  858.4  513.1   92.4    0.0 2448.3
500 kv Other line                58.1  103.3   37.6  204.0  172.4    0.0    0.0    0.0    0.0    0.0  575.4
Jiaxing Thermal II                       0.0    0.0    0.0    0.0    0.0    0.0   45.5  183.8  655.0  884.4
PCBC loans-B
Hunanzhen hydro                          0.0    0.0    4.6   11.5    5.8    0.0    0.0    0.0    0.0   21.9
Local loans-A
Taizhou Thermal III              50.9   96.9   44.4    0.0    0.0    0.0    0.0    0.0    0.0    0.0  192.2
I-RO loan
Beltungang Phase I(Unitl,Linel)   9.0   62.1  370.3  292.6   22.1   76.6    0.0    0.0    0.0    0.0  832.6
Beltungang Pkase I(Unit2,LIne2)           0.0   52.4  193.5  219.4   88.6    4.8   51.8    0.0    0.0  610.5
Grants
Small Project                    12.1    2.0    2.5    2.5    3.0    3.0    3.5    3.7    4.0    4.3   40.6
Total                        968.1  601.8  1066.6  1592.3  1340.4  1253.0  1214.7 1511.8  1571.4  1684.2 12804.3



- 87 -                                   ANNEX 21
Page 11 of 24
CHINA
BEILUNGANG POWER EXTENSION PROJECT
ZNEJIAUG PROVINCIAL ELECTRIC POWER BUREAU
LOAN PARAhE tERS
z==zS=U=3=wUU3
INTEREST                                    1987    1988    1989    1990    1991    1992    1993    1994    1995   TOtal
.. ..... . ...  .. ..... ....... ....  .....    ....  .....    ....  .....    ....    ----. .....    ..... ...   .... .
Banshan Theratl III
--- PCBC loans-A                             2.5     2.3     2.2      2.0     1.8     1.7      1.5     1.3     1.2    16.4
Taizhou Therwal III
---Local loans-A                             2.9     4.9     5.2      4.8     4.4     4.1     3.7      3.3     2.9    36.3
Zhenghai Thermal II
--- PCBC loans-A                             4.2     4.8     4.8      4.5     4.1     3.7     3.3      3.0     2.6    35.0
Zhenghai Thermal III
--- Local loons.B                            1.2     3.3     7.8    12.8    13.2    12.6    11.5   10.5        9.5    82.5
Jinshuitan hydro
--- PCBC Loans-A                            17.1    19.7    18.3    17.4    16.0    14.5    13.1    11.6    10.2   137.8
Shitang hydro
--- PCBC loans-A                             2.6     3.8     5.2      5.1     4.7     4.3     4.0      3.6     3.2    36.5
Shangbiao hydro
--- PCBC loans-A                             0.8     1.1      1.5     1.7     1.0     0.9     0.8      0.7     0.6     9.0
Hunanzhen hydro
--- PCBC Loans-B                             0.0     0.0      0.2     0.1     1.3     1.6      1.3     1.1     0.9     7.1
--- Local loans-B                            0.0     0.0     0.1      0.6     1.2     1.5      1.3     1.2     1.1     6.9
Other Construction I
--- PCBC loans-A                             4.3     8.0    12.8    15.5    13.5    12.5    11.4    10.4       9.4    97.9
Other Construction II
--- PCBC loans-A                             0.0     0.0     0.0      2.6     7.4    12.2    15.1    13.3    12.3    62.9
Other Construction III
--- PCBC loans-A                             0.0     0.0     0.0      0.0     0.0     0.0     2.7      8.5    14.3    25.5
Beilungang Phase I(Unit 1. 500kv Line 1)
--- RD Loan                                  3.4    21.8    49.9    63.3    67.5    66.0    61.3    56.6    51.9  441.8
--- PCBC loans-A                             2.9     8.0    17.2    27.7   34.1    30.7    28.4    26.0   23.7   198.8
Beltungang Phase I(Unit 2, 500kv Line 2)
--- IORD loan                                0.0     2.0    11.5    27.5    39.3    42.9    45.1    46.3   44.4   259.1
--- PCBC loans-A                             0.0     G.2     2.7      8.5    14.8    17.5    18.9    18.4    17.0   98.0
Beitunigang Phase II
--- PCDC loans-A                             0.0     0.0     0.0      0.0     0.5     2.4     9.1    24.3   42.2    78.5
--- Local loans-B                            0.0     0.0     0.0      0.0     0.5     2.4     9.1    24.3   42.2    78.5
Jiaxing Thermal I
-- PCBC loans-A                              0.0     0.0     0.8      4.9    14.0    27.5    41.0   42.8    41.2   172.2
--- Local loans-B                            0.0     0.0     0.0      0.0     5.7    19.0   32.1    33.9    31.5   122.2
500 kv Other line
--- PCBC loans-A                             3.9     6.4    10.6    17.3    20.7    17.9    16.5    15.2    13.8   122.3
Jiaxing Thermal II
--- PCBC loans-A & Local loans-B             0.0     0.0     0.0      0.0     0.0     0.0     0.8      4.9    19.7    25.4
Total                                  45.8    86.3   150.9  216.8   265.7   295.8  332.2   361.2   395.8  2150.6
;2=5=3===u===zX==a=uu=uu==u



- 88 -                                    ANNEX 21
Page 12 of 24
CHINA
BEILUNGkAN POWER EXTENSION PROJECT
ZHEJIANG PROVINCIAL ELECTRIC POWER BUREAU
INTEREST DURING CONSTRUCTION                1987    1988    1989    1990    1991    1992    19        1994    1995   TOTAL
. . ............. . ......  ..... ..... .... ...... .... ...... ...  ----   .... .....    ....    ----.  ....    .....    .... .....    .....
en Thermal III
CBC loans-A                                                                                                       0.0
ou Thermal III
cal loans-A                             2.9     2.5                                                               5.4
hai Thermol It
CBC loans-A                                                                                                       0.0
L" wwhai Thermal III
--- Local loans-B                            1.2     3.3      7.8                                                     12.3
Jinshuitan hydro
--- PCBC loans-A                            17.1     6.6                                                              23.7
Shitang h,ydro
--- PC8C loans-A                             2.6     3.8     3.5                                                       9.9
Shangbiao hydro
--- PCBC loans-A                             0.8     1.1      1.5                                                      3.3
Hunanzhen hydro
--- PCBC loans-B                             0.0     0.0     0.2      0.7     1.3                                      2.2
--- Local loans-B                            0.0     0.0     0.1      0.6     1.2                                      1.9
Other Construction I
--- PC8C loans-A                             4.3     8.0    12.8                                                      25.2
Other Construction 11
--- PCBC loans-A                             0.0     0.0     0.0      2.6     7.4    12.2                             22.2
Other Construction III
--- PCBC loons-A                             0.0     0.0     0.0      0.0     0.0     0.0     2.7      8.5    14.3    25.5
Beilungang Phase I(Unit 1, 500kv Line 1)
--- 18RD loan                                3.4    21.8    49.9    63.3                                             138.4
--- PCBC loans-A                             2.9     8.0    17.2    27.7                                              55.9
Beilungang Phase  l(Unit 2. 500kv Line 2)
--- IBRD loan                                0.0     2.0    11.5    27.5   39.3                                       80.3
--- PCBC loans-A & Prov Gov't Loan           0.0     0.2      2.7     8.5    14.8                                     26.1
Beilungang Phase It
--- PCBC loans-A                             0.0     0.0      0.0     0.0     0.5     2.4     9.1    24.3    21.1    57.4
--- Local loans-B                            0.0     0.0      0.0     0.0     0.5     2.4     9.1    24.3    21.1    57.4
Jiaxing Thermal I
--- PCBC loans-A                             0.0     0.0      0.8     4.9    14.0   27.5    20.5                      67.6
--- Local loans-B                            0.0     0.0     0.0      0.0     5.7    19.0   16.1                      40.7
500 kv Other line
*-- PCBC loans-A                             3.9     6.4    10.6    17.3                                              38.2
Jiaxing Thermal 11                           0.0     0.0      0.0     0.0     0.0     0.0      0.8     4.9    19.7    25.4
Total                                  39.1    63.6   118.7   153.0    84.6   63.5    58.4    61.9    76.3   719.0
CHARGEABLE IOC
-  ... . . . .
Banshmn Thermal III
Taizhou Thermal III                                  2.5
Zhenghai Thermal II
Zhenghai Thermal III
Jinshuitan hydro                                     6.6
Shitang hydro                                                 3,S
Shangbiao hydro
Hunanzhen hydro
Other Construction I
Other Construction II
Other Construction III
Beilungang Phase l(Unit 1, 500kv Line 1)
Beiltngang Phase I(Unit 2, 500kv Line 2)
Beilungeng Phase II                                                                                           42.2
Jiaxing Thermal 1                                                                            36.6
5Ct kv Other line



- 89 -                                   ANNEX 21
Page 13 of 24
CHINA
BEILUNGANG P04ER EXTENSION PROJECT
ZHEJIANG PROVINCIAL ELECTRIC PO4ER BUREAU
REPAYMENT                                  1987    1988    1989    1990    1991    1992    1993    1994   1995  TOTAL
.........                                  ....  . .....   . ....  .... .   ....  .... . .. ....  ....  .... .   ....   ........ .. ...................
' tan Thermal I l
'CRC loan-A                             4.6     4.6     4.6     4.6     4.6     4.6     4.6     4.6    4.6   41.4
Iou Therml III
Cal loans-A A                           0.0    12.6    12.6    12.6   12.6   12.6   12.6   12.6   12.6  101.2
ihaI Thermal tI
PCUC loans-A                           10.S   10.S    10.5   10.5   10.5   10.5   10.5   10.5   10.5   94.6
phal Thermal III
.ocal Loans-                            0.0     0.0     0.0   28.1    28.1    28.1    28.1    28.1   28.1   168.7
...nniulUtaij hydro
--PC8C loans-A                              0.0   40.3   40.3   40.3   40.3   40.3   40.3   40.3   40.3  322.8
Shitwng hydro
--- PCBC loans-A                            0.0     0.0    10.7    10.7   10.7    10.7   10.7   10.7   10.7   74.6
Shangbiao hydro
--- PC8C loans-A                            0.0     0.0     0.0      3.1     3.1     3.1     3.1     3.1    3.1    18.7
Hunanzhen hydro
--- PCRC loans-B                            0.0     0.0     0.0      0.0     0.0     2.2     2.2     2.2     2.2     8.7
--- Local loans-B                           0.0     0.0     0.0      0.0     0.0     2.7     2.7     2.7    2.7    10.8
Other Construction I
--- PCBC loans-A                            0.0     0.0     0.0    28.8   28.8   28.8   28.8   28.8   28.8  172.7
Other Construction II
--- PC8C loans-A                            0.0     0.0     0.0      0.0     0.0     0.0    28.0   28.0   28.0   84.0
Other Construction III
--- PC8C loans-A                            0.0     0.0     0.0      0.0     0.0     0.0     0.0     0.0    0.0      0.0
Bellunggeng Phase ItUnit 1, 500kv Line 1)
--- IBRD loan                               0.0     0.0     0.0      0.0   S5.5   55.5    55.5    55.5   55.5   277.5
--- PC8C loans-A                            0.0     0.0     0.0      0.0   6S.0   65.0   65.0   65.0   65.0  32S.0
Beiltungang Phase ICUnit 2, 50 kv Line 2)
-18R  loan                              0.0     0.0     0.0      0.0     0.0     0.0    11.1   23.6   25.5   60.2
PC8C loans-A                            0.0     0.0     0.0      0.0     0.0     0.0    38.4   38.4   38.4   115.2
Bellun3ng Phase It
--- PCBC loans-A                            0.0     0.0     0.0      0.0     0.0     0.0     0.0     0.0     0.0     0.0
--  Local loans-8                           0.0     0.0     0.0      0.0     0.0     0.0     0.0    0.0      0.0     0.0
I§axfng ThermaL I
--- PC8C loans-A                            0.0     0.0     0.0      0.0     0.0     0.0    91.7   91.7   91.7  275.0
--- Local Loans-B                           0.0     0.0     0.0      0.0     0.0     0.0   69.1   69.1   69.1   207.3
500 kv Other line
--- PCBC loans-A                            0.0     0.0     0.0      0.0   38.4    38.4    38.4   38.4    38.4   191.8
Existing amortization                      48.0   48.0    48.0   48.0   48.0   48.0   48.0   48.0   48.0  432.0
Total                                 63.1   116.1   126.8  186.8  345.7   350.5  588.9  601.3  603.2  2982.4
*-#UUUUuuUSuUmUUUUUUUinUUUUuUU              _      _       _----                 __-------an--u
Loan Repayment from GpWeciation   1986    1987    1988    1989    1990    1991    1992    1993    1994   1995  TOTAL
...................... ..........   ....    ....    ....    ....   .....   .....   .....    . . ..    . ._..    . .... ...... .
Fixed asset additions           301.0  179.5  633.1   485.7  1152.4  2537.3  1445.8  1880.7  1464.1  1654.8 11734.5
0epreciation rate 4 X            12.0    7.2   25.3    19.4   46.1   101.5   57.8   75.2   58.6   66.2  469.4
lepayment from depreciation                                                                                        0.0
------- 1986                 9.6     9.6     '.6     6.0     6.0     6.0      6.0     6.0    6.0   65.0
--    1987                           S.7     5.7     5.7     3.6      3.6     3.6     3.6    3.6   35.2
... 1988                                    20.3   20.3   20.3    12.7   12.7   12.7   12.7  111.4
------- 1989                                        15.5    15.5   15.5       9.7    9.7      9.7    75.8
--   1990                                                  36.9   36.9   36.9   23.0   23.0  156.7
------ 1991                                                         81.2   81.2   81.2   50.7  294.3
------- 1992                                                                 46.3   46.3   U.3   138.8
------ 1993                                                                          60.2   60.2   120.4
1994                                                                                       46.9    U.9
Total                                   9.6    15.4   35.6   47.6   82.3   155.9  196.3  242.7  2S9.1  1044.5



90                                  A ANNEX 21
Page 14 of 24
CHINA
SEIi"mANG PWER EXTENSION PROJECT
ZHEJIANG PROVINCIAL ELECTRIC POWIN BUllAU
FlEE ASSET FORATION
a*Suus3$..33R..g8.uUu
ftEES ASSET ADDITIONS                    1987   1918   1989   t990   1991   1992   1993   1994   199    1996    TOTAL
.....  ...........................       ....    .... .   .... .   ....  .... .   ....  .... .   ....   ....   ..... ... .... ... .....................
LOANS
;   Therl 111                                                                                                             0.0
taihou Th     ftl 1                             96.1   96.1                                                            192.2
2herahi Tle_a I                          78.8                                                                            78.8
Z2enha  Therml III                                             421.8                                                    421.8
Jinhuitan hydro                                 407.9  203.9                                                            611.8
Shiten  hydra                                            54.5  109.0                                                    163.S
Shangblo hydro                                                   46.8                                                   46.8
Ntunmhen hydro                                                                  62.3                                    62.3
Other Construction I                                           43t.8                                                    431.8
Other ConstrucCon It                                                                   420.1                            420.1
Other Constructtn III                                                                                         488.3    488.3
efiiWur Plie ICUnit l,S00 kv Line 1)                                   1507.6                                          1807.6
Be1twin  Phase ICUnit 2,500 kv Line 2)                                        1186.5                                   1186.5
nei,imunW  Phase It                                                                                  1398.2  1398.2   2796.4
Jiaxing Thema 1                                                                       1224.2  1224.2                   2448.3
500  v Other line                                                      573.4                                            575.4
..............................................................   . .......................... .................................................................. - ...
Cspitelized Sorrowlngp               78.8  504.0  354.5  1009.3  2383.0  1248.8  164.3  ;224.2  1398.2  1886.4  11731.5
Gr ats                                                                                                        TOTAL
11  Project                              2.0    2.5    2.5    3.0    3.0    3.5    3.7    4.0    4.3   28.5
completed Renovations                   55.2   71.4   72.8   83.6   94.3  135.9  174.6  177.Z  193.0  1058.1
Caopleted Oist. Extanslons              43.5   55.2   S5.9   S6.4   57.0   ST.6   50.2   58.7   S9.3  501.9
................ ....................... 
Capitaelied Grants                  100.7  129.1  131.2  14j.1   154.3  197.0  236.4  240.0  256.7  15a8.4
TOTAL CAPITALIZATIONS               179.5  633.1  465.7  1152.4  2S37.3  144S.8  18N0.7  1464.1  16S4.8
CINUSLTIW CAPITALIZATIOSS           179.5  612.6 12.3  2450.8 4988.1  6433.8 8314.5  9778.6 11433.5
CONSTRUCTION WIP                         1987   1986   1989    1990   1991   1992   1993   1994   1995
........... ....                                 ..     ..       ..    ..       . .    . .      ..    ..
CWIP et begfiifng of year             276.2  797.2  1337.3 2S92.6 2920.7  1787.6 1130.0  1613.9  1957.1
Construction during year              601.8  1066.6 1592.3  1340.4  1253.0  1214.? 1S11.6  1571.4  1684.2
Work com eted during year              80.8  S06.S  357.0  1012.3 2386.0  12S2.3  1648.0  1228.2  1402.5
CWIP at end of year             276.2  797.2  1357.3 2592.6  2920.7  1787.6  1750.0  1613.9  1957.1  2238.8
ANNUAL OEPtECIATION               1986   1987   1988   1989    1990   1991   1992   1993   1994   1995
...................              .... . .....   .....   .....     . ....  .... .   ....  .... .   . ... .   ....  .... .   ....  .......... .......... ..
Annuat Fixed Asset Additions   301.0  179.5  633.1  48S.7  1152.4  2537.3  1445.8  INS.?  1464.1  1654.8
Cum. Incremmntat fixed Assets  301.0  480.5  1113.6 1599.3  2751.8  5289.1  6734.8  8615.5 10079.6 11734.5
Incrementat Depreciation                       31.9   34.3   87.0  160.8  240.5  307.0  373.9  436.3
Anual Depreciation             69.0   90.0  100.9  123.3  156.0  229.8  309.S  376.0  442.9  505.3
Cuul. Historic Depreciation   511.0  601.0  701.9  825.1  981.2  1211.0  1520.3  1896.5  2339.4  2844.6



- 91 -                                   ANNEX 21
Page 15 of 24
CHINA
SEILUNGANG POWER EXTENSION PROJECT
ZHEJIANG PROVINCIAL ELECTRIC POWER BUREAU
REVALUATION OF ASSETS
..... ..... . ... -U
1986    1987    1988    1989    1990    1991    1992    1993    1994    1995
,.......................    ....  .....    ....  .....    .... .....   ....  .....    ....
GROSS FIXED ASSETS
.............. ........................ 
Historical Cost:
opening Balance                  1960    2261    2441    3074    3559    4712    7249    86      10575   12040
Additions                         301     180      633     486    1152    2S37    1446    1881   1U4      165S
................................................................................................................
Closing Bat. - Historical Cost     2261    2441    3074    3559    4712    7249    865   1057s   12040   13694
Revtluation
Opening Balance                   900    3222    3402    4332    5138    6662    971S   11639   14550   TO008
Additions                         322      180     633     486    1152    2537    144     1881    1464    1655
Revaluation Factor                       1.00    1.08    1.07    1.07    1.07    1.07    1.07    1.07    1.07
Revalued Gross Fixed Assets        3222    3402    4332    5138    6662    971S   11839   145S0   T7008   19622
GROSS FIXED ASSETS                2261    2441    3074    3s59    4712    7249   869    10575   12040   13694
Cimulative D      precfation:
Opening Balance                   640     727      822     949    1104    1316    1643    2049   2557    3156
Depr. on Inherited Assets          74      74       S0      86      91      97     104     110     118     125
Depr. on Incremental Assets        13      20      47       70     120     230     302    397      482     579
..................................  ....................................................................................................................
ACC. DEPRECIATION (Revalued)        727     822      949    1104    1316    1643    2049   2557   3156    3861
NET FIXED ASSETS (Revalued)        2495    25e8    3383    4034    5346    8071    9790   11993   13851   15961
REVALUATION RESERVE                 745     740    1012    1299    1615   2033    2615   3314    4151    5111



- 92 -                               ANNEX 21
Page 16 of 24
CHINA
BEILUNANG POWER EXTENSION PROJECT   -
ZHEJIANG PROVINCIAL ELECTRIC POWER BUREAU
Beitlungan Thermal Power Extension Project
IBRD loon                                     1968   1989   1990   1991   1992   1993   1994   1995  TOTAL
...... ............. ..... ..... ....... i.....  .... .....   .... .....   .... .....   .... .....  .....
Unit No.2, Training & Tech. Assistance
Arnnl disbursment in US                     14.2   S2.3   S9.3   24.0    1.3   14.0                   165.0
Anual disbursement in R31                   52.4  193.5  219.4   8.6    4.8   51.8    0.0    0.0
Cum disbursemnt                             S2.4  245.9  465.3  553.9  558.7  610.5  610.5  610.5
Cum disbursement (mid-year)                 26.2  149.1  355.6  509.6  556.3  584.6  610.5  610.5
Undisbursed (subject to c/f)               584.3  461.4  254.9  100.9   54.2   25.9    0.0    0.0
Camitwent fee 0.75X                          4.4    3.5    1.9    0.8    0.4    0.2    0.0    0.0
Cum comitment fee                            4.4    7.8    9.8   1O.S   10.9   11.1   11.1   11.1
Anmal  repament                                                                  11.1   23.6   25.5
Cum repayment                                                                    11.1   34.7   60.2
SubJect to interest                         26.2  149.1  3S5.6  509.6  556.3  584.6  599.4  575.8
Interest 9 7.72                              2.0   11.5   27.5   39.3   42.9   45.1   46.3   44.4
Cum interest                                 2.0   13.5   41.0   80.3  123.3  168.4  214.7  259.1
Transmission Line 2
Anmul  disburseent in US                             0.0    0.0    0.0    0.0    0.0                    0.0
Anual disbursement in ESB                            0.0    0.0    0.0    0.0    0.0    0.0    0.0
Cum disbursemwnt                                    0.0    0.0    0.0    0.0    0.0    0.0    0.0
Cum disbursement (mid-year)                         0.0    0.0    0.0    0.0    0.0    0.0    0.0
Undisbursed (subject to c/f)                         0.0    0.0    0.0    0.0    0.0    0.0    0.0
cimitment fee 0.7t5                                 0.0    0.0    0.0    0.0    0.0    0.0    0.0
Cue commitment fee                                   0.0    0.0    0.0    0.0    0.0    0.0    0.0
Amusl repavment                                                                   0.0    0.0    0.0
Cum repayment                                                                     0.0    0.0    0.0
SubJect to Interest                                  0.0    0.0    0.0   .0.0    0.0    0.0    0.0
Interest a 7.72X                                    0.0    0.0    0.0    0.0    0.0    0.0    0.0
Cum interest                                        0.0    0.0    0.0    0.0    0.0    0.0    0.0
Subtotet
Amuat disbursement in US                    14.2   52.3   59.3   24.0    1.3   14.0    0.0    0.0  165.0
Anusl disbursemnt in RNB                    52.4  193.5  219.4   88.6    4.8   51.8    0.0    0.0
CUM disbursement                            52.4  245.9  465.3  553.9  558.7  610.5  610.5  610.5
Cu. disburseent (mid-year)                  26.2  149.1  355.6  509.6  556.3  584.6  610.5  610.5
Undisbursed (subject to c/f)               584.3   61.4  254.9  100.9   54.2   25.9    0.0    0.0
Comitment fee 0.753                          4.4    3.5    1.9    0.8    0.4    0.2    0.0    0.0
Cum comitment fee                            4.4    7.8    9.8   10.5   10.9   11.1   11.1   11.1
Annusl repament                              0.0    0.0    0.0    0.0    0.0   11.1   23.6   25.5
Cum repayment                                0.0    0.0    0.0    0.0    0.0   11.1   34.7   60.2
Subject to interest                         26.2  149.1  355.6  509.6  556.3  584.6  599.4  575.8
Interest a 7.72X                             2.0   11.5   27.5   39.3   42.9   45.1   46.3   44.4
Cu. interest                                 2.0   13.5   41.0   80.3  123.3  168.4  214.7  259.1
PCBC loans-A and Prov. Gov't loans
-------------   price con of fC                2.1   22.8   42.4   24.0    1.7   22.9                   115.8
base cost of LC                0.0   a3.0   96.7   61.1   21.8   17.4                   282.1
Unit No.2 Anual investment                   2.1  11S.6  160.1  101.7   31.1   48.0    0.0    0.0
IBRO interest                                2.0   11.5   27.5   39.3
IBRD comaitment fee                          4.4    3.5    1.9    0.8    0.4
Total nnuat investment                       8.5  130.6  189.5  141.8   31.6   48.0    0.0    0.0
Cu. investment                               8.5  139.1  328.6  470.3  501.9  549.9  549.9  549.9
Repayment                                                                        38.4   38.4   38.4
Cu. repayment                                                                    38.4   76.8  115.2
Subject to interest                          4.3   73.9  236.6  410.8  486.1  525.9  511.5  473.1
Interest a 3.6X                             0.2    2.7    8.5   14.8   17.5   18.9   18.4   17.0
Cuiulative interest                          0.2    2.8   11.3   26.1   43.6   62.6   81.0   98.0



- 9'j -                                An"i:, Z1
Page 17 of 24
CHINA
SEILUNGANG POiER EXTENSION PROJECT
ZHEJIANG PROVINCIAL E!ECTRIC POWER tUREAU
FUEL, PURCHASES & OPER. EXPS.
FUEL COST CALCULATION             1966   1987    1988    1989    1990   1991   1992   1993   1994   1995
.......... .......................  ....  ....    ....    ....    ....    ....    ....    ....    ....   ................... .. ..
Cost of Coal & Oit (Exc. Beilungang)
................................
Electricity generated (GSA)            10685   114S5   12035   15160  18160  18160  21160  24760  28360
electricity generated --o@t           1480    1400    1400    1400   1400   1400   1400   1400   1400
electricity generated --coal          9205   10055   1063S   13760  16760  16760  19760  23360  26960
Oil I Generation                    0.14    0.12    0.12    0.09    0.06   0.08   0.07   0.06    0.05
Coat  G Generation                  0.86    0.68    0.68    0.91    0.92    0.92    0.93    0.94    0.95
Consuiption  (ton oil eq./GUh)         378.0  378.0  377.0  370.0  361.0  357.0  351.0  349.0  349.0
Standard (000 ton oil eq.)              4039   4330   4537    S609   6556   6483   7427   8641   9898
Oil  (000 ton oil eq.)               559    529    528       S18    505    500    491    489    489
Coat (O0 ton oil eq.)               3479   3801    4009   5091   6050   5983   6936   8153   9409
Std oil price (Yuan/toe)              110.00  114.40  122.96  131.25  139.78  148.86  158.54  168.85  179.82
Std coal price (Constant Y)   105.00  105.00  108.00  111.65  111.65  111.65  111.65  111.65  111.65  111.63
Std cool price (Current Y)    105.00  105.00  112.32  124.80  133.22  141.U8  151.10  160.92  171.38  182.52
Cost of Oil  (min Y)                    61.5   60.5   64.9   68.0   70.6   74.4   77.9   82.5   87.9
Cost of coal (min Y)                   365.3  426.9  500.4  678.2  85.4  904.1  1116.1  1397.2  1717.3
Beitugang Unit 2
....... ........
Electricity generated (GWh)                                                     1500   3600   3600   3600
Consumption  (ton oil eq.IGWh)                                                   310    306    306    306
Standard coal V OOO ton)                                                         465   1102   1102    1102
Cost of coal (mIn Y)                                                            70.3  177.3  18.8  201.1
TOTAL FUEL COST
...............
Cost of Oil  (min Y)                    61.5   60.S   64.9   68.0   10.6   74.4   77.9   82.5   87.9
Cost of coat (min Y)                   365.3  426.9  500.4  678.2  858.4  974.3  1293.4  1586.0  1918.4
.......................................... ................................................................................... ................ ................
Total                               426.9  487.4  565.3  746.2  929.0  1048.7  1371.3  1668.5 2006.2
** Coal price adJ. (Yuan)                 0.00    7.32   19.80   28.22   36.68   46.10   55.92  66.38   77.52
Coat cost adi. (min Y)                  0.0   27.8   79.4   143.7  223.1  297.2  449.4  614.3  814.8



- 94 -                                  ANNEX 21
Page 18 of 24
CHINA
BEILUNGANG POWER EXTENSION PROJECT
ZHEJIANG PROVINCIAL ELECTRIC POWER BUREAU
POWER PURCHASES                    1986    1987    1988    1989    1990    191    1992    1993    1994   1995
.....................              .... .    .... . .. ....  .... .    ....  .... .    ....  .... .    ....  .....................................
Purchased power (GWh)            3700   4245    4474    4200    4200    4627   6738    7674   7654   9027
From Others                             774     774    500    500    1427   3738    S174   5654    7027
From ECEPA                     3f,00    3471    3700    3700   3700    3200   3000    2500   2000   2000
.......... 7 ...........................................................................................
Purchase Price (Yuan)
From Others                           66.00  68.64   73.77  78.75  110.00  113.58  120.96  128.82  137.19
From ECEPA                    45.00  58.40   46.0   46.00  46.00   46.00  46.00  46.00  46.00  46.00
Bas Price                   43.00   49.64   37.00   37.00  37.00   37.00  37.00   37.00   37.00  37.00
Auth. Coal Adjustments        2.0    8.8      9.0    9.0      9.0    9.0    9.0    9.0    9.0    9.0
Cost of purchased (mtn Y)
From Others                     0.0   51.1   53.1   36.9   39.4  1S7.0  424.5  625.8  728.3  964.1
From ECEPA                    166.5  202.7  170.2  170.2  170.2  147.2  138.0  115.0   92.0   92.0
Total                        166.5  253.8  223.3  207.1  209.6  304.2  562.5  740.8  820.3  1056.1
_nuuuuuuaumuuinaauuuauuuuuaustsuuauuuuuu     # -u ---- u    - - -- -   --f SSS- --S----
*  Coal price adJ. (Yuen)                  0.00    7.32   19.80  28.22   36.88  46.10  5S.92  66.38  77.52
Coal cost adJ. (mln Y)                   0.0   27.1    73.3  104.4  118.0  138.3  139.8  132.8  155.0
NA;NTENANCE                        1986    1987    1988    1989    1990   1991    1992    1993    1994   1995
.........                          -  -    - --    ....    .......  ....           ---     ..  ..  ...
Incremntal Maintenance                   4.2    6.7    15.6   22.4   38.5   74.0   94.3   120.6  141.1
Annual  aintenance Expense       27.3   31.5   34.0   42.8   49.6   65.8  101.3  121.5  147.9  168.4
OPERATION & MAINTENACE             1986    1987    1988    1989    1990   1991    ¶992    1993    1994   1995
........... ............    .     .... ....  .... .    . ... .    ----.  ----  .... .    ....  .... .    ....  .....................................
Water & Material                 18.6   21.3   24.5   28.2   32.4   37.3   42.9   49.3   56.7   65.3
with escalation                18.6   21.3   25.5    31.5   38.7   47.4   58.1    71.1   87.1   106.7
Nusber of Eqfloyees (000)        26.6   27.9   29.0   30.1    31.2   32.3   33.4   34.5   35.6   36.7
Average Wage (Yuan/Year)         1516    1610    1852    1852    2130    2130    2449    2449    2449   2449
Wages                            40.3   44.9   53.6   55.7   66.4   68.7   81.7   84.4   87.1   89.8
Maintenance                      27.3   31.5   34.0   42.8   49.6   65.8  101.3  121.5  147.9  168.4
................................................................................................................
Total                         86.1    97.7   113.1   130.1   154.7  181.9  241.1   277.1   322.1   364.8
ADMINISTRATION                     1986    1987    1988    1989    1990   1991    1992    19       1994    1995
..............                     ....    ....    ....    ----   ...      ...    ....    ....    ....    ....
Base Cost                        37.2   38.9   42.0   45.3   49.0   52.9   57.1    61.7   66.6   71.9
Administration Expense           37.2   38.9   43.7   50.7   58.4   67.2   77.3   88.9  102.3  117.6
*          ----a-         -      ass   Xsssa   swX-----   ---aw-s-s  -ssu-r=-



ANNEX 21
Page 19 of 24
CHINA
BEILUNeGAN POWER EXTENSION PROWECT
ZHEJIANG PROVINCIAL ELECTRIC PO4ER BUREAU
SPECIAL FUNDS CALCULATIONS
1986    1987    1988    1989    1990    1991    1992    1993    1994    1995
.......    ..... ....    ........ ....    ..... . .... ..... ....    .......  
Renewal & Renovation Furd
. ..... . . . . . . .  . .
Annal allocatIon                  124.0    90.0    91.3   107.9   120.4   182.3   227.2   220.1   246.6   262.6
Annuat expenditure                108.0    72.0    73.0    86.3    96.3   145.8   181.8   176.1   197.3   210.1
Balance at year end                83.9   118.7   138.6   173.6   210.4   298.3   389.6   435.2   504.5   574.1
Coapleted Renovations             104.8    55.2    71.4    72.8    83.6    94.3   135.9   174.6   177.2   193.0
Maintenance Funid
Arual allocation                   33.0    31.S    34.0    42.8    49.6    65.8   101.3   121.5   147.9   168.4
Anun l expenditure                 24.0    31.5    34.0    42.8    49.6    65.8   101.3   121.5   147.9   168.4
Blance at year end                 39.7    39.7    39.7    39.7    39.7    39.7    39.7    39.7    39.7    39.7
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~. _. _................ ....................... ................. ........... ........ ..................
Employee Benefits Fwid
.....  ..........
nnual allocation                            14.0    14.6    15.1    15.7    16.4    17.0    17.7    18.4    19.2
Amual expenditure                           11.2    11.6    12.1    12.6    13.1    13.6    14.2    14.7    1S.3
Balanee at year end                49.2    52.0    54.9    57.9    61.1    64.4    67.8    71.3    75.0    78.8
..... .......   .................. .................. *......................... ........................................................ ...
Distribution Extensions Fund
---------  ....... ............. 
Amuat attocation                   69.0    69.3    70.0    70.7    71.4    72.1    72.8    73.6    74.3    75.0
nnual expenditure                  54.4    55.4    56.0    56.6    57.1    57.7    58.3    58.9    59.4    60.0
Balance at year end                97.0   122.8   137.5   152.4   167.3   182.4   197.7   213.1   228.6   244.4
Completed Dist. Extensions         S4.1    43.S    55.2    55.9    56.4    57.0    57.6    S8.2    S8.7    59.3
... ... .. ... ... .. ... .. ... ... .. ... .. ... ... .. ... ... .. ... .. ... ... .. ................ ..
Total Speciat Funds
........ ...............
Awuial allocation                          204.8   209.8   236.6   257.2   336.5   418.4   432.9   487.2   5?W.2
Annul expenditure                          170.1   174.6   197.8   215.7   282.4   354.9   370.?   419.3   453.8
Balance at year end               326.3   389.7   427.2   480.1   535.0   641.3   751.2   815.8   904.4   993.5
Speciat Funds Outftows            18.9   141.4   172.3   183.6   202.3   230.2   308.4   368.4   398.6   436.0
56.5 betance of other funds



ANNEX 21
Page 20 of 24
CHINA
UEILUNGANG POWER EXTENSION PROJECT
ZHEJIANG PROVINCIAL ELECTRIC POGER BUREAU
BREAKEVEN PRICING
Compoments of Gross Revenue                        1987     1988      1989     1990      1991     1992      1993     1994      199f
.......................... ........... ..... ..... ..........  ..... ....... . ....    ....    ..... .. ..    . .... ..... .... ... .....  ..... .....
Operatiw% Costs                                  1027.6  1100.3  1228.3  1512.3  1985.6  2577.7  3289.6  3869.2  4661.8
Interests                                           6.7     31.7     35.7      63.8   181.1   232.4   310.4   299.3   361.8
Aortization met by Net Incom                       63.1    106.5    111.4    151.2    298.1   268.2   433.0   405.0   360.5
Income TEx                                         17.1     17.8      18.5     19.2      20.0     20.8      21.7    22.5      23.4
Employee Benefits Speciat Funds                    14.0     14.6      15.1     1s.7      16.4     17.0      17.7     18.4    19.2
Net Working Capital Increase                        8.0      0.9       3.4     24.3      38.4     22.3    43.6       37.4     42.7
*-................................             ....................................... .... .....................
Gross Operating Requirement                     1136.6  1271.7  1412.5  1786.6  2539.6  3138.5  4115.9  4651.8  5469.4
Sates Votume (GWh)                               14127   1450   14835    16660   20372   23587   28789   31854   36175
HINIMM AVERAGE TARIFF                               8.0      8.7       9.5     70.7      12.5     13.3      14.3     14.6      15.1
Actual Estimete  ----------------------Forecast-
SELF FINNUCING RATIO              1986      1987     1988      1989     1990      1991     1992      1993     1994      1995
w.s . . ~~~~....                   ....     ....      ....      ....     ----      ....     ....     ....      ----. .. ...... ....... .
AJvt Capitel Expenditures               332.4   703.9  1217.1  1782.4  1571.2  1443.6  1408.1  1744.5  1807.4  1936.S
Internally Generated Cash               231.3   301.8   356.4   416.5   493.9   787.4   890.4  1185.6  1321.2  1481.7
(tess) operationet Requirements   139.5   176.4   195.4   252.5   336.6   620.3   65s.7   934.1  1054.7  1200.7
(less) Increased Cash Sstanmes          100.6     26.6      23.3     20.3   (10.3)  (23.6)   41.1   (17.9)   30.5   (13.6)
.. . ....... .. .. .. .. .. .-. .. . .......   ..................................................... -.-..... *. . .-- .    . . ................  --.......    ..........
Cash Avaitable for investment            -8.9      98.7   137.7   143.7   167.5   190.7   193.S   269.3   236.0   294.6
Remittances to Government                 8.4      33.9     21.4     49.7      49.9   1OS.2   121.5   127.2   232.7   311.1
.. .. . .......... ...... ...........          .. .. ... ....... ......... .... ...... .. ...... ...... ... ....................
EARNED CASH                              -0.5    132.6   159.1   193.4    217.    295.9   315.0   306.5   468.6   605.7
SELF FINANCING RATIO (X)                 -0.2      17.7    12.9       12.7     13.6      20.1     20.6     24.0      25.6     28.2
emo Items: Average Price (Current)                  8.5      9.0      10.2     11.2      13.4     14.4    15.1       16.1      16.9
Average Price (Costant)              8.5       8.7      9.2       9.4      10.6    10.6      10.5    10.5       10.3



ANNEX 21
Page 21 of 24
Assumptions to Financial Projections
A.   Income Statement
1.    Average price is derived in the attached table entitled
"Derivation of Average Tariff" (page 8 of this Annex).
2.    Operating Revenue is the product of energy sales in GWh
multiplied by the average price.
3.    Fuel Costs are derived in the table entitled "Fuel, Purchases
and Operating Expenses" (page 17 of this Annex).  ,
4.    Purchased Power is derived in the Table entitled "Fuel,
Purchases and Operating Expenses" (page 18 of this Annex).
5.    Operation Expenses are derived in the table entitled "Fuel,
Purchases and Operating Expenses" (page 18 of this Annex).
6.    Maintenance Costs represent the specific year's allocation to
the Maintenance Special Fund. The allocation represents 1.41
of gross fixed assets in services. Activity of the
Maintenance Special Fund is derived in the table entitled
"Special Fund Calculations" (page 19 of this Annex).
7.    Sales Tax represents 101 of operating revenues.
8.    Depreciation is assumed at 3.6Z of gross fixed assets for
inherited assets and 41 for assets capitalized after Dec. 31,
1985.
9.    Interest.  ZPEPB's borrowings will be obtained from three
sources: (a) the onlent proceeds of World Bank loans, at the
Bank's standard variable rate (currently at 7.72% p.a.); (b)
direct loans from People's Construction Bank or China, at 3.61
p.a. and (c) local loans from the Zhejiang Provincial
Government, also at 3.6% p.a. Interest is derived on a
project by project basis in the subtable entitled "Interest"
within the table entitled "Loan Parameters" (page 11 of this
Annex). In turn, interest charged to operations is derived by
subtracting interest during construction and Chargeable IDC,
both derived in subtables carrying those very titles, from
total interest.
10.   Income Tax represents 551 of net income less debt repayments
which must be met from distributions of net incou".   (This
item is entitled "Transferred to Government Funds" on the
income statement).



ANNEX 21
Page 22 of 24
11.   Remittances to Government represents net income after income
tax and after authorized distributions. These funds are
remitted in cash partly to MWREP and partly to the Ministry of
Finance.
12. -Employee Benefit Special Fund represents the annual allocation
to this particular special fund; this allocation is met as a
distribution f:cm net income. The operation of that special
fund is summarized in the table entitled "Special Fund
Calculations" (page 19 of this Annex). Allocations to this
special fund are assumed to increase by 42 e*.^h year.
13.   Chargeab.e IDC represents interest during construction which,
according to regulations, must be met by distributions from
net income. Annual amounts are derived in the table entitled
"Loan Parameters" (page 11 of this Annex).
B.   Funds Flow Statement
1.    Distribution Improvements Special Funds represents the
receipts of this particular special fund. That fund's
operation is summarized in the table entitled "Special Fund
Calculations" (page 19 of this Annex). The allocation (or for
this fund, receipts) is expecced to increase by 1Z per year.
2.   All Borrowings are derived in the table entitled "Investment
Program" (page 9 of this Annex).
3.    Capital Expenditures, other than interest during construction
Renovations and Distributions Improvements are also derived in
the table entitled "Investment Program" (page 9 of this
Annex).
4.    Interest During Construction is derived in the subtable
carrying that name which is included in the main table "Loan
Parameters" (Page 11 of this Annex).
5.    Renovations represents 802 of the previous year's and 202 of
the expenditures from the Special Fund for Renovations, the
operation of which is summarized in the table entitled
"Special Fund Calculations" (page 19 of this Annex).
6.    Distribution Improvements represent 80Z of the previous year's
and 20Z of the year prior to the previous year's expenditures
from the Distribution Improvements Special Funds, the
operation of which is summarized in the table entitled
"Special Funds Calculation" (page 19 of this Annex).



- 99 -                         ANNEX 21
Page 23 of 24
7.    Increase in Working Capital represents the excess of the
current year's current assets (net of cash) over current
liabilities, less the excess of the previous year's current
assets (net of cash) over current liabilities.
8.    Special Fund Expenditures represents aggregate amounts
actually spent from the various special funds in a particular
year. In general, expenditures £rom the special fund are
assumed at 80% of the previous year's and 20Z of the year
before the previous year's allocations (excluding those from
the Maintenance Special Funds, which are assumed at 100% of
the particular year's allocation). This relocationship is
derived in the table entitled "Special Fund Calculations"
(page 19 of this Annex).
C.   Balance Sheet
1.    Cash represents the balancing figure for these projections.
2.    Inventories are derived at 1Z Gross Fixed Assets and 1 month's
fuel.
3.    Accounts Receivable are expected to increase by 52 per year.
4.    Plant in Service is derived in the table "Fixed Asset
Formation" (page 14 of this Annex). Any revaluation of fixed
assets would be derived in the table entitled "Revaluation of
Assets" (papt 15 of this Annex).
5.    Construction Work in Progress is also derived in the table
entitled "Fixed Asset Formation" (page 14 of this Annex).
6.    Special Fund Assets represents renovations and distribution
improvements under construction. The renovations are financed
by expenditures from the Special Fund for Renovations. The
distribution improvements are financed from the Distribution
Improvements Special Funds. Operation of these funds is
derived in the table entitled "Special Fund Calculations"
(page 19 of this Annex).
?.    Accounts payable are projected to increase by 2% per year.
8.    Due to Government is expected to stay steady at Yuan 24.0
million.
9.    Long Term Debt is expected to increase each given year by the
amount of the investment program being financed with loans
less repayments. The amount of the investment program is
derived in the table entitled "Investment Program" (page 9 of
this Annex). The amount of repayment is derived in the
subtable entitled "Repayments", included within the table
entitled "Loan Parameters" (page 13 of this Annex).



-~~~~~~~~~                         1o  -2
AME£X 21
Page 24 of 24
10.   Government Funds includes all paid in equity, plus transfers
to Government for loan repaymert and chargeaioie 1DC, less
depreciation.
il.   Special Funds represents the cumulative balance remaining in
the special funds at the end of the given year. This figure
is derived in the table entitled "Special Fund Calculations"
(page 19 of this Annex).



- 101 -
ANNEX 22
Page 1 of 5
CHINA
BEILUNGANG THERMAL POWER EXTENSION PROJECT
Calculation of Economic Rate of Return
Costs
Capital Costs
1.        Costs were based on end 1987 price levels.  Shadow pricing was
applied as follows:  (a) taxes and duties were excluded; (b) a shadow exchange
rate of US$ = Y 4.0 was used to convert foreign currencies to Yuan; (c) border
prices were used for net imported items such as cement, steel and timber;
(d) all labor costs were adjusted to reflect the economic cost to the country
by removing the state subsidies; and (e) a conversion factor of 1.2 was used
for the local cost component of transmission facilities.
2.        Summarized below are annual disbursements of project cost including
generation and transmission for both units and the second unit only after
shadow-pricing:
For two units /a                For the second
Year                as a whole                      unit only
(Y million)
1986                  35.0
1987                 150.2                              -
1988                 628.9                           101.2
1989                 900.3                           384.1
1990                 413.9                           248.1
1991                 342.2                           115.7
1992                 232.3                           142.8
1993                    -                               _
Total          2,702.8                           991.9
Unit cost per kW   2,252.0                         1,653.0
/a   Fo: the plant only, the unit cost per kW after shadow-pricing is
Y 1,924 comparing to Y 1,800 used in the "East China Power Pricing
Study" at 1986 prire level.



- 102 -                         ANNEX 22
Page 2 of 5
0" Costs
3.        The O&E costs of the power plant were based on the ictual cost
analysis for large thermal power plants in the ZPEPB's grid bus shadow priced
for labor costs. The O&M cost of the transmission system were oased on 1Z of
the capital cost for transmission and subtransmission.
Fuel Cost
4.        The fuej,cost was estimated using a long-run marginal cost of coal
of.Y 112 per ton I and a unit consumption of 0.306 kg per kWh of standard
coal of 7,000 Kcal/kWh.
Benefits
5.        Quantifying the benefits of power projects is difficult in all
countries and particularly so in China, where tariffs and most other prices
are vot subject to economic pressu.es and where most power is administratively
allocated. It is generally accepted, however, that shortages of electricity
are constraining China's industrial production (causing undercapacity utiliza-
tion in industry) and will continue in the near future. This suggests that
the economic benefits of increasing power supply will be substantial--ECEPA
estimates the net value of industrial output per kWh of electricity consumed
to be about Y 1.0 in the East China region. This suggests that the value of
electricity not served is about Y 1.0/kWh, at least in the short run.
6.        The second point of reference is based on the target revenue arrived
at the East China Power Pricing Study. The estimated value of electricity is
therefore about 14.4 fen/kWh at the retail level, after being adjusted to end
1987 price.
7.        A conservative estimate of the value of electricity is obtained by
using the projected tariffs for ZPEPB's system by 1995, adjusted to 1987
prices as the minimum proxy for economic benefits. However, in addition,
other charges were also included to reflect surplus benefits. These charges
include the 10% local government tax, the connection charge for large con-
sumers, and the recently applied surcharge of 2 fen/kWh for new power station
construction to all consumers except lighting, agricultural uses, and
industries operating at a loss.
1/  Based on the analysis made in the "East China Power Pricing Study,"
February 1988.



- 103 -                        ANNEX 22
Page 3 of 5
Economic Rate of Return
8.        The IERR of the project, the discount rate which equalizes the
present value of economic costs and benefits, is estimated at 10.4X for two
units as a whole and 15.1Z for the proposed project with the second unit only
(see Tables 1 and 2 for details). This demonstrates the attractiveness of
extending L'n existing plant to take advantage of the availability of common
facilities already invested.
Sensitivity
9.        The sensitivity of the IERR of the project with respect to a 10l
increase in investment cost or a one-year delay in commissioning is as
follows. These figures represent the upper limit of possible cost overruns or
delays in implementing the project.
IERR
Base case                             15.0
10'  cost overrun                     13.8
One-year delay in commissioni£g       13.4



ANNEX 22
Page 4 of 5
Table 1: ECONOMIC RATE OF RETURN FOR UNITS NO. 1 AND NO. 2
Capital cost                O&M cost                 Distribu-
Generating  Trans-   Subtrans-  Gene-   Trans-    Fuel    tion and    Total  Gene-              /b        /c  Costs &
Year         plant     mission   mission   ration  mission  cost /a  sales cost  cost   ration  Sales  Benefits  benefits
(Y million) -                                   -   (GWh) -    -  (Y million)
1986          35.0        -35.0                                                                   -                -        -35.0
1987         150.2        -          -          -        -          -          -       150.2      -        -       -      -150.2
1988        536.7       92.2         -          -        -          -          -       628.9      -        -       -      -628.9
1989        802.5       97.8       50.0         -        -          -          -      950.3       -        -       -      -950.3
1990        331.6       82.3       75.0         -        -          -          -       488.9      -        -       -       -488.9
1991        265.2       77.0       85.0       35.0      6.7       72.0       22.5      563.4  2,100   1,827   221.1       -342.3 >
1992         187.7      44.6       65.0       42.0      6.7      171.4       53.5      570.9  5,000   4,347   526.0         -44.9
1993-2016         -          -          -       56.0      6.7      267.3       83.4      413.4  7,800   6,781   820.5         407.1
Economic rate of return = 10.4%
/a The fuel cost is estimated using a long-run marginal cost of coal of Y 112 per ton at plant and a unit consumption of
0.306 kg of standard coal per kWh.
/b Sales are estimated assuming 5.5% station use and 8% transmission and distribution losses.
77  Benefits are valued at 12.1 fen per kWh, which is the average revenue projected for 1995 of 16.9 fen per kWh, adjusted
to late 1987 prices and including a local tax of 10%, a surcharge of 2 fen/kWh for 'onstruction of the new power sta-
tion (limited to industrial and commercial consumers) and connection charges for large consumers.



ANNEX 22
Page 5 of 5
Table 2: ECONOMIC RATE OF RETURN (FOR UNIT NO. 2)
Capital cost                O&M cost                Distribu-
Generating  Trans-   Subtrans-  Gene-   Trans-    Fuel    tion and    Total  Gene-            /b         Lc  Costs &
Year        plant      mission   mission   ration  mission  cost /a  sales cost  cost   ration  Sales  Benefits  benefits
--- - - - - - -                                       -- (Y million)  -----   -- (GWh) -    -- (Y million) --
1988        101.2         -          -          -       -          -          -       101.2      -        -      -       -101.2
1989        365.1       19.0         -          -       -          -          -       384.1      -        -      -       -384.1
1990        221.1       27.0         -          -       -          -          -       248.1      -        -      -       -248.1
1991         94.4       21.3         -          -       -          -          -       115.7      -        -      -       -115.7
1992        114.8       28.0       65.0        7.0      1.0      37.7       11.8      265.3  1,100      956   115.8      -150.3
1993           -          -          -        21.0      1.0     133.7       41.7      197.4  3,900   3,391   410.3        212.9
1994-2016         -         -          -        21.0      1.0     133.7       41.7      197.4  3,900   3,391   410.3        212.9
Internal economic rate of return - 15.0%
/a The fuel cost is estimated using a long-run marginal cost of coal of Y 112 per ton at plant and a unit consumption of
0.306 kg of standard coal per kWh.
/b Sales are estimated assuming 5.5% station use and 8% transmission and distribution losses.
77 Benefits are valued at 12.1 fen per kWh, which is the average revenue projected for 1995 of 16.9 fen per kWh, adjusted
to late 1987 prices and including a local tax of 10%, a surcharge of 2 fen/kWh for construction of the new power
statlon (limited to industrial and commercial consumers) and connection charges for large consumers.



- 106 -
ANNEX 23
CHINA
BEILUNGANG THERMAL POWER EXTENSION PROJECT
Selected Documents and Data Available in the Project File
A. Selected Reports and Studies Related to the Sector
A.1 Statistical Brief of the Electric Power Industry in China (1986).
B. Selected Reorts and Studies Related to the Project
B.l Environmental Impact Report of the Preliminary Design for Stage I
Development, ECEPDI, November 1986.
B.2 Atmospheric Environment Assessment Report, Nanjing Environmental
Protection Institution of MWREP, January 1988.
B.3 The National Emission Standards of Air Pollutants for Fossil-Fuel
Power Plants, 1986 (in Chinese).
B.4 East China Power Pricing Study, February 1988 (not attached).
B.5 Statistical Data of ZPEPB for 1986 and 1987 (in Chinese).
C. Selected Work Sheets
C.1 Working sheets for Financial Forecasts (Annex 21).



Chart 1
CHINA
BEILUNGANG THERMAL POWER EXTENSION PROJECT
Organization Chart of the Electric Power Industry Within
the Ministry of Water Resources & Electric Power
Minister
Depuity-
Ministers
Department                                                      China Water         Electric
ofpaScienct      Dprmn               eea                        Rosources &         Power
o               ofinc   Dplanningt  Officel                    Hydropower        Planning &      Colleges
ore Pnnlnioy                                                   Devolopmont       Engineoring
Technology SuCorporation                                                           Institute
Department                        lectionr                        Electric      scientific &
Department              ~~Department       Elcrc        Hydropower         Powor         Tcncal
-of Foreign           of                of           Power       Construction        Deosign       Tosachn
Affairs        Eetity            Personnel      Adminis-        Buireaux        Institutes     Institutes
Production                       trations
Department       Department                    Hydropower
Department        of Capital        of Labor                      Survey &
of Finance      Cosrcin            0Design
Consructon   &Wages                         InStitLutes
Bureau of       Deatet          Provincial
Bureau     ~~Cemmuni-       Deatet           Electric
of Supplies       cation &duatofn                   Poweru
Dispatching       Edcto            uex
Department        Bureau of
of Rural    L    Nuclear
Electri-         Pve
ficationPoe
Hydro &        Electric     Transmission     Electric       Electric
Thermal   Bureaux of     Substation       PoePwr
Power       Perfectures   Construction       Design       Research
Plants        & Cities     Companies       Instittites   Laboratories
ker/w4 1327b



CHINA
BEILUNGANG THERMAL POWER EXTENSION PROJECT
ORGANIZATION CHART OF THE ZHEJIANG PROVINCIAL ELECTRIC POWER BUREAU
MWREP
ECEPA
PEPB               r   Chief Engineer|
E            19 C~~~~hief Accountant!
Deputy Director           Deputy Director           Deputy Director           Deputy Director           Deputy Director
&     Chief Engineer      (Power Supply &         (Capital Construction         Hydroelectric               Personnel
(Production. Technical     Rural Electrification)        & Materials)                Power                   & Education
15 Headquarter Departments)                                                  (35 External Units)
C)                                                  C~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ 
0    2.  -                                       A    0
0    0            C          -~~~~~~~0                                                     
CL ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~c,ok. 
-'~~~~~~~0mC                                                                    I                0                           *    0
rL         >    a-                        W          0                 -          -.   0
co                                 0                                 z0    0 
7   o    CO~~~~~k\4146



CHINA
BEIWNGANG THERMAL POWER EXTENSION PROJECT
Project Implement10Hon Sche'Jle
CAIENDER YEAR: 1987             498S                          1989                          1990                         1991                           992                          4993
2B1~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ 15 1 1 6ig      Z i
_                     ~~~PROJECT MONTH:   JJJ    JJJJJJJJJ { f     f{HHHl111111hh141 161932 4 i2, 211 3,14
te.lln cand st uance df Boiler
& T/G Bict Documentsi                                       _     / 
Bts qznnS                                                                /15
PIoect Appro sol                                                  _
Negotation & Loan Apprao                                                 * 
Boiler a T/G Bid ECialuctn & Awact                                     ___
Conrcs Negotiation & Signing                                                    _Miscellaneous
Ngtltrons & Contracts Signing tar other islands                                                          Excavnation &    Erection at    CM/i kvI
tounkzdaions  steel         & internali
Piling (T/G Boller Bldgt & CNimney)                                                               _       O    on         structure     decraotion
aIWn Power Block ( mci foundations)                                                                                k         I              I
Bailer. Auslllarles & Auxiliary System Chimney                                                        m el 
Preciptitato                                                                                                                   Er_to _   ;                LW                  Trest run &   
V,G. Auxtliores & Auxitary System                                                                                      Ef]3 oc SelStutr                    Eeto             ardjustment
Chimneys                                                                                                        Flt,atO     ________________                                              4
Waiter Treatment Eqauipment  
Electrical Equ pment & Miscellaneous                                                          CMI Wc*l                                                Erection
Ccntroi & Instrumentaztion & Miscellaneous                                                                                          -E=ect_ n
Coal Handling System                                                                                                                                                                                                            C
Ash Haondting Systemn.                                                                                                             Chril Work             Erection         Tes;t R~un
Lagging & Pointing                                                                                                                                                                                                              r 
..t __n.418 ...



IBRD 20490
,    117-         118'                 119'  ,}          120'              121-               122               123
ajr  S H A N D O N G   f-t                                                          CHINA                            35*
Fs _._   9                        BEILUNGANG THERMAL POWER
V                    /                   ut.< EXTENSION PROJECT
_"-%/ Io? < /L'onyungang                                       EXISTING CONJUPTION PEPROJECt
2x6OOh1i/*uXyg%8g^">}I/528ooomW}^                                                                              5COkV Tronsmission Line
Xuxh4,MUZHOU {i                                                                     lsS8VAJ  A  A   4500kV Substotions
HCIA,'Bfl                       XINHA f                     0~~~~~~~~~~~~ Thermiol Power Plants
34UA:@/  N'4 0                                                                                                 Hydro Power Plonts 34-
l       L             '       [lso~~~~~~~~~~~tng                                    River
HUAIYAN(1.5OOMVA)  -                               Rivers
,  r        __Province Boundaries
33->  \J            NA  N  G  S U  N           S ANGH|
oy>Dt60    30oMwJ (0 _W,                                                                       MABEl  46
1400 / WJ                   (IOBOkfl' .e                                       NO 1-75N MVU 50 A
(4'~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~0
A  N   H   U   I                                           rIANSHUNL/JINGBEWNAN (00MW
32'         Hefei              =>                              /330 M WI                                          c             321k
|                              IVANI(                                                                    MW0
Hfl CJt-5001t/lVAI r0                                      SNANZAN0U (500MW)                                         31-
J;rensJJWeene                re  Ce ) j H wj-ANG  NGHAI  Fflt*
Anq005MW             c      SrEEI m/1C IZv3  SV M'3gtAW
1§>   ,)              RINCKAO/I 600MVAJ j  r                   0~~~~SW~ONC;
X~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~oV 'V It4aV r.tanSw;<
(40O-WI                                                                                 M . YA) ,o,po,.n
( \)   >  Z H E J t/A N G                       _SiN X1.50
PINOYAO'l,    A)~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~a n ency  '
5W' V'~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~.taaVt  ,of 
29-  \ t ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ 91 J~~~~~SHOINGH                                        U      A                 3J2--
118'f TT S/30o 119   MWJ23'
Nin         UNGANGAZE/N\S y  \^eew JANUARY98
g~~~~~~~~         ~       ~~~~~ \,  EUJ I             N G/  '9
29'~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~~~~~~~~~~~~AUR HUA8



