Report No. PID7258
Project Name                     Pakistan-Trade and Transport Facilitation...
Project
Region                           South Asia
Sector                           Transport/Logistics
Project ID                       PKPE56213
Borrower                         Islamic Republic of Pakistan
Implementing Agency              Ministry of Commerce
Government of Pakistan
Islamabad, Pakistan
National Trade and Transport Facilitation
Committee (NTTFC) Secretariat in association
with the Pakistan Shippers Council (PSC)
Karachi, Pakistan
Date PID Prepared                December 16, 1998
Projected Board Date             March 30, 1999
1.      Country and Sector Background.   The modernization of Pakistan's transport
systems will play a vital role in the country's economic development.
International trends are to introduce integrated distribution systems,
restructure the private-public sector role, and modernize the practices and
procedures that facilitate trade and transport. The transport systems in
Pakistan's primary traffic artery (the 1,700 km Karachi-Lahore-Peshawar
corridor) serve both domestic needs and link Punjab with international markets
through the Karachi are ports. Modernizing transport links along this
corridor is thus important for balanced economic growth. During the past 25
years, all the growth in freight traffic has been carried by the deregulated
private sector trucking industry. Pakistan Railways (PR) freight traffic has
stagnated and consists of public sector products. Although the trucking
industry has low linehaul costs, the general purpose freight distribution
system prevents shippers from realizing the cost savings from integrating
production, handling, transport and storage systems. In addition, outdated
port and customs facilities and procedures, in particular at Karachi port, and
general trade, insurance and banking regulations prevent a smooth transition
between the inland transport corridor and ocean shipping, causing upcountry
delivery to be 20-30 days instead of 5 days, resulting in US$150 million in
excess annual inventory costs of goods in transit.
2.      Project Objectives.   The objective is to support the initial phase of
Pakistan's medium-term trade and transport facilitation program aimed at
modernizing Pakistan's traditional trade and transport facilitation practices
and procedures, including information flows, documentation and related
legislation. Commercial trade and transport facilitation reforms are needed
to ensure that these practices, etc. impose minimum cost constraints on cargo
movements and the minimum disincentives for the development of modern
transport logistics systems, thereby improving Pakistan's commercial and
industrial efficiency and trade competitivity.
3.      Project Description.   The proposed project would complement the Pakistan



Tax Administration Reform LIL and would in the future benefit from the
proposed Karachi Port Development Project which would deal with related
facilitation issues at the level of Pakistan's main port. The expected trade
and transport facilitation reforms, by starting to remove major documentary,
procedural and related legal obstacles to trade and transport are also
expected to encourage new private sector investments in improved transport,
manufacturing and other commercial activities related to Pakistan's domestic
and foreign trade.
4.      Project Implementation.   The project will be implemented over 3 years.
The Ministry of Commerce will implement the project and UNCTAD will provide
the necessary project management, technical assistance, training and project
monitoring. The UNCTAD work will be organized to create and develop the NTTFC
Secretariat so as to make the secretariat an effective institution for
continued preparation of facilitation measures to modernize trade and
transport practices. The Secretariat will be located in the Pakistan Shippers
Council premises, reflecting the private sector support for facilitation
reforms.
5.      Project Cost and Financing.   The project is estimated to cost about
US$3.5 million. The tentative breakdown of financing is as follows:
Local            Foreign         Total
IDA             0.9                      2.1                      3.0
Other (Pakistan Shippers Council)
0.5                      0.0                     0.5
Total            1.4                     2.1                      3.5
6.      Project Benefits.   (a) the availability of priority modernized,
streamlined and simplified commercial trade and transport facilitation
procedures, documents, legislation, transport liability and credit procedures
associated with the movement of goods; (b) benefits to Pakistan's industry and
commerce by having better opportunities to reduce their costs through improved
logistic systems and hence enhance their competitive position on the
international market and, under competitive pressures, reduce costs to the
consumers; and (c) generate additional employment and growth opportunities.
7.      Project Sustainability.   The proposed project would help develop a
permanent multi-disciplinary institution (NTTFC and its Secretariat) and
support implementation of priority facilitation measures. PSC has agreed to
fund the full Secretariat costs following the first round of facilitation
reforms. NTTFC and its Secretariat would, following the pilot project, be
responsible for implementation of the time-bound action plan of further trade
and transport facilitation measures.
8.      Poverty Category.     Not Applicable
9.      Environmental Aspects.   Environmental Category is C.   The project, which
consists of technical assistance and training has no negative environmental
effects. If successful, it will result in reduced waiting time, particularly
for trucks which may have been idling their engines. As a consequence,
- 2 -



reduced emission can be expected. Reduced waiting times, for both rail and
road vehicles, should reduce the need for terminal capacities and thus reduced
somewhat the need for additional terminal space at both sea ports and ICDs.
Managing Division:       Infrastructure Sector Unit, South Asia Region
Contact Point:                    The InfoShop
The World Bank
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
Telephone No. (202)458 5454
Fax No. (202) 522 1500
Harald Hansen
Tel: (202) 458-1474
Note: This is information on an evolving project. Certain activities and/or
components may not be included in the final project.
Processed by the InfoShop week ending January 15, 1999.
- 3 -



