                                                Document of
                                           The World Bank




                                                                               Report No:ICR000002




               IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION AND RESULTS REPORT
                                              (IDA-35000)

                                                   ON A

                       CREDIT IN THE AMOUNT OF SDR2.30 MILLION

                                (US$3.0 MILLION EQUIVALENT)

                                                 TO THE

                               ISLAMIC REPUBLIC OF PAKISTAN

                                                   FOR

                   A TRADE AND TRANSPORT FACILITATION PROJECT




                                           December 1, 2006




         South Asia Sustainable Development Department
         Pakistan Country Unit




This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of their
official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank Group authorization.

                          CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
                      (Exchange Rate Effective 08/15/2006)
                           Currency Unit= PRs.
                                  PR.1.00= US$0.017
                                 US$1.00= PRs.60.21
                                    Fiscal Year

                  ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS

ADB     Asian Development Bank
CARE    Customs Administrative Reform
CBR     Central Board of Revenue
CDWP    Central Development Working Party
EDI     Electronic Data Interchange
FAL     Facilitation of International Maritime Traffic
FPCCI   Federation of Pakistan Chambers of Commerce and Industry
GDP     Gross Domestic Product
GoP     Government of Pakistan
IC3     Integrated Cargo Container Control
IMO     International Maritime Organization
KICT    Karachi International Container Terminal
KPT     Karachi International Container Terminal
NTC     National Trade Corridor
NTCIP   National Trade Corridor Improvement Program
NTTFC   National Trade and Transport Facilitation Committee
NWFP    North-West Frontier Province
PACCS   Pakistan Customs Computerized System
PAKPRO  Pakistan Facilitation Program
PCI     Planning Commission Project Concept I
PHDEB   Pakistan Horticulture Development and Export Board
PIU     Project Implementation Unit
PSC     Pakistan Shippers Council
PSDP    Public Sector Development Program
QAE     Quality at Entry
QAG     Quality Assurance Group
SAD     Single Administrative Document
SPS     Sanitary and Phytosanitary
TARP    Tax Administration Reform Project
TIR     Transport International Routiere
TPR     Tripartite Review
TTF2    Trade and Transport Facilitation Project 2
TTFP    Trade and Transport Facilitation Project
UN      United Nations
UNCTAD  United Nations Conference of Trade and Development
WTO     World Trade Organization


              Vice President:              Praful C. Patel
              Country Director:            John W. Wall
              Sector Manager:              Guang Z. Chen
              Project Team Leader:         Amer Zafar Durrani

                                                        Pakistan

                        A Trade and Transport Facilitation Project

                                         TABLE OF CONTENTS


1. Basic Information.................................................................................................................. 1

2. Key Dates ............................................................................................................................... 1

3. Ratings Summary.................................................................................................................. 1

4. Sector and Theme Codes ...................................................................................................... 2

5. Bank Staff .............................................................................................................................. 2

6. Project Context, Development Objectives and Design ...................................................... 3

7. Key Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcomes ..................................................... 5

8. Assessment of Outcomes....................................................................................................... 9

9. Assessment of Risk to Development Outcome.................................................................. 12

10. Assessment of Bank and Borrower Performance........................................................... 12

11. Lessons Learned................................................................................................................ 14

12. Comments on Issues Raised by Borrower/Implementing Agencies/Partners.............. 15

Annex 1. Results Framework Analysis.................................................................................. 16

Annex 2. Restructuring (if any) ............................................................................................. 21

Annex 3. Project Costs and Financing .................................................................................. 22

Annex 4. Outputs by Component .......................................................................................... 24

Annex 5. Economic and Financial Analysis (including assumptions in the analysis)....... 27

Annex 6. Bank Lending and Implementation Support/Supervision Processes ................. 28

Annex 7. Detailed Ratings of Bank and Borrower Performance........................................ 30

Annex 8. Beneficiary Survey Results (if any) ....................................................................... 31

Annex 9. Stakeholder Workshop Report and Results (if any)............................................ 32

Annex 10. Summary of Borrower's ICR and/or Comments on Draft ICR ....................... 33

Annex 11. Comments of Cofinanciers and Other Partners/Stakeholders ......................... 34

Annex 12. List of Supporting Documents ............................................................................. 35

1. BASIC INFORMATION

                                                                    A Trade and Transport
Country:                Pakistan             Project Name:
                                                                    Facilitation Project
Project ID:             P056213              L/C/TF Number(s):      IDA-35000
ICR Date:               12/01/2006           ICR Type:              Core ICR
Lending Instrument:     TAL                  Borrower:              GOP
Original Total
                        XDR 2.3M             Disbursed Amount:      XDR 2.2M
Commitment:
Environmental Category: C
Implementing Agencies


Ministry of Commerce
Cofinanciers and Other External Partners


UN Conference on Trade and Development (UNCTAD)


2. KEY DATES

     Process              Date           Process         Original Date    Revised / Actual
                                                                               Date(s)
Concept Review: 11/30/1998          Effectiveness:     06/20/2001        06/20/2001
Appraisal:         02/16/1999       Restructuring(s):
Approval:          04/24/2001       Mid-term Review:                     06/06/2003
                                    Closing:           10/31/2004        06/30/2006

3. RATINGS SUMMARY

3.1 Performance Rating by ICR

Outcomes:                                      Satisfactory
Risk to Development Outcome:                   Moderate
Bank Performance:                              Satisfactory
Borrower Performance:                          Satisfactory

3.2 Quality at Entry and Implementation Performance Indicators

 Implementation Performance       Indicators    QAG Assessments (if any)          Rating:
Potential Problem Project at any
                                No           Quality at Entry (QEA):           None
time (Yes/No):
Problem Project at any time     No           Quality of Supervision (QSA):     None



                                            1

(Yes/No):
DO rating before
                                  Satisfactory
Closing/Inactive status:

4. SECTOR AND THEME CODES

                                                      Original          Actual
Sector Code (as % of total Bank financing)
Central government administration                               100             20
General transportation sector                                                   80
                                                  Original Priority Actual Priority
Theme Code (Primary/Secondary)
Export development and competitiveness             Primary          Secondary
Trade facilitation and market access               Not Applicable   Primary

5. BANK STAFF

                        Positions                      At ICR        At Approval
Vice President:                                   Praful C. Patel  Mieko Nishimizu
Country Director:                                 John W. Wall     John W. Wall
Sector Manager:                                   Guang Z. Chen    Vincent Gouarne
                                                  Amer Zafar
Project Team Leader:                                               Harald Hansen
                                                  Durrani
ICR Team Leader:                                  Cordula Rastogi
ICR Primary Author:                               Cordula Rastogi




                                              2

              6. PROJECT CONTEXT, DEVELOPMENT OBJECTIVES AND DESIGN

(this section is descriptive, taken from other documents, e.g., PAD/ISR, not evaluative)

6.1 Context at Appraisal
(brief summary of country macroeconomic and structural/sector background, rationale for Bank
assistance)
Pakistan's macroeconomic performance had begun to show signs of stability and growth
in the late 1990s with GDP growth averaging 5 percent, reflecting a favorable
performance of the agriculture sector and the expansion in manufacturing, as well as a
recovery in other sectors. Despite implementation of tight macroeconomic policies that
led to severe compression of imports and rapidly falling current account deficits,
Pakistan's external capital requirements remained daunting during 1999 and 2000. More
than ever, sustained economic growth and trade competitiveness of Pakistan heavily
depended on improvements to its trade environment through harmonization,
simplification, and standardization of trade procedures, and improvements in transport
and logistics services. Liberalization of the country's trade regime commenced in 1998
through tariff cuts and rationalization, and exports increased with a slight shift from
primary to manufacturing and non-traditional exports (i.e. leather goods, surgical and
sports equipment). At the same time, Pakistan's transport system performed poorly and
was perceived to be a key constraint to the country's economic activity and its export
competitiveness. There was a general recognition by the Government of Pakistan (GoP)
that further investments in its trade supporting transport infrastructure was needed in
order to make adjustments to administration, procedures and regulations.

To this end, GoP decided in 1999 to consolidate the institutional framework of the
transport sector by merging all modes of transport infrastructure into a single Ministry of
communications (roads, ports & shipping) and railways while developing an integrated
Transport Policy and Road-Rail Action Plan. In addition to these administrative changes,
it was also recognized that then prevailing trade documentary practices, rules,
regulations, and trade facilitation legislation governing trade transactions in the
country were based on non-standard trade and transport procedures and documentations,
which resulted in high logistics costs and long lead times and wastage. Additionally, a
new institutional framework for commercial trade and transport facilitation reform was
needed to ensure that existing trade and logistics facilitation practices imposed minimum
cost constraints on cargo movements and minimum disincentives for the development of
modern transport logistics systems.

The reduction in the cost of doing business was expected to bring long-term benefits in
terms of enhanced competitiveness, economic growth, increased trade and attractiveness
for private sector investment. Within this context, the project was designed to help
improve the efficiencies of the trade and transport regime. The project supported key
elements of the draft Country Assistance Strategy for Pakistan in 1999, namely raising
productivity and economic growth through human resource development, public sector



                                                  3

institutional development, and the removal of major obstacles to increased trade
competitiveness.

6.2 Original Project Development Objectives (PDO) and Key Indicators (as
approved)

The principal development objectives of the project were to modernize trade facilitation
practices and procedures, including information flows, documentation and related
legislation through (i) establishing a collaborative public/private institutional framework,
and (ii) developing a medium term trade and transport facilitation program.
Key indicators to measure achievement of these development objectives included
 · National Trade and Transport Facilitation Committee (NTTFC) legally established
     and working, NTTFC secretarial staff trained,
 · Pakistan Shippers Council (PSC) funding the Secretariat's logistics costs and, on an
     increasing basis, the operational Secretariat costs during and after the project,
 · Key simplified and modernized documentary and administrative instruments related
     to commercial trade and transport facilitation matters approved and in use by the end
     of the project, and legal instruments drafted and forwarded to concerned authorities
     for legislative action, and
 · Reduced logistics costs for 'typical' exports and imports

6.3 Revised PDO and Key Indicators (as approved by original approving authority),
and reasons/justification

The PDO and key indicators were not revised.

6.4 Main Beneficiaries, original and revised
(briefly describe the "primary target group" identified in the PAD and as captured in the PDO, as
well as any other individuals and organizations expected to benefit from the project)
The main benefits of the project were expected to be partly modernized, streamlined and
simplified commercial trade and transport facilitation practices and procedures. Initial
beneficiaries would be Pakistan's industry and commerce which would have better
opportunities to reduce their own costs of doing business through improved logistics
systems and hence enhance their competitive position on the international market and,
under competitive pressures, reduce the costs to Pakistani consumers. This should, in
turn, generate additional employment and growth opportunities.

6.5 Original Components (as approved)
The project had four components:
1.   Establishment and Operation of the NTTFC Secretariat (USD0.7 million). This
     component included United Nations Conference on Trade and Development
     (UNCTAD)'s technical assistance; incremental support of professional staff of
     NTTFC Secretariat, selected reimbursable operating costs of the Secretariat and the
     Ministry of Commerce, local support staff, office space, utilities, etc. to be provided
     in kind by the Pakistan Shippers Council (PSC) and cash contribution from PSC;




                                                4

2.   Technical Assistance for drafting of modern trade and transport procedures,
     documents, and legislation (USD1.5million);
3.   Human Resource Development and Training for NTTFC Secretariat and other
     directly concerned public and private sector staff (USD0.6 million); and
4.   Provision for third year program (USD0.6 million). This component was to be
     detailed at the mid-term review and would cover the three earlier mentioned
     components.

6.6 Revised Components
The project components were not revised.

6.7 Other significant changes
(in design, scope and scale, implementation arrangements and schedule, and funding allocations)

The implementation of the project schedule was delayed. Although project preparation
started in 1998 with negotiations held in September 1999, the presentation of the project
to the Board was delayed until April 2001 (with a project effectiveness date of June
2001) due to the post India-Pakistan nuclear testing sanctions. Post-September 11, 2001
travel restrictions postponed the start of project implementation to July 2002. A
compressed implementation timeframe for project activities was considered at start of
project implementation with expected closing date in October 2004. To allow for
completion of all targeted activities and to permit the project to support all aspects of
GOP's continuous trade facilitation agenda, project closing was extended twice, first from
October 31, 2004 to October 31, 2005, and then to June 30, 2006. The modifications in
the project schedule (one year and additional eight month extension) did not result in
changes in project design, scope or scale. However, one reallocation of funds took place
at the request of GOP on January 3, 2005 in order to close the Special Account and
disburse all project funds through the implementing partner, UNCTAD.


             7. KEY FACTORS AFFECTING IMPLEMENTATION AND OUTCOMES

7.1 Project Preparation, Design and Quality at Entry
(including whether lessons of earlier operations were taken into account, risks and their
mitigations identified, and adequacy of participatory processes, as applicable)

Consistency of project components: The project components were adequately designed to
meet both development objectives of the project. A degree of flexibility in project
design was reflected in project component four ('third year program') which provided
leverage to address needs as they arose (see 7.2). The establishment of a public-private
institution, through NTTFC, was intended to foster dialogue between private and public
agencies on trade and transport facilitation measures. This dialogue was in turn expected
to analyze trade and transport related impediments that may influence more than two
parties, develop practical solutions and ensure action/implementation by NTTFC and
other agencies. Similarly, the implementation of the components related to the
development of a medium-term trade and transport facilitation program was designed to
modernize Pakistan's traditional trade and transport facilitation practices and procedures,


                                                5

including information flows, documentation and related legislation. This design ensured
strong links between project components as NTTFC's role was to identify practices and
procedures which were then taken up for modernization and/or capacity building
initiatives (i.e. training).

Project design linked with targeted investment lending: Critical issues of trade facilitation
and logistics in Pakistan in 1998 included (a) customs clearance, (b) port handling
operations, and (c) commercial facilitation (trade logistics). While the project was to
focus on commercial facilitation, customs clearance and port handling operations were to
be covered by proposed investment projects funded by Asian Development Bank (ADB)
and World Bank, namely the "Modernization of Customs Administration Project" and the
"Karachi Port Development Project". These projects did however not take place (see 7.2).
In 2004, the World Bank approved a Tax Administration Reform Project (TARP) which
supported customs reform with the aim to improve trade facilitation through modern and
internationally acceptable customs procedures. TARP however did not include major
investments in customs facilities (see 7.2).

Identification of risks and mitigation measures: At the time of project preparation,
potential risks were adequately assessed and identified as (i) risks to sustain cross-agency
cooperation on development and implementation of project activities, (ii) risks to make
NTTFC Secretariat operational in a timely manner, and (iii) risks from exogenous factors
(i.e. adoption of new laws by Parliament). Necessary arrangements to handle the
complexity of the project and to mitigate project risk factors were taken into account
(such as GoP's commitment to trade facilitation at the highest level), but not
adequately addressed during project implementation (see 7.3). The risk that the targeted
investment operations, focusing on the two remaining areas of trade facilitation, would
not materialize (see above) and thus possibly disrupt project activities was not assessed
during project preparation. Mitigation measures should have been put in place to prevent
related factors affecting project implementation (see 7.2).

Quality at Entry: There was no Quality at Entry (QAE) assessment undertaken by the
Quality Assurance Group (QAG). The ICR rates QAE as satisfactory on account of
relevance and clarity of project objectives, and satisfactory in terms of consistency of the
design of the project components. Minor shortcomings included flexibility to adjust the
project to the changing environment due to time lag between project preparation,
negotiation and implementation (as mentioned above).

7.2 Implementation
(including any project changes/restructuring, mid-term review, Project at Risk status, and actions
taken, as applicable).

Complexity of project: The project was complex with nine sub-activities. Due to the time
delays in project schedule, additional project activities were requested in 2002 by GoP as
the business environment and demands from the economy as well as public sector (i.e.



                                               6

WTO negotiations on trade facilitation issues) had evolved between project negotiation
and project implementation. These included, for example, additional capacity building on
trade facilitation within the Ministry of Commerce through hiring of an advisor and legal
expert, as well as further assistance in preparing a WTO position paper on trade
facilitation (a post 'Doha' development).

Attention to flexibility in project activities: To ensure that the project would provide
technical assistance consistent with the evolving trade facilitation agenda and the needs
of the Government of Pakistan, project design included regular Tripartite Meetings held
among Ministry of Commerce, UNCTAD and the World Bank in order to make decisions
and adjustments to project activities. This has led, for example, to terminating the
establishment of an operational Trade Point, one sub-activity covered under the project.
The establishment of Trade Points was at that time no longer seen as international best
practice. In general terms, these arrangements contributed to ensuring that the project
provided cutting-edge assistance as well as necessary adjustments to project activities.
Project component four 'third year program' also positively contributed to flexibility in
project activities.

Effective cooperation across relevant agencies: Lessons learned from other trade and
transport facilitation projects could have been helpful in implementing the mitigation
measures to ensure cross-agency cooperation on development and implementation of
project activities. As the project cut across the mandates of several Government agencies
(in particular Central Revenue Board and the Ports & Shipping Wing of Ministry of
Communications), the need for effective cooperation with and support from relevant
public sector bodies in the project implementation was identified. This led to the
establishment of the Trade and Transport Facilitation Project (TTFP) Steering Committee
with the aim of ensuring cooperation among the main Government bodies concerned with
the objectives of the project. The TTFP Steering Committee includes four members,
namely the Chairman of the NTTFC representing GoP (Additional Secretary Commerce),
the Chairman of the PSC representing commercial interests, UNCTAD, and the World
Bank. Monthly meetings were envisaged; the Steering Committee was however not
convened until October 2004 and held only two meetings.

Measures to mitigate exogenous factors: Enabling measures to mitigate exogenous
factors (such as the timely passing through of legislation which was revised under the
project) should have been further pursued during project implementation. The need to
follow-up and expedite proposed transport legislation was emphasized and actions were
taken mainly by Ministry of Commerce. This however did not result in the approval or
adoption of the legislation as this was outside the Ministry's area of influence.

Project design linked with targeted investment lending: As targeted investment lending to
accompany the technical assistance project did not materialize, the project has seen a
proliferation of activities and mushrooming of sub-activities which added to
implementation complexities and tended to shift the focus from the development
objectives. During the mid-term review, a consolidation of project activities with a focus
on three main areas was undertaken. The benefits of targeted investment lending would



                                              7

have created synergies had they been implemented. Benefits from modernization of trade
facilitation practices and procedures and respective training activities carried out under
the project were still substantial.

Various extensions to project closing: To allow for completion of all targeted activities
and to permit the project to support all aspects of GOP's trade facilitation agenda, project
closing was extended by one year and then by an additional eight months, resulting in
final closing on June 30, 2006. At start of project implementation (one and a half years
behind schedule), a one-time adjustment to project closing date (adding on the lost time
to original project closing date) would have provided the implementing agency and
partners the opportunity to re-align the implementation schedule of project activities.

7.3 Monitoring and Evaluation (M&E) Design, Implementation and Utilization
A project monitoring and evaluation system was identified and developed during project
preparation to track implementation progress and achievement of development outcomes.
The Pakistan Logistics Cost Study (1996) which formed the analytical underpinning of
the project concluded that for a selected number of commodities, savings could be
achieved if improved trade and transport logistics systems were implemented. The project
appraisal document called for the design of benchmark indices for key export
commodities to include logistics factors (such as transport cost, time, and financial cost)
which would be updated on a regular basis. This would have provided the basis to
measure reduced facilitation costs for 'typical' exports and imports (see 6.2 for PDO and
indicators). The implementing agency however decided not to proceed with development
of such benchmarks on a regular basis due to capacity constraints and lack of program
ownership at the highest level of Government. Nevertheless, the project benefited from a
follow-on Pakistan Logistics Cost Study undertaken in 2006 for comparison
purposes. This study concludes that major reduction in logistics costs for 'typical' exports
and imports have taken place over the period of 1996 to 2006. The results of both studies
have been instrumental to the Government of Pakistan estimating the potential benefits
from reducing the cost of doing business in the context of the National Trade Corridor
Improvement Program (NTCIP) framework and pinpointing trade facilitation and
logistics areas in need of improvement.

7.4 Safeguard and Fiduciary Compliance
(focusing on issues and their resolution, as applicable)

During project preparation and at project completion, financial and procurement
assessments were carried out by the Bank team. Safeguard compliance was not applicable
as there were no adverse social and environmental impacts resulting from the
implementation of the project. The Bank's review concludes that fiduciary management
was moderately satisfactory as financial monitoring reports were not provided to the
Bank. UNCTAD, the implementing partner acted as agent for GoP and all funds were
disbursed directly to UNCTAD. Procurement of all goods and services was therefore
undertaken by UNCTAD without involvement of the Bank. As per GoP rules, the
Auditor General was responsible for carrying out audits of the project accounts.
Acceptable audited financial statements were mostly received by the due date; and there
were no serious audit issues.


                                                 8

7.5 Post-completion Operation/Next Phase
(including transition arrangement to post-completion operation of investments financed by
present operation, Operation & Maintenance arrangements, sustaining reforms and institutional
capacity, and next phase/follow-up operation, if applicable)

While trade facilitation has been fully embedded into Pakistan's national development
strategy (through the National Trade Corridor Improvement Program, NTCIP, see later)
and more specifically into the last two trade policies (i.e. Ministry of Commerce, Trade
Policy, 2005-06, and 2006-07), it is recognized that the trade facilitation agenda and the
results from the extensive analytical, procedural, legislative and capacity building works
carried out under the project need to be developed further into more mature policy and
institutional measures and embedded as concepts and values within the concerned public
and private institutions. NTTFC needs to coordinate and provide sustained support
towards this objective, by positioning itself as the focal point on trade facilitation in
Pakistan while strengthening linkages with the Government's NTCIP. To this effect, a
follow-up operation has been prepared and approved by the Central Development
Working Party (CDWP) of GoP. Pakistani Rupees 10 million has already been allocated
in the Public Sector Development Programme (PSDP) 2006-07 to Ministry of Commerce,
the project's implementing agency for post-completion activities. The proposed next
phase of technical assistance will (i) continue activities initiated under the project and (ii)
support NTCIP by carrying out analytical and advisory activities to support reforms,
investments, external communications, monitoring and evaluation, led by the Ministry of
Commerce and the Planning Commission. Based on the request for World Bank
funding of a follow-up project received from GoP, the World Bank team is
currently discussing with GoP the scale and scope of the proposed 'Trade and Transport
Facilitation Project II'.


                               8. ASSESSMENT OF OUTCOMES

8.1 Relevance of Objectives, Design and Implementation
(to current country and global priorities, and Bank assistance strategy)

The project's relevance is rated highly satisfactory. Besides supporting the GoP's
development agenda to reduce the cost of doing business by improving the trade and
transport logistics chain and bringing it to international standards, the project objectives
were highly relevant to the Bank Group's Country Assistance Strategy and related sector
strategies at the time of project appraisal. The objectives of the project continue to remain
highly relevant to the current Country Assistance Strategy that continues to support
Government's pursuit in improving the business environment for growth. This confirms
that the project design reflected proper analysis of a development priority of GoP that
remains relevant or even increased. The recently published World Bank Report
"Transport Competitiveness in Pakistan: Analytical Underpinning for National Trade
Corridor Improvement Program" (July, 2006) highlights the importance of reducing the
cost of doing business in Pakistan in order to enhance competitive position on the
international market and increase investments. This has in turn been recognized globally




                                                9

as central to the growth agenda through the main sources of growth (increasing
investment, improving efficiency, and enhancing productivity).

8.2 Achievement of Project Development Objectives
(including brief discussion of causal linkages between outputs and outcomes, with details on
outputs in Annex 4)

The project's achievement of its development objectives is satisfactory.

Establish a public/private sector collaborative institutional framework (Achieved).
The public/private sector collaborative institutional framework in form of the National
Trade and Transport Facilitation Committee (NTTFC) and its Secretariat had been
established by notification on July 14, 1998 as a standing committee to the Ministry of
Commerce (Gazette on October 14, 1998, Annex 12). To date, NTTFC counts 25
members, two-thirds governmental bodies and one-third business associations. The
Committee is supported by a small secretariat consisting of an Executive Secretary and
two assistants. While the Pakistan Shippers Council (PSC) was to assume full cost of the
secretariat after four years (declining financing from the project over time), this did not
materialize and an agreement with Government was reached to finance the Secretariat for
a period of three years through the Export Development Fund (EDF). The EDF being a
public-private fund managed by a public-private board is seen to be a more effective
financing mechanism. NTTFC has been progressively trying to achieve its originally
envisioned mandate; it has been serving as an advisory body to the government on trade
and transport facilitation issues - but it is incapacitated due to shortage, and lack of right
skills mix, of staff. With the NTC framework initiated under the Prime Minister in
August 2005, and the establishment of a trade facilitation monitoring committee under
the Chairman of the Central Board of Revenue, it is hoped that the pubic-private
collaborative institutional framework established under the project will receive sufficient
support (financially and institutionally) to continue to play a major role in facilitating
trade and transport in Pakistan as well as becoming a valuable link between WTO
negotiations and trade facilitation in Pakistan.

Develop medium-term trade and transport facilitation program (Achieved). The
project has made a positive contribution to developing Pakistan's medium term trade and
transport facilitation program aimed at modernizing traditional trade and transport
facilitation practices and procedures, including information flows, documentation and
related legislation. The project has achieved concrete results in initiating necessary
reforms. For example, the project has helped to (i) simplify documents and procedures
related to foreign trade and transport transactions, (ii) formulate and modernize related
transport legislation, (iii) align trade-related documents based on UN Layout Key, (iv)
adopt minimum professional qualification, code of conduct and standard trading
conditions, (v) support adhesion to conventions, such as TIR (Transport International
Routière), and (vi) analyze the development of transport and cold storage capacity for
refrigerated goods. To give but one example, the introduction of the new Goods
Declaration as the Single Administrative Document is now implemented throughout
Pakistan. This single document, based on the UN Layout Key is for clearance of goods
for import, export, and transshipment (developed under the project), consolidates several


                                               10

documents required for customs clearance, including the Bill of Entry (Imports),
Shipping Bill (Exports) and Transit Permit. This in turn led Pakistan Customs to move
ahead with the introduction of Pakistan Customs Computerized System (PACCS) at
Karachi International Container Terminal (KICT) on a pilot basis under the Customs
Administrative Reform (CARE) program resulting in substantially reduced customs
clearance time (with an average customs clearance time of 4 hours). This has now been
extended to other locations such as Port Qasim and will be spread throughout the country.
Pakistan Customs also developed software to generate the Goods Declaration document
as well as the option for the electronic transfer of data to customs. The project trained
over 500 persons on the preparation of the Goods Declaration (see Annex 4 for outputs).

8.3 Efficiency
(Net Present Value/Economic Rate of Return, cost effectiveness, e.g., unit rate norms, least cost,
and comparisons; and Financial Rate of Return)
Efficiency in achieving project objectives in terms of opportunity cost of capital is
satisfactory. The economic benefits of trade facilitation measures have been equated to
logistics costs that could be reduced through application of facilitation measures. When
compared with the project's baseline study of the logistics sector undertaken in 1996, a
recent logistics costs analysis confirms that positive developments have taken place as to
export growth and logistics practices. It is said that non-factor costs (average logistics
costs) have decreased from 11 percent of the national trade account in 1996 to about 6
percent in 2006, largely reflecting to a reduction in international shipping costs. Major
trade facilitation challenges in Pakistan to date relate mostly to domestic transport, IT
development, and implementation of in-house logistics.

8.4 Justification of Overall Outcome Rating
(combining relevance, achievement of PDOs, and efficiency)
Rating: Satisfactory
The overall outcome rating is satisfactory with regard to the achievement of project
development objectives, taking into account relevance and efficiency. It is however
recognized that the trade facilitation agenda and the results from the extensive analytical,
procedural, legislative and capacity building works carried out under the project need to
be developed further into more mature policy and institutional measures and embedded as
concepts and values within the concerned public and private institutions. There is good
indication that such development will continue (see section 7.5).

8.5 Overarching Themes, Other Outcomes and Impacts
(if any, where not previously covered or to amplify discussion above)

(a) Poverty Impacts, Gender Aspects, and Social Development
Poverty impacts, gender aspects and social development are not rated

(b) Institutional Change/Strengthening
(particularly with reference to impacts on longer-term capacity and institutional development)
See 8.2 Achievements of Project Development Objectives




                                               11

(c) Other Unintended Outcomes and Impacts (positive or negative, if any)
In addition to the satisfactory achievement of project development objectives, the project
has had an impact on establishing trade facilitation as a core component of Pakistan's
international trade policy (Ministry of Commerce, Trade Policy 2005-06, and 2006-07) as
well as re-confirmation that streamlined trade facilitation is essential to GOP's growth
agenda. To a certain extent, this has influenced the launch of the NTCIP, initiated by the
Prime Minister in August 2005

8.6 Summary of Findings of Beneficiary Survey and/or Stakeholder Workshops
(optional for Core ICR, required for ILI, details in annexes)
Two stakeholder workshops were held during project implementation in December 2003
and March 2006 respectively. Both workshops represented milestones in achieving
increased public awareness and stakeholder commitment to the trade facilitation agenda
and the objectives of the project.


                   9. ASSESSMENT OF RISK TO DEVELOPMENT OUTCOME

Rating: Moderate
The risk to development outcome is assessed as moderate. With the NTCIP framework
initiated under the Prime Minister in August 2005, it still needs to be demonstrated that
(i) the pubic-private collaborative institutional framework established under the project
will receive sufficient support (financially and institutionally) and (ii) traditional trade
and transport facilitation practices and procedures, including information flows,
documentation and related legislation (in particular further introduction of IT
development) will be fully modernized and streamlined to reduce remaining, unnecessary
cost of doing business in Pakistan.


                10. ASSESSMENT OF BANK AND BORROWER PERFORMANCE

(relating to design, implementation and outcome issues)

10.1 Bank

(a) Bank Performance in Ensuring Quality at Entry
(i.e., performance through lending phase)

Rating: Satisfactory
Bank performance in ensuring quality at entry is rated satisfactory. Bank's team
undertook rigorous project preparation, and supported what was, and still is a high
priority project for Pakistan. The policy dialogue during project preparation was focused
on agreeing on a shared framework for the project concept and on operational modalities
for developing an institutional framework and initial actions to deal with the most critical
issues related to trade facilitation, complementing other actions and investments
underway to reduce the cost of doing business. Delays between project preparation,
negotiations, approval and implementation due to political as well as security reasons
however adversely impacted Bank's performance.




                                                12

(b) Quality of Supervision
(including of fiduciary and safeguards policies)

Rating: Satisfactory
The ICR rates Bank supervision satisfactory. The team made a solid effort to ensure the
project was implemented effectively, and achieved its development objectives. The task
team was focused on the identification of proactive opportunities and the overcoming of
problems that hindered implementation progress. As task leadership of the project was
decentralized to the field office, project supervision was undertaken on a continuous basis
and covered a wide range of activities and issues. In the last three years, Bank's
supervision efforts were focused on ensuring that the project's activities went hand-in-
hand with the constantly evolving environment and demands from the economy to ensure
development impact. Periodic Tripartite Review (TPR) meetings among the Ministry of
Commerce, the World Bank and UNCTAD enabled the parties to adjust specific project
activities to changing priorities and circumstances. Participation of Bank team in
Tripartite Review meetings, supervision and implementation support from the part of the
Bank team was particularly crucial in this respect and can be rated as highly satisfactory.
Yet, this enabling environment did not always provide the basis to ensure implementation
and completion of project activities without shortcomings. The Bank team carried out
with diligence fiduciary responsibilities as the project was rated as low risk. Nevertheless,
greater emphasis should have been given to periodic supervision of project's fiduciary
aspects in      order    to    implement/maintain satisfactory     financial    management
arrangements (see further 10.2(b)). Safeguard requirements were not applicable per se as
this was a technical assistance credit.

(c) Justification of Rating for Overall Bank Performance

Rating: Satisfactory
On the basis of the above, the overall Bank performance is rated satisfactory. Bank's
preparatory activities focusing on developing a shared concept for the project helped to
ensure that the project was relevant to the Government agenda on trade facilitation, and
had the support of the business community. Bank's supervision efforts represented good
practices, focusing on development effectiveness and impact by the task team, and
providing ongoing implementation support in the Bank role as the Knowledge Bank

10.2 Borrower

(a) Government Performance

Rating: Satisfactory
Borrower performance during project preparation and implementation is rated
satisfactory. The project's objectives were (and still are) of high priority to the
Government of Pakistan. Government however failed to provide the required enabling
environment including supportive institutional arrangements to work across Government
agencies (as is required for a program on trade facilitation) in order to ensure full support
and implementation of projects' objectives. This framework would have contributed to
further facilitate implementation of project activities. In addition, an adequate monitoring


                                                13

and evaluation system set up under the project to monitor logistics factors in key export
commodities could have favorably contributed to Government's decision-making and
resource allocation in the trade and transport sector. Notwithstanding these minor
shortcomings, the Government's ownership and commitment to the development
objectives of the project itself and trade facilitation in general can be seen by the
transition arrangements put in place to support continuing activities since credit closing
(see 7.5).

(b) Implementing Agency or Agencies Performance

Rating: Moderately Satisfactory

Implementing Agency:             Ministry of Commerce

(c) Justification of Rating for Overall Borrower Performance

Rating: Satisfactory


                                    11. LESSONS LEARNED

(both project-specific and of wide general application)

Formal project restructuring through streamlined procedures should be considered
for projects that are well performing, but need to accommodate new realities
(country or sector-wide). Restructuring of projects under implementation is an
important mechanism for effective portfolio management and a means to improve
implementation      effectiveness    and    outcome,    whether   by    further improving
implementation performance, or seizing opportunities to enhance project outcomes
generally. Further opportunities to increasing development impact by adjusting project's
design and activities (minor changes) under a satisfactory performing project (as was the
case of the Pakistan Trade and Transport Facilitation Project), including taking advantage
of emerging issues in a changing environment, can be considered as a meaningful tool for
maximizing returns. New procedures (Processing Restructuring of Investment Projects ­
Guidelines for Staff) have been put in place to facilitate this type of adjustment to minor
changes.

Introduction of trade facilitation measures requires commitment across a wide
range of stakeholders in the public and private sector and cooperation to succeed. In
a general context, this means that the clear economic benefits of trade facilitation
measures can be overshadowed by internal capacity constraints and the lack of
cooperation mechanisms between Government agencies. Therefore, in the design of
future project that require cooperation of two or more agencies, it is important to first
develop a consensus among the parties involved, and take into account the impediments
that could derail the project benefits. There is also a need to establish mechanisms and a
structure in order to ensure working across Ministries and Government agencies.




                                               14

Better linking and sequencing technical assistance with investments could maximize
implementation success and development effectiveness. The progress in technical
assistance for trade facilitation needs to be synchronized with investments in physical
infrastructure or services. Improvements in information technology or investments in
border crossing facilities for example provide a framework for needed analytical work to
be undertaken or an effective training strategy to be developed for staff.

Independent Project Management Unit (PMU) arrangements should be considered
for projects requiring effective cooperation across related stakeholders. It is
important for such projects to have strong leadership and implementation arrangements
provided full-time by the Government, as part of the implementing agency. In such case,
it is important, however, that the PMU does not operate under a different incentive
structure from normal government agencies. In this case, the PMU, although separate
from the line ministry, operates under the same salary and compensation scheme. In
addition, continuity of project staff is critical to integrate the PMU into the regular
government institutional framework.


           12. COMMENTS ON ISSUES RAISED BY BORROWER/IMPLEMENTING
                                     AGENCIES/PARTNERS


(a) Borrower/implementing agencies
Please refer to Annex 10 for issues raised by borrower.

(b) Cofinanciers
Not applicable.

(c) Other partners and stakeholders
(e.g. NGOs/private sector/civil society)

Please refer to Annex 11 for issues raised by implementing partner.




                                             15

                         ANNEX 1. RESULTS FRAMEWORK ANALYSIS


Project Development Objectives (from Project Appraisal Document)
The principal development objectives of the project were to modernize trade facilitation
practices and procedures, including information flows, documentation and related
legislation through (i) establishing a collaborative public/private institutional framework,
and (ii) developing a medium term trade and transport facilitation program.
Key indicators to measure achievement of these development objectives included

    · National      Trade and Transport Facilitation Committee (NTTFC) legally
        established and working, NTTFC secretarial staff trained,
    · Pakistan Shippers Council (PSC) funding the Secretariat's logistics costs and, on
        an increasing basis, the operational Secretariat costs during and after the project,
    · Key simplified and modernized documentary and administrative instruments
        related to commercial trade and transport facilitation matters approved and in use
        by the end of the project, and legal instruments drafted and forwarded to
        concerned authorities for legislative action, andReduced logistics costs for
        'typical' exports and imports
Revised Project Development Objectives (as approved by original approving
authority)

The PDO and key indicators were not revised.

(a) PDO Indicator(s)

                                                                       Formally Actual Value

  Indicator         Baseline Value        Original Target Values        Revised      Achieved at
                                        (from approval documents) Target           Completion or
                                                                        Values      Target Years
              NTTFC is legally established and working; NTTFC secretarial staff has been
Indicator 1 : trained; PSC is providing needed logistics support for the Secretariat and is funding
              its staff as well.
              Adversarial relationship NTTFC has assumed the
              between traders and      focal role on TF in Pakistan
Value         government agencies; no while strengthening links
(quantitative common forum existed     with the Government's NTC
                                                                                  100%
or            to exchange views; no    program, with a secure
Qualitative) effort to bring Pakistan  financing mechanism in
              practice in line with    place (as envisioned in the
              international norms.     WTO Doha TF Agenda).
Date
              06/20/2001               06/30/2006                                 06/30/2006
achieved



                                              16

                                                                      Formally Actual Value

  Indicator        Baseline Value          Original Target Values      Revised     Achieved at
                                        (from approval documents) Target          Completion or
                                                                        Values    Target Years
Comments      NTTFC has been legally established and is substantially contributing to the
(incl. %      NTCIP. Within the NTCIP framework, it is hoped that NTTFC will receive
achievement) sufficient support (financially and institutionally).
              2. List of modernized documentary, administrative and legal instruments related to
Indicator 2 : the facilitation of commercial practices which has been prepared and adopted/in
              use.
              Out-dated laws and
                                        New legislation agreed in
              standard trading
Value                                   principle by cabinet.
              conditions; multiplicity
(quantitative                           Documentary and procedural
              of documents for trade                                             100%
or                                      modernization initiated and
              flows (transit and
Qualitative)                            responsibility transferred to
              transport, customs,
                                        NTTFC for further work.
              finance).
Date
              06/20/2001                06/30/2006                               06/30/2006
achieved
Comments      New legislation has been agreed in principle by cabinet. Documentary and
(incl. %      procedural modernization has been initiated and responsibility transferred to
achievement) NTTFC for further work.

(b) Intermediate Outcome Indicator(s)


                                            Original Target Values     Formally Actual Value

  Indicator         Baseline Value              (from approval         Revised     Achieved at

                                                  documents)            Target Completion or
                                                                        Values     Target Years
              Import/export documentary requirements simplified with a SAD and associated
Indicator 1 :
              procedures.
Value                                     Feasibility of replacing
              Eight different chalans
(quantitative                             paper-based Goods
              required for Customs                                                100%
or                                        Declaration with electronic
              declaration purposes.
Qualitative)                              declaration demonstrated.
Date
              06/20/2001                  06/30/2006                              06/30/2006
achieved
Comments
              Goods Declaration has been implemented in all Collectorates of Customs in
(incl. %
              Pakistan. Electronic declaration has been demonstrated.
achievement)
Indicator 2 : National set of aligned documents based on UN Layout Key.
Value         No international or national Trade transaction cycle                100%



                                               17

                                           Original Target Values     Formally Actual Value

  Indicator         Baseline Value              (from approval         Revised    Achieved at

                                                   documents)          Target Completion or
                                                                       Values    Target Years
(quantitative standards applied to trade analyzing for one or more
or            documents.                  products, highlighting
Qualitative)                              facilitation priorities.
Date
              06/20/2001                  10/31/2005                            06/30/2006
achieved
Comments
(incl. %      Trade documents have been standardized based on UN Layout Key.
achievement)
Indicator 3 : NTTFC coordination/analysis/communication structures in place.
                                          Strengthened and
                                          adequately staffed NTTFC.
Value
                                          NTTFC and its Secretariat
(quantitative
                                          setting and supporting                90%
or
                                          national trade facilitation
Qualitative)
                                          objectives, as a focal point
                                          for trade facilitation.
Date
                                          06/30/2006                            06/30/2006
achieved
Comments
              NTTFC has been established. There remains a need to adequately staff NTTFC's
(incl. %
              Secretariat. NTTFC has established strong links with NTCIP.
achievement)
              Adoption of minimum professional qualifications, code of conduct and standard
Indicator 4 :
             trading conditions.
              Freight forwarding
Value         industry undisciplined;
(quantitative forwarders cannot offer     Standard trading conditions
                                                                                100%
or            comprehensive freight       promulgated by FPCCI.
Qualitative) services due to lack of
              appropriate legislation.
Date
              06/20/2001                  06/30/2006                            06/30/2006
achieved
Comments
              Minimum standards of professional qualifications and standard trading conditions
(incl. %
              for freight forwarders have been developed and approved.
achievement)
Indicator 5 : Draft marine insurance act.
Value         Current insurance           Competent authority
                                                                                90%
(quantitative provisions do not           promulgates new



                                                18

                                          Original Target Values     Formally Actual Value

  Indicator         Baseline Value            (from approval         Revised    Achieved at

                                                documents)           Target Completion or
                                                                     Values     Target Years
or            encourage competitiveness provisions.
Qualitative) in international insurance
              underwriting market.
Date
              06/20/2001                06/30/2006                             06/30/2006
achieved
Comments
              Draft Maritime Insurance Act has been prepared. Comments are awaited by one
(incl. %
              Provincial Government before final approval by Cabinet.
achievement)
Indicator 6 : ICC UCP introduced throughout industry and used by bankers/traders.
              Lack of streamlined
              procedures for financial
                                        Bankers trained in modern
              trade documents; lack of
Value                                   trade finance documentary
              harmonization with
(quantitative                           processes. Cumbersome
              international standard                                           100%
or                                      exchange control
              banking practices;
Qualitative)                            procedures such as e-form
              cumbersome exchange
                                        reformed.
              control procedures for
              exports.
Date
              06/20/2001                06/30/2006                             06/30/2006
achieved
Comments
              Work on elimination of E-Form completed in consultation with State Bank of
(incl. %
              Pakistan, Pakistan Customs, PRAL and Commercial Banks.
achievement)
Indicator 7 : Instruments of adhesion submitted for agreed Conventions.
                                        Pakistan international road
                                        transport association
              Advantages of Pakistan to established to pursue TIR
Value
              adhere to modern Customs implementation with
(quantitative
              conventions were          International Road                     100%
or
              documented in 1996 World Transport Union; ICC
Qualitative)
              Bank study.               Pakistan pursues ATA
                                        implementation with ICC
                                        Paris.
Date
              06/20/2001                06/30/2006                             06/30/2006
achieved
Comments      ATA implementation rules are expected to be announced in the budget for financial
(incl. %      year 2006-07. TIR convention implementation will be processed after accession to




                                              19

                                            Original Target Values     Formally Actual Value

  Indicator         Baseline Value              (from approval          Revised     Achieved at

                                                   documents)           Target Completion or
                                                                        Values     Target Years
achievement) the convention.
              Trade Point in Karachi established and grounds for additional Trade Points in
Indicator 8 :
              strategic areas.
Value                                     Assessment of technical
              The need for operational
(quantitative                             conditions required to
              Trade Points documented                                             100%
or                                        operate additional TPs in
              in 1996 World Bank study.
Qualitative)                              Pakistan.
Date
              06/20/2001                  06/30/2006                              06/30/2006
achieved
Comments      Assessment for establishment of Trade Points has been undertaken as concluded
(incl. %      upon international best practice to not pursue establishment of Trade Points in
achievement) Pakistan.
Indicator 9 : Preliminary study on logistics of perishable products in Pakistan completed.
              World Bank identified in
Value
              1996 need for development Study submitted and
(quantitative
              of transport and cold       awareness on facilitation               100%
or
              storage capacity for        requirements highlighted
Qualitative)
              refrigerated goods.
Date
              06/20/2001                  06/30/2006                              06/30/2006
achieved
Comments      Study carried out to identify requirements and policies needed for promotion of
(incl. %      refrigerated transport and cold storage of perishable commodities. Workshop has
achievement) been held by NTTFC.




                                                20

ANNEX 2. RESTRUCTURING (IF ANY)


         Not Applicable




              21

                          ANNEX 3. PROJECT COSTS AND FINANCING



(a) Project Cost by Component (in USD Million equivalent)


                                            Appraisal Estimate Actual/Latest
                 Components                                                  Percentage Of
                                                (USD M)       Estimate (USD
                                                                     M)       Appraisal

Establishment and operation of the NTTFC
                                                  0.70              0.80        114.29
secretariat
Ta for drafting of modern trade and
transport facilitation procedures, documents      1.20              1.30        108.33
and legislation outlined in annex 13.
Human resource development and training
for NTTFC secretariat and other directly          0.50              0.40        80.00
concerned public and private sector staff
Provision for 3RD year program to be
detailed in mid-year review and cover 3           0.50              0.50        100.00
components above.
                        Total Baseline Cost       2.90              3.00
Physical Contingencies                            0.30
Price Contingencies                               0.30
                         Total Project Costs      3.50
Front-End Fee PPF                                 0.00              0.00         0.00
Front-End Fee IBRD                                0.00              0.00         0.00
                 Total Financing Required         3.50              3.00




(b) Financing



     Source of funds          Type of       Appraisal        Actual/latest  Percentage of
                            cofinancing estimate (US$ m) estimate (US$ m)     appraisal
Borrower                                      0.50              0.50           100.00
International
Development                                   3.00              3.00           100.00
Association




                                             22

(c) Disbursements Profile




                             23

                            ANNEX 4. OUTPUTS BY COMPONENT

Over the course of the project, UNCTAD, the implementing partner engaged 4
international staffs, 11 international consultants, including one international consulting
firm plus 16 national consultants and six consulting firms to work on the project's
activities.

Project outputs by components are listed below:

Establishment and Operation of the NTTFC Secretariat
NTTFC Secretariat was established and is operational.
The project provided financial and technical assistance input.

Technical assistance for drafting of modern trade and transport facilitation
procedures, documents and legislation
  · Simplification of documents and procedures, introduction of single administrative
      document - The Goods Declaration Form as Single Administrative Document
      implemented in all Collectorates of Customs in Pakistan, (2) Standard documents
      for port clearance of ships in accordance with Facilitation of International Maritime
      Traffic (FAL) Convention of International Maritime Organization (IMO)
      introduced, (3) To harmonize the international trade documents used by Pakistani
      traders with international practices, a model commercial invoice based on UN
      Layout Key developed in consultation with representatives of trade and industry
      was introduced, and (4) Phytosanitary Certificate based on UN Layout Key was
      introduced.
  · Formulation and/or modernization as required of transport legislation - Draft Acts
      on road, rail, air and sea have been prepared by the UNCTAD Consultants. Position
      on each Act is given below.
      o Carriage of Goods by Road (Liabilities) Act - Ministry of Communications
          submitted the summary on Carriage of Goods by Road (Liabilities) Act to the
          Cabinet Division for approval by the Cabinet. Cabinet has approved the
          summary on 21-12-2005. Ministry of Communications has forwarded the Act to
          the Ministry of Law for approval of the Act by Parliament. The Standing
          Committee on Communications of the National Assembly has approved the Act
          in its meeting held on July 4, 2006.
      o Carriage of Goods by Sea Act and Sea Carriage Shipping Documents Act -
           Ministry of Ports & Shipping has submitted the summary dated February 27,
          2006 to the Cabinet Division for approval by the Cabinet. Cabinet approved the
          summary on April 12, 2006. Ministry of Ports & Shipping has requested Law
          Division for approval of the Act by parliament.
      o Carriage by Air Act -Ministry of Foreign Affairs has advised Defense Division
          for ratification of Montreal Convention in the first instance. Summary regarding
          ratification of Montreal Convention for approval by the Cabinet is under process

                                             24

      in consultation with the Law Division. After ratification of Montreal
      Convention, Defense Division will submit the summary on Carriage by Air Act
      for approval of the Cabinet.
  o Amendments to the Railway Act - Pakistan Railways has informed that certain
      amendments to the Railways Act which were found acceptable have already
      been agreed. The other amendments proposed by the Legal consultant were
      already covered by the Railways Commercial Manual. The Commercial Manual
      could be amended as and when necessary according to the changed
      requirements.
· Modernization and liberalization of marine transport insurance provisions and
 policy conditions and practices - UNCTAD Consultants have prepared draft Marine
 Insurance Act. Ministry of Commerce has written to all the four Provincial
  Governments for concept clearance before moving the summary to the Cabinet for
  approval. Comments f the Governments of Sindh, North-West Frontier Province
  (NWFP) and Balochistan have been received and legal opinion on these comments
  obtained. The comments of the Government of Punjab are awaited.
· Streamlining of financial and banking provisions related to foreign trade
  transactions including foreign-currency and 'letter-of-credit" provisions - Work on
  elimination of E-Form completed in consultation with SBP, Pakistan Customs,
  PRAL and Commercial Banks.
· Advice to GOP on modernization, harmonization, and simplification of Customs
  procedures in line with recommendations of the World Customs Organization, with
  priority to ATA and TIR convention - Pakistan ratified ATA Carnet (Istanbul
  Convention 1990) on 18th May, 2004. Accession to the TIR Carnet (TIR
  Convention 1975) is under way.
· Standards on Qualifications and Trading Conditions - Draft of standard trading
  conditions for carriage of goods by road furnished by UNCTAD, Geneva forwarded
  to the NLC for necessary amendments. Fourth Tripartite Review meeting held on
  24.05.04 decided that formulation of commercial terms and conditions should be
  the responsibility of the representatives of the business. Terms & conditions for the
  contract of carriage by multimodal transport are covered by bill of Lading. No new
  document appears to be necessary.
· Professional standards for freight forwarders - Minimum standards of professional
  qualifications and standard trading conditions for the freight forwarders developed
  and approved.
· Study on capacity requirements and policies needed for promotion of refrigerated
  domestic transport and cold storage of fresh produce - A study carried out to
  identify requirements and policies needed for promotion of refrigerated transport
  and cold storage of perishable commodities and necessary measures recommended
  focusing on mangoes and fisheries. A seminar on promoting export of mangoes was
  organized by NTTFC in collaboration with Pakistan Horticulture Development and
  Export Board (PHDEB).



                                         25

 · Additional studies have been undertaken by the project on the following issues:
     o Kyoto Convention review- Kyoto Convention has been ratified by the Government
          of Pakistan
     o Trade transaction analysis - The analysis has been carried out by Masood Aziz
          Associates
     o Trade facilitation audit - Audit carried out by World Bank consultant Mr. John
          Arnold.
     o Electronic trading platform (single window) - Study has been carried out by Sidat
          Hyder Morshed Associates
     o Sanitary and Phytosanitary (SPS) import controls - Study carried out by Drs. G. I
          Johnson and A. U. Malik
     o Cross border infrastructure - Study on Border Crossing Operations between
          Pakistan and Neighboring Countries carried out by Sardar M. Humayun Khan
     o Analysis of shipping line charges - Study carried out by Mr. Marc Abeille.
 · ATA/TIR convention implementation -ATA implementation rules are expected to be
     announced in the budget for the financial year 2006-07. TIR convention
     implementation will be progressed after accession to the convention.
 · Logistics     security/study ­ Central Board of Revenue (CBR) has signed a
     Declaration of Principles with US Bureau of Customs and Border Protection to start
     a Pilot Project at Port Qasim under Integrated Cargo/Container Control (IC3) for
     joint screening of US bound container cargo from Pakistan.Customs performance
     measurement - This activity has been dropped and carried out by Tax
     Administration project, financed by the World Bank.Human resource
development and training for NTTFC Secretariat and other directly concerned
public and private sector staff
 · Development of a team of local training managers in the field of trade facilitation
     and related subjects - Total number of 69 training courses, workshops and seminars
     held and 1389 persons received training for creating awareness of trade facilitation
     among traders, customs and banking personnel.
 · Project workshops and conferences - Project Mobilization Workshop and Final
     Trade Facilitation Project Conference were held in February 2002 and December
     2003, respectively.
 · Seminar held on capacity requirements and policies needed for promotion of
     refrigerated domestic transport and cold storage of fresh produce - A seminar on
     promoting export of mangoes was organized by NTTFC in collaboration with
     Pakistan Horticulture Development and Export Board (PHDEB).

Follow-on project preparation and workshop - Final Trade and Transport Facilitation
Conference held on 18th March, 2006. The follow-on project, called Trade and Transport
Facilitation Project II (TTF2) has been made part of an umbrella project of Planning
Division for which a project concept note, PC-I has been approved.




                                           26

 ANNEX 5. ECONOMIC AND FINANCIAL ANALYSIS (INCLUDING ASSUMPTIONS IN THE
                                        ANALYSIS)

No economic and financial analyses were carried out under the project




                                             27

 ANNEX 6. BANK LENDING AND IMPLEMENTATION SUPPORT/SUPERVISION PROCESSES


(a) Task Team members

        Names                  Title                 Unit         Responsibility/Specialty
Lending
Supervision/ICR
Ayaz Parvez           E T Consultant                SASEI
Cordula Rastogi       Young Professional             YPP

Hasan Saqib           Sr. Financial
                      Management Specialist        SARFM

Michel Zarnowiecki    Consultant                    ECSIE
Shaukat Javed         Program Assistant             SASEI

Simon Thomas          Lead Transport
                      Economist                     SASEI

Uzma Sadaf            Procurement Specialist        SARPS

(b) Ratings of Project Performance in ISRs

No. Date ISR Archived           DO            IP          Actual Disbursements (USD M)
1          10/30/2001       Satisfactory  Satisfactory                1.01
2          05/30/2002       Satisfactory  Satisfactory                1.02
3          11/27/2002       Satisfactory  Satisfactory                1.52
4          06/11/2003       Satisfactory  Satisfactory                1.84
5          12/11/2003       Satisfactory  Satisfactory                2.10
6          06/14/2004       Satisfactory  Satisfactory                2.10
7          12/29/2004       Satisfactory  Satisfactory                2.31
8          05/26/2005       Satisfactory  Satisfactory                2.99
9          12/12/2005       Satisfactory  Satisfactory                2.99
10         06/16/2006       Satisfactory  Satisfactory                2.99

(c ) Staff Time and Cost
                                               Staff Time and Cost (Bank Budget Only)

            Stage of Project Cycle                                    USD Thousands
                                               No. of staff weeks   (including travel and
                                                                      consultant costs)
Lending
                    FY98                                                    43.02
                    FY99                                                    59.55
                    FY00                               17                   18.41
                    FY01                               2                    13.09
                    FY02                                                    0.00
                    FY03                                                    0.00


                                            28

                                          Staff Time and Cost (Bank Budget Only)

           Stage of Project Cycle                                USD Thousands
                                          No. of staff weeks   (including travel and
                                                                 consultant costs)
                   FY04                                                0.00
                   FY05                                                0.00
                   FY06                                                0.00
                   FY07                                                0.00
                                   Total:         19                  134.07
Supervision/ICR
                   FY98                                                0.00
                   FY99                                                0.69
                   FY00                                                0.11
                   FY01                                                4.16
                   FY02                           15                   56.48
                   FY03                           11                   62.26
                   FY04                           9                    35.68
                   FY05                           7                    47.68
                   FY06                           11                   67.12
                   FY07                           4                    12.06
                                   Total:         57                  286.24




                                       29

        ANNEX 7. DETAILED RATINGS OF BANK AND BORROWER PERFORMANCE

        Bank                    Ratings         Borrower            Ratings
Ensuring Quality at
                        Satisfactory      Government:       Satisfactory
Entry:
                                          Implementing
Quality of Supervision: Satisfactory                        Moderately Satisfactory
                                          Agency/Agencies:
Overall Bank                              Overall Borrower
                        Satisfactory                        Satisfactory
Performance:                              Performance:




                                         30

               ANNEX 8. BENEFICIARY SURVEY RESULTS (IF ANY)

Not applicable




                                   31

        ANNEX 9. STAKEHOLDER WORKSHOP REPORT AND RESULTS (IF ANY)

Not applicable




                                  32

    ANNEX 10. SUMMARY OF BORROWER'S ICR AND/OR COMMENTS ON DRAFT ICR


The Final Project Evaluation Report of the Ministry of Commerce, Government of
Pakistan can be summarized as following:

Assessment of Project Objectives, Implementation and Outcome: Project objectives
have been achieved, although project implementation started with an eight month delay
which resulted in a compressed implementation timeframe, re-adjustments in project
activities, and project extensions. The project however had an impact on establishing
trade policy as a core component of Pakistan's Trade Policy and recognized it to being
essential to the future development of the national economy. This has also influenced the
launch of the National Trade Corridor Implementation Plan, initiated by the Prime
Minister in August 2005.

Evaluation of Performance of the Ministry of Commerce, UNCTAD and the World
Bank: The performance of the Ministry of Commerce, UNCTAD and the World Bank
has been satisfactory. Key factors negatively affecting the performance of key agencies
were (i) multiple personal changes in Ministry of Commerce, (ii) lengthy procedural
requirements by UNCTAD (including the timeliness and quality of procurement of
consultants adopted by UNCTAD), and (iii) time requirements for ongoing
implementation support from the side of the World Bank team.

Lessons learned: There are four lessons learned: (i) flexibility in project design is
required for projects dealing with trade and transport facilitation, an area that is demand
driven and constantly evolving, (ii) a feeling of ownership across sector agencies
is necessary for projects with cross-cutting themes, (iii) benefits and costs of using an
implementing partner should be assessed, and (iv) ongoing implementation support from
the side of the World Bank in its role of knowledge Bank is of particular importance.




                                            33

 ANNEX 11. COMMENTS OF COFINANCIERS AND OTHER PARTNERS/STAKEHOLDERS


No further issues were raised by the implementing partner.




                                          34

                     ANNEX 12. LIST OF SUPPORTING DOCUMENTS


1.  Islamic Republic of Pakistan, A Trade and Transport Facilitation Project, Project
    Appraisal Document, March 26, 2001, Report No. 22016-PAK.

2.  Development Credit (Trade and Transport Facilitation Project) between Islamic
    Republic of Pakistan and International Development Association, May 1,
    2001.Logistics Consulting Group, 1996, Logistics Costs Study Pakistan, Volume I, II
    and III, May 1996.

4.  Logistics Consulting Group, 2006, Logistics Costs Study Pakistan, June 2006.

5.  Project Preparation/Identification mission reports.

6.  UNCTAD and NTTFC Progress Reports.

7.  Project Implementation Status Reports.

8.  Supervision and Back to Office Reports.

9.  Minutes of Tripartite Review Meetings, NTTFC Meetings, and Steering Committee
    Meetings.

10. Final Evaluation Report by Ministry of Commerce and UNCTAD.

11. Government of Pakistan, Ministry of Commerce, 2006, Trade Policy 2006-07,
    Speech by Humayun Akhtar Khan, Ministry of Commerce, July 17, 2006




                                           35

