Docurnent of
The World Bank
Report No: 22016-PAK
PROJECT APPRAISAL DOCUMENT
ON A
PROPOSED CREDIT
IN THE AMOUNT OF SDR 2.3 MILLION
(US$3.0 MILLION EQUIVALENT)
TO THE
ISLAMIC REPUBLIC OF PAKISTAN
FOR
A TRADE AND TRANSPORT FACILITATION PROJECT
MARCH 26, 2001
South Asia Regional Office



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
(Exchange Rate Effective February 7, 2001)
Currency Unit = Pakistan Rupees
PR100 = US$1.67
US$1 = PR60
FISCAL YEAR
July 1 June 30
ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS
ADP         Automatic Date Processing
BPIP        Borrower's Project Implementation Plan
CDWP        Central Development Working Party
ECNEC       Executive Committee of National Economic Council
EDI         Electronic Data Interchange
FPCCI       Federation of Pakistan Chambers of Commerce and Industry
GOP         Government of Pakistan
KPT         Karachi Port Trust
MOC         Ministry of Commerce
NTTFC       National Trade and Transport Facilitation Committee
PAKPRO    Pakistan Facilitation Program
PCI         Planning Commission Project Concept I
PCII        Planning Commission Project Concept II
PSC         Pakistan Shippers Council
SAD         Single Administrative Document
UNCTAD   United Nations Conference of Trade and Development
Vice President:    Mieko Nishimizu
Country Manager/Director:   John W. Wall
Sector Manager/Director:   Vincent Gouame
Task Team Leader/Task Manager:    Harald Hansen



PAKISTAN
A TRADE AND TRANSPORT FACILITATION PROJECT
CONTENTS
A. Project Development Objective                                                       Page
1. Project development objective                                                       2
2. Key performance indicators                                                          2
B. Strategic Context
1. Sector-related Country Assistance Strategy (CAS) goal supported by the project      2
2. Main sector issues and Government strategy                                          3
3. Sector issues to be addressed by the project and strategic choices                  4
C. Project Description Summary
1. Project components                                                                  6
2. Key policy and institutional reforms supported by the project                       7
3. Benefits and target population                                                      7
4. Institutional and implementation arrangements                                       7
D. Project Rationale
1. Project alternatives considered and reasons for rejection                           8
2. Major related projects financed by the Bank and other development agencies          9
3. Lessons learned and reflected in proposed project design                           10
4. Indications of borrower commitment and ownership                                   10
5. Value added of Bank support in this project                                        11
E. Summary Project Analysis
1. Economic                                                                           11
2. Financial                                                                          12
3. Technical                                                                          12
4. Institutional                                                                      12
5. Environmental                                                                      13
6. Social                                                                             13
7. Safeguard Policies                                                                 14
F. Sustainability and Risks
1. Sustainability                                                                     14
2. Critical risks                                                                     14
3. Possible controversial aspects                                                     16



G. Main Conditions
1. Effectiveness Condition                                                            16
2. Other                                                                              16
H. Readiness for Implementation                                                          16
1. Compliance with Bank Policies                                                         16
Annexes
Annex 1: Project Design Summary                                                          17
Annex 2: Detailed Project Description                                                    20
Annex 3: Estimated Project Costs                                                         21
Annex 4: Cost Benefit Analysis Sumnary, or Cost-Effectiveness Analysis Summary           22
Annex 5: Financial Summary for Revenue-Earning Project Entities, or Financial Summary    23
Annex 6: Procurement and Disbursement Arrangements                                       24
Table Al.    Consultant Selection Arrangements
Table B.     Thresholds for Procurement Methods and Prior Review
Table C.     Allocation of Loan Proceeds
Annex 7: Project Processing Schedule                                                     28
Annex 8: Documents in the Project File                                                   29
Annex 9: Statement of Loans and Credits                                                  30
Annex 10: Country at a Glance                                                            33
Annex 11: Summary of Objectives and Key Performance Indicators                           35
Annex 12: Resolution (Goverment of Pakistan, Ministry of Commerce)                       41
Annex 13: Pakistan Shippers Council (PSC) of FPCCI                                       43
Annex 14: UNCTAD Executed (Multimodal Trade and Transport Fac. Projects during 1988-98)  48
Annex 15: UNCTAD's TOR/Description of Services                                           50
Annex 16: Memorandum of Understanding                                                    70
Annex 17: Accounting and Financial Arrangements                                          74



PAKISTAN
A Trade and Transport Facilitation Project
Project Appraisal Document
South Asia Regional Office
SASIN
Date: March 26, 2001                              Team Leader: Harald Hansen
Country Manager/Director: John W. Wall            Sector Manager/Director: Vincent Gouame
Project ID: P056213                               Sector(s): TT - Transportation Adjustment
Lending Instrument: Technical Assistance Loan (TAL)   Theme(s):
Poverty Targeted Intervention: N
Project Financing Data
[ I Loan    [X] Credit    [1 Grant      [1 Guarantee     [ ] Other:
For Loans/CreditslOthers:
Amount (US$m): SDR 2.3 million (US$3.0 million equivalent)
Proposed Terms:
Grace period (years): 10                               Years to maturity: 35
Commitment fee: 0.5%                                   Service charge: 0.75%
Financing Plan:    Source                                    Local         ForeicLn        Total
BORROWER                                                        0.50           0.(0          0.50
IDA                                                             0.90           2.l0          3.00
Total:                                                          1.40           2.10          3.50
Borrower: GOP
Responsible agency: MINISTRY OF COMMERCE
Estimated disbursements ( Bank FYIUS$M):
FY         2001       2002        2003      2004       2005
Annual    1.00        0.70       0.70       0.40       0.20            _
Cumulative    1.00        1.70       2.40       2.80      3.00
Project implementation period: 3 years
Expected effectiveness date: 05/30/2001 Expected closing date:  10/31/2004
OCS PAD Fp  Fre    ,. 200D



A. Project Development Objective
1. Project development objective: (see Annex 1)
1. Project development objective and key performance indicators (see Annex 1).
A new institutional framework for commercial trade and transport facilitation reforms is needed to ensure
that existing transport and freight facilitation practices impose minimum cost constraints on cargo
movements and the minimum disincentives for the development of modem transport logistics systems,
thereby improving Pakistan's commercial and industrial efficiency and trade competitivity. The project
development objective (see Annex 1 and also in Annex 11) is to establish a public/private sector
collaborative institutional framework to develop and support the first phase of Pakistan's medium-term
trade and transport facilitation program aimed at modernizing Pakistan's traditional trade and transport
facilitation practices and procedures, including information flows, documentation and related legislation.
Based on best international practice, it would develop a new institutional framework for public-private
sector collaboration in identifying and reducing key legal, administrative and documentary constraints and
bottlenecks to trade facilitation reforms. The project would also develop new streamlined documentary
procedures. It would also train staff of the National Trade and Transport Facilitation Committee (NTTFC)
Secretariat (The Secretariat), located at the Pakistan Shipper's Council (PSC) in order that they can carry
on the process at the end of the project.
The three year Trade and Transport Facilitation Project would complement the ongoing ADB assisted
Modernization of Customs Administration Project. It would in the future benefit from the proposed Karachi
Port Development Project which would deal with related facilitation issues at the level of Pakistan's main
port. The expected trade and transport facilitation reforms, by starting to remove major obstacles to trade
and transport are also expected to encourage new private sector investments in improved transport,
manufacturing and other commercial activities related to Pakistan's domestic and foreign trade.
2. Key performance indicators: (see Annex 1)
Key development objective performance indicators are: (i) that the NTTFC is legally established and
working and that the Secretariat staff has been trained; (ii) that the PSC is funding the Secretariat logistics
costs and, on an increasing basis, the operational secretariat costs during the project and the Secretariat
costs after the project; (iii) that key simplified and modernized documentary and administrative
instruments related to commercial trade and transport facilitation matters are approved and in use when the
project ends, and legal instruments have been drafted and forwarded to concerned authorities for legislative
action. Furthermore than that a detailed, time-bound, program of further facilitation measures has been
agreed, including its funding; and (iv) that there is a beneficial impact of modernized and streamlined
facilitation procedures and policies on a costs of "typical" exports and imports.
B. Strategic Context
1. Sector-related Country Assistance Strategy (CAS) goal supported by the project: (see Annex 1)
Document number: R98-307            Date of latest CAS discussion: January 21, 1999
The draft 1999 CAS Progress Report highlights the following key elements of the overall Bank strategy for
Pakistan: (i) achieve macro stability; (ii) improve human development; (iii) build a competitive environment
for private investment for sustainable growth; and (iv) strengthen govemance and institutional
- 2 -



development. The sector related CAS goal of raising productivity and economic growth requires, inter alia,
improving Pakistan's industrial and commercial growth, export competitiveness, and attractiveness for
private investment. Building a suitable environment for private investment and sustainable growth is
therefore a key element of the CAS strategy. Pakistan has been handicapped in achieving these
requirements by its outnoded, general purpose transport and freight distribution systems, by its traditional
facilitation practices and by its lack of an institutional framework bringing together the public and private
sector in solving these problems. By reducing the cost effectiveness of modem transporl logistics systems,
there is also a disincentive to private investment in such systems.
The project supports this CAS goal since trade and transport facilitation reforms are critical for improving
trade and transport logistics systems and a new institutional framework is required to develop and push
such refonns. Reduced logistics costs leads to improved industrial and commercial efficiency and to
economic growth.
The proposed project would focus on human resource development and public sector institufional
development in trade facilitation, and would help remove major policy, procedural, documentary and hence
cost obstacles to increased trade competitiveness needed to achieve these objectives.
2. Main sector issues and Government strategy:
The modernization of Pakistan's transport systems will play a vital role in the country's economic
development.  International trends are to introduce integrated distribution systems, restructure the
private-public sector role, and modernize the practices and procedures that facilitate trade and transport.
The introduction of "just-in-time" production, continuous inventory replenishment, and outsourcing require
high quality logistics systems, including the improved information flows made possible by electronic data
interchange (EDI). The transport, warehousing, material/production planning and control and customer
service aspects of the logistics chain have become increasingly integrated, which is of vital importance in a
global economy where time based competition prevails. The effectiveness of these modern methods and
technologies is witnessed by the recent experience of more developed countries. For example, improved
trade and transport logistics systems have enabled the total logistics costs (including inventory carrying
costs, and transport costs) in the USA to fall from 16% of GDP in 1982 to 10% in 1996. Such costs are
typically 20% or more in countries with traditional logistics systems in need of modernization. Countries
with traditional systems have been penalized not only by the higher costs of such systems, but also by the
opportunity cost of lost international markets, since companies using just-in-time techniques have difficulty
doing business with suppliers who lack reliable integrated systems. Trade and transportation inefficiencies
are thus major problems for many developing countries. Based on detailed analysis of the logistics costs of
selected key commodities, the 1996 Pakistan Logistics Cost Study concluded that "for a selected number of
commodities (total export value in 1993/94 was USD 2,182 million), savings equivalent to 16.5% of the
export value could be achieved". This indicates the potential savings, which could resu ,t if improved trade
and transport logistic systems, are implemented.
In Pakistan, industrial and commercial growth, and export competitiveness are handicapped by outmoded
logistics (B.3 below).  The transport systems in Pakistan's primary traffic artery (the 1,700 km
Karachi-Lahore-Peshawar corridor) serve both domestic needs and links upcountry parts with international
markets through the Karachi area ports. Modernizing transport links along this corridor is thus important
for balanced economic growth. During the past 25 years, all the growth in freight traffic has been carried
by the deregulated private sector trucking industry. Pakistan Railways (PR) freight traffic has stagnated
and consists of public sector products. Although the trucking industry has low linehaul costs, the general
purpose freight distribution system prevents shippers from realizing the cost savings from integrating
production, handling, and transport and storage systems. In addition, outdated port and customs facilities
- 3-



and procedures and general trade, insurance and banking regulations prevent a smooth transition between
the inland transport corridor and ocean shipping, causing upcountry delivery to be 20-30 days instead of 5
days, resulting in about US$150 million in excess annual inventory costs of goods in transit according to
the Logistic Cost Study.
There is now an awareness in Pakistan that unless its infrastructure, administration, and regulations are
adjusted to promote modem transport and communications, the country's economic potential would be
compromised and export competitiveness penalized. The Goverrnment of Pakistan (GOP) has recently
adopted policies to: (i) unbundle and privatize PR in order to encourage the private sector to develop
comunercial rail freight services; (ii) transform Karachi Port into a landlord port with the private sector
taking responsibility for port operations and services; and (iii) reform tax administration and customs. On
the port side, private container terminal groups are currently active in Karachi and Port Qasim as well as in
inland container depots. At Karachi Port, significant documentary progress has already been made
reducing the number of documents required for cargo transit and clearance from 32 to less than 10. The
commercial reforms to facilitate trade and transport procedures complementary to the above policies and
actions are discussed below. These should be acted upon as quickly as possible to build on the momentum
already developed and to the current public/private sector collaboration which has been initiated by the
establishment of the NTTFC as discussed further below.
3. Sector issues to be addressed by the project and strategic choices:
Facilitation Sector issues. Pakistan's existing documentary practices, rules, regulations and trade
facilitation legislation have discouraged investment in integrated systems, including specialized transport,
warehousing and other facilities. These together with the absence of an appropriate institutional framework
to deal with the issues have constrained the development of modem trade and transport logistics. Defective
transport legislation makes the assignment of carriers' liability uncertain and consequently constrains the
development of integrated logistics systems, which require an unambiguous custodial responsibility through
the supply chain. The development of multimodal transport is also handicapped by obsolete banking and
insurance procedures, including those that make access to international transport and insurance clubs (P&I
Clubs) difficult.  Increasingly competition of global markets is "time-based', and existing customs
clearance procedures are a key impediment to the rapid movement of cargoes across Pakistan's border.
Although some improvements have taken place in certain areas, obsolete trade and transport facilitation
practices still affect Pakistan's competitiveness in world markets in three critical areas of the logistics
transaction: (i) customs clearance; (ii) port handling operations; and (iii) commercial facilitation (trade
logistics). The third is the summary of legal, administrative and documentary instruments which are both at
the core of customs and port operations from the commercial perspective are a disincentive to
modemization of transport logistics systems. This project will focus on developing an institutional
framework and initial actions to deal with the most critical issues related to (iii) above and would
complement other actions underway to improve the transport situation in Pakistan. The improvement of
customs procedures would, in part, be addressed as part of the ongoing ADB assisted Modernization of
Customs Administration Project, while the issues related to ports, particularly the Port of Karachi, would
be addressed as part of the proposed Karachi Port Development Project. As mentioned in the previous
section, progress has already been made in the port sector. The further integration and consolidation of
customs, port and trade reforms as well as broader transport policies and issues, could be part of the
subsequent phase of trade and transport activities in Pakistan following this project.
Commercial facilitation. Pakistan's trade associations have yet to develop effective institutional relations
with GOP, which would provide a formal channel for reducing trade and transport facilitation constraints.
Indeed relations are typically on an individual enterprise or city basis. In the early 1990s, the city of
Sialkot gained permission to have its export containers clear customs at the Sialkot dry port and to move in
- 4 -



bond to the port. Following this, dry ports have become popular in other cities and bcnded private truck
operations have emerged. In spite of this, well coordinated and comprehensive commercial facilitation
measures have not prospered.
Ad hoc facilitation initiatives are too slow and haphazard to produce the needed economy wide benefits. A
preferable strategy is to establish a permanent public/private institutional basis for developing initiatives
and for ensuring their implementation. Many countries have formed National Trade and Transport
Facilitation Committees consisting of representatives of private and public entities responsible for the many
facets of trade and transport in order to identify problems and develop facilitation soluticns.
Initial Actions. The PSC of the Federation of Pakistan Chambers of Commerce and Industry, a private
body with official standing, has taken the lead in helping to identify the needs for facilitation or trade and
transport operations in Pakistan. To be effective, however, this must be channeled through GOP. The
Ministry of Commerce (MOC) by resolution of July 14, 1998 (Annex 2) has established a standing
committee along the lines mentioned in the previous paragraph to channel such activities (gazetted on
October 14, 1998, Annex 12). The NTTFC has been established, under the chainnanship of the Additional
Secretary, MOC, with representatives from concerned trade and commercial associations (banks,
insurance, freight forwarders etc.), the Ministries of Communications and Finance, Customs and Pakistan's
ports and railway. The envisaged membership of NTTFC is in line with intemational practice, including
ECE Trade Facilitation Recommendation No. 4. Informal meetings of the selected ministries and
associations have in fact taken place long before the formal establishment of NTTFC. In addition to the
formal establishment of NTTFC, PSC has already prepared a Borrower's Project Implementation Plan
(BPIP) and established the Secretariat of NTTFC with a secretary, an assistant and a helper and provided
office space for the Secretariat and their consultants. Project approval by the Central Development
Working Party (CDWP) was obtained in July 1999 and by the Executive Committee of National Economic
Council (ECNEC) in September 1999, prior to credit negotiations.
Facilitation Sector Issues and Program. The three years program for the development of modem trade
facilitation procedures suitable to Pakistan, which the NTTFC Secretariat would develop and help
implement, with the technical assistance, would include the preparation and implementation a broad range
of complementary areas as, summarized in section C-i below
The Secretariat, with the support of UNCTAD's TA, will develop benchmark logistic index comparators
for key export commodities and/or cumulative for Pakistan, whichever are more realistic or feasible. The
benchmark index will include key logistics factors (transport cost, time, financial cost) and would be
updated regularly. Information on benchmark comparators and their financial fluctuations would be made
available by PSC to the concerned institutions and to the public for all practical information purposes.
The draft proposals prepared by the Secretariat and working groups with the help of the technical
assistance would be presented to the NTTFC for review and subsequent adoption or legislative actions by
the concemed parties, mainly the MOC and the Ministry of Communications. During appraisal,
assurances were also received from the Ministry of Cormmunications that they would work closely with the
MOC regarding reform measures within its jurisdiction. Training of personnel with:n the Secretariat as
well as the concerned Goverirnent and private sector agencies and entities on the new procedures would be
a key task for the technical assistance to be provided under the Project. The work program of the
Secretariat and the technical assistance would be reviewed and adjusted periodically as may be needed to
meet the most urgent evolving trade and transport requirements. A formal review and reassessment would
be carried out at the mid-term review at which time a detailed work program would be prepared for the
third year of the project. At the end of the project a comprehensive and time-bound action program as well
as a proper institutional framework with trained staff should be in place to carry on the work.
-5-



C. Project Description Summary
1. Project components (see Annex 2 for a detailed description and Annex 3 for a detailed cost
breakdown):
Component                      Sector         Costs   % Of    f                  Ba' k-
_ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _   (IJS$ M )   ~T otal  { P ~ ) f v m c n
1. Establishment and operation of     Institution            0.80       22.9        0.40       13.3
NTTFC Secretariat (related technical    Building
assistance, local staff, office space,
utilities equipment, and other
operating expenses)
2. Technical Assistance for drafting of   MT                 1.50       42.9        1.50       50.0
modern trade and transport
procedures, documents, and legislation
3. Human resource development and      Training              0.60        17.1       0.60       20.0
training for the Secretariat and other
directly concerned with facilitation
0.60       17.1       0.50        16.7
4. Provision for third year program
Total Project Costs                       3.50      100.0        3.00      100.0
Total Financing Required                         3.50       100.0       3.00       100.0
The three year program includes: (i) simplification of documents and procedures related to foreign trade
and transport transactions leading as appropriate to the introduction of a single administrative document
(SAD); (ii) formulation and modernization of related transport legislation; (iii) modernization of
commercial documentary procedures covering the drafting of standard terms and conditions for contract of
carriage by road, rail, sea and multimodal transport; (iv) suggestions for draft proposals for the
modernization of standards of professional qualifications and trading conditions for transport
intermediaries such as freight forwarders, multimodal transport operators and other transport
intermediaries in accordance with international standards; (v) modernization and liberalization of marine
and domestic transport insurance provisions and policy conditions; (vi) streamlining of financial and
banking provisions related to foreign trade transactions, including shipping, foreign currency and letter of
credit provisions; (vii) evaluation of advantages/disadvantages of becoming contracting parties to
international conventions related to customs, transport and trade; (viii) implementation of effective "Trade
Points" at ports, inland trade centers and dry ports as necessary; (ix) study of the capacity requirements
and policies needed for promotion of refrigerated transport and cold storage of fresh produce and the
development of associated transport; (x) development of a team of local training managers in the field of
trade facilitation and related subjects for deliveries of future training activities, conferences, seminars and
workshops; and (xi) institutional strengthening of the NTTFC and its Secretariat so that it will become a
fully functional institution and be able to coordinate its activities with key agencies participating in trade
and transport as outlined in greater detail in Annex 3.
-6 -



2. Key policy and institutional reforms supported by the project:
The key reforns that the project supports are:
(a) Development of permanent institutional arrangements to enable modem trade and transport
facilitation practices to be prepared, discussed with all concerned parties, and implemented on a
continuing basis;
(b) Preparation and implementation of specific priority measures to strengthen and streamline trade
legislation, procedures and documentation, to modernize transport legislation, and to strengthen
sectoral human resource development programs; and
(c) The preparation of a detailed time-bound action program for further trade and transport facilitation
measures to be carried out by the trained staff put in place during the project.
3. Benefits and target population:
The benefits will be the availability of partly modernized, streamlined and simplified commercial trade and
transport facilitation procedures, documents, legislation, transport liability and credit procedures associated
with the movement of goods. The initial beneficiaries will be Pakistan's industry and commerce which will
have better opportunities to reduce their costs through improved logistic systems and hence enhance their
competitive position on the intemational market and, under competitive pressures, reduce costs to the
consumers. This should in turn generate additional employment and growth opportunities. The Pakistani
consumers should also benefit from the resulting reduced costs of imports
4. Institutional and implementation arrangements:
Implementation period: 3 years for the proposed project, although a longer time period will be required for
full implementation to be handled by the institutional framework established under the project
Implementation agencies:
Since PSC has been the driving force behind facilitation matters in Pakistan, the Secretariat will be located
at the PSC headquarters in Karachi, the comnmercial and trading center of Pakistan. PSC has already
established the Secretariat by posting an interim secretary. The Executive Secretary and other professional
staff of the NTTFC Secretariat have been selected and they should take up their pcsitions by end May
2001 prior to the arrival of the UNCTAD team. Office space for the Secretariat and their consultants is
already available. Background information conceming PSC and the Federation of Pakistan Chamber of
Commerce and Industry (FPCCI) is provided in Annex 13.
MOC will implement the project and monitor the work of the Secretariat and UNCTAD. The Secretary,
MOC will be responsible for the project with day-today responsibility vested with a Project Director in
MOC reporting directly to the Secretary. MOC will also be responsille for facilitating
adoption/implementation of any legislative changes and/or streamlined procedures and documentation being
developed under this program by relevant ministries/government departments. UNCTAD will provide the
necessary project management, technical assistance, and training. The UNCTAD work will be organized
to develop the Secretariat so as to make the Secretariat an effective institution for conlinued preparation of
facilitation measures to modemize trade and transport practices. To enable this, UNCTAD will initially
provide a full time senior transport specialist/team leader (24 p/m), a full time deputy team leader with
extensive local knowledge (24 p/m) and a substantially full time human resource development specialist (21
p/m) as well as short term specialists in relevant fields such as trade facilitation, transport legislation,
freight forwarding, insurance, banking, trade points, trade points, customs procedures affecting facilitation
- 7 -



and related fiscal issues together with other short term foreign and national lecturers. Recruitment of
national consultants would be included as appropriate. Draft job descriptions have already been prepared
for the different positions. The progress of project implementation would be evaluated after about 18
months, at which time a detailed work program for the third year would be agreed, including a likely
amendment to the UNCTAD contract.
Because UNCTAD has developed a unique expertise for organizing the diverse group of facilitation experts
and have already carried out trade and transport facilitation work in Pakistan as well as several other
countries in the region they would: (i) provide the facilitation technical assistance; and (ii) organize and
train the professional staff of the Secretariat. A sample list of UTNCTAD trade facilitation activities around
the world is included in Annex 14. Through its broad geographic and varied trade and transport facilitation
work UNCTAD has gained a unique experience in putting together and managing diverse teams of
specialists in different aspects of trade and transport facilitation and in adapting the teams and resulting
procedures, documentation, etc. to the specific local conditions and needs.
It is envisaged that the Secretariat would include an executive secretary, an assistant secretary, a customs
coordinator and a computer specialist as well as account and office assistants, all recruited by the PSC. In
particular, the Secretariat will be available for advisory review and to facilitate consensus building within
the NTTFC prior to Ministry of Commerce or other GOP agencies' formal consideration and
implementation as appropriate.
Financial Management Arrangements:
A systems review of the MOC and FPCCI/SC, as required under OP/BP 10.02 was carried out by a
financial management specialist. Details of the financial management arrangements for the project covering
staffing, accounting, audit, internal controls, computerization and special account as well as the project
management report formats are reflected in Annex 17.
D. Project Rationale
1. Project alternatives considered and reasons for rejection:
The three critical areas of trade and transport facilitation measures are: (i) the standardization,
simplification and harmonization of commercial trade and transport aspects; (ii) customs processing
procedures; and (iii) port procedures. The proposed project includes only the first of these areas, but an
alternative would have been to include items (ii) and (iii) as well. In fact item (ii) was included in the
original concept. However since customs is part of the ADB assisted Modernization and Customs
Administration Project it was decided not to include the customs as part of the project but ensure close
coordination between the two. During credit negotiations Pakistan agreed to ensure close coordination
between the currently proposed project and the ongoing ADB Modernization of Customs Administration
Project. The option of including item (iii) in the proposed project was rejected because it would have added
to project complexity and it was considered preferable to continue KPT facilitation work under the planned
Karachi Port Development Project. This takes into account past experience that maximum effect is
achieved in projects, which are clearly focussed and led by a single agency. However, the NTTFC
provides a forum for exchange of views, including the progress with the customs program as well as the
port related matters being dealt with separate from this project.
An alternative funding arrangement would have been for the Secretariat to be organized and staffed and
directly funded by the Ministry of Commerce. PSC was concerned that a GOP recruited and funded
Secretariat would not be able to work closely with the private sector and that availability of funding could
be problematic. Location of the Secretariat within PSC and full future funding by PSC was therefore
- 8 -



considered the preferred long term solution.
2. Major related projects financed by the Bank and/or other development agencies ('completed,
ongoing and planned).
Latest i3upervision
Sector Issue                       Project                   (PSR) Ratings
L ________________________________    _________________________ _   (Bank-financed   projects  only)
Implementation   Development
Bank-financed                                                      Progress (IP)   Objective (DO)
Bank/IDA-financed                   1991 Karachi Port                  S              S
Expansion of port capacity,         Modernization Project (Ln.
modernization of port operations and   3335-PAK) - Closed June 30,
cargo handling, and trade facilitation    1998
Highway component to strengthen     1991 Transport Sector Project      S              S
National Highway authority and      (Ln 3241-PK) - closed June 30,
improve road maintenance and road    1998.
surfacing.
Railroad component to structure                                        U             U
Pakistan Railways and improve its
operations.
Medium-tenn highway rehabilitation   Highway Rehabilitation and
and maintenance program to ensure    Maintenance Project - Planned
that highway infrastructure meets the
needs of freight transport and logistics.
The program would include
establishment of a Road Maintenance
Fund managed by a public/private
Road Board and financed by earmarked
road user charges and private sector
concessions financed by tolls
Other development agencies
1992-94 UNCTAD multimodal
Identification of trade and transport   transport facilitation program -
facilitation reforms                Completed                    I
ADB                                 Modernization of Customs
Administration Project
(Ongoing)
IP/DO Ratings: HS (Highly Satisfactory), S (Satisfactory), U (Unsatisfactory), HU (Highly Unsatisfactory)
-9-



3. Lessons learned and reflected in the project design:
Previous efforts to promote trade and transport facilitation reforms under the Karachi Port Modernization
Project did not include adequate institutional arrangements for public/private sector collaboration in the
development and implementation of needed reforms. At the time it was envisaged that the formation of the
Pakistan Facilitation Program (PAKPRO) under Karachi Port Trust would provide the needed institutional
framework for trade and transport facilitation, but very little was achieved since PAKPRO and KPT had no
direct relation with the Ministry of Commerce and did not work well with either the private sector or
Customs, and key players in any sustainable reform effort. This narrow institutional approach adversely
affected the commercial and customs aspects. KPT was also slow to recognize the need to streamline their
own clearance procedures, although actions have recently been taken to streamline documentation
requirements at KPT. In light of KPT's failure to take the leadership in facilitation, a multimodal transport
program, executed by PSC between 1992 and 1994 with the assistance of UNCTAD, resulted in
identification of an outline work program for facilitation. This has formed the basis for the current
proposed project. These lessons have been reflected in the project design by creating NTTFC under the
Ministry of Commerce to provide a forum for review and follow-up of facilitation initiatives and by
providing it with a strong executive Secretariat closely associated with the private sector PSC.
Past experience of implementation of trade and transport facilitation undertakings indicate that these take
time, although it is difficult to estimate which topics and actions will take the most time. Therefore, it has
been agreed with GOP that a detailed work frame would only be prepared for the first two years of the
project, including the contract with UNCTAD. The progress and needs and hence the work program for
the third year would be agreed at the time of mid-term review.
4. Indications of borrower commitment and ownership:
The private sector, as represented by the PSC, has strong ownership of the commercial trade and transport
facilitation agenda. The private sector sees the project as its best chance of influencing and hopefully
changing ingrained practices and regulations, which stifle private initiatives and increase the cost of doing
business. PSC has worked closely with IDA missions and the MOC in preparing the project, which reflects
how PSC wishes to follow up the 1992/94 UNCTAD/PSC program. PSC in collaboration with MoC has
prepared a Borrower's Project Implementation Plan (BPIP) for the project, which was reviewed by IDA
and agreed during credit negotiations. PSC has already since early 1999 established the Secretariat with
an acting Secretary and a helper, and provided office space for the Secretariat and their consultants. As
indicated earlier, the required professional staff of NTTFC has been selected by PSC and should take up
their posts by end May 2001. PSC has agreed to provide utilities for the Secretariat and the UNCTAD
technical assistance during project implementation, gradually pick up the salary costs of the three
Secretariat professional staff over the project period and to cover the continuing operating costs of the
Secretariat after the project has been completed. Detailed tenns of reference and staffing requirements for
the technical assistance were reviewed during appraisal and subsequent technical discussions.
In July 1996, GOP requested that the Trade and Transport Facilitation component of the earlier proposed
Freight Transport Improvement Project become a stand alone project. The other proposed component of
the Freight Transport Improvement Project has become the proposed Railway Privatization Project. The
Ministry of Finance confirmed the priority attached to the proposed project in mid-1998 and the project
was cleared by the Central Development Working Party in July, 1999 and by the Executive Conmmittee of
National Economic Council in September 1999. The Ministry of Commerce views the NTTFC, its
Secretariat, and the project TA, as an effective and transparent way to cooperate with the private sector in
responding to pressure for facilitation reform. Indeed, the Ministry of Commerce has called informal
meetings of the planned NTTFC membership since 1997. Formal establislhment of the NTTFC as a
standing committee was made by resolution dated July 14, 1998, gazetted on October 14, 1998 as earlier
- 10 -



indicated; the membership is in line with international practice and with UNCTAD's rexommendations.
The NTTFC membership would represent key private sector organizations as well as the concerned
ministries and public agencies and would therefore represent a major step forward in private/public sector
collaboration in removing obstacles to a more cost effective modern trade and transport chain.
GOP/MOC and PSC have signed an MOU clarifying the roles and responsibilities of each party towards
project implementation. The contract with UNCTAD for providing technical assistance for implementation
of the proposed project has been signed, contingent on the credit becoming available.
The Ministry of Commerce has already designated a Project Director to be responsible for the project,
reporting directly to the Secretary, MOC. MOC has also appointed an accountant. During appraisal the
IDA was assured not only of the commitment of the MOC to the project objectives and needed reforms but
also that of the Ministry of Communications which is responsible for port and road transport matters.
5. Value added of Bank support in this project:
The Bank is in a unique position to support this project due to cross country experience in trade and
transport facilitation, including Nepal-India corridor and several other Asian countries as well as similar
efforts in Africa and Latin America. Moreover, through the involvement with Pakistan's port, rail and
highway sub-sectors, the Bank is able to maintain a dialogue with GOP concerning: (i) the need for a
balanced multimodal perspective conceming the development of transport logistics systerns, and (ii) the
reduction of regulatory and procedural constraints to the transport system and to the movement of cargoes
which lessen the effectiveness of costly public sector infrastructure programs. The Bank has been an
important catalyst in developing awareness that facilitation is an important part of transport strategies and
programs. This began with the Bank assisted 1989 KPT Trade and Transport Facilitation workshop and
more recently continued with the preparation of the implementation follow up to the 1992-94
UNCTAD/PSC Conference. This preparation has assisted PSC to continue developing au institutional
relationship with the Ministry of Commerce. The Bank has in the past, and can in the future, play the role
of honest broker and help bring together the necessary public/private partnership needed.
E. Summary Project Analysis (Detailed assessments are in the project file, see Annex 8)
1. Economic (see Annex 4):
O Cost benefit    NPV=USS million; ERR = % (see Annex 4)
O Cost effectiveness
* Other (specify)
The project, if successful, will lead to a permanent institutional framework for public/private collaboration
in defining and dealing with trade facilitation reforms which should in tum yield substantial economic
benefits resulting from the simplification and modernization of trade and transport faciltation procedures,
documents, legislation, including transport liability and credit procedures associated withl cargo movement.
All of these should result in a reduced delivered cost of imports, improved competitiveness of Pakistan's
export and improved economic activity. However, it is difficult to quantify and time the 3pecific benefits in
terms of reduced logistics costs, since improvements to trade and transport logistics systems depends on
many factors. The benefits have therefore been treated as non-quantifiable.
During the final six months of the project, the Secretariat with the support of UNCTAD's TA will
undertake an assessment of the project achievements and the likely effects on simplification and
harmonization of trade and transport procedures and regulations as well as their logistic benefits. This
would pennit a comparison with the 1996 Logistics Cost study for a number of "typical" exports and
imports. The assessment would also help to improve the measurement of logistics costs and would attempt
- 11 -



to measure the impact of facilitation procedures and policies on these costs.
2. Financial (see Annex 4 and Annex 5):
NPV=US$ million; FRR = % (see Annex 4)
[] Summarize issues below (e.g., cost recovery, tariff policies, financial controls and accountability)
[]To be defined (indicate how issues will be identified) [x] None
Fiscal Impact:
No financial issues related to the project. It should, however, result in substantial financial benefits from
reduced logistics costs.
3. Technical:
[]Summarize issues below (e.g., appropriate technology, costing)
To be defined (indicate how issues will be identified) [x] None
There are no technical issues.
4. Institutional:
[x] Summarize issues below (e.g., project management, M&E capacity, administrative regulations)
[ ] To be defined (indicate how issues will be identified) [] None
The success of the project will depend on the pro-active role of MOC who will implement the project, as
well as that of the PSC and the quality of the Secretariat with support of UNCTAD's technical assistance.
Continuity in the NTTFC Secretariat staffing will be important. The Borrower's Project Implementation
Plan, finalized during credit negotiations, establishes the working relationship of the Secretariat with the
MOC on the one hand, and the PSC and NTTFC on the other. The role and responsibilities of the PSC has
been further clarified in a MOU signed by MOC and PSC. For the expected outputs to be achieved, it is
importanit that MOC fulfills its responsibilities for expeditious consultations of the commercial facilitation
proposals emanating from the Secretariat and their subsequent implementation through the relevant
ministries/departments. For the development objectives to be achieved it will be important to develop
appropriate procedures for the consultative process within NTTFC itself and to ensure that NTTFC has
fairly senior level representation from the concerned member organizations. These matters and target time
limits were discussed and agreed during credit negotiations. The project will (a) provide experience
concerning the strengthening of the formal institutional relationship between the private sector and the
government and (b) indicate the efficiency of consultative processes in institutional change. Early progress
on these matters should in turn solidify the private sector support for the NTTFC Secretariat and hence
facilitate the future funding of the Secretariat's work.
4.1 Executing agencies:
MOC and PSC
4.2 Project management:
NTTFC Secretariat of PSC
4.3 Procurement issues:
Contract for technical assistance awaarded to UNCTAD on a sole source basis.
4.4 Financial management issues:
- 12 -



Incremental operating cossts of NTTFC secretariat funded under credit on a declining basis,
5. Environmental:                   Environmental Category: C (Not Required)
5.1 Summarize the steps undertaken for environmental assessment and EMP preparation (including
consultation and disclosure) and the significant issues and their treatment emerging from this analysis.
Justification/Rationale for category rating: The project, which consists of technical assistance ance training, has no
negative environmental effects. If successful, it should have some minor positive impact through reduced waiting
time, particularly for trucks that may have been idling their engines. As a consequence, modest reduction in
emission could arise. Reduced waiting times, for both rail and road vehicles, should also reduce the need for
terninal capacities and thus reduce somewhat the need for additional terminal space at both seaports and Inland
Container Depots (ICDs).
5.2 What are the main features of the EMP and are they adequate?
N/A
5.3 For Category A and B projects, timeline and status of EA:
Date of receipt of final draft:
N/A
5.4 How have stakeholders been consulted at the stage of (a) environmental screening and (b) draft EA
report on the environmental impacts and proposed environment management plan? Describe mechanisms
of consultation that were used and which groups were consulted?
N/A
5.5 What mechanisms have been established to monitor and evaluate the impact of the praject on the
environment? Do the indicators reflect the objectives and results of the EMP?
N/A
6. Social:
6.1 Summarize key social issues relevant to the project objectives, and specify the project's social
development outcomes.
[ ] Summarize issues below (e.g., significant social risks, ability to target low income and other vulnerable
groups)
[ ] To be defined (indicate how issues will be identified) [x] None
There are no social issues directly connected with the proposed project that does not involve any civil
works and resettlement.
6.2 Participatory Approach: How are key stakeholders participating in the project?
Extensive consultation with shippers, carriers, freight forwarders, and PSC. These consultations should
result in consensus building and agreement on the necessary measures to facilitate btade and transport
aspects.
6.3 How does the project involve consultations or collaboration with NGOs or other civi'i society
organizations?
As indicated above, extensive consultations were held with various trade organizations. t'iTTFC has a
broad public and private sector
6.4 What institutional arrangements have been provided to ensure the project achieves its social
development outcomes?
There are no explicit social development objectives membership as distinquished from economic objectives.
- 13 -



6.5 How will the project monitor perfonnance in terms of social development outcomes?
N/A
7. Safeguard Policies:
7.1 Do any of the following safeguard policies apply to the project?
Poli y                                     Applicability
Environmental Assessment (OP 4.01, BP 4.01, GP 4.01)             0 Yes * No
Natural habitats (OP 4.04, BP 4.04, GP 4.04)                     0 Yes 0 No
Forestry (OP 4.36, GP 4.36)                                      0 Yes 0 No
Pest Management (OP 4.09)                                        0 Yes 0 No
Cultural Property (OPN 11.03)                                    0 Yes * No
Indigenous Peoples (OD 4.20)                                     0 Yes 0 No
Involuntary Resettlement (OD 4.30)                               0 Yes 0 No
Safety of Dams (OP 4.37, BP 4.37)                                0 Yes 0 No
Projects in International Waters (OP 7.50, BP 7.50, GP 7.50)     0 Yes 0 No
Projects in Disputed Areas (OP 7.60, BP 7.60, GP 7.60)           0 Yes 0 No
7.2 Describe provisions made by the project to ensure compliance with applicable safeguard policies.
N/A
F. Sustainability and Risks
1. Sustainability:
1. Sustainability: The proposed three-year project would help develop a permanent multi-disciplinary
institution (NTTFC and its Secretariat) and support MOC/PSC in their implementation efforts of priority
facilitation measures. PSC has agreed to fund the full Secretariat costs following the first round of
facilitation reforms. MOC with NTTFC and its Secretariat would, following the project, be responsible for
implementation of the time-bound action plan of further trade and transport facilitation measures.
2. Critical Risks (reflecting the failure of critical assumptions found in the fourth column of Annex 1):
Risk                    W Risk Rating            Risk Mitigation Measure
From Outputs to Objective
1. Ministry of Commerce/GOP fail to          S         1. An effective Secretariat will assist MOC
provide leadership for adoption and                    and PSC to ensure that facilitation reforms are a
implementation of reforms. This would be               continuing process. The close connection of the
more likely if there should be changes in              Secretariat and business community through
key positions such as the Additional                   PSC and the broad based private/public sector
Secretary, Ministry of Commerce                        membership of NTTFC provides a means for
the business community to channel their
concems about lack of action to MOC/GOP
- 14 -



2. Economic policy or political               S         2. Pakistan has maintained an open economy
development prevent concemed parties                    for many years, and only if there was a major
from implementation of reforms                          political/social shift towards isolation, would
facilitation reforms that seek to modernize
procedures etc., contradict economnic or political
policies
3. Modernized legislation that facilitates    S         3. Careful preparation by the Secretariat and
trade and transport is not enacted                      consultation with concenied parties represented
on NTTFC and through PSC to the Federation
of Pakistan Chambers of Commerce and
through them to policy makers/legislators would
minimize risks of opposition to such legislation.
Likely to be controversial or politically sensitive
legislative changes are not expected and should
therefore not be problematic under normnal
circumstances.
From Components to Outputs
1. Delays in hiring Secretariat staff         N         1. Candidates have already been selected and
will be formally engaged by PSC following
Board approval.
2. PSC fails to support the Secretariat       N         2. Secretariat is located in PSC premises and
thus endangering private sector                         PSC has signed an MOU agreeing to fund the
cooperation                                             cost of the Secretariat following the project
period. To ensure that ]'SC follow through with
this support it is importmnt that the value of the
Secretariat is demonstrated to the private sector
by the progress in implementation of facilitation
reforms
3. MOC fails to support NTTFC so that        M          3. Private sector suppo:rt for a strong Secretariat
draft documents etc. are not reviewed and               will ensure that Ministry of Commerce receives
finalized in a timely manner                            a continued flow of trade and transport
facilitation reform initiatives. This will keep
reforms an active topic in the Ministry, which is
continually looking for ways to support private
commerce. Assurances were received during
credit negotiations that actions will be taken by
the responsible ministres or agencies within
certain time limits.
4. Lack of continuity and level of           M          4. It is hoped that early success will ensure full
participation at NTTFC and the                          public and private sector support and encourage
continuity and quality of staffing of the               continuity in staffing
Secretariat
Overall Risk Rating                           S
- 15 -



Risk Rating - H (High Risk), S (Substantial Risk), M (Modest Risk), N(Negligible or Low Risk)
3. Possible Controversial Aspects:
None
G. Main Loan Conditions
1. Effectiveness Condition
There are no special conditions for effectiveness.
2. Other [classify according to covenant types used in the Legal Agreements.]
Execution of the Project: Apart from regular progress reports, the Borrower shall furnish to and review
with the Association annually a report integrating the results of monitoring and evaluation activities.
Financial Covenants: Apart from standard accounting and auditing provisions, the Borrower shall carry out
a time-bound action plan for the strengthening of its financial management in order to prepare by December
31, 2001, or such later date as the Association shall agree, quarterly Project Management Reports
acceptable to the Association.
H. Readiness for Implementation
El 1. a) The engineering design docunents for the first year's activities are complete and ready for the start
of project implementation.
Z  1. b) Not applicable.
Z 2. The procurement documents for the first year's activities are complete and ready for the start of
project implementation.
1 3. The Project Implementation Plan has been appraised and found to be realistic and of satisfactory
quality.
3 4. The following items are lacking and are discussed under loan conditions (Section G):
(2. reference above) Technical assistance contract has been signed with UNCTAD contingent on credit
approval and effectiveness.
1. Compliance with Bank Policies
X 1. This project complies with all applicable Bank policies.
12. The following exceptions to Bank policies are recommended for approval. The project complies with
all other applicable Bank policies.
Harald Hansen                  L  Vincent Gouarne
Team Leader                        Sector Manager                     Count    a  ger
- 16-



Annex 1: Project Design Summary
PAKISTAN: A Trade and Transport Facilitation Project
Key Performance
Hierarchy of Objectives               Indicators            Monitoring & Eyaluation          c Q1 hsE!pt s
Sector-related CAS Goal:    Sector Indicators:               Sectorl country reports:       (from Goal to Bank Mission)
Raising productivity and      Increase in GDP growth rates    MOF or IMF statistics         Cont,nuity of GOP facilitation of
economic growth                                                                            trade
Project Development           Outcome I Impact               Project reports:               (frorn Objective to Goal)
Objective:                    Indicators:
I. Support first phase of medium  1. NTTFC is legally established  1. Progress reports and  I. Other projects aimed at
term trade and transport      and working;                   supervision missions UNCTAD's similar CAS objective will
facilitation program, including    NTTFC secretarial staff has been assessment              develop successfully
human resource development    trained;
PSC is providing needed logistics                            2. Other factors affecting
support for the Secretariat and is                           economic growth (e.g. exports,
funding its staff as well                                    etc.) remain on target
3. Overall investment climate in
2. List of modernized                                        Pakistan is reasonably favorable,
2. Modernize trade and transport documentary, administrative and  2. Progress reports and   enabling commerce and industry
facilitation practices and    legal instruments related to the   supervision missions, the  to invest in improved transport
procedures                    facilitation of commercial     Secretariat and UNCTAD         logistic systems
practices which has been      assessment of project
prepared and adopted/in use   achievements and logistics     4. Plolitical and economic
benefits                      stability
3. Detailed time-bound action    Meetings with concemed private
program prepared and agreed,    sector representatives
including its funding
- 17 -



Key Perdfwance
Hierarchy of          vs                    ts             M onitoring A Ealation         CitlA4* Asmpd lons
Output from each             Output Indicators:            Project reports:              (from Outputs to Objective)
Component:
1 I Functioning Secretariat  1. Secretariat provides support to 1. Supervision missions and  1. Ministry of Commerce
MOC and NTIFC through (i)   Progress Reports               provides leadership for adoption
review of procedures and systems                           and implementation of reforms
for updating and simplification of                         with the support of the business
documents and procedures; (ii)                             community through the PSC and
coordination of facilitation                               NTTFC
matters; (iii) dissemination of
information on international trade                         2. No economic policy or
and transport formalities,                                 political development which
procedures, documentation and                              prevent concerned parties from
related matters; (iv) pursuit of                           implementation of reforms
simplification and alignment of
trade and transport                                        3. Modernized transport
documentation; and (v)                                     legislation enacted
promoting the adoption of
standard trade and transport
terminology
1 .2 Draft facilitation matters    2. Drafts available and Training  2. Supervision missions and
ready to be adopted and      courses being held            Progress Reports
implemented and persons trained
in on1 the new procedures
1.3 Assessment during last 6  3. Assessment and action     3. Completion mission and
months of project of         program                       completion report to be prepared
achievements and logistic                                  by Borrower
benefits and preparation of
tim--e-bound action program
-18 -



Key Performance
Hierarchy of Objectives                Indicators             Monitoring & Evaluation           Critical Assumptions
Project Components /           Inputs: (budget for each        Project reports:               (from C:omponents to
Sub-components:                component)                                                     Outputs)
l. I Secretariat                                               I. Supervision missions        I. Secretariat staff hired
USS0,80.
1.2 Drafting of modem                                          2. Supervision missions.       2. PSC supports the Secretariat
facilitation matters           US$1.5                          progress reports and documents  to ensure private sector
prepared                       cooperation
1.3 Human Resource             US$0.6                          3. Supervision missions and    3. MOC continues support for
Development                                                    progress reports               the Sec-etariat so that draft
documents etc. are reviewed and
US$0.6                         4. Aninual reviews--            commeated upon in a timely
1.4 Provision for third year                                                                  manner and where necessary
program                                                                                        submitted for legislative
approval
4. Overall assessment of
progress and needs prepared by
the Secretariat and UNCTAD and
decision by MOC and PSC in
consultation with the Bank
-19 -



Annex 2: Detailed Project Description
PAKISTAN: A Trade and Transport Facilitation Project
The objective of the Project is to establish a public/private collaboration institutional framework to develop
and support the modernization of Pakistan's trade and transport facilitation practices and procedures,
including information flows, documentation and related legislation.
By Component:
Project Component i - US$0.80 million
Establishment and Operation of the NTTFC Secretariat during the three year period including: (a)
UNCTAD technical assistance ($0.20); (b) incremental cost of professional staff of the Secretariat ($0.07);
(c) selected agreed reimbursable operating costs of the Secretariat and the MOC ($0.03); and (d) local
support staff, office space, utilities etc. to be provided in kind by the PSC ($0.45 million); (e) cash
contribution of PSC ($0.05).
Project Component 2 - US$1.50 million
Technical assistance for drafting of modern trade and transport facilitation procedures, documents and
legislation as outlined in Annex 13.
Project Component 3 - USS 0.60 million
Human resource development and training for NTTFC Secretariat and other directly concerned public and
private sector staff as outlined in Annex 13.
Project Component 4 - US$0.60 million
Provision for third year program to be detailed at the mid-term review and cover the three earlier mentioned
components.
- 20 -



Annex 3: Estimated Project Costs
PAKISTAN: A Trade and Transport Facilitation Project
Local         Forei n          Total
Project Co5st By Component                      US $million    US $mSilion    U5 $million
1. Establishment and Operating expenses for NTTFC                   0.60           0.1CI           0.70
Secretariat
2. Technical Assistance for Drafting of Modern facilitation         0.20            1.00            1.20
Matters
3. Human Resource Development - Training                            0.20            0.2i0           0.50
4. Provision for Third Year Program                                 0.20            0.3()           0.50
Total Baseline Cost                                                 1.20            1.70            2.90
Physical Contingencies                                             0.10            0.20           0.30
Price Contingencies                                                0.10            0.20           0.30
Total Project Costs                    1.40           2.10            3.50
Total Financing Required                     1.40            2.10            3.50
Note: Excluding possible taxes on UNCTAD contract. If taxes imposed, these would be borne by GOP.
Identifiable taxes and duties are O (US$m) and the total project cost, net of taxes, is 3.5 (US$tn). Therefore, the project cost sharing ratio is 85.7 1% of total
project cost net of taxes.
- 21 -



Annex 4
PAKISTAN: A Trade and Transport Facilitation Project
Pakistan: Trade and Transport Facilitation Project
Cost-Benefit Analysis Summary
[For projects with benefits that are measured in monetary terms]
(Indicate currency, units, and base year)
Present Value of Flows                          Fiscal Impact
Economic Analysis              Financial Analysis If the difference between the present
value of financial and economic flows is large and cannot be
explained by taxes and subsidies, a brief explanation of the
difference is warranted, e.g., "The value of financial
benefits is less than that of economic benefits because of
controls on electricity tariffs."
Taxes
Subsidies
Benefits
Costs                         N/A
Net Benefits:
IRR:
Sumunary of Benefits and Costs:
Main Assumptions:                              N/A
Sensitivity analysis / Switching values of critical items:
- 22 -



Annex 5: Financial Summary
PAKISTAN: A Trade and Transport Facilitation Project
Years Ending
I Year      Year2      Year 3    Year4      Year 5    Year6      Year 7
Total Financing Required
Project Costs
Investment Costs           1.0       0.6        0.6       0.4        0.2       0.0       0.0
Recurrent Costs            0.0        0.1       0.1        0.1       0.1        0.0       0.0
Total Project Costs          1.0       0.7        0.7       0.5        0.3       0.0       0.0
Total Financing              1.0       0.7        0.7       0.5        0.3       0.0       0.0
Financing
IBRD/IDA                  1.0        0.7       0.7        0.4       0.2       0.0        0.0
Government                0.0        0.0       0.0        0.0       0.0       0.0        0.0
Central                0.0       0.0        0.0       0.0        0.0       0.0       0.0
Provincial             0.0       0.0        0.0       0.0        0.0       0.0       0.0
Co-financiers             0.0        0.0       0.0        0.0       0.0       0.0        0.0
User Fees/Beneficiaries   0.1        0.1       0.1        0.1       0.1       0.0        0.0
Others                    0.0        0.0       0.0        0.0       0.0       0.0        0.0
Total Project Financing     1.1       0.8        0.8       0.5        0.3       0.0       0.0
Main assumptions:
- 23 -



Annex 6: Procurement and Disbursement Arrangements
PAKISTAN: A Trade and Transport Facilitation Project
Procurement
Procurement of consultants would be done according to the provision of the "Selection and employment of
Consultants by World Bank Borrower" (January 1997, Revised September 1997 and January 1999
addendum) using the Standard Form of Agreement between Borrower and UN Agency. UTNCTAD will be
contracted on a sole source basis for the provision of the technical assistance for trade facilitation and
organization of the NTTFC Secretariat. UNCTAD has developed a unique expertise for organizing the
diverse group of facilitation experts around the world and has accumulated extensive knowledge of the
Pakistan trade facilitation issues and problems through its earlier work.
Procurement of major office equipment and a vehicle for the NTTFC Secretariat would be handled by
UNDP on behalf of UNCTAD using standard UN procedures and as part of the UNCTAD contract.
Prior Review
UNCTAD contract and other contracts for the employment of individual consultants estimated to cost
the equivalent of US$5,000 or more.
Disbursement
Allocation of loan proceeds (Table C)
Taking into account the simple and modest nature of the project and in line with discussions during
appraisal, including assessment of the financial management specialist, the following disbursement
arrangements are envisaged:
(i) It is expected that payments to UNCTAD (components 1 (a), 2 and 3) of annex 2 will be handled by
direct payment;
(ii) Payments for incremental professional staff of the Secretariat (project component 1 (b)) will be
financed through the Special Account at the rate of 100 percent through June 30, 2002, at 80% percent
from July 1, 2002 through June 30, 2003 and 55 percent thereafter; and
(iii) Payments for other reimbursable operating costs of the NTTFC Secretariat and the MOC (project
component 1 (c) will also be through the special account.
Procurement methods (Table A)
- 24 -



Table Al: Consultant Selection Arrangements (optional)
(US$ million equivalent)
Consultant                                 Selection   Method
Services
Expenditure    QCBS      QBS       SF8       LCS        CQ      Other    N.B.F.  Total Cost'
Category    _         
A. Firms           0.00      0.00      0.00     0.00      0.00      2.30      0.00      2.30
(0.00)    (0.00)             (0.00)    (0.00)    (0.00)    (0.00)    (0.00)
B. Individuals     0.00      0.00     0.00      0.00      0.00      0.00      0.00      0.00
(0.00)    (0.00)    (0.00)    (0.00)    (0.00)    (0.00)    (0.00)    (0.00)
Total   0.00     0.00      0.00      0.00      0.00      2.30      0.00     2.30
.  (0.00)    (0.00)    (0.00)    (0.00)    (0.00)    (0.00)    (0.00)    (0.00)
1\ Including contingencies
Note: QCBS = Quality- and Cost-Based Selection
QBS  Quality-based Selection
SFB = Selection under a Fixed Budget
LCS  Least-Cost Selection
CQ = Selection Based on Consultants' Qualifications
Other = Selection of individual consultants (per Section V of Consultants Guidelines),
Commercial Practices, etc.
Note: Contract amount of 2.3 million is subject to amendment in light of the detailed work
program for the third year or other modifications agreed at the mid-term review.
N.B.F. = Not Bank-financed
Figures in parenthesis are the amounts to be financed by the Bank Credit.
- 25 -



Prior review thresholds (Table B)
Table B: Thresholds for Procurement Methods and Prior Review'
Contract Value                                Contracts Suject to
Threshold              Procurement             Prior Review
Expenditure Category     (US$ thousands)              Method                (US$ millions)
t. Works
2. Goods
3. Services
4. Miscellaneous
5. Miscellaneous
6. Miscellaneous
Total value of contracts subject to prior review:
Overall Procurement Risk Assessment
Frequency of procurement supervision missions proposed: One every 6 months (inicludes special
procurement supervision for post-review/audits)
Thresholds generally differ by country and project. Consult OD 11.04 "Review of Procurement
Documentation" and contact the Regional Procurement Adviser for guidance.
- 26 -



Disbursement
Allocation of credit proceeds (Table C)
Table C: Allocation of Credit Proceeds
Expenditure Category    _   Amount in US$million [         Financing Percentage
Consultant Services                         2.30                          100%
0.15
Incremental administrative and                                  100% throug  .June 30, 2002
operating costs - staff costs of the                       80% July 1, 2002 -- June 30, 2003, and
NTTFC Secretariat                                                     55% tLkereafter
Other agreed incremental reimbursable       0.03                          100%
recurrent operating costs of the NTTFC
Secretariat
Unallocated, including provision for        0.52
third year work program (to be
allocated after mid-term review)
Total Project Costs                         3.00
Total                                       3.00
Use of statements of expenditures (SOEs):
Use of statements of expenses (SOEs).
Agreed reimbursable operating expenditures of the NTTFC Secretariat will be eligible for SOE.
Special account:
A special account will be opened in the National Bank of Pakistan with an initial deposit of US$12,000
equivalent from which an initial advance payment to the NTTFC Secretariat for operational expenses
would be made in the exact amount needed for payments due within a period of less than 30 days. The
NTTFC Secretariat would send relevant documentation to MOC on the basis of which replenishment to SA
will be claimed.
- 27 -



Annex 7: Project Processing Schedule
PAKISTAN: A Trade and Transport Facilitation Project
Prt:Sct Sihedol*                                  Planned                      Actual
Time taken to prepare the project (months)
First Bank mission (identification)             11/01/96                     11/01/96
Appraisal mission departure                     11/30/98                     02/23/99
Negotiations                                    01/15/99                     09/30/99
Planned Date of Effectiveness                   04/30/99                     04/30/2001
Prepared by:
Ministry of Commerce and PSC
Preparation assistance:
(PPF, trust funds, cofinanciers, etc.) CTF
Bank staff who worked on the project included:
Name                                    Speciality
J. Tillman                        Transport Economist, Former Task Leader
C. de Castro                      Trade Facilitation Specialist, Consultant
H. Hansen                         Transport Economist, Task Leader/Consultant
T. Beg                            Financial Management
N. Qureshi                        Transport Specialist, Team Leader
Amanullah Khan Malik              Disbursement Officer
Naseer A. Rana                    Procurement Specialist
Shaukat Javed                     Program Assistant
Lalhlimpuii Gardner               Program Assistant
- 28 -



Annex 8: Documents in the Project File*
PAKISTAN: A Trade and Transport Facilitation Project
A. Project Implementation Plan
Borrower's Project Implementation Plan
Memorandum of Understanding
Consultant Contract with UNCTAD
B. Bank Staff Assessments
C. Other
1995 Logistics Cost Study
Resolution establishing NTTFC
*Including electronic files
- 29 -



Annex 9: Statement of Loans and Credits
PAKISTAN: A Trade and Transport Facilitation Project
Mar-2001
Difference between expected
and actual
Original Amount in US$ Millions                                disbursements'
Project ID     FY   Purpose                                         IBRD         IDA                           Cancel.   Undisb.       Orig    Frm Revd
P049791        1999 POVERTY ALLEVIATION FUND                            0.00      90.00                             0.00      75.97      -1.69       0.00
P037835        1998 SOCIAL ACTION PRG II                                0.00     250.00                             0.00     126.36      38.65       0.00
P037834        1998 NORTHERN EDUCATION                                  0.00      22.80                             0.09      18.33      13.86       0.00
P010500        1998 NATIONAL DRAINAGE PR                                0.00     285.00                             0.00     188.25      92.50       0.00
P036015        1997 IMPR FIN REP & AUDIT                                0.00      28.80                             0.00      20.52      16.75       0.00
P010501        1997 PVTSECTORGROUNDWA                                   0.00      56.00                            25.34      13.15      39.17       3.72
P039281        1996 GHAZI BAROTHA HYDROP                              350.00       0.00                             0.00     112.39      98.09      53.37
P034101        1996 TELECOM REG & PRIVAT                               35.00       0.00                            10.00      12.45      22.45      12.45
P010478        1996 NWFP COMMUNITY INFRA                                0.00      21.50                             0.00      10.41      12.86      12.37
P010482        1996 BALOCHISTAN COMMUNITY IRRIGATION & AGRI.            0.00      26.70                             0.00       6.87       8.48       3.28
P010481        1995 PUNJAB FOREST SECTOR                                0.00      24.90                             5.46       5.25      12.12       1.94
P010470        1995 FIN SECTOR DEEPENING & INTEGRATION                216.00       0.00                           188.03      19.56     207.39      12.07
P010458        1994 POWER SECT. DEV. PRO                              230.00       0.00                            20.00      17.31      37.31       0.00
Total:      831.00     805.70                           248.92      626.82     597.95      99.22
- 30 -



PAKISTAN
STATEMENT OF IFC's
Held and Disbursed Portfolio
Mar-2001
In Millions US Dollars
Committed                       Disbursed
IFC                             IFC
FY Approval        Company                       Loan  Equity   Quasi   Partic   Loan  Equity   Quasi  Partic
1995               ABAMCO                        0.00    0.29    0.00    0.00    0.0(    0.29    0.00    0.00
1995               AES Lal Pir                  35.20    9.50    0.00    0.00   35.20    9.50    0.00    0.00
1996               AES PakGen                   17.43    9.50    0.00   34.88   17.43    9.50    0.00   34.88
1996               Atlas Inv Bank                3.75    0.00    0.00    0.00    3.75    0.00    0.00    0.00
1994               Atlas Lease                   4.21    0.21    0.00    0.00    4.2].   0.21     0.00    0.00
0                BRRIL                          0.00    0.24    0.00    0.00    0.0()   0.24    0.00    0.00
1991/94/95         BRRIM                         0.00    0.00    5.00    0.00    0.0(    0.00    5.00    0.00
1995               BSJS Fund                     0.00    0.50    0.00    0.00    0.0(    0.50    0.00    0.00
1995               Bank of Khyber                1.25    0.00    0.00    0.00    1.25    0.00    0.00    0.00
1993               CDCPL                         0.00    0.16    0.00    0.00    0.0(1   0.16    0.00    0.00
1993/97            Crescent Greenwd              0.00    2.00    0.00    0.00    0.01)   2.00    0.00    0.00
1996               Crescent IBank                9.00    0.00    0.00    0.00    9.00    0.00    0.00    0.00
1994/95/96         D.G. Khan                     0.00    0.51    0.00    0.00    0.01)   0.51     0.00    0.00
1998               Engro Asahi                  14.25    0.00    0.00    0.00    8.01)    0.00    0.00    0.00
1991/95/97         Engro Chemical                7.07    0.00    0.00    6.00    7.07    0.00    0.00    6.00
1996               Engro Paktank                 9.04    0.00    0.00    3.77    9.041   0.00    0.00    3.77
1990/91/96         FTIB                          2.11    0.00    0.00    0.00    2.11    0.00    0.00    0.00
1993               Fauji Cement                 22.40    5.00    0.00   17.50   22.41)   5.00    0.00   17.50
1995               First Crescent                0.00    0.00    5.00    0.00    0.01)   0.00    5.00    0.00
1994/96            First Leasing                 0.00    0.69    0.00    0.00    0.01)   0.69    0.00    0.00
1995               First UDL                     0.00    0.00   10.00    0.00    0.01)   0.00    10.00    0.00
1996               GulAhmed                     22.95    4.10    0.00   26.38   22.95    4.10    0.00   26.38
1988               Hala Spinning                 3.92    0.00    0.00    0.00    3.92    0.00    0.00    0.00
1991/95           IHFL                           0.00    0.40    0.00    0.00    0.00)   0.40    0.00    0.00
1992/96            JSCL                          0.00    0.27    0.00    0.00    0.0t)   0.27    0.00    0.00
1995               Kohinoor                     20.00    6.30    0.00   24.40   20.00)   6.30    0.00   24.40
1994/95/97         Maple Leaf                    0.00    0.52    0.00    0.00    0.0')   0.52    0.00    0.00
1985/92            Mari Gas                      2.86    0.00    0.00    0.00    2.815   0.00    0.00    0.00
1993               Muslim Comm Bank              2.81    0.00    0.00    0.00    2.81    0.00    0.00    0.00
1984/94            NDLC                          4.92    1.25    0.00    0.00    4.92    1.25    0.00    0.00
1994               Orix Finance                  0.00    0.58    0.00    0.00    0.01)   0.58    0.00    0.00
1994               Orix Leasing                  4.92    1.25    0.00    0.00    4.92    1.25    0.00    0.00
1994               PACRA                         0.00    0.15    0.00    0.00    0.00    0.10    0.00    0.00
1994               PI&CL                         2.19    0.00    0.00    0.00    2.1)    0.00    0.00    0.00
1991/94/95         PILCO                         0.00    0.54    0.00    0.00    0.0)    0.54    0.00    0.00
1983/84/94         PPL                           2.61    0.00    0.00    1.95    2.61    0.00    0.00    1.95
1965/80/82/87/91/94/9 Packages                   9.07    2.50    0.00    1.25    9.07    2.50    0.00    1.25
5                  Pakistan Service              5.00    3.00    0.00    0.00    5.00    3.00    0.00    0.00
1993               Pakistan Unit Tr              0.00    1.48    0.00    0.00    0.00    1.48    0.00    0.00
1995               Prudential                    0.00    0.40    0.00    0.00    0.00    0.40    0.00    0.00
1991               RUPAFIL                       1.24    0.00    0.31    0.00    1.24    0.00    0.31    0.00
1992               Regent Knitwear               5.83    0.00    0.00    2.80    5.83    0.00    0.00    2.80
1994               Rupafab                       5.50    0.00    0.00    0.00    5.50    0.00    0.00    0.00
1995               Sarah Textiles                0.00    0.20    0.00    0.00    0.00    0.20    0.00    0.00
1993/96
Total Portfolio:      259.53    51.54   20.31   193.93  248.31   51.49   20.31  178.90
- 31 -



Approvals Pending Commitment
FY Approval        Company                           Loan    Equity     Quasi    Partic
Total Pending Commitment:         0.00      0.00      0.00      0.00
- 32 -



Annex 10: Country at a Glance
PAKISTAN: A Trade and Transport Facilitation Project
POVERTY and SOCIAL                                            South       Low.
Pakistan      Asia  income       Development diamond
1999
Population, mid-year (millions)                      134.8     1.329     2,417                 Life expectancy
GNP per capita (Atlas method, US$)                    450        440       410
GNP (Atlas method, US$ billions)                      60.8       581       988
Average annual growth, 1993-99
Population (%1                                         2.4       1.9       1.9                     i
Labor force (Y.)                                       2.9       2 3       2.3      GNP          ,ross
per         '.prmary
Most recent estimate (latest year available, 1993-99)                              capita           .           enrollment
Poverty (% of population below national poverty line)
Urban population (% of total population)                36        28        31                       l
Life expectancy at birth (years)                        62        62        60
Infant mortality (per 1,000 live births)                91        75        77
Child malnutdtion (% of children under 5)               38        51        43               Access to safe water
Access to improved water source (% of population)       60        77        64
Illiteracy (% ofpopulation age 15+)                     55        46        39S
Gross primary enrollment (% of school-age poulaation)   74       100        96                  Pakistan
Male                                                 101       110       102                  Low-income group
Female                                               45         90        86
KEY ECONOMIC RATIOS and LONG-TERM TRENDS
1979     1989      1998      1999
Economic ratios'
GDP (US$ billions)                           19.7     40.2      62.2      58.2
Gross domestic investmunt/GDP                17.9     189        17.7      15.0
Exports of goods and services/GDP            10.7     139        18.1     15.2                     Trade
Gross domestic savings/GDP                    5.8     11.0      13.2       101
Gross natonal savings/GDP                    13 7     15.6      15.0       11.2 
Current account balance/GDP                  -4 2      -3.4     -2.7       -3.8/
Interest payments/GDP                         1.1      1.1       1.3       1.8      Domestic s       - I
Total debt/GDP                               45.3     45.7       51.8     53.6      Savings           /
Total debt servicelexports                   18.5     24.2      23.6      27.4                        l
Present value of debtlGDP                       .        .      41.1
Present value of debt/exports                   -              220.1
Indebtedness
1979-89  1989-99     1998      1999   1999-03
(average annual growth)
GDP                                  6,7      3.9      2.6        2.7    5 .                --Pakistan
GNP per capita                       3.8      1.5     -1.4       0.3       2,9    ;              Low-income gu
Exports of goods and services        9.2      2.9     -5.7      -2.4       6.9
STRUCTURE of the ECONOMY
1979     1989      1998      1999      Growth of investment and GDP (%)
(% of GOP)                                                                         20
Agnculture                                   30.4     26.9      27.3      27.2
Industry                                     23.6     23.9      23.8      23.5      i_
Manufacturing                              15.4      16.6      15.8      15.6      a
Services                                     46.0     49.2      48.9      49.4    i1-    94   95   96   97   99
Private consumption                          83.8     72.2      75.5      78.4   '.20
General governmentconsumption                10.4     16.8       11.3      11.5    |               GOI          GDP
Imports of goods and services                22.8     21.7      20.6      20.1                     G
1979-89  1989-99      1998      1999     Growth of exports and imports (%)
(average annual growth)
Agnculture                                    4.6      4.4       4.5       1.9    20
Industry                                      7.3      4.3       6.1       2.5
Manufactunng                                7.9      4.0        6.9       4.2    s0
Services                                      7.2      4.5        1 6      4.1
Private consumption                           4.2      5.0       0.1       6.3      o -,,
General government consumption               10.5      0.4       6.8      -5.1
Gross domestic investment                     6.5      2.2       9.6      -11.8   '1
Imports of goods and services                 1.7      3.4      -5.6      -6 2                -'Exports   -     lmpors
Gross national product                        6.6      4.0        1.0      2.8
Note: 1999 data are preliminary estimates.
- The diamonds show four key indicators in the country (in bold) compared with its income-group average. If data are missing, the diamonc will
be incomplete.
- 33 -



Pakistan
PRICES and GOVERNMENT FINANCE
1979    1989       1998      1999     Inflation (%)
Domestic prices
(% change)
Consumer prices                                                   7.8      5.7       1    0
Implicit GDP deflator                         6.6      8.6        7.5      6.0
Govemment finance
(% of GDP, includes current grants)                                                 o
Current revenue                                 .    18.1        16.3     16.3             94   9S   96   97    98    9
Current budget balance                          .     -1.8       -4.2     -2.6               -  GDP deflator    0 CPI
Overall surplus/deficit                        ..    -7.7        -7.7     -6.1
TRADE
(USS millions)                               1979    1989       1998      1999      Export and import levels (USS mill.)
Total exports (fob)                            ..   4,634       8,433    7,527    1s,000
Cotton                                        .      930        126        2      1
Rice                                          ..    304         562      533      20
Manufactures                                  .    3,312      4,866    4,538      9900 
Total imports (cif)                            ,.   7,851      10,456    10,888    6e000
Food                                          ..   ..  1,685  1,622                   :Iid d
Fuel and energy                               .    1,006      1,750     1,458
Capital goods                                  .       ..    2,288      3,027        o
9 94 95  98   9    98
Export price index (1995=100)                           51        94        90    1
Import price index (1995=100)                           45        91       102                  0hepurts      *Imports
Terms of trade (1995=100)                              112       104        88
BALANCE of PAYMENTS
1979    1989       1998      1999      Current account balance to GDP (%)
(US$ millions)
Exports of goods and services               2,107    5,577     10,017    8,838      5             1
Imports of goods and services               4.485    8,736    12,819    11,688
Resource balance                            -2,378   -3,159    -2,802    -2,850    -2
Net income                                   -233     -875    -2,330    -1,808
Net current transfers                       1,790    2,687      3,430    2,471    4A-
Current account balance                      -820   -1,347     -1,702    -2,187
Financing items (net)                         515    1,347      1,554    3,441      i
Changes in net reserves                       305        0       148   -1,254    -8
Memo:
Reserves including gold (US$ millions)         ..   1,237       1,464    2,228
Conversion rate (DEC, locallUS$)              9.9    19.2        43.0     50.1
EXTERNAL DEBT and RESOURCE FLOWS
1979    1989       1998      1999
(US$ millions)                                                                      Composition of 1999 debt (US$ mill.)
Total debt outstanding and disbursed        8,919   18,348    32,229    31,176      C pt
IBRD                                        339    1,428     3,262    3,175                     G: 1,390 A: 3.75
IDA                                         751    1,915     3,732     3,857           F: 3,028
Total debt service                            658    1,841      2,743    2,743                                   a3,857
IBRD                                         57      147       381       400
IDA                                           9       30        70        81
Composition of net resource flows                                                                                   C. 1,519
Official grants                             146      381       175       194
Official creditors                          561      931       891     1,642       E: 10,680
Prvate creditors                             23      -12       306      -316
Foreign direct investment                    58      210       500       428
Portfolio equity                                  .         ..            28                               D: 727
World Bank program
Commitments                                 139      746       250       808      A - IBRD                   E - Bilateral
Disbursements                               105      471       606       683      B - IDA    D - Other multilateral  F - Private
Principal repayments                         27       82       243       264     C - IMF                     G - Short-term
Net flows                                    79      389       363       419
Interest payments                            39       95       208       217
Net transfers                                39      294       155       202
Development Economics                                                                                                8125100
- 34 -



Additional
Annex 11
Summary of Objectives and Key Performance Indicators
Borrower Project Implementation Plan
Objectives, Outputs, Outcome and Learning
I. FACILITATION REFORMS
Objectives                          Outputs                            Outcome/impact
Project mobilization workshop.      Project mobilization               All stakeholders convinced of
workshop held.                    potential benefits to Pakistan to
be derived from the project.
Simplification of documents and     Key trade and transport documents  New streamlined and aligned
procedures related to foreign trade  and flow paths will be aligned using    documents introduced. Old
transactions leading as appropriate  the UN lay-out key suitable for ADP    documents and procedures no
to the introduction of a single     and EDI. Redundant documents and   longer bei:ng used. About 100
administrative document.            procedures will have been          mid-level staff involved with
eliminated.                       trade documentations and others
briefed on the new lay-out.
Formulation and or modernization of    Draft legislation on road, rail, ocean    Bills on legislation on road, rail,
legislation related to trade and    and multimodal transport as        ocean and inultimodal transport
transport facilitation.             prepared by UNCTAD modified,       ready forenactment.
taking into account comments by
Law Commission and the 1996
World Bank study.
Modernization of commercial         Standard terms and conditions for  Standard terms and conditions for
documentary procedures covering the    contract of carriage of goods by road,  the contract of carriage for sea,
drafting of standard terms and      rail, sea and multimodal are ready.    road, rail and multimodal
conditions for the contract of carriage                               transport accepted by the industry
of goods.                                                              and implemented. 100 executives
from carriers, traders, banks and
insurance companies briefed on
new model terms and conditions
for the contracts of carriage.
- 35 -



Modemization of freight forwarders,    Minimum standards of professional    Modemization of freight
multimodal transport operators (MTO)   qualifications adopted by the         forwarders, multimodal transport
and other transport intermediaries'     Pakistan Freight Forwarders          operators and other transport
professional standard in accordance     Committee, MTOs and transport        intermediaries' professional
with intemational standard, in the     intermediaries.                       standard in accordance with
areas of professional qualifications,                                        international standard, in the
financial qualifications and code of    Modern standard trading conditions    areas of professional
professional conduct.                   are adopted by PIFFC.                qualifications, financial
qualifications and code of
professional conduct.
Modemization and liberalization of     New marine insurance policy clauses   New policies and procedures
marine transport insurance provisions   and conditions based on              drafted, presented to, accepted by,
and policy conditions and practices.    internationally accepted practices   and introduced by the transport
and taking also into account the new    and insurance industry.
terms and conditions for the contract
of carriage by road, rail, sea and   1 00 executives from the
multimodal transport will have been    insurance, trade and transport
drafted and offered to the transport    industries briefed on new
industry.                            provision.
Streamlining of financial and banking    Modem documentary credit            Finance and banking procedures
provisions related to foreign trade     procedure introduced to market and   modemized; the latest ICC UCP
transactions including foreign-currency    banking industry.                 introduced throughout the
and "letter-of-credit" provisions.                                           industry and used by traders and
bankers; financial services will
have been streamlined to allow
for modem financial practices to
be utilized for imports and
exports of goods. 100 senior
executives briefed on modem
letter of credit and foreign
exchange banking procedures.
Advice to Govemment of Pakistan on      GOP decides on ratification of       Pakistan becomes contracting
advantages/disadvantages of becoming    recommended conventions.             party to several international
contracting party to international                                           conventions dealing with
conventions related to Customs,        Instrument of adhesion drafted for    Customs, trade and transport.
transport and trade.                    GOP.                                 About 100 senior officials
attended Seminar(s) on new
conventions.
Implementation of effective "Trade     The concept and design of Trade       Effective Trade Point(s)
Points" at ports, inland trade centers  Points passed to officials, service  established in selected location(s).
and dry ports as necessary.             providers and users.                 Traders briefed on benefits of
Trade Point(s) at a seminar.
Selected Trade Point(s) become
operational.
- 36 -



Institutional strengthening of the     The NTTFC Secretariat is             Regular NT'TFC meetings taking
NTTFC and its Secretariat so that it   functional.                          place.
will become a fully functioning
institution and be able to coordinate its                                   Joint policies on key issues
activities with key agencies                                                developed.
participating in trade and transport.
Targets and. indicators for success
defined and, proposed.
Study of the capacity requirements and    Draft policy on development and   GOP and private sector
policies needed for promotion of       promotion of refrigerated movement   acceptanco of the proposed
refrigerated transport and cold storage    of goods prepared and presented.  policy.
of fresh produce and for the
development of associated transport by
truck and rail.
Development of a team of local         Training plans and manuals           Team of training managers
training managers in the field of trade    prepared.                        created. All training activities
facilitation and related subjects and                                       successfully completed.
assurance of deliveries of all training
activities, conferences, seminar(s) and                                     Replication of seminars and
workshops.                                                                  workshops by the local training
team.
- 37 -



II. LEARNING OBJECTIVES
1.   The project mobilization workshop will provide experience in convincing the individual
commercial stakeholders of the feasibility and benefits of the facilitation reforms.
2.   The process for preparing the various facilitation reforms itemized above will help the PSC and
MOC learn which are the optimal processes for developing a culture where the concerned commercial
stakeholders take the lead in initiating the modemizing of facilitation practices.
3.   The project will (a) provide experience concerning the strengthening of the formal institutional
relationship between the private sector and the government and (b) indicate the efficiency of
consultative process in institutional change.
4.   The assessment of project achievements would help to improve the measurement of logistics
costs and the impact of facilitation procedures and policies on these costs.
- 38 -



Pakistan Trade and Transport Facilitation Project
Performance Monitoring Indicators (Preliminary)
Narrative Summary                               Performance Indicators      Monitoring/Evaluation
A. Institutional
1. UNCTAD and Deputy Chief Technical            June 30, 2001               MOC records and Progress
Advisor (DCTA) in Karachi                                                   Reports (P.R.)
2. First NTTFC meeting under Project            July 31, 2001               Minutes and P.R.
3. Number of NTTFC meetings during April I -    6 meetings                  Minutes and P.R.
December 31, 2001
4. Number of NTTFC meetings during each         3 meetings min.             Minutes and P.R.
subsequent quarter
5. Number of NTTFC sub-committee meetings each   As required                Minutes and P.R.
quarter
6. Performance on NTTFC Secretariat
(a) Timely coordination with MOC                Periodic                    P.R. anid missions
(b) Timely response to MOC                      Periodic                    P.R. arid missions
(c) Coordination of project activities with related  Periodic               P.R. aaid missions
tax administration reform and port matters
(d) Effective interaction with NTTFC
Periodic                   P.R. and missions
B. Policy and other Actions
I. Number of recommendations submitted to       Number and description     NTTFC(' Secretariat and P.R.
NTTFC per quarter
2. Number of recommendations forwarded by       Number and description      MOC and P.R.
NTTFC to MOC or other responsible
Ministry/agencies
3. Average time between NTTFC receipt of        45 days                     NTTFC Secretariat and P.R.
recommendations and forwarding of its own
recommendation
4. Average time between receipt of NTTFC        3 months                    MOC records and P.R.
recommendations and action by MOC or other
responsible Ministry or agency, indicating (a)
approvals/ implementation and (b) rejections for
cause
- 39 -



C. Technical Assistance Output
1. Project Launch Workshop (PLW) held           June 2001                    UNCTAD and P.R.
2. Human Resource Developments
(a) Seminars and workshops                       Periodic                   UNCTAD and P.R.
(b) Increased awareness of facilitation issues by  Periodic                 UNCTAD and P.R.
NTTFC and trade
(c) Effectiveness of Secretariat                Periodic                    P. R. and missions
response to MOC/GOP requests                     Periodic                    P.R. and missions
3. Effective coordination between project activities    Periodic             P.R. and missions
and related activities, including tax administration
reform and ports
D. Trade and Transport Performance
Specific measurable indicators on this will be
discussed and agreed during the Project Launch
Workshop
E. Overall Performance Evaluation
I. Quarterly Progress Reports                    Within 30 days of end of    P.R.
quarter
2. Annual Progress Review                        Report by end-December      P.R. and missions
and review by February 28
3. Third Year Work Program                       April 30, 2002              Report and mission
4. Detailed Post Project Action Program          May 31, 2003                Report and mission
5. Borrower's Completion Report                  April 30, 2004              Report
- 40 -



Additional
Annex 12
Government of Pakistan
Ministry of Commerce
Islarnabad, the 14th July, 1998
RESOLUTION
No. l(8)/94-ITO/UNCTAD. The Government of Pakistan have decided to constitute with
immediate effect a Standing Committee with the name of National Trade & Transport
Facilitation Committee (NTTFC) on Pakistan Trade & Transport Facilitation Project under
the chairmanship of Additional Secretary Commerce. The Committee will consist of the
representatives of the following Organizations:-
i.     Ministry of commerce
ii.    Ministry of Communications
iii.    Ministry of Finance
iv.    Ministry of Planning & Development
v.     Central Board of Revenue
vi.    State Bank of Pakistan
vii    Pakistan Shippers Council of FPCCI
viii   National Logistic Cell
ix.    Karachi Port Trust
x.     Port Qasim Authority
xi.    PNSC/National Ship owners
xii.   Pakistan Railways
xiii.   Export Promotion Bureau
xiv.   Multimodal Transport Operators
xv.    FPCCI Karachi
xvi.  Insurance Association
xvii.  Dry Port Terminal Operators
xviii.  Freight Forwarders Council
xix.   Ship Agents Association
The Committee may coopt another Organization on a need basis.
Secretariat
The Secretariat of the Committee will be located in the premises of the Pakistan Shippers
Council, Karachi with a permanent Secretary to conduct NTTFC affairs.
Terms of Reference
i.  Continuous review of the trade and transport procedures and systems with a view to
update their simplification and harmonization.
ii. Undertake coordination of efforts of concerned organizations in the field of fac,i[itation of
- 41 -



international trade and transport.
iii. Collect and disseminate information on international trade and transport formalities,
procedures, documentation and related matters.
iv. Pursue the simplification and alignment of trade and transport documents on the basis of
the United Nations layout key, including documents designed for use in computer and other
automated systems.
v. Promote the adoption of the standard trade and transport terminology and international
codes for trade and transport information.
- 42 -



Additional
Annex 13
Pakistan Shippers Council (PSC) of FPCCI
The FPCCI
The apex representative body of the organized private sector trade and industry in Pakistan is FPCCI
(Federation of Pakistan Chambers of Commerce & Industry) which is recognized as such by GOP and
international agencies. FPCCI has its head office in Clifton, Karachi. FPCCI also has its branch offices in
Lahore and Islamabad. FPCCI was incorporated in June 1960 under the Companies Act of 1913. It is
governed by its Memorandum (specifying the objectives of the Federation) and articles of Association
(specifying its internal functioning). The overall objectives of the FPCCI are "to aid and stimulate the
development of trade, commerce, agriculture, industry, mining and transport in Pakistan and Azad Jammu
and Kashmir". There are 100 members falling into four categories. There is a general body comprising of
all the members (2 year term); and there is a managing committee (I president and 3 vice presidents)
elected for the general body for a 2 year term. The president's position is rotated among the provinces.
The President is also the Chief Executive of the FPCCI. There is a mandatory requirement that the annual
accounts of the FPCCI be audited by a firm of chartered accountants. The total strength of FPCCI staff is
72 that include 20 officers having bachelors or masters degrees in commerce, business and or law, with
experience in dealing with international trade and commerce ranging from 5 to 30 years. The other staff
include computer operators, accountants, clerks, general duty persons, telephone operators, peons and
janitors.
Standing Committees of the FPCCI
The Federation works through its various standing committees, which are run by their elected Board of
directors, having membership and representation from the concerned business quarlers. The Board
members work on voluntary basis for the betterment of trade and commerce in the country who also bear
their own cost of traveling, if required to travel on Committee's work. The practice of non charging
traveling expenses from Committee / FPPCI help reduce the financial burden on FPCCI on one hand and
secondly it avoids possibilities of any misuse of the funds contributed by the members. Each Committee
deals with special area, issue or subject. The Committees get Secretarial support from the 72 employees of
Federation. PSC is one of such committees.
PSC
The PSC is one of the standing committees of the FPCCI. It is governed by its own constitution. Some of
the salient features of its constitution are:
Obiect
To provide and further the interests of exporters and importers in Pakistan in relation to the transportation
of goods by sea, land and air.
Functions
a) To provide for consultations on all matters of commercial transportation between shippers on the one
hand and shipping lines, airlines, transporters by land, shipping agents, port authority and the
- 43 -



Government on the other.
b) To represent the views of shippers in regard to the structure of freight rates, availability and adequacy
of shippers space, frequency of sailing/flights, port efficiency, port charges, port facilities, etc.
c) To negotiate and enter into agreements with Shipowners/Conference Lines/Shipping Agents/Airlines/
Airlines Agents, in consultation with the Federation of Pakistan Chambers of Commerce and Industry
(FPCCI).
d) To undertake studies on problems affecting shippers in Pakistan.
e) To circulate information and statistical data, to publish pamphlets, brochures, etc., for the use and
benefit of shippers and to promote their interests.
f) To convene, in prior consultation with FPCCI, Conferences, Seminars or meetings in furtherance of the
objects of the Council.
g) To take all such other steps as may be necessary or conducive to the interests of the members of the
Council.
h) To accept any grants, gifts or donations, whether in cash or securities and property in furtherance of
the objects of the Council.
Board of Directors
a) There shall be a Board of Directors of five persons including the Chairman & Vice-Chairman and the
Board shall be elected by the members of the Council.
b) The Chairman shall be nominated by the Federation of Pakistan Chambers of Commerce & Industry
(FPCCI) from among the members of the Board of Directors.
c) The Board of Directors shall be elected for a two (2) years tenn.
d) The Board of Directors shall have the power to coopt ex-officio members, technical experts and
advisors on honorary basis.
Accounts
a) The Council's account shall be operated by the President or Secretary General of the Federation of
Pakistan Chambers of Commerce & Industry along with Chairman of the Council or one of the
nominated directors of the board of PSC.
b) Signature of at least two of these persons shall be deemed necessary for the validity of the cheques for
payment provided that one of these two persons shall be President or the Secretary General of the
Federation and the other one to be either Chairman or one of the members of the Board of Directors
referred to.
c) A separate book of accounts of the Council shall be maintained in the office of FPCCI.
- 44 -



Dissolution
The Council may be dissolved by a resolution passed by not less than three-quarters of the members
represented and voting at an extra-ordinary or Annual General meeting of the Council called exclusively for
the purpose. The resolution of dissolution shall not be valid unless the consent of FPCCI has been
obtained. Upon dissolution, the assets of the Council remaining, after the payment of the liabilities, shall
be paid out to the Federation of Pakistan Chambers of Commerce & Industry (FPCCI).
-45 -



PSC's achievements with regard Trade Facilitation
Since 1989, when the World Bank organized the first workshop on trade facilitation in Karachi with the
cooperation of Karachi Port Trust PSC has taken a keen interest in trade facilitation.  PSC was
instrumental in organizing, with the cooperation of UNCTAD, the 1994 Multinational Transport
Conference which marked a turning point in later facilitation activities and led to the identification of a
Trade and Transport Facilitation project with the support of MOC. PSC has also extended all its support
to Bank / GOP in meeting delegates, preparing documents and establishing links with Bank, UNCTAD and
GOP.
In agreement with GOP, PSC has established the office of NTTFC Secretariat in the early part of 1998
that is operational for all practical purposes. The Secretariat called the first meeting of NTTFC and
prepared an agenda and minutes of the meeting. The contribution so far made by PSC make it a suitable
organization that could be associated with the project from private sector. PSC has also given undertaking
that it will continue to sustain the NTTFC Secretariat after completion of the project.
ORGANIZATION CHART -- FPCCI
PRESIDENT
AND
MANAGING COMMITTEE
SECRETAPY GENERAL                     Z
&SECRETARIAT                             
77 STAFF                         o O    O
-- PRIVATIZATION
-- FISHERIES
P-. AK CHINA TRADE
PAKISTAN                                 -- LAW & ORDER
SHIPPERS
COUNCIL
- 46 -



GENERAL BODY
OF
PAKISTAN
SHIPPERS COUNCIL
ChIAIRMA'N
BOARD OF DIRECTORS
OF
PAKISTAN SUIIPPERS
COUNCIL
SUPPORTED BY
SECRETARIAT                                SECREARY 
-47 -



Additional
Annex 14
UNCTAD Executed
Multimodal Trade and Transport Facilitation Projects During 1988-1998
Country        Project No.      Start    End                         Title
Year    Year
Trinidad &         TRI/85/001      1986       1989      Assistance to the foreign trade sector in the
Tobago                                                  field of trade facilitation
Reg. Asia/Pacific    RAS/86/016    1986       1990      ASEAN Trade Facilitation*)
Regional Africa    RAF/88/014     1989        1994      Transit Traffic and support to transport
sector in West C Africa **)
Regional Africa    RAF/88/15       1990       1994      Transit Traffic and support to transport
sector in East C Africa **)
Interregional     INT/89/A08       1989       1995      Facilitation & Automation of Trade
Procedures
Interregional     INT/89/A18       1989       1994      Facilitation & Automation of Trade
Procedures
Ethiopia           ETH/87/012      1987       1988      Multimodal Facilitation Phase I
Ethiopia           ETH/89/014    1990         1991      Multimodal Facilitation Phase II
Indonesia         INS/90/023       1990       1996      Facilitation of Trade Procedures and
Documentation
Reg. Africa        RAF/91/A43    1991         1995      Trade Facilitation component
Colombia           COL/91/012      1994       1994      Reforma des sector Publico - componente
transporte multimodal
Pakistan           PAK/91/009      1991       1995      Multimodal Transport and Trade Facilitation
Program
Sri Lanka          SRL/91/018     1992        1994     Improving Customs Admninistration through
Computerization
Lebanon            LEB/92/017      1993       1998      Fiscal Reform and Administration
Mauritania         MAU/92/002    1992         1996      Facilitation du commerce exterieur
-48 -



Mozambique            MOZ/92/A19        1993         1994        Intermodal Transport & Customs Facilitation
Program
Tumen River           RAS/92/430        1992         1993        Tumen River DeveloFment Program
Region
Reg. Asia &           RAS/93/036        1993         1996        Prog. For Economic Reform through
Pacific                                                          enhanced transport communication services
Guyana                GUY/93/A12        1993         1993        Provision of Services of Mr. Michael Welling
as Custom Advisor to Gov. of Guyana
Amenia                ARM/94/A21    1994             1998        Strengthening Custonis Administration and
Trade Facilitation program
Georgia               GEO/94/A52        1994         1998        Trade Facilitation (FALPRO)
Mongolia              MON/94/008        1995         1996        Computerization of Customs Data, Phase II
Kazakhstan,           RER/95/001        1995         1998        Central Asian External Trade and Transit
Kyrgystan,                                                       Transport        Rebuilding the Silk Road
Tajikistan,
Turkmnenistan,
Uzbekistan
Nepal                 NEP/97/A53        1998         2001        Promotion of the Trade and Transport Sectors
of Nepal the Introduction of Multimodal
Transport, Trade Facilitation Customs
Reform and Modernization ASYCUDA and
AC
In cooperation with ESCAP.
* *)   These large transit projects both contained very strong Trade Facilitation components, where the Northern Corridor
Transit Agreement and the Southern Vehicle Transit Pass systems were introduced.
***)    These projects, while primarily ASYCUDA projects, had a Trade Facilitation component, which was implemented.
****)   These projects, which were basically ASYCUDA project, had a Trade facilitation component, but it was never
implemented.
Note:   The over 70 pure ASYCUDA projects, which all contain strong elements of Trade Facilitation, have deliberately been
left out of this table which only shows projects which have dealt with Multimodal Trade and Transport Facilitation. Likewise,
the over 20 ACIS projects, which also contain strong elements of Trade Facilitation, have deliberately been left out of this
table.
- 49 -



Additional
Annex 15
UNCTAD'S TOR/DESCRIPTION OF SERVICES
A. BACKGROUND
l.    Facilitation reforms were discussed during the World Bank assisted 1989 Karachi Port Trust
(KPT) Trade and Transport Facilitation Workshop, however, the follow-up facilitation component included
in the 1991 Karachi Port Modernization Project was not implemented. The Government of Pakistan
subsequently asked UNCTAD to undertake a two-year multimodal transport facilitation programme during
which a series of modern transport legislation bills were drafted and assistance was given, inter alia to the
freight forwarding industry and the dry ports. In this programme UNCTAD worked closely with the
Pakistan Shippers' Council (PSC) and at its 1994 Multimodal Transport and Trade Facilitation Conference
held in Karachi, the original 1989 Bank proposal was reconfirmed. In a subsequent World Bank 1995196
Logistics Cost Study it was indicated that the cost of trade and transport inefficiencies was very large.
2.    In 1991 the Central Board of Revenue (CBR) contracted with Systems Incorporated to develop an
IBM-based automated data processing (ADP) programme for Customs and the Ministry of Finance
(MOF). To facilitate CBR's ability to take over and expand the computerization of Pakistan's revenue
collection systems, CBR, in 1994, established Pakistan Revenue Automation (Pvt.) Ltd. (PRAL) as a
computer consultancy company wholly owned by the Government of Pakistan.
3.     The terms of reference for a National Trade and Transport Facilitation Committee (NTTFC) were
discussed and agree with the Ministry of Commerce (MOC), the CBR and PSC (Appendix I, Annex I).
The Economic Affairs Division (EAD) requested World Bank assistance for a separate technical assistance
project (previously included as a component of the Freight Transport Improvement Project). The World
Bank and KPT also agreed that the port-related facilitation work would be undertaken under the proposed
new Karachi Port Development and Privatization Project, with priority given to the port ADP programme.
This was separated from the other facilitation work because of the specific nature of KPT's organization
and because of their interest to carry the work out on their own.
4.    In November 1996 and July 1997, World Bank missions visited Pakistan to hold extensive
consultations with the concerned Government of Pakistan (Government of Pakistan) officials (Ministries of
Commerce, Planning, and EAD, CBR and Customs) and with the private sector including the PSC.
5.    The present project proposal refers to the implementation of the Facilitation Action Programme
under the Pakistan Trade Facilitation Project. The purpose of the overall project is to correct inefficiencies
in-bred in the trade and transport system through:
(1) a trade and transport facilitation component (the "Facilitation Action Programme") to prepare draft
trade and transport facilitation documents, procedures and transport legislation together with guidelines for
improved logistics for perishable commodities.  The project will finance technical assistance and
development of human resources; and
(2) a Customs component to finalize the ADP Customs clearance programme and its implementation
including associated document simplification. The project will finance the design and/or redesign of
- 50 -



documents, software, hardware and training. This Customs Component is not included, in the present
Appendix I.
Institutional Arrangements for Implementation
6.    The focal point for the trade and transport facilitation project will be a permanent: National
Trade and Transport Facilitation Committee (NTTFC) based on the UNCTAD guidelines for this type of
undertaking, but tailored to Pakistan's needs (Appendix I, Annex I). The NTTFC, chaired by the
Additional Secretary Commerce, will be a multi-disciplinary body consisting of public and private sector
participants from organizations involved in facilitation activities. Such committees play a vital role in
many countries in their continuing efforts to modernize trade practices.
7.    The Government of Pakistan (GoP) on 14 July 1998 resolved to constitute, "with immediate effect,
a Standing Committee with the name of National Trade and Transport Facilitation Comrnittee (NTTFC)
on the UNCTAD Pakistan Trade & Transport Facilitation Project lnder the chairmanship of Additional
Secretary Commerce ". This resolution was published in "The Gazette of Pakistan, Extra" on 14 October
1998 pages 1476/77.
8.    The outputs of the project will be channelled by the NTTFC to the institutions concerned for
approval and implementation. The work will be coordinated by a team leader (the Chief Tzchnical Advisor
(CTA)) working with an NTTFC secretariat attached to the PSC. The secretariat will coordinate its work
with the facilitation tasks of Customs, KPT and Port Quasim Authority (PQA) and other ralevant entities.
Outputs
9.    The output of the trade and transport facilitation project are:
I     PMW held.
2      External and internal key trade and transport documents and flow paths will be a.ligned using the
UN lay-out key suitable for ADP and EDI. Redundant documents and procedures will have been
eliminated.
3      Draft legislation on road, rail, ocean and multimodal transport as prepared by lJNCTAD under
the 1991 UNDP-financed Multimodal Transport and Trade Facilitation Project (PAK/91/009) modified,
taking into account comments by the Law Commission and the 1996 World Bank study, ready for
presentation to Parliament.
4      Standard terms and conditions for the contract of carriage of goods by road., rail, sea and
multimodal transport introduced.
5      Minimum standards of professional qualifications adopted by PIFFC, multimodal transport
operators and other transport intermediaries.
6      Modern standard trading conditions by the PIFFC and other transport intermediaries.
7      Modern standard trading conditions adopted by the Pakistani multimodal transport operators.
8      New marine insurance policy clauses and conditions based on internationally accepted practices
and taking also into account the new terms and conditions for the contract of carriage by road, rail, sea and
multimodal transport will have been drafted and offered to the transport industry.
9      Modernization of marine insurance provisions taking into account the current :rends in
liberalization and the needs of domestic insurers and consumers.
10    Modernized documentary credit procedures adopted by the Pakistani banking industry.
11    Instruments of adhesion submitted to the depositary of those conventions to which the
Government of Pakistan has decided to become a contracting party.
- 51 -



12    Effective trade point(s) in selected location(s) operational.
13     The NTTFC Secretariat's facilitation activities with key institutions placed on a permanent
footing with regular meetings with the concerned parties taking place.
14    Study undertaken and recommendations for the promotion of refrigerated transport and the
development of a network of cold stores with private and public sector awareness of issues, and solutions
submitted to Government of Pakistan for policy and other measures needed. Financial intermediation and
investment prospects proposed for consideration.
15    A team of at least five persons trained in general training techniques and in trade facilitation
and transport logistics issues and available to undertake training throughout the country to the trade and
transport industry. Seminars and workshops successfully delivered by the local training team.
16     Successful delivery of all training activities under the project.
17     Assessment report.
Project Components
10.   The trade and transport facilitation Project will support the NTTFC with the assistance of the
CTA. This will allow a strong local human resource technical group to be developed within the NTTFC
Secretariat so that it will be able to deal with a full range of cross-sectoral trade and transport issues and
thus continue and sustain the reforms.
11.   Besides assistance in the preparation and implementation of the outputs listed above, the trade and
Transport Facilitation project will also enhance the technical capacity of officials from other sectors
related to the project, and of the private sector's employees. It is therefore expected that the NTTFC
Secretariat and any entity directly involved with the trade and transport facilitation lproiect will provide
competent counterparts who will take advantage of the experts' and consultants' experience.
12.   It is expected that the NTTFC will be operational at the beginning of the project. This will allow
the UNCTAD technical assistance team to report to the Secretary of MOC, through the Chairman of the
NTTFC and NTTFC high level working group.
B. DEVELOPMENT OBJECTIVES
13.   The development objectives of the project are to improve Pakistan's international competitiveness
through simplified export and import documentary procedures, modernization of related legislation and the
creation of a national capacity to solve potential problems between the transport users and providers and
the public sector in an expeditious fashion, as well as to propose the creation of a well-functioning
refrigerated produce domestic "cold chain".
C. IMMEDIATE OBJECTIVES, OUTPUTS AND ACTIVITIES
14.   Taking into account the activity package identified and agreed between PSC and the World Bank
Appraisal Mission, the following immediate objectives are proposed:
I      Make operational a competent cross-sectoral secretariat - located within the PSC - and functioning
within the NTTFC for all its members, where trade and transport related problems that may influence
more than two parties can be analysed, practical solutions developed for presentation to and possible
- 52 -



action/implementation by the NTTFC and other bodies.
2      Assist in the updating Pakistan's legal and institutional environment of trade and transport; and
3      Assist in the enhancing and liberalizing of insurance and banking practices so as to rnake the
Pakistani industry more competitive vis-a-vis foreign competitors.
Immediate objective I:      Conduct Project Workshops and Conferences
15.   The first training activity under the project will be a "Project Mobilization Workshcp" (PMW) that
will be held approximately two months after the start-up of the project. The main objective of the PMW
will be to provide stakeholders, i.e. the senior policy makers from the private and public sectors with an
awareness of how the project, efficiently and in a timely manner, can achieve its objectives with close
cooperation of other concerned institutions in Pakistan. Moreover, in addition to discussing the Project
Inplementation Strategy , this occasion will also provide an opportunity to ensure transparency and mutual
commitment to the project by all associated parties of the Government of Pakistan as well as relevant
private sector institutions, UNCTAD and the World Bank. The outcome of the PMW should be that all
parties associated with the project will be: (a) aware of their respective role and responsibilities in the areas
relating to Trade Facilitation already identified in the project document and; (b) able to identify possible
risks (e.g. the lack of commitment from external and internal parties). The PMW is scheduled to last four
days and should ideally be formally opened by the Minister of Commerce.
16.   Approximately 18 months after the PMW, a Trade Facilitation Project Conference will be
organized to allow the public and private sectors to take stock of the activities of the projeci to date. The
conference will give these sectors the opportunity to comment on project activities and to mi?ke suggestions
for redirection(s) if this is felt by the participants of the Conference.
17.   At the end of the Project, a Final Trade Facilitation Project Conference, a second Conference will
be organized to allow all interested parties to become acquainted with the success and failures of the
Project and make comments on it to the Government of Pakistan, UNCTAD and the World Bank.
Success Criterium.     Project Mobilization Workshop and Conferences successfulPy held and all
stakeholders given the opportunity of commenting on the progress of the project and the benefits to
Pakistan which have been derivedfrom the project.
Output 1. 1
* PMW held.
Activities for Output 1. 1
1. 1. I Preparation of the PMW;
1. 1.2 Holding of the PMW; and
1. 1.3 Report of the PMW.
Output I. 2
* Mid-tenn conference held.
- 53 -



Activities for Output I.2
1.2.1 Preparation of the Mid-term conference;
1.2.2 Holding of the Mid-term conference; and
1.2.3 Report of the Mid-term conference.
Output I. 3
* Final Trade Facilitation Project Conference held.
* Reports of conferences.
Activities for Output 1.3
1.3.1 Preparation of the Final Trade Facilitation Project Conference;
1.3.2 Holding of the Final Trade Facilitation Project Conference; and
1.3.3 Report of the Final Trade Facilitation Project Conference.
Immediate objective II: Simpification of documents and procedures related to foreign trade
transactions leading as appropriate to the introduction of a single administrative document (SAD)
18.   The World Bank sponsored 1989 KPT Workshop identified a number of areas where simplification
of documents and procedures should be carried out. These were contained in the recommendations of the
Workshop, however, action on the recommendations has been limited. The recommendations were repeated
at the 1994 UNCTAD International Conference on Multimodal Transport and Trade Facilitation held in
Karachi under the sponsorship of PSC. A subsequent World Bank financed Logistics Cost Study
documented the economic rationale behind the proposals; in spite of this, little has been done. The World
Bank study estimated the annual cost incidence of documentary transactions in Pakistan's foreign trade at
USD 132 million. Recommendations for the introduction of the SAD and associated procedures was
substantiated in the 1996 World Bank study and retained by the CBR in its plan of action on facilitation in
June 1996. A draft of SAD procedures was proposed in Volume II (Appendices) of the 1996 World Bank
study.
Success Criteria:   New streamlined and aligned documents introduced.  Old documents and
procedures no longer being used. About 200 mid-level staff involved with trade documentations and
others briefed on the new lay-outs. "guidelines published".
Output 11. I
* External and internal key trade and transport documents and flow paths will be aligned using the
UN lay-out key suitable for ADP and EDI. Redundant documents and procedures will have been
eliminated.
* Report(s) of Seminar(s).
Activities for Output 11. I
11.1.1  Identification by an NTTFC ad hoc Working Group of specific documents and procedures
in need of simplification to be carried out jointly with the appropriate institutions in the following
sectors: transport; Customs; fiscal; trade; financial (banking); and insurance. (Simplification of KPT
and Customs House Karachi documentation to be carried out by those institutions independently of the
secretariat activities);
11.1.2   Alignment of data elements on new documents including the SAD by an NITFC ad hoc
Working Group;
- 54 -



11.1.3  Institutional decision to realign documents and procedures;
11.1.4  Realignment of selected documents and procedures by concerned entities in close
cooperation with an NTTFC ad hoc Working Group;
11.1.5  Submission of new aligned documents and procedural flow-paths to the NTTFC for
approval;
II. 1.6   Elimination of redundant documents and procedures by concerned entities;
11.1.7  Implementation at the institutional level.
11.1.8   Seminar(s) on aligned docs; and
11.1.9   Report(s) of Seminar(s).
Output 11.2
* Procedures for guidelines for Customs, Customs Brokers and Traders drafted, approved and
published for the trade.
* Report(s) of Seminar(s).
Activities for Output 11.2
11.2.1   Consultations with Customs, Customs brokers and traders on contents of the ?Guidelines?;
112.2   Drafting of ?Guidelines?;
11.2.3   Approval by NTTFC Working Group of ?Guidelines?;
11.2.4   Publishing of ?Guidelines?;
11.2.5   Seminar(s) on ?Guidelines?; and
1I.2.6   Report(s) of Semninar(s).
Immediate objective III:     Formulation and/or modernization as required of transport legislation
19.   The need for modernization of the existing transport legislation was identified in the 1989 KPT
Workshop. Draft legislation for road, rail, multinodal and ocean transport was prepared by the UNCTAD
Multimodal Transport and Trade Facilitation Project and commented on by the Law Commrission, Ministry
of Law and Justice. Further specific recommendations in this respect were contained in the [1996 World
Bank study which found that the liability, as well as the terms and conditions of carriage, of land transport
operators in Pakistan need to be hannonized with international standards.
Success Criteria: Bills on road, rail, multimodal transport and ocean transport placed before
Parliamentfor action. 100 senior executives briefed on contents of new laws.
Output 111. 1
* Draft legislation on road, rail, ocean and multimodal transport as prepared by UNCTAD modified,
taking into account comments by the Law Commission and the 1996 World Bank study, ready for
presentation to Parliament.
* Report(s) of Seminar(s).
Activities for output HI. 1
111.1.1   Original UNCTAD drafts reviewed and redrafted as necessary in accordance with the
guidelines from the Law Commission and containing realistic terms and conditions of'carriage for land
transport operators;
111.1.2   Drafts considered by the NTTFC and modified, if necessary, and in full consultation with
- 55 -



the Law Commission;
111.1.3   Revised drafts accepted by the Law Commission;
111.1.4  Seminar(s) on new transport laws for traders, carriers, banks and insurance executives;
111.1.5   Report(s) of Seminar(s); and
111.1.6   Bills presented to Parliament for promulgation.
[111.1.7  Acts passed by Parliament.] [This is outside the control of the Project]
Immediate objective IV:     Modernization of commercial Documentary procedures covering the
drafting of standard terms and conditions for the contracts of carriage of goods
20.   In parallel with the activities undertaken under Objective III, it will be necessary to introduce
standard terms and conditions for the contract of the carriage of goods by various modes of transport.
Liability and contract of carriage insurance provisions related to cargo in transit and Customs duty for
short-landed cargo are not clearly established between Pakistan and neighbouring countries. Furthernore,
the legislation does not contain adequate contract carriage liability provisions for road and rail transport
operators.
Success Criteria:     Standard terms and conditions for the contract of carriage for sea, road, rail
and multimodal transport accepted by the industry and implemented. 100 executives from carriers,
traders, banks and insurance companies briefed on new model terms and conditions for the contracts of
carriage.
Output IV. 1
*   Standard terms and conditions for the contract of carriage of goods by road;
*   Standard terms and conditions for the contract of carriage of goods by rail;
*   Standard terms and conditions for the contract of carriage of goods by sea;
* Standard termns and conditions for the contract of carriage of goods by multimodal transport.
Activities for output IV. 1
IV. 1. I Drafting, in consultation with the industry through an NTTFC ad hoc Working Group, of standard
tenns and conditions for the contract of carriage by all surface modes;
IV. 1.2 Acceptance by the transport and insurance industry of the drafts;
IV. 1.3 Incorporation of new draft terms and conditions into commercial transport documents which
contain the standard terms and conditions;
IV. 1.4 Seminar(s) on new the terms and conditions for the contract of carriage of goods;
IV.1.5 Report(s) of seminar(s); and
IV. 1.6 New documents on terms and conditions for the contract of carriage of goods accepted by carriers,
banks and insurance companies.
- 56 -



Immediate objective V:Modernization of freight forwarders?9, multimodal transport operators? and
other transport intermediaries? professional standards in accordance with international standards, in
the areas ofprofessional qualifications, financial qualifications and code of professional conduct
21.   This subject was partially discussed at the 1994 UNCTAD Conference and further documented in
the 1996 World Bank study. Some limited work was undertaken by UNCTAD subsequently to the 1994
UNCTAD Conference. The current Pakistan legislation does not consider freight forwarde:rs as carriers.
Because of a lack of appropriate multimodal transport legislation, these freight forwarders cannot offer
comprehensive transport operations. Reference should be made to the UNCTAD Minimum Standards for
Shipping Agents.
Success Criteria: Adoption, by the Pakistan Freight Forwarders' Council (PIFFC,', multimodal
transport operators, and other transport intermediaries of a set of minimum standards which clearly set
out their professional and financial qualifications and establishes a code of professional conduct; and
new standard trading conditions which make them reliable partners for foreign coun----terparts/clients.
100 senior executives briefed on new licencing and capital requirements and actual application of the
new minimum standards by some of the companies.
Output V. 1
Minimum standards of professional qualifications adopted by PIFFC, multimodal transport operators
and other transport intermediaries.
Activities for outPUt V. 1
V.1.1  Review, by an NTTFC ad hoc Working Group, of present entry level standards applied throughout
the transport industry;
V. 1.2 Drafting of minimum standards based on the UNCTAD Minimum Standards for Shipping Agents
by an NTTFC ad hoc Working Group;
V.1.3 Review and approval, by the NTTFC of the draft minimum standards;
V.1.4 Adoption and application by the PIFFC, multimodal transport operators and other transport
intermediaries of the minimum standards.
V.1.5 Seminar(s) for about 100 senior executives to explain rationale behind new minimum standards;
V.1.6 Report(s) of Seminar(s).
Output V.2
* Modem standard trading conditions for the PIFFC and other transport intermediaries.
Activities for output IV.2
V.2.1 Review by an NTTFC ad hoc Working Group of existing standard trading conditions and
identification of ?shortconiings? in such conditions seen from an international trade point of view;
V.2.2 Revision of existing standard trading conditions in full consultation with the fntight forwarding/
transport intermediaries industry;
V.2.3 Acceptance by the insurance and banking sectors of the new standard trading concitions; and
V.2.4 Adoption by the freight forwarders and other transport intermediaries, of the new standard trading
conditions.
V.2.5 Seminar(s) for about 100 senior executives to explain rationale behind new minimum standards;
V.2.6 Report(s) of Seminar(s).
- 57 -



Output V.3
* Modem standard trading conditions adopted by the Pakistani multimodal transport operators.
Activities for output V.3
V.3.1 Review by an NTTFC ad hoc Working Group of existing standard trading conditions and
identification of ?shortcomings? in such conditions seen from an international trade point of view;
V.3.2 Revision of existing standard trading conditions in full consultation with the multiinodal transport
operators;
V.3.3 Acceptance by the insurance and banking sectors of the new standard trading conditions;
V.3.4 Adoption of new standard trading conditions;
V.3.5 Seminar(s) for freight forwarders about 100 senior executives, MTOs and other cargo
intermediaries on new standard trading conditions; and
V.3.6 Report(s) of Seminar(s).
Immediate objective VI:    Modernization and liberalization of marine tiransport insurance
provisions and policy conditions andpractices
22.   The needs for the modernization of (marine) transport insurance provisions  So-called Amarine
insurance@ actually covers also door-to-door transport insurance of goods. was identified at the 1989 KPT Conference
and further documented at the 1994 UNCTAD Conference and by the 1996 World Bank study. The 1996
World Bank study documented the negative effects and costs (in terms of double insurance and/or higher
insurance premiums). The World Bank study estimated the annual cost incidence of domestic insurance on
import and export transactions at USD 134 million/USD 18 million- respectively, however, to date no work
has been undertaken in this field. Current insurance provisions in Pakistan do not encourage
competitiveness in the international insurance underwriting market. The UNCTAD document "UNCTAD
Model Clauses on Marine Hull and Cargo Insurance " (TD/B/C.4/ISL/50/Rev. 1) will form the basis for
this work.
Success criteria:   Present transport insurance policies and procedures/regulations studied, and on the
basis thereof new policies and procedures drafted, presented to, accepted by, and introduced by the
transport and insurance industry, t-hrough the NTTFC Secretariat to the NTTFC for review and
preliminary approval; modern transport insurance provisions drafted as a result of the above and
placed, by and through the NTTFC and ad-hoc institutional channel, before the competent authorities for
adoption. 100 executives from the insurance, trade and transport industries briefed on new provisions.
Output VI. 1
* New marine insurance policy clauses and conditions based on internationally accepted practices and
taking also into account the new terms and conditions for the contract of carriage by road, rail, sea and
multimodal transport will have been drafted and offered to the transport industry.
*   Report(s) from Seminar(s).
Activities for output VI. 1
VI. 1.1 Review of existing transport insurance policy and conditions by an NTTFC ad hoc Working
Group for identification of areas where they might be improved;
VI. 1.2 Modem transport insurance policy language introduced, based on document TD/B/C.4/
ISL/50/Rev. 1, and in full consultation with the insurance and transport industry through an NTTFC ad hoc
- 58 -



Working Group;
VI. 1.3 Acceptance by NTTFC WP of new policies;
VI. 1.4 Seminar(s) on new insurance provisions and policies held for 100 senior trade, transport and
insurance executives;
VI. 1.5 Presentation of draft provisions to the competent authority for adoption;
VI. 1.6 Competent authority promulgates new provisions; and
VI. 1.7 New insurance policies, reflecting the modem terms and conditions for the contracts of carriage
introduced by national insurance companies and offered to the transport industry.
Immediate objective VII:    Streamlining of financial and banking provisions related to foreign
trade transactions including foreign-currency and ?letter-of-credit? provisions
23.   The need for modemization of financial and banking procedures to facilitate trade was identified at
the 1989 KPT Conference and partially docunented at the 1994 UNCTAD Conference as well as by the
1996 World Bank study. The World Bank study estimated the cost of transit immobilization of goods
(stocks in transit) to be in the region of USD 163/272 million for imports/exports depending on the sample
of commodities analysed. To date only limited work has been carried out in this area.
Success Criteria: Finance and banking procedures modernized; the International Chamber of
Commerce's "Uniform Customs and Practices for Documentary Credits" fICC UCPl will have been
introduced throughout the industry and used by traders and bankers; financial services will have been
streamlined to allow for modern financial practices to be utilizedfor imports and exports of goods. 100
senior executives briefed on modern letter of credit andforeign exchange banking procediures.
Output VII.1
* Adoption by the Pakistani banking industry of modemized documentary credit procecuLLres;
* Report of Seminar(s).
Activities for output VII. 1
VII. 1.1 Review by an NTTFC ad hoc Working Group of current banking provisions for documentary
credits;
VII. 1.2 Modemization of banking provisions in line with the latest ICC Uniform Customs and Procedures
for Documentary Credits (UCP) in full consultation between traders, banks, insurance companies and
transport providers through the NTTFC;
VII. 1.3 Acceptance by banks and traders of new documentary credit procedures;
VII. 1.4 Seminar(s) for 100 senior trade and banking executives on ICC UCP;
VII. 1.5 Report(s) of Seminar(s); and
VII. 1.6 The latest ICC UCP put into force.
Immediate objective VIII:    Advice to Government of Pakistan on modernization, harmonization
and simplification of Customs procedures in line with recommendations of the World Customs
Organization, and on ad-vantages/disadvantages of becoming contracting party to international
conventions related to Customs, transport and trade
24.   Implementation of a number of WCO recommendations on a number of modernized Customs
procedures as advocated by the WCO and the WTO, are evident. Furthermore, the advanages for
Pakistan to adhere a number of modem Customs, trade and transport conventions were identified at the
- 59 -



1989 KPT Conference and recommendations in this respect were made at the 1994 UNCTAD Conference.
Advantages of ratification of specific conventions were docunented in the 1996 Word Bank study.
Success Criteria: Government of Pakistan has decided to which (if any) of the international
conventions related to Customs, trade and transport it might be beneficialfor the country to adhere, and
has selected one or more international conventions to which it has deemed to be in the national interest
to become a contracting party. Pakistan becomes contracting party to several international conventions
dealing with Customs, trade and transport. About 100 senior officials attended Seminar(s) on the
conventions to which Pakistan will become a contractingparty.
Output VIII. I
* Instruments of adhesion submitted to the depositary of those conventions to which the Government of
Pakistan has decided to become a contracting party.
* Report(s) of seminar(s).
Activities for output VIII. 1
VIII. 1.1 The NTTFC Secretariat draws up a first list of conventions which may merit closer scrutiny;
VIII. 1.2Advantages and disadvantages regarding each convention considered by an NTTFC ad hoc
Working Group;
VIII. 1.3 Seminar(s) to explain the benefits of adherence to various trade, transport and Customs
Conventions;
VIII. l .4An NTTFC ad hoc Working Group consults with CBR conceming the various Customs
Conventions under review;
VIII. 1.5An NTTFC ad hoc Working Group consults with Pakistan Railways concerning COTIF/CIM, and
the road hauliers conceming the CMR;
VIII. 1 .6An NTTFC ad hoc Working Group consults with traders and carriers of all kinds concerning other
trade and transport conventions;
VIII.1.7An NTTFC ad hoc Working Group draws up list of conventions which, in its view, merits
adherence and submits it to full NTTFC for consideration;
VIII.1.8The NTTFC formulates recommendations to Govermment of Pakistan for consideration;
VIII.1.9Seminar(s) for legal experts from ministries, trade, transport, banking and insurance circles on the
new conventions;
VIII. 1I.10     Report(s) of Seminar(s); and
VIII. 1.11      The NTTFC follows up Government of Pakistan action on deposit of instruments of
adherence with depositor(s).
Output VIII.2. 1
* Implementation of a number of WCO recommendations on a number of modernized Customs
procedures as advocated by the WCO and the WTO.
Activities for output VIII.2
VIII.2.1The Customs modernization procedures Specialist gives advice to Pakistan Customs and the
NTTFC on modalities for modernization of customs procedures;
VIII.2.2Pakistan Customs, in consultation with the NTTFC, implements agreed modernization measures;
VIII.2.3 Seminar(s) for Customs officers and users (shippers, freight forwarders, Customs brokers,
carriers) on new modernized procedures;
- 60 -



VIII.2.4Report(s) of Seminar(s); and
VIII.2.5Modernized Customs procedures implemented.
Immediate objective IX:    Establishment of an operational Trade Point in Karachi and creation
of awareness of the Trade Point concept with a view to setting up additional Trade Points in Pakistan.
25.   The need for operational Trade Points was documented in the 1996 World Bank stady. KPT and
the Export Promotion Bureau (EPB) have already established an Export terminal facility that became
operational 10 November 1996.
Success criteria: Operational Trade Point in Karachi established and grounds jfor creation of
additional Trade Points in strategic areas (Ports, inland trade centres and dry ports).
Output IX. I
* Strengthen the Karachi Trade Point so that it becomes fully operational at the end. of the two-year
period of project implementation and facilitate the process of setting up additional Trade Points in Pakistan.
Activities for output IX. 1
IX. 1.1. Assessment of technical and organisational needs encountered by the Karachi Trade Point and
proposal of solutions;
IX.1.2. Preparation, in cooperation with the Trade Point Manager, of a business plan, as well as the
document defining the legal status of the Trade Point;
IX. 1.3. Trade Information seminar for the local business community;
IX. 1.4. Preparation the ground for future electronic commerce activities at the Karachi Trade Point;
IX. 1.5. Assessment of the technical conditions required to set up and operate additiona, Trade Points in
Pakistan; and
IX.1.6. Report of seminar(s).
Immediate objective X: Institutional strengthening of the NTTFC, its Executive Commnittee, its ad hoc
Working Groups and its Secretariat so that it will become afullyfunctioning instituticn and be able to
coordinate its activities with key agencies participating in trade and transport
26.   The need for coordination between PSC and key institutions such as Customs, KPT/PQA and the
Ministry of Communications was highlighted at the 1994 UNCTAD Conference and further documented
and spelled-out in the 1996 World Bank study. While some efforts have been made to improve the
situation, effective follow-up has been poor. However, the NTTFC has now been established and a key
objective of the project is that within the project period it becomes fully functioning. The I'SC has agreed to
support the NTTFC Secretariat on a continuing basis, once the project has ended.
Success Criteria: Regular meeting with the concerned parties taking place. Joint policies on key issues
developed. Targets and indicators for success defined and proposed.
Output X. I
* The NTTFC Secretariat's facilitation activities with key institutions are placed on a permanent footing
with regular meetings with the concerned parties taking place.
- 61 -



* Report(s) of regular meetings and summary annual Conference.
Activities for output X. I
X. 1.1 NTTFC and PSC identify all areas where regular meetings must take place with the concemed
parties;
X. 1.2 Establishment of mechanism whereby regular monthly meetings will take place, for example, with
KPT/QPA on ADP and logistics development;
X. 1.3 Establishment of mechanism whereby regular monthly meetings will take place with Customs ADP
and document facilitation implementation at Collector?s level and/or at PRAL?s managing director level;
and
X. 1.4 Establishment of mechanism whereby regular bi-monthly meetings will take place with Ministry of
Communications? Port and Shipping Wing at appropriate level.
Immediate objective XI:    Study of the capacity requirements and policies needed for promotion
of refrigerated domestic transport and cold storage of fresh produce and for the development of
associated transport (trucking/rail)
27.   The need was identified in the 1996 World Bank study and Terms of Reference (TOR) have been
prepared for a study of the capacity requirements and policies needed for the promotion of the transport of
refrigerated goods (vegetables, fruit, meat and fish) between Pakistani ports and inland points in Pakistan,
as well as the development of a Pakistani network of cold stores and refrigerated transport means (road
vehicles and railway wagons) prepared as part of the World Bank project appraisal.
Success Criterium: Government of Pakistan acceptance of the proposed policy.
Output XI. I
* Study undertaken and recommendations for the promotion of the refrigerated transport industry
submitted to Ministry of Commerce for policy and other measures needed to promote refrigerated transport
and the development of a network of cold stores.
* Private and public sector awareness of issues, and solutions.
* Financial intermediation and investment prospects proposed for consideration.
* Report(s) of seminar(s).
Activities for output XI. 11
XI. 1.1 Study and discussions with concemed parties undertaken for the promotion of the refrigerated
transport industry submitted to Ministry of Commerce for policy and other measures needed to promote
refrigerated transport and the development of a network of cold stores;
XI. 1.2 Recommendations of study submitted to the NTTFC for consideration;
XI. 1.3 Seminar(s) on report findings and recommendations;
XI. 1.4 Report(s) of Seminar(s);
XI.1.5 NTTFC modifies/accepts recommendations; and
XI. 1.6 NTTFC submit agreed recommendations to Ministry of Commerce for consideration.
Immediate objective XII:   Development of a team of local training managers in the field of trade
facilitation and related subjects and assurance of deliveries of all training activities, conferences,
seminar(s) and workshops
- 62 -



28. In order to assist GoP, the NTTFC and the trade and transport sectors of Pakistan develop a local
training capability with long-lasting effects, a local training team will be established with the assistance of
the HRD Expert. The team will be trained in modem training methodologies and will participate in all the
scheduled seminars when these are conducted by intemational experts the first time. From then on the local
team will take over deliveries and will carry out local deliveries as necessary and within the budget of the
project.  Should additional deliveries be desirable, such deliveries will have to be conducted on a
self-financed basis. See also below under D3 ?Training Activities?.
Success Criterium: Team of training managers created. All training activities success(idlly completed.
Replication of seminars and workshops by the local training team.
Output XII. 1
*   A team of at least five persons trained in general training techniques and in trade facilitation and
transport logistics issues and available to undertake training throughout the country to the trade and
transport industry.
*   Seminars and workshops successfully delivered by the local training team.
*   Reports of seminars and workshops.
Activities for output XII. 1
XII. 1. I Identification and selection of potential trainers;
XII. 1.2 Training of selected trainers to become competent trainers using all necessary trairning implements;
XII. 1.3 Training in the subjects trade facilitation and transport logistics;
XII. 1.4 Training undertaken under supervision of an experienced trainer.
Output XII.2
*   Successful delivery of all training activities under the project.
*   Report of establishment of team of local trainers.
Activities for output XII.2
XII.2. 1 Organization of individual seminar(s), workshop(s) and conferences under objectives I through XI.
Immediate objective XIII:    Assessment of the project and the likely changes in trade and transport
facilitation and their logistics benefits accruing as a result of the project with recomwmendations for
future work for the NTTFC
28.   In order for GoP, IBRD and UNCTAD to obtain an independent assessment of the entire project, a
Trade and Transport Logistics Specialist (TTLS) will be engaged to (establish performance indicators at
the beginning of the project and recalculate these again at the end of the project). The TTLS will also
conduct an in-depth assessment of the project activities towards the end of the 24-months project life and
assist over the last few months of the project in making sure it achieves its objectives. Thz Assessment
Report will form one of the base documents to be presented to the Final Trade Facilitation Conference
which will take place immediately before the Tripartite Review scheduled towards the end. of the 24-months
project life. See also under D2 Project supervision, coordination and monitoring below.
Output XIII. 1
- 63 -



*   Assessment report.
Activities for output XIII. 1
XIII. 1. I Establishment of logistics performance indicators at the beginning of the project.
XIII. 1 .2Recalculation of logistics performance indicators at the end of the project.
XIII.1.3Assessment mission towards the end of the 24-months project life by the TTLS to consider all
aspects of the project, its progress, achievements and failures and the way ahead.
XIII. 1 .4Report by the TTLS.
D. PROJECT IMPLEMENTATION STRATEGY
D.1. Implementation strategy
30. The project will be formally launched by the holding of a PMW. Its main objective is to provide all
stakeholders, the senior policy makers from the private and public sectors, with a clear understanding of the
aims of the project and how each of these stakeholders and/or their organization may benefit from the
project execution. This type of activities has proved very useful in other countries and ensures that all
involved will start from the same basis and will be able to work together to reach the goals of the project.
Moreover, in addition to discussing the Project Implementation Strategy, this occasion will also provide an
opportunity to ensure transparency and mutual commitment to the project by all associated parties of the
Government of Pakistan as well as relevant private sector institutions, UNCTAD and the World Bank.
31. Immediately after the PMW, key international consultants will begin to work with their national
counterparts in their respective area of competence. This will allow the project to get off to a ?running
start? and keep up the enthusiasm generated by the PMW.
32. The project contains a strong training component which will create not only a local training capability,
but will also help ensure the sustainability of the project aims after the end of the project.
33. In order to keep the stakeholders committed to the aims of the project, a Conference will be organized
12 months after the start of the project. Here it will be possible not only to take status of progress to date,
but also to suggest changes to the project execution over the following twelve months. Immediately after
the Conferenice, a Tripartite Review will be held to take the recommendations of the Conference into
account.
D.2 Project supervision, coordination and monitoring
34. In addition to the above mentioned substantive activities, the project will require specific concomitant
activities related to field supervision and field co-ordination, as well as to the monitoring of the overall
project.
- 64 -



a. Field supervision
The CTA, in conjunction with the Deputy CTA and the NTTFC, will, during the first two months of
his/her work, review the activities to ensure that they fully provide the means achieving the cbjectives of the
project. The CTA will identify national experts and consultants to the extent required and make proposal
to UNCTAD for their recruitment. The CTA will also supervise the work of the international and national
consultants as necessary. In particular, the CTA will work closely with PSC to operational ize the NTTFC
Secretariat, and will advise on recruitment of its staff and procurement of equipment as necessary.
Decisions on both recruitment and procurement rest with PSC. The CTA will also discuss with the
NTTFC Executive Committee the steps towards the implementation of the agreed reforms, regulations and
procedures.
b. Field co-ordination
The CTA will assist the NTTFC in its work; organize regular consultations within the NT'TFC to inform
its members on the recommended legal and institutional changes, and obtain formal agreement from the
Committee on the proposed, and eventually amended, changes; co-ordinate the actions of the various
institutions related to the project with the secretariat to facilitate the work of the consultants; and secure
consistency between the actions proposed under this project with those proposed in related national and
sub-regional projects. The CTA will coordinate the work of international and national consultants as
necessary.
c. Project monitoring
UNCTAD will monitor, in close cooperation with the CTA, the organization of the experts? and
consultants? missions and of the training activities on trade and transport operations; aid identify and
propose to Ministry of Commerce and the World Bank, in close collaboration with the NTTFC, additional
ad-hoc technical assistance if deemed necessary.
d. Project assessment
During the final six months of the project the CTA and the NTTFC Secretariat together with an
independent Consultant in Trade and Transport Logistics, and in cooperation with UNCTAD will
undertake an assessment of the achievements of the project to date and the likely changes in trade and
transport facilitation and their logistics benefits that will continue to accrue as a result of the project with
recommnendations for future work for the NTTFC.
35. These activities of field supervision, field co-ordination and project monitoring will justify a resident
function. This function will be carried out by the CTA, in addition to his/her substantive contribution as a
Senior Transport Specialist.
36. It is expected that the project will develop the NTTFC Secretariat?s own human resource capacity.
The project outputs will be specific and operational.
- 65 -



D.3 Training strategy
37. Under the project between 12 and 24 training activities have been scheduled .    Exact number
depends on need to double up individual training activities. In addition to these, a mid-term conference to take stock
of progress over the first year and to allow all stakeholders make suggestions regarding project
interventions for the following year. However, these training activities will only be able to train about
2,000-3,000 persons out of a potential population perhaps ten times that size. For this reason, it will be
essential that further local seminars and workshops are conducted throughout the country.
38. A major output of the project is therefore the development of a local training capability in the fields of
trade facilitation and transport logistics. For this purpose the project team will, at an early stage, identify a
small number (say about 10) potential trainers who have the necessary subject-matter background and are
both able and willing to undertake local training. This team will be trained in training techniques (the
training of trainers) using modem training methodologies, and will also receive information on the latest
techniques in their given the necessary subject-matter field by the international consultants under the
project. It is assumed that not all ten selected potential trainers will actually complete the training, but it is
hoped that by the end of this training, a core team of about five persons will be ready to undertake the
necessarv local training.
39. The next training activities will be the seminars and workshops listed under the activities above. In
each case the project will organize one or at the most two training activities per subject with the
participation of foreign experts and consultants. Once these training activities have been completed, with
the full participation of the Local Training Team, this Local Training Team will organize a number of local
deliveries in major tradirg centres. These training activities will to a large extent be self-financed through
the charging of participants fees.
D.4 Institutional arrangements
40. A tripartite review will be held after the completion of the PMW (please see above) . Additional
tripartite reviews of the project will be held with approximately 12 months intervals thereafter and timed to
follow the Trade Facilitation Conferences whenever possible. At the end of the project a Final Tripartite
Review will be held to summarize the project execution and the extent to which the project objectives have
been met. Participants at such tripartite reviews will be:
a.  The Government of Pakistan;
b.  UNCTAD; and
c.  The World Bank.
41. A Steering Committee (SC) will be established to ensure the correct execution of the project. This SC
will review the monthly reports prepared by the CTA and if necessary give guidance to the CTA and the
team of international and national consultants for the further execution of the project. The SC will conduct
these reviews without the need for meetings and communications between members of the SC will be
conducted by fax or e-mail.
42. Members of the SC will be:
a.  The Chainnan of the NTTFC representing the Government of Pakistan;
b.  The Chainnan of the PSC representing the commercial interests;
c.  LUNCTAD;
- 66 -



d. The World Bank.
43. The CTA will be ex-officio member of the SC.
44. The Executive Secretary of the NTTFC will be the secretary of the SC.
45. Decisions by the SC will be taken by consensus.
E. EXPERTISE REQUIRED
46. The following type of expertise would be needed:
a. A Senior Transport Specialist (24 months extendable up to 36 months) acting as Chief Technical
Advisor.
b. A Deputy Senior Transport Specialist (24 months extendable up to 36 months) acting as the Deputy
Chief Technical Advisor. The expert will in particular assist the NTTFC.
c. A Trade Facilitation Specialist (7 work/months);
d. A Legal Specialist (6 work/months);
e. A Freight Forwarding Specialist (6.5 work/months);
f An International Transport Insurance Specialist (6.5 work/months);
g. An International Documentary Credit Specialist (4 work/months);
h. A Human Resource Development Expert (21.5 work/months);
i. A Trade Point Specialist (6 work/months);
j. A Refrigerated Products Logistics Specialist (4.5 work/months);
k. A Trade and Transport Logistics Specialist (6 work-/months);
1. A Liaison Officer (24 months extendable up to 36 months);
m. Several short-term National Trainers/Consultants in various of the above fields (5.5 work/months);
and
n. Provisions for international lecturers for the conferences to be held (5 work/months).
47. A tentative distribution of the activities among the experts and consultants is presented in the table at
the end of this document.
F. TENTATIVE TIME-TABLE FOR IMPLEMENTATION
48. The project is expected to initiate its activities in July 1, 2001. The CTA will begin his/her activities
two months before the effective start-up of other project activities in order to establish the secretariat office
atTangements and identify local consultants who will be working with the project, and to complete them by
end May, 2003.  Should the start-up date be delayed, the entire progranmme will be rescheduled
accordingly. A tentative time-table for the consultants missions over the first 18 months is attached as
Appendix III. The actual timing of the consultants missions will be decided jointly by Go:P and UNCTAD.
The CTA, in conjunction with the NTTFC, will ensure that the work programme remains in place.
- 67 -



G. INPUTS
G. 1. From Government of Pakistan
49. Govermnent of Pakistan will:
a.  Identify a National Counterpart for this component of the project, who will work closely with the
UNCTAD project officer. It would be appropriate that the National Counterpart be the Secretary
Commerce or the Chairnan of the NTTFC (Secretary Commerce) who would be the senior Ministry of
Commerce official dealing with trade and facilitation issues;
b.  Facilitate access to any information necessary for the project to achieve its objectives;
c.  Provide prompt response to communications concerning the project and give advice as appropriate;
d.  Participate in the Tripartite Review Meetings and Steering Committee Meetings;
e.  Approve/disapprove UNCTADs choice of experts and consultants; and
f.  Arrange for the translation into Urdu of proposed legislation etc. as/if required.
G.2 From Pakistan Shippers Council
50. The Pakistan Shippers Council will:
a.  Provide and assist in the logistics arrangements for office space for the NTTFC Secretariat. PSC will
also facilitate access to any information necessary for the consultants to complete their missions. It would
be appropriate to have adequate office space for the project consultants located in the NTTFCs Secretariat;
b.  Designate, in coordination with the CTA and the Executive Secretary of the NTTFC, the persons to
be invited to the training activities. These persons should hold professional position where they will work
in the fiuture on international trade and transport issues; and
C .  Participate in Steering Committee Meetings.
G.3. From UNCTAD
51. UJNCTAD will:
a.  Select the international experts and consultants to be recruited under the project, and propose them to
the Ministry of Commerce for approval;
b.  Select, in consultation with the NTTFC, the national consultants and propose them to Ministry of
Coommerce for approval;
c.  Brief and backstop the selected international experts and consultants;
d.  Provide necessary office space for the CTA and his project team;
e.  Ensure that the local experts have been briefed and are backstopped by the CTA and the DCTA;
f.  Participate actively in the organization and - where appropriate - conduct of the Seminar(s),
workshops and conferences that may be arranged;
g.  Supervise, in close collaboration with the CTA, the DCTA, the Chairman of the NTTFC and the
World Bank, the quality content of the project outputs; and
h.  Participate in the tripartite reviews and the Steering Committee Meetings.
G.4 From the World Bank
52. The World Bank will:
a.  Provide prompt response to communications concerning the project and give advice as appropriate;
and
- 68 -



b.  Undertake regular supervision and participate in the tripartite reviews and the Steering Committee
Meetings.
H. TENTATIVE BUDGET
53. A tentative budget has been prepared to cover the implementation of the Trade Facilitation Action
Programme, over a period of 24 months. As shown in the attached table, this budget includes: (1) project
personnel (fees, duty travel, mission costs); (2) training; (3) equipment; and (4) miscellaneous. The budget
will be revised at the Mid-term Tripartite Review to reflect project execution and possible changing needs.
54. Considering that many of the project activities will be split over the project to give the various parties
concerned the necessary time to discuss and analyse proposals and/or to implerment consultants
recommendations, and taking into account the regular visits required by supervisior and monitoring
activities, approximately thirty-six (36) round-trips for the international consultants have been budgeted.
55. The budget covers the UNCTAD staff mission costs to direct workshops, Seminar(s) and conferences
and to attend tripartite meetings. Ten (10) round-trips for UNCTAD staff have been budgeted.
56. The budget covers the procurement of adequate hardware and software to carry out the UNCTADs
project activities, stationary and recurrent expenses (communications, operation anc. maintenance of
equipment, etc.). Two vehicles will be provided, one to be used by the CTA and one by the Human
Resource Development Expert and the other foreign consultants. The project equipment will be installed in
the CTA office for the use of the project team.
57. The budget covers also the reproduction of any supporting material necessary for running the
Seminar(s), workshops and conferences planned, as well as for the reproduction and shiprnent of the final
report of the project. It is estimated that between 225,000 and 500,000 pages will have to be reproduced
(for the between 1,250 and 2,500 Conference, Seminar and Workshop participants, with up to 500 pages
per participant).
I. RISKS
58. The timely development and implementation of the project will highly depend oii the cooperation
provided by the national counterparts (from the Chairman NTTFC, the NTTFC, as well as from the
various institutions concerned). Any delay in responding and reacting to UNCTADs, the experts and the
consultants proposals and recommendations will delay the project.
59. If any entity directly concerned by the trade and transport facilitation project does not provide
competent counterparts to take advantage of the experts? and consultants? experience the full benefits of
the project will not be achieved.
60. Any delay in the operationalization of the NTTFC Secretariat will automatically affect project
performance.
61. Some of the listed activities - adoption by Parliament of new laws are totally outside lhe control of the
project - however, if bills are not enacted a large part of the outputs of the project will not mnaterialize.
- 69 -



Additional
Annex 16
Memorandum of Understanding
RETWEEN MiNISTRY OF COMMERCE (MOC)AND PAKISTAN-S SHIPPERS
C'UNCIL (PSC) OF THE FEDERATION OF PAKISTAN CHAMBER OF
COMMERCE AND INDUSTRY (FPCCI) FOR SUPPORTING THE
SECRETARIAT OF NATIONAL TRADE AND TRANSPORT
FACELITATLON COM(MVITTeE (NTTFC)
Wheras the Ministsy of Cmmerce (MoC) of Government of Pnkiaran (GoP)
has boen given the mandate to undertake the tuk of tade facilitacion through
the Trade and Truupodt Facilitaion Ploject in the country.
And;
Whereas Go? has established a standing committee by thw name end ctyle os
Natie#Wl T'rade anid Tansport Faciliration Comnmitee (NrrPC) viifh
objectives. functions and corrpositiot described in Annex i to Ihis conitruLci
(Gazette Notification).
Whers the GoP hu reqwatcd the IDA for a technical assistance credit. It ij
uestood and agreed that this assistance will be governed by the Development
Credit agemennt to be entered into by GoP and IDA for the purpose of the
Project, This Credit also cauies a. cost element for sWpporting the incremnrul
salary and opertional wsts of the Secretat of the standing Committee in
Karachi far the duration of the project. After tha thc Secretariat of NTTFC will
be fimnded by PSC of FPCCI.
Whcreas UNCTAD is sciccted by GoP/]DA to pmtvide technical axNistaww  ticr
the said 3 year dttration project snd UNCTAD will asign its senior staff amid
consultants to undertake che relevant trade fstilitation jobe in Pakistan.
Antid:
Wheremas it is desired by MoC and IDA hat private sector should panicipate
actively, whaeby the Pakistan Shippm  Council (PSC) of Fcderation of
Pakistan Chambers of Commerce & Industry (FPCC&I) is identified and
recogpized as the private sector organization which shall be associaed with the
projcwt because a f PSC' past perromace and conribution in the field of trade
Fbcilitatidn in Pakistn.
- 70 -



Nuiw licrcfbre. it ii ngrved betcwen MoC ud PSt. of FPCIJ that:
I    MitC hereby norminete l'SC to  aiaDblitth tin! stipport the Siv.rtmliint otl Nil 114)
tilh  Sec-rtariat) wikch will be located in tihe promises ol-the PSC ot IPCI  its
K;rachi and PSC of FPPCE accepts the nomination-
It ib. agreed that the Secmetafiai will function in support of the piojech objectives
inIJ will bc accountable to the Chairman of NT1fC -The  Secretaiat will
,evcLop and help implenient with the UNCTAD wechrtical assizranee the agretd
3 year projoet.
3. I'SC to arrange lor a suitable ofMixc space with power amid gas utilities in
Kal vach ito house the Secetmariat of N'J TFC.
4     PsC to recruit and engtge on contracl. at market rates. in coiistmltpt icn will,
MoC. an Executive Stcretary, two Asisitint Secretaries and a (Comnpilcr
t)pinitor an the prtifoslonal staff of the N'I TFC' Seceetasrii. all b4ehl lei I'Sit
1tW(WiWc(l olFfices i1 Keru:chil for thte tntirijoi. . 'tl'l: pmject.
S    PS'C of FPCCI to allocate coanter-parn furds Ibr the project as follow-s:
At   It. Icitid, eOmprisiJtg Secreuariau office snd rclated serviccs litnired to rwnt .4l rir
ml&riuliotihd and furnished offiix rooms. electricity. gas anid water cilurges.
jllitorill and cleaning scrvices mairirietnance of office, provision or tcat iLlil
co,Tlc  to  staff amid  guests, peon  servke:i and  telephone: switch  lamie
arrangerneimts.
hj     In ctsh. the amomitu to he paidi in actual by PSC to be limnited to payrnment of'
!puss saliaries, irLthisiIve of all bendfits. of following NTT1TC Secretariat atntl
mninibers in given years om incretasing basis.
* ect _Ynt  *YeM I Y1r                              Y.w'i uch
_                      T 1 __,V _  _     r,  '   .       _  .         _
Amsstl.Sacerary(Admn)    nil        20.%         45:        .__ lUl
A.3tlj.Snc rtary(SCd     f nfil    ______    45%                 00% 
Conmprer C9por  lorr__         nil  _20%        4%            100%/f
The coonmitmennt of PSC for cash disbursement of sabaies, during the life rl' the
I)rjijcct, is estittalt{l as PAs. 1,248,000;- that is cqul to US$ 24,960!- withk rate
of exchange as PRis 50 1 US$.
- 71 -



As such the abhe of the  alarla ko bz borme out oftbe fluntn  poovidod by Mk.t
under the IDA Crdib will be as under-
Projict        Yeri2                               4 4
En Seceby              100%     30% A      5%          nil
Assmt. S cary(Adm      10        0%       55%        anl
Asstt.Sacirotry(Cootd)   100%   20%       35%          nil
Cornupter OPOW10r      100%     20%        5S%         nil
6.   -ibe oher cost of nml ng the psoject, within NTrFC Secresriet, shall be mt
out of the projet wamcunt duIng the 3 year period.
7.   The tota amount to be disbused by IDA will be is undur.:
2Proect yer      Toait ettiount nUSi
__.._..             57624
_1016
3               46483
.  Taota             i55123
.1.   l bh; amounts shown above to be disbued as per procedurr prescribd antd
agreed between MoC gnd IDA and the nilr of audit amd accounts of GoP and
IDA.
9.   PA'C will provide MoC and IDA a copy of audited acwunts of FPPCI within 6
months of closure of each fiscal ycar.
IUo.  After sucucsufi1 conmplrion of threi yeadTlrada Facilitation ptro] c, PSC' sallt
take oevr financial ruuponsibility for runninj the Secretariat of N1TPC.  ms pr
raquirenints, lurmslons wiid buiet to be aumemed and chalkcd oot by Floani I  -
P)irectes orPSC and Ministry oCComnept towards thc endl tf the pr.juci.
I 1.  In Order to provide crintinitly in the work Df NT1TC Setretariat. PSC shnlf ailso
he etntitled to the continued use of al thde equipment and nmnaged by N1'TFC
Secretariat at the end of the projec and  use, the sam   fou promoting 11w
objecrives ofthe progrnt.
1. llris MOLU is sublect in all respects to the provisions of tbc above mnentioned
Development Credit agreementt
- 72 -



This contrct contain tweive Leclions spread an 3 pnaw to which parties lo tho
contract set their hands on this 27th day of August, 1999 St isl=nbud/KtIachi.
AbduIAshid Jan MebamadAnMqa
Chuait                              Seuay m
Pakisun Shippe  Couwil (PSC>        PO tion >f PistnC mbe of
Comrmera Ikuduy.
Mofimmmad SuliLman
Additional Socretacy
I, i,ivyr of Comnurc
(avomniment of Pakisen
- 73 -



Additional
Annex 17
Accounting and Financial Arrangements
Systems review
Thie project will be implemented by the Ministry of Commerce (MOC), the Federation of Pakistan
Chambers of Commerce & Industry! Pakistan Shippers Council (FPCCI /PSC) and the NTTFC
Secretariat, based at the FPCCI/PSC.
In accordance with the requirements of OP/BP 10.02 the financial systems and internal control of the
borrower's system have been reviewed. Taking into account the simple nature and time duration of the
project, these have been found satisfactory to the extent required for this project.
MOC:
Personnel
The Secretary, MOC will be overall in charge of the Project. A Project Director (PD), and Project
Accountant (PA), have been designated for the Project at the MOC. The PD has an M.A in Economics and
aprrox. 23 years of experience mainly in the Planning Division of the GOP, but with no previous Project
Management experience. He has been heading the ITO wing of the MOC since September 1998. However,
he will be supported by a Dy. Chief and Asstt. Chief (WTO), a Research Officer and the PA.(All personnel
range from Grades 17 to 20). The PA will be assisted by a part time assistant. In addition, the PD has
confirmed that overall the Ministry has sufficient personnel with several years of experience in various
government department, to support the designated staff in case of need. The PA has qualified the
Subordinate Account, Service Examination and has 10 years of experience. He currently reports to the
Accounts Officer, MOC. MOC has agreed that work would be facilitated by provision of computer training
for the accounts staff and will arrange for this to be carried out within the Ministry.
Accounting basis and principles
The MOC accounts, as for all government accounts, are on cash basis. Accounting principles are
defined in the General Financial Regulations and the Account Code issued by the Auditor General's office.
The Ministry is following the Chart of Classification of Receipts and Disbursements which is part of the
Accounts Code. The Account code and General Financial Rules contain a complete accounting system for
various departments and the records to be maintained and these are available with the staff of the Ministry.
Normally, the MOC's payments are pre- audited by the AGPR. This will not be done in case of the
Project, where the payment authorisation will rest with the Secretary. A Chart of Accounts will be
maintained based on the main budget lines of the UJNCTAD contract and the expected NTTFC Secretariat
expenditure. The minimum budget heads will be per agreed Report Format.. The MOC will require the
NTTFC Secretariat expenditure documents to be certified by the NTTFC Secretariat Executive Secretary
and the PSC Chairman. All supporting documents will be required in original by the MOC, monthly, for
reimbursement. A separate set of books will be maintained for the project, consisting of a Bank Book,
ledger, Budget/ Expenditure Control Register/ and a memorandum Fixed Asset Register (to record assets
- 74 -



purchased both by UNCTAD and PSC).
Audit:
For the Ministry as a whole, Internal audit is carried out by a designated Accounts Officer within the
Ministry. An ainual audit is required to be carried out by the Auditor General's(AG) office.. For the
project, an annual audit will be carried out by the Auditor General's office. Audited Project Accounts as
per the Bank's format will be provided within six months of the close of the financial year and the bank's
guidelines on financial management and auditing will be complied with. To ensure timely compliance, the
Project financial statements will be prepared and ready for audit within 90 days of the financial year end.
Periodic financial statements will be provided by UNCTAD to MOC. In addition UNCTAD will
maintain original documentation, books and record related to project expenditures at its Karachi Office,
unitl such time that the Auditor General's office has completed its audit. UNCTAD Accounts will also be
audited by UN auditors in accordance with the UN System.
Arrangements By the Government for Project Accounting:
And related Internal control:
The arrangements for the Project Accounts are as follows:
Expenditure will be authorized by the Secretary and in his absence, by the PD. There will be a panel
of three cheques signatories any two of whom may sign jointly. The cheque signatories wil be: the PD,
Deputy chief (MOC) and Assistant Chief (MOC).
There will be a of division of duties between the Accounts staff towards maintaining intemal control
and ensuring continuity of work, incase of the absence of one of them.
Vouchers will be prepared by the Accounts Assistant, checked by the PA and approved by the Secretary
(through the PD). Cheques will be prepared by the PA and in his absence by the Assistant. Posting to the
Cash Book will be done by the Assistant and checked daily by the PA. The Cash Book wi ll be reviewed and
signed every month by the PD. The ledger and Budget Control Register will be maintained by the PA.
SOEs will be prepared by the PA and signed by the persons signing the Withdrawal Application.
The signatories will be any two jointly, of the following: Secretary, PD and Dy. Chief (MOC).
The Bank reconciliation will be prepared by the PA and approved by the PD. Naticonal Bank of
Pakistan (NBP) will be requested to provide the statement by the 7th of the following month to ensure
reconciliation by the 10th.
Project Management Reports will be prepared by the PA and signed by tlle PD. Report 1-A will be
prepared in both currencies- Rupees and US Dollars.
Original payment vouchers will be received from the NTTFC Secretariat with supporting
documentation, by the 10th of the month following the expenditure. These will be processed by MOC
within ten days.
A fonnat for withdrawal applications will be agreed with UNCTAD. As UNCTAI) will be
receiving direct payments, UNCTAD will provide the MOC (with a copy to the Bank) quaLrterly statements
of expenditure for preparation of Project Accounts, within one month after the close of the quarter. These
- 75 -



statements will provide cumulative expenditure up till the reporting period and projected expenses for the
next six months.
The detailed information to be provided in these statements (Payments by the Bank, Interest Earned,
Expenditure categories) has been agreed through correspondence with UNCTAD.
The Project Financial statements will be prepared and sent to the Auditor General's office within 90
days of the financial year end.
Extent of computerization
Within the Ministry all records are maintained manually, but at the AGPR's office the Budget vs.
Actual Expenditure is computerized and shared with the Ministry. The payroll is computerized centrally at
the AGPR.
The ITO Wing , where the PD is located has one computer which is used for a data base on Trade
Information, but it has been agreed that arrangements will be made to ensure that the Accounts staff will
have access to a computer, within the Ministry. The PA will be provided basic computer training in Excel/
Lotus and will be supported by a part time computer literate assistant.
Special Account
The Special Account will be with the MOC and operated by two signatories jointly from a panel of
three. (signatories given under Arrangements By the Government for Project Accounting). It is
envisaged that IDA will initially advance an arnount of upto US $ 12000. IDA will make subsequent
replenishments to the Special Account, on the basis of replenishment applications supported by SOEs.
MOC and PSC agreed to the following arrangements for flow of funds to finance NTTFC Secretariat
expenditures:
(a)    Staff Salaries: PSC will raise a demand for monthly salaries of the Secretariat staff one
month in advance of expenditure . MOC will make payment from the Special Account within one week of
receipt of this demand.
(b)    Other Expenditures: PSC will initially pay such expenditures from its own resources and
will subsequently seek reimbursement from MOC based on supporting documentation. MOC will
reimburse such amounts to PSC within one week of receipt of such reimbursement requests.
Arrangements at the FPCCIIPSC/ NTTFC Secretariat
Per the agreement between the MOC and PSC, a separate bank account will be opened for the
NTTFC secretariat operated jointly by two signatories-chairman PSC and the Executive Secretary of the
NTTFC. It is envisaged that the books of account and related records and financial statements will be
maintained/ prepared by the Assistant Executive Secretary of the NTTFC Secretariat initially under the
supervision of the UNCTAD Office Manager, who will be a qualified Accountant. A canditate has been
selected for the Assistant Executive Secretary's post who has some accounts experience.
A review of the present Financial Management systems of the FPCCI/PSC showed that (i)intemal
controls are weak as a whole and there is lack of clear delegation of work / segregation of duties.
Improvements need to be brought about particularly in the area of payments, fixed assets, bank
reconciliation, overall administrative controls and preparation of accounts and management reports at
- 76 -



regular intervals (monthly). A system of budgeting also needs to be introduced (ii) More qualified Accounts
and Administrative staff would be appropriate when the organization can afford it. In the meantime the
present staff could benefit from training. (iii) computerization needs to be completed and staff trained
properly to utilize the system iv) Satisfactory Accounting system and procedures have not been established
and documented in a fonnal manner.
It has therefore been agreed that the UNCTAD Office Manager will "ensure that the NTTFC
Secretariat will be able to maintain proper and correct accounting procedures after the end of the Project."
Once the designated staff are in place at the UTNCTAD Project Office and the NTT:FC Secretariat, a
review would need to be carried out to confinn that necessary controls for the Financial Management of the
Project have been introduced, covering the following areas: Maintenance of proper books of account and
related records including a satisfactory Chart of Accounts for the NTTFC, : Bank Book, Cash Book, Bank
Reconciliation, Personnel Records and Payroll, Fixed Asset Register and proper control over use of
facilities (Log books etc.) .
It has been agreed between MOC and UNCTAD, that the Office Manager will review the
Financial Management Systems established for the NTTFC Secretariat and provide his report at the time of
the first annual project performance review. GOP/PSC have confirmed that any corrective actions
indicated in this review will be implemented.
- 77 -



