Page  1
CONFORMED COPY 
 
CREDIT NUMBER 3500 PAK 
 
Development Credit Agreement 
 
(Trade and Transport Facilitation Project) 
 
between 
 
ISLAMIC REPUBLIC OF PAKISTAN 
 
and 
 
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION 
 
Dated May 1 , 2001 
 
Page  2
CREDIT NUMBER 3500 PAK 
DEVELOPMENT CREDIT AGREEMENT 
AGREEMENT, dated May 1, 2001, between ISLAMIC REPUBLIC OF 
PAKISTAN, acting by its President (the Borrower) and INTERNATIONAL 
DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION (the Association). 
 
WHEREAS the Borrower, having satisfied itself as to the feasibility and priority 
of the Project described in Schedule 2 to this Agreement, has requested the Association to 
assist in the financing of the Project; and 
 
WHEREAS the Association has agreed, on the basis, inter alia, of the foregoing, 
to extend the Credit to the Borrower upon the terms and conditions set forth in this 
Agreement; 
 
NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows: 
 
ARTICLE I 
 
General Conditions; Definitions 
 
Section 1.01. The “General Conditions Applicable to Development Credit 
Agreements” of the Association, dated January 1, 1985, (as amended through  
December 2, 1997) (the General Conditions) constitute an integral part of this 
Agreement. 
 
Section 1.02. Unless the context otherwise requires, the several terms defined in 
the General Conditions and in the Preamble to this Agreement have the respective 
meanings therein set forth and the following additional terms have the following 
meanings: 
 
(a) 
“Eligible Categories” means categories (1) and (2) set forth in the table in 
Part A.1 of Schedule 1 to this Agreement; 
 
(b) 
“Eligible Expenditures” means the expenditures for goods and services 
referred to in Section 2.02 of this Agreement;  
 
(c) 
“MOU” means the Memorandum of Understanding between the Ministry 
of Commerce of the Borrower and Pakistan Shippers Council dated August 27, 1999 and 
defining the responsibilities for managing the NTTFC Secretariat for the implementation 
of the Project; 
 
(d) 
“NTTFC” means the National Trade and Transport Facilitation Committee 
established by the Borrower by Notification dated July 14, 1998;   
Page  3
-
2
-
2
(e) 
“Project Management Report” means each report prepared in accordance 
with Section 4.02 of his Agreement; and 
 
(f)  
“Special Account” means the account referred to in Part B of Schedule 1 to 
this Agreement. 
 
ARTICLE II 
 
The Credit 
 
Section 2.01. The Association agrees to lend to the Borrower, on the terms and 
conditions set forth or referred to in the Development Credit Agreement, an amount in 
various currencies equivalent to two million three hundred thousand Special Drawing 
Rights (SDR 2,300,000). 
 
Section 2.02. The amount of the Credit may be withdrawn from the Credit 
Account in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 1 to this Agreement for 
expenditures made (or, if the Association shall so agree, to be made) in respect of the 
reasonable cost of goods and services required for the Project described in Schedule 2 to 
this Agreement and to be financed out of the proceeds of the Credit. 
 
Section 2.03. The Closing Date shall be  October 31, 2004 or such later date as 
the Association shall establish. The Association shall promptly notify the Borrower of 
such later date. 
 
Section 2.04. (a) The Borrower shall pay to the Association a commitment charge 
on the principal amount of the Credit not withdrawn from time to time at a rate to be set 
by the Association as of June 30 of each year, but not to exceed the rate of one-half of 
one percent (1/2 of 1%) per annum. 
 
(b) 
The commitment charge shall accrue: (i) from the date sixty days after the 
date of this Agreement (the accrual date) to the respective dates on which amounts shall 
be withdrawn by the Borrower from the Credit Account or canceled; and (ii) at the rate 
set as of the June 30 immediately preceding the accrual date and at such other rates as 
may be set from time to time thereafter pursuant to paragraph (a) above. The rate set as of 
June 30 in each year shall be applied from the next date in that year specified in Section 
2.06 of this Agreement. 
 
(c) 
The commitment charge shall be paid: (i) at such places as the Association 
shall reasonably request; (ii) without restrictions of any kind imposed by, or in the 
territory of, the Borrower; and (iii) in the currency specified in this Agreement for the 
purposes of Section 4.02 of the General Conditions or in such other eligible currency or 
currencies as may from time to time be designated or selected pursuant to the provisions 
of that Section. 
Page  4
-
3
-
3
Section 2.05. The Borrower shall pay to the Association a service charge at the 
rate of three-fourths of one percent (3/4 of 1%) per annum on the principal amount of the 
Credit withdrawn and outstanding from time to time. 
 
Section 2.06. Commitment charges and service charges shall be payable 
semiannually on May 1 and November 1 in each year. 
 
Section 2.07. (a) Subject to paragraphs (b), (c) and (d) below, the Borrower shall 
repay the principal amount of the Credit in semiannual installments payable on each 
March 15 and September 15, commencing September 15, 2011 and ending 
 
March 15, 2036. Each installment to and including the installment payable on March 15, 
2021 shall be one and one-fourth percent (1-1/4%) of such principal amount, and each 
installment thereafter shall be two and one-half percent (2-1/2%) of such principal 
amount. 
 
(b) 
Whenever: (i) the Bo
rrower’s per capita gross national product (GNP), as 
determined by the Association, shall have exceeded for three consecutive years the level 
established annually by the Association for determining eligibility to access the 
Association’s resources; and (ii) the Bank shall consider the Borrower creditworthy for 
Bank lending, the Association may, subsequent to the review and approval thereof by the 
Executive Directors of the Association and after due consideration by them of the 
development of the Borrower’s economy, modify the repayment of installments under 
paragraph (a) above by: 
 
(A) 
requiring the Borrower to repay twice the amount of each such 
installment not yet due until the principal amount of the Credit shall 
have been repaid; and 
 
(B) 
requiring the Borrower to commence repayment of the principal 
amount of the Credit as of the first semiannual payment date referred 
to in paragraph (a) above falling six months or more after the date on 
which the Association notifies the Borrower that the events set out in 
this paragraph (b) have occurred, provided, however, that there shall 
be a grace period of a minimum of five years on such repayment of 
principal. 
 
(c) 
If so requested by the Borrower, the Association may revise the 
modification referred to in paragraph (b) above to include, in lieu of some or all of the 
increase in the amounts of such installments, the payment of interest at an annual rate 
agreed with the Association on the principal amount of the Credit withdrawn and 
outstanding from time to time, provided that, in the judgment of the Association, such 
revision shall not change the grant element obtained under the abovementioned 
repayment modification. 
 
Page  5
-
4
-
4
(d) 
If, at any time after a modification of terms pursuant to paragraph (b) 
above, the Associat
ion determines that the Borrower’s economic condition has 
deteriorated significantly, the Association may, if so requested by the Borrower, further 
modify the terms of repayment to conform to the schedule of installments as provided in 
paragraph (a) above. 
 
Section 2.08. The currency of the United States of America is hereby specified 
for the purposes of Section 4.02 of the General Conditions. 
 
ARTICLE III 
 
Execution of the Project
 
Section 3.01. The Borrower declares its commitment to the objective of the 
Project as set forth in Schedule 2 to this Agreement, and, to this end, shall carry out the 
Project with due diligence and efficiency in accordance with the MOU and in conformity 
with appropriate administrative, financial, trade and transportation practices, and shall 
provide, promptly as needed, the funds, facilities, services and other resources required 
for the Project. 
 
Section 3.02. Except as the Association shall otherwise agree, procurement of the 
consultants’ services required for the Project and to be financed out of the proceeds of the 
Credit shall be governed by the provisions of Schedule 3 to this Agreement. 
 
Section 3.03. In implementing the Project, the Borrower shall: 
 
(a) 
maintain policies and procedures adequate to enable it to monitor and 
evaluate on an ongoing basis, in accordance with the indicators satisfactory to the 
Association, the carrying out of the Project and the achievement of the objectives thereof; 
 
(b) 
prepare, under terms of reference satisfactory to the Association and furnish 
to the Association on December 31 in each year, commencing December 31, 2001, a report 
integrating the results of the monitoring and evaluation activities performed pursuant to 
paragraph (a) of this Section, on the progress achieved in the carrying out of the Project 
including, inter alia, the actions taken on the recommendations made by NTTFC 
concerning modifications/improvements to specific trade and transport facilitation 
procedures, practices, documentation rules and regulations during the twelve-month period 
preceding the date of said report; 
 
(c) 
in each of the reports referred to in paragraph (b) above, also recommend the 
measures to ensure the efficient completion of the Project and the achievement of the 
objectives thereof, including, for the succeeding calendar year: (i) an annual work plan; and 
(ii) a budget proposal for the carrying out of the Project; and 
 
Page  6
-
5
-
5
(d) 
review with the Association by February 28 of each year during the 
execution of the Project, or such later date as the Association shall agree, the report referred 
to in subparagraph (b) of this paragraph, and, thereafter, take all measures required to 
ensure the efficient completion of the Project and the achievement of the objectives thereof, 
based on the conclusions and recommend
ations of the said report and the Association’s 
views on the matter. 
 
Section 3.04. For the purposes of Section 9.06 of the General Conditions and 
without limitation thereto, the Borrower shall: 
 
(a) 
prepare, on the basis of guidelines acceptable to the Association, and 
furnish to the Association not later than six (6) months prior to the Closing Date or such 
later date as may be agreed for this purpose between the Borrower and the Association, a 
plan designed to ensure the continued achievement of the Project’s objectives; and 
 
(b) 
afford the Association a reasonable opportunity to exchange views with 
the Borrower on said plan. 
 
ARTICLE IV 
 
Financial Covenants
 
Section 4.01. (a) The Borrower shall maintain a financial management system, 
including records and accounts, and prepare financial statements in a format acceptable to 
the Association, adequate to reflect in accordance with sound financial management and 
accounting practices the operations, resources and expenditures related to the Project of 
the departments or agencies of the Borrower responsible for carrying out the Project or 
any part thereof. 
 
(b) The 
Borrower 
shall: 
 
(i) 
have the records, accounts and financial statements referred to in 
paragraph (a) of this Section including those for the Special 
Account for each fiscal year audited, in accordance with 
appropriate auditing principles consistently applied, by 
independent auditors acceptable to the Association; 
 
Page  7
-
6
-
6
(ii) 
furnish to the Association, as soon as available, but in any case not 
later than six months after the end of each such year, (A) certified 
copies of the financial statements referred to in paragraph (a) of 
this Section for such fiscal year as so audited, and (B) an opinion 
on such financial statements, records and accounts and a report of 
such audit by said auditors, of such scope and in such detail as the 
Association shall have reasonably requested; and 
 
(iii) 
furnish to the Association such other information concerning said 
records, accounts and financial statements and the audit thereof, 
and concerning said auditors, as the Association may from time to 
time reasonably request. 
 
(c) 
For all expenditures with respect to which withdrawals from the Credit 
Account were made on the basis of Project Management Reports or statements of 
expenditure, the Borrower shall: 
 
(i) 
maintain or cause to be maintained, in accordance with paragraph 
(a) of this Section, records and separate accounts reflecting such 
expenditures; 
 
(ii) 
retain or cause to be retained, until at least one year after the 
Association has received the audit report for the fiscal year in 
which the last withdrawal from the Credit Account was made, all 
records (contracts, orders, invoices, bills, receipts and other 
documents) evidencing such expenditures; 
 
(iii) enable 
t
he Association’s representatives to examine such records; 
and 
 
(iv) 
ensure that such records and accounts are included in the annual 
audit referred to in paragraph (b) of this Section and that the report 
of such audit contains a separate opinion by said auditors as to 
whether the Project Management Reports or statements of 
expenditure submitted during such fiscal year, together with the 
procedures and internal controls involved in their preparation, can 
be relied upon to support the related withdrawals. 
 
Section 4.02. (a) Without limitation upon the provisions of Section 4.01 of this 
Agreement, the Borrower shall carry out a time-bound action plan acceptable to the 
Association for the strengthening of its financial management for the Project in order to 
enable the Borrower, not later than  June 30, 2002, or such later date as the Association 
shall agree, to prepare quarterly Project Management Reports, acceptable to the 
Association, each of which: 
 
Page  8
-
7
-
7
(i) 
(A) sets forth actual sources and applications of funds for the 
Project, both cumulatively and for the period covered by said 
report, and projected sources and applications of funds for the 
Project for the six-month period following the period covered by 
said report, and (B) shows separately expenditures financed out of 
the proceeds of the Credit during the period covered by said report 
and expenditures proposed to be financed out of the proceeds of 
the Credit during the six-month period following the period 
covered by said report; 
 
(ii) 
(A) describes physical progress in Project implementation, both 
cumulatively and for the period covered by said report, and  
(B) explains variances between the actual and previously forecast 
implementation targets; and  
 
(iii) 
sets forth the status of procurement under the Project and 
expenditures under contracts financed out of the proceeds of the 
Credit as at the end of the period covered by said report. 
 
(b) 
Upon the completion of the action plan referred to in paragraph (a) of this 
Section, the Borrower shall prepare, in accordance with guidelines acceptable to the 
Association, and furnish to the Association not later than 45 days after the end of each 
calendar quarter a Project Management Report for such period. 
 
ARTICLE V 
 
Termination 
 
Section 5.01. The date ninety (90) days after the date of this Agreement is hereby 
specified for the purposes of Section 12.04 of the General Conditions. 
 
ARTICLE VI 
 
Representative of the Borrower; Addresses
 
Section 6.01. The Secretary to the Government of Pakistan, Economic Affairs 
Division, or any Additional Secretary, Joint Secretary, Deputy Secretary, or Section 
Officer in that Division of the Borrower is designated as representative of the Borrower 
for the purposes of Section 11.03 of the General Conditions. 
 
Section 6.02. The following addresses are specified for the purposes of Section 
11.01 of the General Conditions: 
 
For the Borrower: 
Page  9
-
8
-
8
The Secretary to the Government of Pakistan 
 
Economic Affairs Division 
 
Islamabad  
 
Pakistan 
 
Cable 
address: 
   Telex: 
 
ECONOMIC 
   ECDIV-05-635 
 
Islamabad  
 
 
For the Association: 
 
International Development Association 
 
1818 H Street, N.W. 
 
Washington, D.C. 20433 
 
United States of America 
 
Cable 
address: 
   Telex: 
 
INDEVAS 
   248423 
(MCI) 
or 
 
Washington, D.C. 
 
  
  64145 (MCI) 
 
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their duly 
authorized representatives, have caused this Agreement to be signed in the District of 
Columbia, United States of America, as of the day and year first above written. 
 
ISLAMIC REPUBLIC OF PAKISTAN 
 
By /s/ Tanwir Ali Agha 
Authorized Representative 
 
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT 
ASSOCIATION 
 
Page  10
-
9
-
9
By /s/ John Wall 
Country Director, Pakistan 
Page  11
-
10
-
10
SCHEDULE 1
 
Withdrawal of the Proceeds of the Credit 
 
A. General
1. 
The table below sets forth the Categories of items to be financed out of the 
proceeds of the Credit, the allocation of the amounts of the Credit to each Category and 
the percentage of expenditures for items so to be financed in each Category: 
 
Amount of the 
 
Credit Allocated 
% of 
 
(Expressed in 
Expenditures 
 Category
SDR Equivalent)
to be Financed
(1) 
Consultants’ services 
1,760,000  
100% 
 and 
training 
 
 
 
(2) Incremental 
administrative 
 
and operating costs: 
 
(a)  Staff 
115,000 
100% through 
 
June 30, 2002; 
 
80%
through 
 
June 30, 2003; 
 
and 55% thereafter 
 
(b)  Other 
25,000 
100% 
 
(3) Unallocated 
400,000 
 
___________
TOTAL 2,300,000 
 
==========  
 
2. 
For the purposes of this Schedule the term “incremental administrative and 
operating costs” means salaries, and other emoluments of additional staff of NTTFC 
appointed to posts created and recruited in accordance with a staffing plan acceptable to 
the Association for purposes of the Project, and other agreed costs including travel within 
Pakistan and office supplies. 
 
3. 
Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1 above, no withdrawals shall be 
made in respect of payments made for expenditures prior to the date of this Agreement. 
 
Page  12
-
11
-
11
4. 
The Association may require withdrawals from the Credit Account to be made on 
the basis of statements of expenditure for expenditures for services of individual 
consultants costing less than $5,000 equivalent per contract and incremental 
administrative and operating costs, all under such terms and conditions as the Association 
shall specify by notice to the Borrower. 
 
B. Special 
Account
1. 
The Borrower shall open and maintain in dollars a special deposit account in the 
National Bank of Pakistan, on terms and conditions satisfactory to the Association, 
including appropriate protection against set-off, seizure and attachment. 
 
2. 
After the Association has received evidence satisfactory to it that the Special 
Account has been opened, withdrawals from the Credit Account of amounts to be 
deposited into the Special Account shall be made as follows: 
 
(a) 
until the Association shall have received: (i) the first Project 
Management Report referred to in Section 4.02 (b) of this Agreement; and (ii) a request 
from the Borrower for withdrawal on the basis of Project Management Reports, 
withdrawals shall be made in accordance with the provisions of Annex A to this Schedule 
1; and 
 
(b) 
upon receipt by the Association of a Project Management Report 
pursuant to Section 4.02 (b) of this Agreement, accompanied by a request from the 
Borrower for withdrawal on the basis of Project Management Reports, all further 
withdrawals shall be made in accordance with the provisions of Annex B to this Schedule 
1. 
 
3. 
Payments out of the Special Account shall be made exclusively for Eligible 
Expenditures. For each payment made by the Borrower out of the Special Account, the 
Borrower shall, at such time as the Association shall reasonably request, furnish to the 
Association such documents and other evidence showing that such payment was made 
exclusively for Eligible Expenditures. 
 
4. 
Notwithstanding the provisions of Part B.2 of this Schedule, the Association shall 
not be required to make further deposits into the Special Account: 
 
(a) 
if the Association determines at any time that any Project Management 
Report does not adequately provide the information required pursuant to Section 4.02 of 
this Agreement; 
 
(b) 
if the Association determines at any time that all further withdrawals 
should be made by the Borrower directly from the Credit Account; or 
 
Page  13
-
12
-
12
(c) 
if the Borrower shall have failed to furnish to the Association within the 
period of time specified in Section 4.01 (b) (ii) of this Agreement, any of the audit reports 
required to be furnished to the Association pursuant to said Section in respect of: the 
audit of (A) the records and accounts for the Special Account; or (B) the records and 
accounts reflecting expenditures with respect to which withdrawals were made on the 
basis of Project Management Reports. 
 
5. 
The Association shall not be required to make further deposits into the Special 
Account in accordance with the provisions of Part B.2 of this Schedule if, at any time, the 
Association shall have notified the Borrower of its intention to suspend in whole or in 
part the right of the Borrower to make withdrawals from the Credit Account pursuant to 
Section 6.02 of the General Conditions. Upon such notification, the Association shall 
determine, in its sole discretion, whether further deposits into the Special Account may 
be made and what procedures should be followed for making such deposits, and shall 
notify the Borrower of its determination. 
 
6. 
(a) 
If the Association determines at any time that any payment out of the 
Special Account was made for an expenditure which is not an Eligible Expenditure, or 
was not justified by the evidence furnished to the Association, the Borrower shall, 
promptly upon notice from the Association, provide such additional evidence as the 
Association may request, or deposit into the Special Account (or, if the Association shall 
so request, refund to the Association) an amount equal to the amount of such payment. 
Unless the Association shall otherwise agree, no further deposit by the Association into 
the Special Account shall be made until the Borrower has provided such evidence or 
made such deposit or refund, as the case may be. 
 
(b) 
If the Association determines at any time that any amount outstanding in 
the Special Account will not be required to cover payments for Eligible Expenditures 
during the six-month period following such determination, the Borrower shall, promptly 
upon notice from the Association, refund to the Association such outstanding amount. 
 
(c) 
The Borrower may, upon notice to the Association, refund to the 
Association all or any portion of the funds on deposit in the Special Account. 
 
(d) 
Refunds to the Association made pursuant to sub-paragraph (a), (b) or (c) 
of this paragraph 6 shall be credited to the Credit Account for subsequent withdrawal or 
for cancellation in accordance with the provisions of the Development Credit Agreement. 
Page  14
-
13
-
13
Annex A 
to 
SCHEDULE 1
 
Operation of Special Account 
When Withdrawals Are Not Made 
On the Basis of Project Management Reports 
 
1. 
For the purposes of this Annex, 
the term “Authorized Allocation” means an 
amount equivalent to US$12,000 to be withdrawn from the Credit Account and deposited 
into the Special Account pursuant to paragraph 2 of this Annex; provided, however, that, 
unless the Association shall otherwise agree, the Authorized Allocation shall be limited 
to an amount equivalent to US$6,000 until the aggregate amount of withdrawals from the 
Credit Account, plus the total amount of all outstanding special commitments entered 
into by the Association pursuant to Section 5.02 of the General Conditions shall equal or 
exceed the equivalent of US$1,000,000. 
 
2. 
Withdrawals of the Authorized Allocation and subsequent withdrawals to 
replenish the Special Account shall be made as follows: 
 
(a) 
For withdrawals of the Authorized Allocation, the Borrower shall furnish 
to the Association a request or requests for deposit into the Special Account of an amount 
or amounts which in the aggregate do not exceed the Authorized Allocation.  On the basis 
of each such request, the Association shall, on behalf of the Borrower, withdraw from the 
Credit Account and deposit into the Special Account such amount as the Borrower shall 
have requested. 
 
(b) 
For replenishment of the Special Account, the Borrower shall furnish to 
the Association requests for deposit into the Special Account at such intervals as the 
Association shall specify. Prior to or at the time of each such request, the Borrower shall 
furnish to the Association the documents and other evidence required pursuant to Part B.3 
of Schedule 1 to this Agreement for the payment or payments in respect of which 
replenishment is requested. On the basis of each such request, the Association shall, on 
behalf of the Borrower, withdraw from the Credit Account and deposit into the Special 
Account such amount as the Borrower shall have requested and as shall have been shown 
by said documents and other evidence to have been paid out of the Special Account for 
Eligible Expenditures. Each such deposit into the Special Account shall be withdrawn by 
the Association from the Credit Account under one or more of the Eligible Categories. 
 
3. 
The Association shall not be required to make further deposits into the Special 
Account, once the total unwithdrawn amount of the Credit  minus the total amount of all 
outstanding special commitments entered into by the Association pursuant to Section 
5.02 of the General Conditions, shall equal the equivalent of twice the amount of the 
Authorized Allocation. Thereafter, withdrawal from the Credit Account of the remaining 
Page  15
-
14
-
14
unwithdrawn amount of the Credit shall follow such procedures as the Association shall 
specify by notice to the Borrower.  Such further withdrawals shall be made only after and 
to the extent that the Association shall have been satisfied that all such amounts 
remaining on deposit in the Special Account as of the date of such notice will be utilized 
in making payments for Eligible Expenditures. 
Page  16
-
15
-
15
Annex B 
to 
SCHEDULE 1 
 
Operation of Special Account 
When Withdrawals Are Made 
On the Basis of Project Management Reports
 
1. 
Except as the Association may otherwise specify by notice to the Borrower, all 
withdrawals from the Credit Account shall be deposited by the Association into the 
Special Account in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 1 to this Agreement. Each 
such deposit into the Special Account shall be withdrawn by the Association from the 
Credit Account under one or more of the Eligible Categories. 
 
2. 
Each application for withdrawal from the Credit Account for deposit into the 
Special Account shall be supported by a Project Management Report. 
 
3. 
Upon receipt of each application for withdrawal of an amount of the Credit, the 
Association shall, on behalf of the Borrower, withdraw from the Credit Account and 
deposit into the Special Account an amount equal to the lesser of: (a) the amount so 
requested; and (b) the amount which the Association has determined, based on the Project 
Management Report accompanying said application, is required to be deposited in order 
to finance Eligible Expenditures during the six-month period following the date of such 
report; provided, however, that the amount so deposited, when added to the amount 
indicated by said Project Management Report to be remaining in the Special Account, 
shall not exceed the equivalent of $20,000. 
 
Page  17
-
16
-
16
SCHEDULE 2 
 
Description of the Project 
 
The objective of the Project is to establish a public/private collaboration 
institutional framework to develop and support the modernization of Pakistan’s trade and 
transport facilitation practices and procedures, including information flows, 
documentation and related legislation. 
 
The Project consists of the following parts, subject to such modifications thereof 
as the Borrower and the Association may agree upon from time to time to achieve such 
objective: 
 
Part A
:
Establishment and operation of NTTFC. 
 
Part B
:
Provision of technical assistance for drafting modern trade and transport 
procedures, documents and legislation. 
 
Part C
:
Provision of training and workshops for NTTFC secretariat staff and others 
directly connected with the facilitation matters. 
 
*
*
*
*
*
*
The Project is expected to be completed by  April 30, 2004. 
Page  18
-
17
-
17
SCHEDULE 3
 
Consultants’ Services 
 
Employment of Consultants
Part A
:
General
Consultants’ services shall be procured in accordance with the provisions of the 
Introduction and Section IV of the “Guidelines: Selection and Employment of 
Consultants by World Bank Borrowers” published by the Bank in January 1997 and 
revised in September 1997 and January 1999 (the Consultant Guidelines) and the 
following provisions of Section II of this Schedule. 
 
Part B
:
Quality- and Cost-based Selection
Except as otherwise provided in Part C of this Section, consultants’ services shall 
be procured under contracts awarded in accordance with the provisions of Section II of 
the Consultant Guidelines, paragraph 3 of Appendix 1 thereto, Appendix 2 thereto, and 
the provisions of paragraphs 3.13 through 3.18 thereof applicable to quality- and cost-
based selection of consultants. 
 
Part C
:
Other Procedures for the Selection of Consultants
1. Individual 
Consultants
Services for tasks that meet the requirements set forth in paragraph 5.01 of the 
Consultant Guidelines shall be procured under contracts awarded to individual 
consultants in accordance with the provisions of paragraphs 5.1 through 5.3 of the 
Consultant Guidelines. 
 
2. 
Single Source Selection
Services for Parts B and C of the Project, may, with the Association’s prior 
agreement, be procured in accordance with the provisions of paragraphs 3.8 through 3.11 
of the Consultant Guidelines. 
 
Part D
:
Review by the Association of the Selection of Consultants
1. Selection 
Planning
Prior to the issuance to consultants of any requests for proposals, the proposed 
plan for the selection of consultants under the Project shall be furnished to the 
Association for its review and approval, in accordance with the provisions of paragraph 1 
of Appendix 1 to the Consultant Guidelines.  Selection of all consultants’ services shall 
Page  19
-
18
-
18
be undertaken in accordance with such selection plan as shall have been approved by the 
Association, and with the provisions of said paragraph 1. 
 
2. Prior 
Review
With respect to each contract for the employment of individual consultants 
estimated to cost the equivalent of $5,000 or more, the qualifications, experience, terms 
of reference and terms of employment of the consultants shall be furnished to the 
Association for its prior review and approval.  The contract shall be awarded only after 
the said approval shall have been given. 
 
3. Post 
Review
With respect to each contract not governed by paragraph 2 of this Part, the 
procedures set forth in paragraph 4 of Appendix 1 to the Consultant Guidelines shall 
apply.
 
