Documost of
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
RePOt No. 8975-CA
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
CENTRAL AFRICAN REPUBLIC
SOCIAL DIMENSIONS OF ADJUSTMENT AND DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
MAY 22, 1991
Country Operations Division
Occidental and Central Africa Department
Africa Region
This document bas a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of
their official dutks. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
Currency unit            CFA Franc (CFAF)
US$ 1                    CFAF 260
CFAF 1 million           US$3,846.15
SDR 1                    US$1.18
FISCAL YEAR
January 1 - December 31
MEASURES
Metric System
I m            1.09 yd.
1 m2           10.76 sq ft.
l km2          0.36 sq mi.



FOR OMCLFIL USE ONLY
CENTRAL AFRICAN REPUBLIC
SOCAL DIMENSIONS OF ADJUSTMENT AND DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS
AIDS              Acquired Immunodeficiency Syndrome
CAR               Central African Republic
CPR               Regional Pedagogical Center (Centre P4dagogique R4gional)
DPF               Department of the Promotion of Women of Ministry of
Health
DSGEE             Statistical Directorate of the Ministry of Economy, Plan
and International Cooperation
DTCD              United Nations Department of Technical Co-operation
for Development
DVA               Voluntary Departure Program from Civil Service (Ddpart
Volontaire Assist#)
ECAM              Enquete Centrafricaine Auprbs des Menages
FINAVI            National Survey of Villages (Fichier National des
Villages)
GDP               Gross Domestic Product
ILO               International Labour Organization
LCB               Local Competitive Bidding
MEPSIC            Ministry of the Economy, Plan, Statistics and
International Cooperation (referred to as the Planni'&g
Ministry)
MEPST             Ministry of Primary, Secondary and Technical Education
MSPAS             Ministry of Public Health and Social Affairs (Ministere
de la Sante Publique et des Affaires Sociales)
MUV               Manufactured Unit Value
NGO               Non-Governmental Organization
NPPW              National Policy for the Promotion of Women
QIC               Opportunities Industrialization Centers
ONC               Interministerial Task Force on Women (Organe National de
Concertation)
PMU               Project Management Unit
SAL               Structural Adjustment Loan
SDA               Social Dimensions of Adjustment
SDAD              Social Dimensions of Adjustment and Development Project
SDPU              Social Development Policy Unit of MEPIC
SDR               Special Drawing Funds
SOE               Statement of Expenditures
SSA               Sub-Saharan Africa
STD               Sexually Transmitted Diseases
UDEAC             The Central African States' Customs Union (Union
Douaniere des Etats de l'Afrique Centrale)
UNDP              United Nations Development Program
UNFPA             United Nations Population Fund (Fonds des Nations Unies
Pour les Activit4s en Matiere de Population)
UNICEF            United Nations Children's Fund
WID               Women in Development
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance
of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



CENTRAL AFRICAN REPUBLIC
SOCIAL DIMENSIONS OF ADJUSTMENT AND DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
TABLE OF CCNTENTS
Page
CREDIT AND PROJECT SUMMARY .......       ................................... vi
I.    INTRODUCTION .......................................  I
II.   THE EC'ONOMY, POVERTY. AND THE ADJUSTMENT PROCESS .............I1
A. Economic Background ...................
B. The First and Second Phases of Structural Adjustment (1986-90) .....2
C. The Current Phase of Structural Adjustment ......................... 3
D. Poverty and Social Development Issues         ...............         4
E. The Government's Programs for Human Resource Development and
Poverty Alleviation              ........8
III. THE PROJECT ............10
A. Project Objectives and Summary Description    ..................    10
B. Project Components .      ... ................... t ....     .       11
Strengthening of Social Policy and Planning
Support to the National Policy for the Promotion of Women
Accelerated Teacher Training Program
C. Project Management and Implementation ................**.........  21
D. Project Costs and Financing ..... .       ...............   .... . 24
E. Project Procurement and Disbursement              ....               27
F. Accounts, Audit, Reporting, and Mid-term Review ................... 31
IV.   BENEFITS AND RISKS.............. .*. ................            ****to 31
V.    AGREEMENTS AND RECOMMENDATION ............................ 32
This report is based on the findings of an appraisal mission that visited
the Central African Republic in July 1990. Mission members were Mmes.
Lynne Sherburne-Benz (Economist), Elisabeth Huybens (Economist), and
Roseleen Mba-Kalu (Operations Assistant), and Messrs. Michel Moisan and
Paul-Henry Wirrankoski (consultants). This report was drafted by the
mission members and revised by Mr. Antoine Simonpietri (Task Manager,
Senior Statistician), assisted by Mr. Robert Skillings (Senior Advisor),
Mr. Mark Woodward (Economist) and Ms. Djeneba Diarra (Consultant). The
Lead Advisor is Ms. Helena Ribe (Senior Economist, PRDRA). The managing
division chief and director are Mr. Robert Drysdale and Mr. Michael
Gillette respectively.



ANNEXES
1. Letter of Development Policy for a Third S.A.P.
2. Social Policy and Planring
3. Beneficiary Assessment
4. Women in Development
5. Accelerated Teacher Training Program
6. Supervision Plan
7. Cost Estimates
B. Estimated Government Cash Flow
9. Calendar of Steps
10. Documents in the Project File
MAP
IBRD 22986



- vi -
CENTRAL AFRICAN REPUBLIC
SOCIAL DIMENSIONS OF ADJUSTMENT AND DEVELOPMENT (SDAD)
CREDIT AND PROJECT SUMMARY
Borrower:              Central African Republic
Imglementing
Agenciest            Ministry of the Economy, Plan, Statistics and
International Cooperation (MEPSIC 1/) and sectoral
ministries: Ministry of Health and Social Affairs
(MSPAS), and Ministry of Primary, Secondary, and
Technical Education (MEPST)
Credit Amounts         SDR 5.6 million (US$6.5 million equivalent)
Terms:                 Standard IDA with 40 year maturity
Cofinancings          None
Proiect Description:  The proposed Project would, over a four-year period,
help the Government incorporate the social dimensions
of adjustment and development into its economic and
social policies. It aims ats
(a) Strengthening Social Policy and Planning by li)
developing a national information system based on
household and community surveys which would provide
the Government with baseline social data and allow
the identification of poor and vulnerable groups;
(ii) developing a study program to provide the
Government with an increased understanding of the
causes of poverty, and monitor the evolutior z5f
welfare and the effects of adjustment measures on
households throughout the adjustment process; (iii)
assisting the Government to translate this
information and the experience gained through the
implementation of the other Project components into
improved policies and actions that target poor and
vulnerable segments of the population.
(b) Suiportini the imnlementation of the Government's
National Policy for the Promotion of Women through:
(a) institutional strengthening of the division of
the Ministry of Health and Social Affairs dealing
with women's affairs; (b) preparation of a family
code to define women's rights, and (c) on the basis
of studies of adult literacy, school dropout rates
and vocational training for women, preparation of an
action plan to improve female education.
I/ The Ministry of Economy, Plan, Statistics and International
Development will be referred to as the Planning Ministry.



- vii -
(c) Implementing an accelerated teacher training_proMram
to remedy the shortage of primary school teachers
that resulted from the overall civil service reform
and the voluntary departure program (DVA), and to
improve the functioning of teacher retraining
efforts, including those being supported by the IDA-
financed Third Education Project.
Staff trainina would be included in each of these
components to develop the Government's capacity to
incorporate the social dimensions into adjustment and
development policies and programs.
Proiect Benefits:      The Project would materially strengthen the
Government's ability to design and carry out programs
and policies that address the social dimensions of
the structural adjustment process and alleviate
poverty. It would focus Government policies and
programs on the special needs of women, and so
enhance their opportunities to participate more fully
in economic development. Finally, it would help
overcome a crisis in primary education resulting from
an acute shortage of teachers.
Proiect Risks:         The main risks to achievement of the Project
objectives arise from the weak institutional capacity
of the Government and the multi-sectoral nature of
the Project. Measures to minimize these risks
include: (i) setting up an SDAD Secretariat within
the Planning Ministry with full-time staff to
coordinate Project execution and provide technical
guidance on issues of Project finance and
procurement; (ii) delegating the actual
implementation of Project tasks to line ministries
and departments and strengthening their
implementation capacity; (iii) including substantial
training activities in each component of the Project;
and (iv) using medium- and short-term technical
assistance to support thc Government in carrying out
Project components.



- vill -
EstiNated Proiect C0sts
(US$ thousand equivalent)
loc a     or.gn        totl
Social Poltoy and Ploonlal
National Intod Ptton nitOng   1,589.2    1,727.0    3207.1
Studies Prograo                388.C       88.6         .17.
Bnoliclary Asseossmet           201.6       44.?       240.1
Pollcy Doe1in                   164.6      202.3       360.8
2,288.0    2,856.4    4,647.6
Women In Devolopmsnt
Institutional Str.,gthonlng     162.9      270.2       428.1
Ftaily Code                     136.7        0.6       185.7
Prop. ot Action Program          03.0       54.7       117.7
851.0      324.0       676.4
Accelorated Teaeher Training       924.8       12.3       909.4
Project Managomnt                  167.7      198.1       320.8
Total l6e.tins Cost              3,702.0    2,888.0    6,680.6
• Physical Contingonces         78.1       202.9       201.1
• Price Contingoocl-s          894.7       W61.0       609.8
- Ta xs                        (S36.6)       0.0      (580.8)
Total Project Costs              3,720.0    8,302.6    7,120.6
Finacint Plan
local    foreign      total            X
IDA    3,116.0    3,3.0  0a,500.6            91.8X
Govenme_nt      11.0          2.6      020.6         8.71
Total    3,720.    8,392.6    7,120.0         I0.03
Schedule of Estimated IDA Disbursements
- - - - - - - - UIA Fiscal Year - - - - - - - - - -
FY92      FY93      FY94        FY95       FY96       FY97
- - - - - - - -  (USS million) - - - - - - - - - -
Annual              0.9        1.4        1.2        1.1         1.0        0.9
Cuimlative         0.9         2.3        3.5        4.6         5.6        6.5



X s:~~ I 
CENTRAL AFRICAN REPUBLIC
SOCIAL DIMENSIONS OF ADJUSTMENT AND DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
I.     INTRODUCTION
1.1    The Central African Republic (CAR) is carrying out its third
Structural Adjustment Program since experiencing an economic crisis in
the late 19709 and 1980s precipitated by deterioration of its external
terms of trade and poor economic management. The present adjustment
program is deepening reform measures initiated since 1986 and at the
same time is emphasizing growth with equity, mitigating the social
consequences of adjustment and alleviating poverty. This strategy is
expressed in the Government's Statement of Development Policy for a
Third Structural Adjustment Program, reproduced as Annex V to the Report
and Recommendation of the President on a Proposed Development Credit of
SDR 34.5 milli.on to the Central African Republic for a Third Structural
Adjustment Program (Report No. P-5339-CA, dated May 31, 1990). Excerpts
from the Government's statement, dealing with human resource development
and the social dimensions of adjustment, are reproduced as Annex 1 to
this report. The present Project, the Social Dimensions of Adjustment
and Development Project, would represent an important step in the
implementation of the third Structural Adjustment Program by focusing
the Government's ability to deal with poverty and social development
issues.
II.    THE ECONOMY, POVERTY, AND THE ADJUSTMENT PROCESS
A. Economic Back1cround
2.1    The CAR, a landlocked country, is large but sparsely populated
covering 623,000 km2 and supporting a population of less than 3 million
people. With an estimated per capita income of US$ 380 in 1988, the
country is among the poorest in the world. The economy is primarily
agricultural, and is self-sufficient in food production. The favorable
agricultural climate, which ranges from tropical in the dense southern
forest zone to sub-sahelian in the north, provides sufficient rain to
support a long agricultural cycle and the production of a diversified
range of food crops, cash crops, and livestock. In addition, the
country has rich resources of diamonds, gold, and timber which, together
with coffee and cotton, make up 90 per cent of export receipts, as well
as the potential (if world prices improve) to develop iron and uranium
deposits. Thus the CAR has a diversified export base that could permit
moderate and sustainable economic growth. Agriculture accounts for
approximately 80 percent of employment, 40 percent of GDP, and 43
percent of export revenue. Mining accounts for 3 percent of GDP,
manufacturing 9 percent, and services a large 40 percent reflecting,
inter alia, a large public sector. The major part of the country's
natural potential, however, has remained untapped because of high
transport costs, a relatively unskilled labor force, scanty
infrastructure, poor economic management, and adverse external economic
conditions.



2.2    After modest growth in the 19609 real average annual GDP growth
slowed from 2.3 percent between 1970 and 1975 to 0.8 percent between
1975 and 1980. In the early 1980w real GDP growth became negative,
falling 3.8 percent in 1980 and 2.3 percent in 1981. This economic
slow-down was largely precipitated by a Government policy of increased
(and inefficient) public control of virtually all sectors of the economy
during the 19709 and the proliferation of poorly-managed public
enterprises. Excessive expansion of the civil service also contributed
to growing Government deficits, while lack of adequate expenditure on
the maintenance of basic infrastructure resulted in the deterioration of
the country's transportation network.
2.3    Following the economic crisis at the end of the 19708 and early
1980s, stabilization measures were taken in the first half of the 1980s
to reestablish both internal and external financial equilibria. These
measures centered around streamlining public enterprises to reduce
Government financial losses, freezing public sector wages to help
control Government expenditure, and increasing producer prices for
export crops to encourage production and exports. These measures, along
with generally favorable external factors, allowed modest improvements
in the economic situation. Real GDP grew at approximately 2.1 percent a
year between 1981 and 1985, agricultural value added grew at 1.8 percent
a year, the current account deficit was held to approximately 15 percent
of CDP, and public finance balances improved. Nevertheless, this was
below population growth rates, resulting in negative per capita growth.
B. The First and Second Phases of Structural Adjustment (1986-90)
2.4    Despite this modest improvement in economic performance,
sustainable growth remained constrained in the 1980's by a number of
fundamental structural factors inherited from the 1970s: weak investment
planning, poor performance of revenue collection, an excessive wage bill
that left inadequate scope for the financing of essential recurrent non-
wage expenditures, a bloated and costly parapublic sector, an
inefficient civil service, little private sector participation in
economic activity, weak institutional support systems for agriculture,
and an education system poorly adapted to the economic and social needs
of the country. In addition, Government finances were excessively
dependent on extraordinary budgetary support and the continued need for
debt rescheduling. To address these issues the Government embarked on a
more comprehensive structural adjustment process, now in its third
phase.
2.5    The major objective of the first two Structural Adjustment
Programs between 1986 and 1989 was to set the basis for achieving
positive real growth, while containing the current account deficit
within a sustainable limit. The strategy was based on: (i) promoting
agriculture-led growth; (ii) stimulating private sector initiative
through creating an enabling environment; (iii) retrenching from public
sector involvement in directly productive activities; (iv) improving
public investment planning; and (v) reducing the budget deficit mainly
through improved resource mobilization and containment of the wage bill,
while enhancing the efficien-^y of the civil service. Achievements under
the first two programs can be judged broadly satisfactory, taking into
account the deep-seated nature of the structural constraints, a serious



decline in the international terms of trade, and the relatively weak
implementation capacity of the Government.  Prices and trade were
liberalized, the State's portfolio of public enterprises was reduced,
and financial management was improved. Reforms in agriculture were made
to increase incentives in the coffee sector through higher producer
prices and quality premia. In the cotton sector intermediation costs
were reduced and flexible producer prices were introduced to improve
productivity.
C. The Current Phase of Structural Adlustment
2.6    However, despite the implementation of phases one and two of the
structural adjustment process, the country has made only partial
progress towards its objectives of financial recovery, economic growth,
and social development. To strengthen the structural adjustment effort,
the CAR in 1990 adopted a third Structural Adjustment Program with the
main objective to deepen and pursue reform measures initiated since 1986
so as to realize sustained real per capita income growth while improving
the major macroeconomic balances, assuring the participation of all
segmf3nts of the population in the development process, strengthening the
Govermment's administrative capacity, developing human resources, and
reducing the social costs of adjustment. Based on the experience of the
first two adjustment programs, and considering the socio-economic,
institutional, and exchange-rate constraints that affect the development
of agriculture and other sectors of the CAR economy, the Government has
opted for a diversified adjustment and development strategy focusing on
the following major themess
-  continuation of efforts already made to redress the situation of
public finances;
-  a growth policy based on a gradual increase of public
investment;
- completion of the reform of the civil service and improving its
efficiency;
-  acceleration of the financial rehabilitation, restructuring, and
privatization of the parapublic sector;
-  new efforts to diversify the primary sector (agriculture,
livestock, forestry) through a series of institutional reforms,
coherent programs of research and development, a system of
broad, pragmatic incentives, and strengthening of environmental
protection, notably through the IDA-financed Natural Resource
Development Project;
-  balanced promotion of modern sector enterprises, small and
medium enterprises, and microentreprises in the secondary and
tertiary sectors;
-  implementation of measures agreed under SAL II in key sectors,
notably agriculture and transportation;



- 4 -
- development of a coherent bunan resource strategy in education
and health; and
- integration of the social dimensions of adjustment in the new
program, to which a contribution will be made by the presently-
proposed Social Dimensions of Adjustment and Development (SDAD)
Project.
At the same time, CAR plans to participate in a Regional SAL which aims
to harmonize the fiscal and transport policies of the various member
states and whose main points were approved by UDEAC Heads of State at
the Bangui Summit of December 1989.
D. Poverty and Social Development Issues
2.7    The pervasive nature of poverty within the Central African
Republic is derived from its economic and physical constraints.  The
large area of the country with a relatively small and dispersed
population makes infrastructure expensive to cteate and maintain. Not
only does this encompass the development of rural roads and
communications, but also the provision of water, energy, schools,
medical facilities, and medicines. Given this context, poverty in the
CAR is highly structural in nature with the majority of the poor
residing in rural areas without access to quality health, education, or
agricultural extension services and without monetary income andlor
access to consumer goods.
2.8    Incomes.  The very low annual 2er capita income of $380 in CAR
masks large differences between rursl and urban incomes, with the former
much lower than the latter. Although there is inadequate information to
allow an exact analysis of income distribution, proxies (which are only
available for Bangui) provide an indication of trends in living
standards in urban areas. Real wages in the modern sector were falling
throughout most of the 1980s, the combined result of high inflation
during the first half of the decade and a freeze on Government wages
after 1982. By 1987, the minimum guaranteed wage had lost 40 percent of
its real value relative to 1980. However, an analysis of trends in the
masse salariale (total wages paid in the modern sector) showed less
dramatic declines. After a 12 percent fall between 1980 and 1985, the
average wage rose 17 percent between 1985 and 1987 to a level actually 3
percent above its 1980 level. No household level information exists to
adequately address the issue of which specific population groups may
have suffered a fall in income and consumption.
2.9    The informal sector has been an important source of income for
households. According to an ILO study, an estimated one in seven
households in Bangui is dependent on some income from the informal
sector, although the percentage of total household income derived from
these activities is unknown. two-thirds of workers in this sector
(those active in small commerce) earned less than the minimum wage and
only one fifth of those working in the informal sector obtained
supplementary income equal to or greater than the minimum wage.
Information is even scarcer on income levels in rural areas, but from
observation it is evident that rural incomes remain considerably below
the national average as production techniques remain rudimentary, use of



- 5 -
inputs other than land and labor is virtually non-existent, and, as a
result, productivity is extremely low. Coffee and cotton farmers are
relatively better off than their subsistence-oriented counterparts,
although with the large fall in world prices in the late 1980s, the
Government ceased to support production in marginal cotton areas and in
1989 lowered the coffee producer price. While these measures
undoubtedly had a negative effect on producers, lack of data on the
actual percentage of household income derived from coffee and/or cotton
production limits an analysis of these price effects on household
welfare.
2.10   Employment.  Agriculture remains the source of employment for
the majority of the population, although the cash income derived from it
by farmers is quite small. In the modern non-agricultural sector,
public sector employment increased during the 1970$, while private
sector employment fell. The number of civil servants quadrupled between
1961 and 1983 (from 7,000 to 28,000), but private sector employment
(including parapublic employees) fell by more than a factor of two (fron
44,000 to 18,900). Overall, employment opportunities in the modern
sector have been declining throughout the 1980s due to economic decline
in general and the limit on hiring in the civil service imposed towards
the end of the decade as part of the structural adjustment process.
This has resulted in a severe and pressing problem of unemployment,
especially of educated youths who have been unable to find jobs upon
completion of their studies. Some youths from rural areas who complete
their secondary schooling are said to have returned to their villages
where they remain underemployed. Urban youths completing university or
secondary education, as well as school dropouts, join the ranks of the
unemployed, and this has resulted in high unemployment, increasing
social unrest, rising crime rates and protest demonstrations in Bangui.
The problem of low productivity and under/unemployment of the nation's
youth has become one of the Government's primary concerns because of the
foregone productivity of this valuable national asset, as well as its
implications for social unrest.
2.11   Provision of Social Services.  In general, the quality of social
services offered in the CAR has deteriorated over the past decade.
Relatively high inflation rates and budgetary constraints since 1980
have resulted in lower real expenditures. But while total public
recurrent expenditures were falling, by 26 percent between 1980 and
1988, health and education services enjoyed a relatively privileged
position: education expenditures fell by 16 percent in that period, and
health expenditures by only 8 percent. However, the efficiency of the
education and health services declined by even more than these figures
suggest, because the spending cuts were particularly severe for non-
personnel expenditures such as teaching materials, medical supplies,
drugs and equipment. Another distortion in both health and education
arises from the geographic allocation of expenditures between the
capital and other areas of the country, so that the majority of these
expenditures go to a small number of relatively privileged individuals
in urban areas.
2.12   Despite improvements in enrollments at all levels of education
since independence and an improvement in adult literacy (from 7 to 40
percent between 1960 and the mid-1980s), the quality of education
remains low. A lack of teaching materials, equipment, and basic



- 6 -
textbooks, along with high student-to-teacher and student-per-classroom
ratios, has resulted in high repeat and drop-out rates and low exam-pass
rates. Although 50 percent of the education budget is allocated to
primary schools, on a per capita basis expenditures on university
students are 30 times those spent on primary students. Due to a
combination of factors, including the declining quality of education and
the perception by parents that the value of education has declined
because graduates are no longer guaranteed lucrative sobs in the civil
service, enrollment rates in secondary education declined between 1985
and 1988, while those in primary schools dropped in 1987 before resuming
positive growth again in 1988.
2.13   While the current program in the education sector (paragraph
2.21) is addressing the longer-term structural and management problems,
new transitory problems have surfaced due to unexpected effects of the
civil service reform and its voluntary departure program which resulted
in a large loss of primary school teachers. Approximately 50 percent of
those who applied to the voluntary departure program were school
teachers and, in 1990 alone, 377 primary school teachers were lost under
the civil service reform. Taking into account also the net loss of
teachers from natural attrition, which could not be remedied because of
the freeze on civil service hiring since 1987, there is now estimated to
be a deficit of 700 primary school teachers out of a total of about 4500
teachers on duty in 1988. This deficit would grow to over 1000 by 1993
if special measures were not taken. In a country where average class
size is already over 60 students per teacher and where many schools have
over 100 students per teacher, this has serious implications for the
quality of education.
2.14   The health status of Central Africans remains below average for
Sub-Saharan Africa (SSA) despite improving over the past several
decades. The infant mortality rate, which was estimated at 190 per
thousand in 1960, fell to 132 in 1987, although remaining worse than
the SSA average of 115. Morbidity is most frequently caused by
infectious and parasitic diseases and there is a large incidence of
sexually transmitted diseases (STDs) and female sterility, a growing
problem of AIDS, and an endemic problem with goiter. The health system
is focused primarily on curative health, and there was a significant
rise in expenditures on curative medicine in the early to mid-1980s. On
the other hand, there was a dramatic decline in other areas of health
expenditure. Between 1984 and 1988 expenditures on preventive medicine
fell from 10 to just above 3 percent of the health budget, expenditures
on pharmaceuticals fell from 28 to 19 percent. Ninety percent of the
operating budget for the health sector is spent in Bangui where only 15
percent of the population lives. As a result, the five regional
hospitals, 12 prefectoral hospitals, and all the regional health centers
and posts are virtually without resources and the entire rural and
secondary center populations are without adequate access to operational
health services. Only an estimated 34 percent of the total population
lives within 10 km of a health center and in rural areas this percentage
drops to only 9 percent.
2.15   The health sector remains highly dependent upon foreign
resources which cover roughly half the Health Ministry's (MSPAS)
operating budget and provide almost three-quarters of the country's
pharmaceuticals and virtually all investment in the sector.



Unfortunately, this aid is uncoordinated and often redundant with little
concern for whether MSPAS will be able to sustain the costs of operating
and maintaining the new and expensive infrastructure, which has become a
larger part of the Ministry's budget in the later part of the 1980s.
2.16   Food Security, Consumption, and Nutrition.  CAR has maintained
its status as self-sufficient in food production due to a favorable
agricultural climate and still-unused agricultural land. As such, the
country generally requires no food aid except in years of severe
drought, such as the one experienced in 1983. Nevertheless, the high
dispersion of the population results in high collection and distribution
costs of food and other goods, with the problem further compounded by
poor road conditions, unorganized transport, and an under-developed
marketing network. As a result, trade in food crops is not as active as
it could be and prices of food tend to vary considerably throughout the
country, being particularly high in Bangui. While there is no famine in
CAR, the quality of diets (which are primarily based on cassava) is low
for much of the population and is generally deficit in proteins.
Although malnutrition is not severe in CAR as a whole, it remains a
problem nonetheless. However, it is unclear where the largest pockets
of malnutrition are located. Periodic studies show that malnutrition
appears most often for children between 12 and 23 months, a period that
coincides with the weaning period, and nutrition deficiencies show a
prevalence of acute rather than chronic protein-calorie deficiencies,
suggesting short-term or seasonal malnutrition. In general,
malnutrition appears to be caused not by a lack of food, but by improper
diets, improper weaning practices, and/or poor water supplies and
disease.
2.17   Status of Women.  Women play a significant role in the country's
economic production -- accounting for 57 percent of the active
agricultural population, being responsible for the country's food crop
production, and raising the next generation of Central Africans. Women
face a number of gender-specific constraints that have their roots in
the customs and attitudes of the society in which they live. As a
result their access to income and productive assets is less than that of
men, and so is their inter-sectoral mobility. Hence their ability to
respond to new economic opportunities is lower than men's. Women's
educational level is low, both in quantitative and qualitative terms.
Illiteracy rates are 81 percent for women as compared to 52 percent for
men; primary school enrollment rates are 50 percent for girls as
compared to 81 percent for boys. Women's health is vulnerable as a
consequence of repeated pregnancies and a heavy work burden, combined
with a lack of access to specific health services such as prenatal care
and family planning. Maternal mortality is estimated at 8 per 1000 live
births. The underdevelopment of women's human capital affects their
access to the modern labor market as well as to productive assets and
services, in particular financial intermediation. This is further
aggravated by gender bias in agricultural extension services. Women's
productivity is particularly constrained by the responsibility for such
time-consuming tasks as crop processing and food preparation as well as
fetching fuelwood and water. Their rights and privileges are not



codified in the country's legal system, and they are therefore
confronted with insufficient legal protection, particularly in such
matters as property rights and inheritance.
2.18   The CAR has recognized that it could benefit significantly in
terms of increased production and family welfare as well as reduced
demographic growth by focussing on the potential of its women. With
financial and technical assistance from UNFPA and UNICEF, it created in
1987 an inter-ministerial task force (Organe National de Concertation,
[ONC]), which has, with the technical support of the Direction de la
Promotion de la Femme (DPF) in the Ministry of Health and Social
Affairs, developed a National Policy for the Promotion of Women (NPPW)
that was published by the Government in 1989. The NPPW stresses,the
need to integrate women's concerns into all sectoral policies and
strategocs. It calls for a global program focusing on women in various
aspects of development (e.g., food security, education, health and
agriculture). The role of DPF would be strengthened as a research and
monitoring agency, while the implementation of the NPPW would largely be
the responsibility of line ministries, with the ONC ensuring
coordination among them. The NPPW provides an excellent starting point
for a process of improving the status of women and enhancing their role
in national development, but much remains to be done, including studies
of the present status of customs, attitudes, institutions, and practices
affecting women, and the preferences of women themselves, before action
programs can be launched that will effectively improve their status.
E. The Government's Programs for Human Resource Development and
Poverty Alleviation
2.19   Recognizing that the sustainability of the Structural Adjustment
Program could be endangered by inadequate attention to the social
dimensions of adjustment and development, the Government incorporated
into its 1990 Statement of Development Policy for a Third Structural
Adjustment Loan, a far-reaching set of objectives in the areas of human
resource development, employment creation, and support for the
participation of underprivileged groups. It also recorded its decision
to establish the capability of carrying out a series of important social
policy studies using as a basis an extensive system of household
surveys. The relevant portions of the Statement of Development Policy
are reproduced as Annex 1.
2.20   More specifically, the 1990 Statement foresees carrying out
measures designed to:
- Rehabilitate and strengthen basic education;
- Diversify the university structures to make them more
responsive to national skill needs;
- Remedy the existing shortage of teaching staff;
- Formulate a national health development plan using the input of
regional and local primary health care committees;



- 9 -
Strengthen the system of primary health care;
Apply a system of cost recovery to ensure participation of the
population in the cost of health care;
Streamline medical supply and distribution systems;
Reorganize and strengthen health stafft
Reallocate operating budgets in favor of preventive medicine
and rural zones;
Strengthen community development efforts and widen their scope;
Support NGOs;
Establish a microenterprise promotion fund;
Train and secure employment for underprivileged rural youth: and
Establish an action plan in favor of women and youth to increase
their contribution to economic growth.
2.21   This ambitious program is being addressed through six separate
projects that the Government is implementing or is preparing with
international assistance. These projects ares
- An Education Rehabilitation and Development Project, financed in
part with a US$ 18 million equivalent IDA credit of October,
1987. The objective of this Project is to improve the quality
and efficiency of primary education, rehabilitate and extend
university facilities, and improve sector management for more
efficient resource use;
- A health sector Project now under preparation for possible
financing by IDA. This project would help the Government
strengthen the management of the health sector (including
investment planning, program budgeting, and financial
management); train central, regional and local level staff;
rehabilitate and equip rural primary health care centers;
develop and test cost recovery programs; develop an essential
drugs program; and implement a priority action program in such
areas as mother and child health care, family planning, sexually
transmitted diseases, AIDS, and nutrition;
- An enterprise rehabilitation and development proiect to support
expansion of the private sector, including microenterprises, is
under preparation for IDA financing;
-  A project for agricultural training for youths who have left the
city and returned to their villages, already in operation, is
planned for expansion with possible financing from the African



- 10 -
Development Bank, and, in later stages, through an agricultural
institutions adjustment project under preparation for IDA
financing;
- A community development oroaram already in operation with
support from UNDP and DTCD is also planned for expansion vith
possible financing from the African Development Bank; and
finally,
- The Social Dimensions of Adiustment and Development (SDAD)
Proiect, appraised in this report, which includes an extensive
program of social studies supported by a system of household,
community, and beneficiary surveys; a program to enhance the
legal rights of women and improve their education; and a
accelerated primary teacher training scheme.
III.   THE PROJECT
A. Proiect Obiectives and Summary Description
?.1    This array of present and planned activities, while impressive,
lacks focus. To provide both focus and a means of establishing
priorities, two central ingredients are needed: a) an information base
about the nature and location of poverty that, among other things, would
permit its monitoring, and b) appropriate institutional and human
capacity to fully incorporate the social dimensions into macroeconomic
and sectoral policies, and to define and implement well targeted
programs and actions that would address poor and vulnerable groups
during the transition period and encourage the participation of these
groups in the process of economic growth. To remedy these shortcomings
is the principal purpose of the Social Dimensions of Adjustment and
Development Project. Thus, the Project would support the Government's
efforts to establish an institutional system for socio-economic policy
formulation and coordination. supported by an information system for
monitoring the social impact of economic policy through the collection
of data on households.
3.2    In addition, the Project would undertake two complementary
activities. Pirst, to facilitate the implementation of the existing
National Policy for the Promotion of Women, it would assist the
Government in organizing a comprehensive program to define women's legal
rights, improve their education, and integrate women's concerns
throughout public sector programs, thus improving the ability of women
to participate fully in economic development. And second, to correct a
problem introduced by the public sector reform included in the
Structural Adjustment Program, namely substantial departures of primary
school teachers, the Project would undertake an accelerated teacher
training program.



- 11 -
3.3    The Project, to be implemented over a four-year period at an
estimated total cost of US$7.1 million equivalent, has three main
componentst
(a) Social Policy and Plannins
(i) the establishment of baseline data on households, and
development of a national information base and monitoring
system on vulnerable groups;
(ii) a comprehensive program of socio-economic studies;
(iii) an assessment of beneficiary needs; and
(iv) strengthening of the existing Social Development Policy
Unit and establishment of a transitory SDAD Secretariat.
(b) Women in Development
(i) strengthening of institutional capacity to better
address the needs of women;
(ii) improvement of women's legal rights through the
preparation of a family code;
(iii) preparation of an action plan to enhance
women's participation in development, particularly women's
education;
(c) An Accelerated Teacher Trainini Program
(i) accelerated training of 250 new primary school teachers.
B. Proiect Components
Strengthening of Social Policy and Plannina
3.4    The Central African Government wants to take into account social
aspects, income distribution, and, more generally, the improvement of
household welfare in the design of its development policy. Such
integration of social concerns into development policy design needs to
be done at every step of the planification process. However, this will
be a lengthy process requiring, as a prior and necessary condition,
relevant, reliable, and up-to-date household and community data and
studies. In addition, well trained personnel in sufficient quantity,
efficient organization, appropriate methodology, adequate resources, and
appropriate coordination of the concerned Government ministries and
other agencies are needed to make integration effective. A key
objective of this Project is to make this integration a regular activity
of the Planning Ministry.
3.5    The newly approved organization of the Planning Ministty (see
Annex 2) includes the existing Social Development Policy Unit (SDPU),
which would logically be in charge of these activities of integration.
However, given that the current work program and resource allocation of



- 12 -
the SDPU are insufficient to operationalize such integration, a
transitory Secretariat for the Social Dimensions of Adjustment and
Development would be established directly under the Minister. This SDAD
Secretariat would be in charge of promoting the integration of the
social dimensions, of coordinating various activities in the field
(including the SDAD Project components), and of proposing a strategy to
integrate the social dimensions in the design and the process of
development policy. This strategy would include a mechanism to ensure
the absorption, by the line offices of the Ministry, of the functions of
the SDAD Secretariat (see para. 3.19).
3.6    The integration of the social dimensions would be promoted in
Central African policies and programs through the four principle
activities of this component of the Project. A national information
system based on household surveys would provide the Government with
baseline social data that would allow it to identify vulnerable groups
and understand the causes of poverty, and follow the evolution of the
welfare and responsiveness of households to adjustment measures
throughout the adjustment process. A program of related studies would
assure in-depth analysis of the data collected and allow further study
of special issues of poverty and its causes, including the effects of
macro-economic policy. In addition, the data collocted through
beneficiary assessment is expected to permit policy makers to understand
the socio-cultural problems and concerns of the population and thereby
integrate these concerns into the development process. Through the
information gathered under these surveys and studies and the experience
gained through the implementation of the other programs being carried
out to address poverty problems, the Government would be able to adopt
improved policies and actions that better target vulnerable segments of
the population. This transformation of information into policy and
program design would be done through the strengthening of the SDPU and
the establishment of the SDAD Secretariat, and through the activities of
the Interministerial SDAD Committee and of a statistical data users'
group.
3.7    National Information System.  One of the most serious
constraints on incorporating social considerations into economic
adjustment and development policies is the lack of information on the
social situation of the population and on vulnerable groups since the
last household survey was carried out in 1976. To overcome this
constraint, the Government would put in place a system to monitor
household living standards. This would include an in-depth assessment
of household welfare, including health, education, employment, income,
expenditures, assets, nutrition, agriculture enterprise, and
anthropometrics, by implementing comprehensive multitopic community and
household surveys. This system, called the Central African Household
Survey (ECAM) (see Annex 2), would be established by reinforcing the
statistical and analytical capacity of the Statistics and Economic
Studies Division (DSGEE) of the Planning Ministry, and by putting in
place an information system, based on household and community surveys,
that would collect, analyze, and relay to policy makers data on poverty,
household welfare, and the response of households to specific adjustment
measures. The system would be designed to reveal the respective roles
of men and women. The DSGEE would be responsible for the design and



- 13 -
execution of the surveys, which would be completely integrated into its
work program. ECAM would be implemented by a Central Unit. It would
include a methodology and analysis team, a data collection team, a data
processing team and a management team. ECAM would become the central
element of the system of monitoring household welfare, which would be
continued following Project completion.
3.8    The information system would be based on three types of survey
which have been developed by the SDA Unit in the Africa Region of the
World Bank: priority, community, and integrated surveys (see Annex 2).
The results of these surveys would help the Government to identify a
core group of social services that are essential to the poor, and
eventually to restructure public expenditures so that they address the
concerns of the poor more fully than at present. As a first step, the
information from the household and community surveys would be valuable
inputs into the current education and the upcoming health sector
projects, thus supporting the development of budgetary and accounting
processes to better address issues of poverty in these important
sectors. The SDAD Project would support these programs' design and
implementation in two wayss through qualitative beneficiary assessments
(paragraph 3.14) to determine which services are considered essential by
the beneficiaries themselves, and through monitoring (with both
beneficiary assessments and through the priority survey) of the actual
effects of the core programs on beneficiaries.
3.9    The Project would finance the renovation and equipping of the
central statistical unit and, beginning in 1992, of two statistical sub-
units outside the capital. It would also finance training for local
statistical personnel both in the CAR and through the regional
statistical training program organized by the SD& Unit in the Africa
Region of the World Bank. Also to be financed would be five months of
international short-term specialist services to assist in the
development of the statistical program, and locally recruited, non-
permanent personnel (e.g., enumerators, data processors, and survey
teams), as well as national statisticians for the length of the project.
The total baseline cost of the new national information system is
estimated at US$3,267,100 equivalent over four years.
3.10   The priority survey would become a routine exercise of the
DGSEE. Further discussion of the National Information System may be
found in Annex 2. The Government has agreed to include the recurrent
costs of the priority survey in its budget after the end of the Project,
and to finance 301 of these costs for the second priority survey. In
addition, the Government would be asked to agree to make the necessar,
changes in the DOSEE organization and work program in order to make ECAM
a regular activity of the DGSEE.
3.11   The National Socio-economic Studies Program.  The purpose of
this program would be to assure in-depth analysis of the data collected
and to pursue further studies of special issues of poverty and its
causes. The goal would be to provide the Government with an increased
understanding of the mechanisms through which macroeconomic decisions
affect households, and serve as a basis for the design of future actions
to alleviate poverty. While many of the studies undertaken by the SDAD



- 14 -
Project would be undertaken with data collected from the survey program.
the program would remain flexible, allowing the Government, through the
Interministerial Committee, to examine important poverty issues as they
arise in later years of the SDAD Project. This SDAD study program would
complement the study fund set up under the IDA financed Economic
Development Support Project and take into account other studies already
carried out, on-going, or planned, in particular those financed by other
donors. The SDAD study program would include:
- a study of poverty in CAR based on the already available results
of the 1988 census;
- a study of community infrastructure based on already collected
National Survey of Villages (FINAVI) data;
- an initial Poverty Profile of the population in the second year
(based on the priority survey);
- an in-depth Poverty Profile of the population in the third year
(based on the integrated survey);
- a series of analyses of the household survey data on the effects
of macroeconomic development policies on earnings and
employment, on health and willingness to pay for medical care,
on education, on food security and nutrition, and on women..
These analysis would be based on the Analysis Plan designed by
the SDA Unit in the Africa Region of the World Bank:
- an evaluation of the Government's program for voluntary
departures from the civil service (part of the
Structural Adjustment Program);
- a feasibility study for training centers for unemployed rural
youth; and
- a feasibility study for the establishment of a Social Fund to
finance micro-level community projects targeted at poor and
vulnerable segments of the population.
3.12   The SDAD Study Program would be managed by the Social
Development Policy Unit (SDPU) of the Planning Ministry (paragrapbs
3.21-3.23). Every year, the SDAD Interministerial Committee would agree
on the study program and the SDAD Secretariat would monitor the
implementation of the studies, the results of which would be presented
at the annual SDAD workshop.
3.13   During negotiations the Government agreed (a) to submit to IDA
for approval, by September 30 of each year, the annual program of socio-
economic studies to be carried out during the following calendar year,
including terms of reference and schedules, and (b) promptly Implement
the results and recommendations of these studies as they will have been
agreed upon with IDA. The baseline cost of the studies sub-component is
estimated at US$767,000 (equiva7ent).



- 15 -
3.14   Beneficiary Assessment.  The SDPU would organize and supervise
the carrying out of beneficiary assessments. These would consist of
systematic interviews with representative members of various population
groups in order to elicit their views on their present well-being and on
their unfulfilled needs. The assessments would be designed to develop
an operational understanding of the people's values and behavior and
would bring an awareness of the various cultures of the country into
both national planning and sectoral work, particularly in health,
education, and agriculture.  They would add a qualitative dimension to
the quantitative data that would be gathered through the household and
community surveys. Their aim would be an effective integration of the
peoples' perspective into the development process. They would cover a
broad range of issve^ Pncluding the role and education of women,
perceived needs of farmers, the usefulness of health and education
services, and, during a later phase, the special situation and needs of
the pygmies. These beneficiary assessments would provide the SDA effort
with an information base about services that are deemed essential by
potential beneficiaries. Beneficiary assessment would be conducted in
Bangui and in five regional areas. Under this sub-component, the
Project would finance equipment and staff to carry out the assessment.
The Project would finance the salaries of contract personnel (a
director. team leaders, interviewers, and a secretary), a vehicle and
its operating expenses, and office supplies, at a total estimated
baseline cost of US$246,100 (equivalent). Further elaboration of the
proposed beneficiary assessment may be found in Annex 3.
3.15   Transforming Information into Policy and Program Design and
Integration of the Social Dimensions would be done at two main levelst
first, within the Planning Ministry, which is responsible for policy
design, and second, at the interministerial level, between the different
agencies concerned through the already established SDAD Interministerial
Conmittee and the statistical data users' group.
3.16   The Planning Ministry's Social Development Policy Unit (SDPU)
should logically be in charge of the integration of the social
dimensions into policy and program design. Indeed, the SDPU is
finalizing a Bilan Diagnostic de la Situation Sociale'. Unfortunately,
however, its mandate, work program, and resource allocation are, at
present, too narrowly oriented towards the definition of a population
policy (for which it benefits from UNFPA support). thus it does not
currently have the capacity nor the appropriate position within the
Ministry to effectively promote, undertake, and coordinate the
integration of the social dimensions. Consequently an interim SDA
Secretariat, which would work closely with, strengthen, and focus the
SDPU, would assume these functions until they can be absorbed into the
line offices of the Ministry.
3.17   The SDAD Secretariat would be created under the Secretary of
State for Planning and would be composed of a Project Manager
(*Secrdtaire DSADO), an assistant with accounting skills, and a



- 16 -
secretary. The Secretariat, with support from the SDPU, would be
responsible for three main tasks 
-  promoting the integration of the social dimensions into the
planning process; and
- managing the SDAD Project (paragraphs 3.38-3.42);
- coordinating and reporting SDAD related activities in CAR.
3.18   The SDAD Secretariat would serve as the secretariat of the
Interministerial SDAD Committee, setting up the meetir.gs, preparing the
agenda, providing the committee with necessary documentation, and
following up on Committee decisions. It would also organize an annual
SDAD workshop, including all the agencies and donors involved in SDAD
activities, in particular the African Development Bank (which intends to
finance an SDAD Action Program). It would also prepare semi-annual
reports (paragraph 3.68).
3.19   In addition, the Secretariat would promote the integration of
SDAD concerns into the planning processes of the Planning Ministry
(paragraphs 3.4-3.6). This would include the preparation of a strategy
for such integration which could include proposals for the modification
of the organization, work program, and budget of the Planning Ministry
and other multisectoral structures in CAR. In addition, it would
include a proposal for the elimination of the SDAD Secretariat as its
functions, including management, are assumed by the regular services of
the Planning Ministry.  DurinR negotiations. the Government agreed to
(a) submit for IDA*s approval, no later than December 31, 1992, the
strategy of integration of SDAD into the work program of the Planning
Ministry, and (b) start to implement this strategy not later than
December 31, 1993.
3.20   The estimated costs of the SDAD Secretariat including the
financing of the Project Manager, the assistant, and the operational and
logistical support for the first two years of the Project are included
in the budget for Project management (paragraph 3.42). Durint
negotiations, the Government agreed to take appropriate measures to
ensure that the SDAD Secretariat is staffed on a full-time basis by a
Project Manager and an assistant whose terms of reference,
qualifications and experience would be acceptable to IDA.
3.21   The existing Social Development Policy Unit (SDPU) within the
Strategies and Synthesis Division of the Planning Ministry would:
- Manage the SDAD study program (paragraph 3.11).
- Produce a yearly "Social Situation' paper which would provide
policy makers with an overview of the evolution of the country's
social situation over the past year covering national, regional,
and target group evolution. During the first year of the
Project this vould entail a synthesis of what is currently known
on poverty issues and in later years would draw on household



- 17 -
survey data, new studies, and updated information from other
sources. The "Social Situationo would be presented to the SDAD
annual workshop.
- Hold annual seminars or workshops with various parties concerned
with social issues (including NGOs) to discuss those issues,
develop consensus and make recommendations.
- Strengthen the documentation center presevitly compiling
information on population issues by adding documentation and
studies concerning the social sectors. The unit would collect,
process, classify, and distribute documents related to economic
and social development in the CAR.
3.22   To implement this work program, a local economist and a local
sociologist would be recruited and would be responsible for the design
of the work plan for social studies, the elaboration of their terms of
reference, and the hiring of consultants (primarily local consultants)
to do the analyses. Additionally, the staff would be responsible for
writing the annual "Social Situation' synthesis paper. Six person-
months of short-term international consultants would be provided to
assist the SDPU with studies dealing with specialized subjects. If
foreign consultants are to carry out a study, they would work together
with local consultants andlor civil servants.
3.23   Under the policy and studies sub-components, the Project would
finance the following: an economist, a sociologist, and a secretary, all
engaged on contract to manage the study programs: equipment;
subscriptions and other materials for the existing documentation center;
and six person-months of short-term international consultants to aid in
the elaboration of the study program. The baseline cost of the
strengthening of the SDPU is estimated at US$366,800 (equivalent) over
four years.
3.24   In order to supervise the introduction of the social dimensions
of adjustment and development into Government programs and to exercise
an overall coordinating function among the various agencies concerned,
the Government, in 1990, established an Interministerial SDAD Committee
chaired by the Planning Minister, and including representatives from the
ministries (or equivalent) responsible for economy, health and social
affairs, education, youth, and rural development. Representatives of
other ministries may join the Committee as deemed appropriate. It meets
at least three times a year to discuss pressing social issues, assess
the prospects for implementing annual action plans including the study
program, review progress reports from the executing agencies and the
semi-annual report on Project implementation (paragraph 3.68), and
review and finalize policy recommendations based on findings of the
Project's surveys and studies. During neRotiations, it was agreed that
the Interministerial SDAD Committee would be maintained, under terms of
reference and with membership acceptable to IDA, until completion of the
Project.
3.25   At the DSGEE, a statistical data users' group would be created
which would bring together the primary statistical services which
produce and consume social data (from, e.g., the Ministries of Health,
Education, and Rural Development). This group's role would be to
determine the nature of information to be collected in coherence with



- 18 -
other ongoing statistical endeavors as well as to orient the analysis of
this information to respond to the needs of social policy decision-
makers. The chief of the DSGEE would preside at the user group
meetings. To further enhance the use of social data in macroeconomic
policy making, a Tableau de Bord Social (table of social indicators), to
bring together existing information on social conditions, would be
created and updated monthly, and be included in the already existing
monthly statistical bulletin (Lettre Mensuelle de la Statistipue)
published by the DSGEE. The user's group would provide input into the
choice of pertinent social indicators that would be collected for the
Tableau de Bord Social. The first year would be experimental and would
be devoted to finding and refining the most responsive indicators. The
Tableau de Bord Social would also utilize the results of the priority
surveys. Once refined, it would be distributed to policy makers and
discussed during the meetings of the interministerial committee.
Publication of the arrdt6 establishing the National Information System
and its organization as well as the users' group (paragraph 3.25) was a
condition of negotiations.
3.26   The total base cost of the Social Policy and Planning Component
is estimated at US$4,647,000 (equivalent) divided as followss
Baseline Costs of Social Policy and Plannina Comgonent
(US$ 000 equivalent)
National Information System               3,267.1
Studies Program                             767.0
Beneficiary Assessment                      246.1
Policy Design                               366.8
TOTAL                        4,647.0
Support to the National Policy for the Promotion of Women (NPPV)
3.27   To build upon the strong Government commitment to implementing
actions to improve the welfare of women and enhance their participation
in economic development, this Project component would support the
National Policy for the Promotion of Women in Development (paragraph
2.18) through a three-part program. The program would cover: (i)
institutional strengthening of the Department of Promotion of Women
(DPF) of the Ministry of Health and Social Affairs; (ii) preparation of
a family code; and (iii) preparation of a national action plan to
improve the education of women. Consistent with the Government's
objective to incorporate women's concerns into all development policies
and programs, the SDAD Project would also support the promotion of women
through its other components.  Thus, women would be a specific target
group for the Accelerated Teacher Training Program with at least 20
percent of the positions reserved for them, and the household surveys to
be designed based on gender-awareness would provide data on female
participation in households and their income earnings. The romponent is
presented in more detail in Annex 4.
3.28   To bring about institutional strenathenins and in accordance
with the redefinition of the DPF's role towards a more strategic and
monitoring function, the Government has prepared a new organizational
chart for the DPF, with three divisionst (i) a Documentation Division;
(ii) a Monitoring, Evaluation and Coordination Division; and (iii) a



- 19 -
Training and Information Division. The Government has also reorganized
the ONC (the Interministerial Task Force on Women) in order to increase
its effectiveness in assuring coordination between DPF and the line
ministries responsible for implementing the NPPW. The Project would
support this institutional strengthening with technical assistance,
training and equipment. The base cost of the strengthening of the DPF
is estimated at US$423,100 (equivalent).
3.29   In order to address the legal rights of women, the Government
has decided to proceed with the drafting of a Central African Family
Code. It has entrusted this work to a committee of eight magistrates
and two officials from the office of the Secretary of State for Social
Affairs. This committee is already at work and has defined its work
program. A broader committee representative of all socioeconomic groups
would be established to participate in the process of codification once
the preparatory work has been completed. Recognizing the necessity to
have a code reflecting national values in order to achieve better
enforcement, the committee is starting the process with a survey of
customary practices affecting women's rights in various parts of the
country. This is scheduled to take place in the fourth quarter of 1991.
This would be followed by regional seminars to discuss the issues
concerned, and then by a national seminar. During the process, three
members of the committee would visit three other African countries that
already possess a family code--Burkina Faso, Congo, and Togo--in order
to learn from the experience of others. UNFPA and UNDP will finance the
survey of customary practices and the regional seminars. The proposed
SDAD Project would finance the cost of the study trip and the
organization of the national seminar. During negotiations, it was
agreed that the Government would, not later than September 30, 1993
complete drafting the Family Code (Proiet de Loi) and soon thereafter
submit the draft to IDA for review and comments prior to its enactment.
The base cost of activities included in the Project for preparing the
Family Code is estimated at US$135,700 (equivalent).
3.30   The low level of education of women, both in quantity and in
quality, is one of the most important constraints on women's
participation in economic development. Recognizing this, the Government
is starting a concerted effort to understand the reasons for the lag and
to prepare an action plan to overcome it. Pour important studies would
be carried outs on girls' enrollment in primary schools, on the factors
leading to high dropout rates in secondary school, on vocational
training programs for women, and on adult literacy. The first of these
studies is already under way with financing from UNICEF and will be
completed this Summer. The other three would be carried out under the
SDAD Project. The work would draw on findings of the beneficiary
assessment to be carried out under the Project (paragraph 3.14) as they
relate to issues affecting female education. Once the studies are
completed, the Ministry of Education would define, in close
coordination with the DPF and in the light of sectoral objectives and of
the studies that will have been made, a national action plan to (i)
increase girls' school enrollment rates, especially at the primary
level; (ii) decrease female dropout rates; (iii) improve the relevance
of female vocational education with respect to the demands of the labor
market; and (iv) strengthen adult literacy programs for women. The plan
would specify concrete measures and an agenda for their implementation.
The Project would finance the cost of the three studies mentioned,
consultants, internal travel, and the organization of seminars on



- 20 -
women's issues. The estimated base cost of the work needed to prepare
the action plan for women's education is about US$117,700 (equivalent).
During negotiations, assurances were obtained that the Government would
carry out by June 20, 1992, the studies under the WID component in
accordance with the terms of reference acceptable to IDA. Furthermore,
it was agreed that the Government would (a) nmt later than December 31,
1992 submit to IDA for review and comments an action plan for improving
women's and adult education, and (b) not later than December 31, 1993
implement this action plan taking into account IDA's views.
3.31   The total base cost of the WID component, including consultants,
institutional development, studies, seminars, and international and
internal travel is thus estimated at US$676,400 (equivalent) divided as
follows:
Baseline Costs of WID Comgonent
(USS 000 equivalent)
Institutional Strengthening               423.1
Family Code                               135.7
Preparation of Action Plan for
Women's Education                       117.7
TOTAL                    676.4
Accelerated Teacher Training Pro_r
3.32   This component is be a temporary, accelerated program designed
to eliminate the primary school teacher deficit which is being generated
by death and natural attrition. It is intended as a measure to prevent
further deterioration of the quality of the delivery of primary
education services, which is constrained by a already high national
primary student/teacher ratio of 70/1. It would also address issues of
the quality of teacher training, which at present is costly and somewhat
removed from the realities of the classroom. It would train and employ
young university graduates which are currently without employment
possibilities. During the 1990-92 period, some 250 teachers will have
been lost to the system. The program seeks to replace those teachers by
utilizing a dual system of formal and on-the-job training for a period
of two years. It is intended as a pilot program which could be expanded
to national use after a final evaluation at the end of two years.
3.33   The accelerated teacher training program would complement
efforts to improve the quality of primary education services under the
Education Rehabilitation and Development Project (Credit 1863-CAR).
Under the program, trainees have been selected from a large number of
candidates with at least two years of university education, a
qualification which is well beyond present requirements for training as
a primary school teacher, and which is expected to facilitate this
intensive, hands-on, type of training. Those who successfully pass the
accelerated course woaild fill vacant places in the civil service within
the framework of the Ministry's staffing plan as defined under the
Government's Structural Adjustment Program.



- 21 -
3.34   The training would take place in a format consisting of one year
of formal training in the classroom, and one year in the classroom as
teachers-in-training. Training would take place at the five Regional
Pedagogical Centers (CPRs) which have the capacity and the ability to
undertake this task. The program would involve close reviews by the
regional education inspectors. During the second year of their
training, the trainees would be fully responsible for teaching classes,
but they would receive strong on-site support and training in addition
to short seminars at the Regional Pedagogical Centers.
3.35   As the projected deficit of primary school teachers is equal to
the number of trainees to be trained under the accelerated program, it
would not result in any incremental salary costs to the Ministry of
Education's budget as the successful trainees are progressively absorbed
into the civil service to replace teachers who have left. In fact, the
newly-trained teachers would cost less than the more senior teachers
they are replacing. For further details on the accelerated teacher
training program, see Annex 5.
3.36   Training of 250 trainees began in January 1991 under Project
Preparation Facility (PPF) financing. Transmittal to IDA of the arrete
formalizing the establishment of the emergency teacher training program
was a condition of negotiation. During neaotiations the Government
3greed to (a) carry out the accelerated teacher training program until
June 30, 1992; (b) carry out an assessment of the results achieved in
the execution of this program and submit it to IDA by October 31, 1992
for its review and comments; and (c) employ the trainees certified under
the program in accordance with terms and conditions of employment
satisfactory to IDA.
3.37   The Project would finance five months of international
consultants and six months of local consultants to evaluate program
operation during implementation, operational casts, and student grants
for the first year of their training. The estimated base cost of this
component is US$996,400 (equivalent), of which IDA would cover
US$507,200 and the Government US$489,200, the latter being the cost of
trainees' stipends for the second (on-the-job) half of the training
program and trainers' salaries.
Baseline Costs of Accelerated Teachers Training Component
(in USS thousand equivalent)
Accelerated Teacher Training       996.4
C. Proiect Management and Implementation
Proiect Management
3.38   The SDAD Project would be managed by the Planning Ministry, and
within the Planning Ministry by the SDAD Secretariat. The Project
Manager in charge of the SDAD Secretariat would report directly to the
Minister. He would collaborate with all the agencies executing Project
components which would be responsible for their regular daily management



. 22 -
and administration. In addition, the SDAD Interministerial Committee
would review progress reports, assess the prospects for implementing
action plans, and review and finalize policy recommendations.
3.39   The SDAD Secretariat would coordinate all operational aspects of
the Project. The Project Manager and his team, while monitoring overall
progress of the Project, would be responsible fort (i) monitoring
procurement procedures under the Project; (ii) consolidating the annual
Project budget to be submitted to IDA and prepared by the executing
agencies; (iii) monitoring disbursements of all Credit funds;
(iv) establishing and managing the Special Account (paragraph 3.64); (v)
maintaining and arranging for the auditing of Project accounts; and
(vi) coordinating and monitoring technical assistance under the Project.
It would receive from implementing agencies semi-annual progress reports
on Project execution and consolidate them into semi-annual reports on
Project implementation and expenditure for submission to IDA and other
interested donor agencies. 'When the SDAD Secretariat is eliminated as
part of the integration of SDAD concerns into the regular activities of
the Planning Ministry, all these functions would be merged into the line
offices of the Planning Ministry.
3.40   The executing agencies would be the relevant administrative
units of the technical ministries responsible for implementation of
Project components (i.e, the DGSEE for the national information system,
the SDPU for the SDAD studies program and beneficiary assessment, the
DPF for the WID component, and the Pedagogy and Teacher Training
Directorate for the accelerated teacher training program). All
executing agencies would report quarterly to the SDAD Secretariat (which
would specify the tasks to be performed and their timeframe, and
prioritize and define the responsibilities of each agency). The
Secretariat would organize quarterly meetings with executing agencies to
evaluate and prepare a report on the progress of component
implementation.
3.41   During negotiations, detailed implementation plans were agreed
upon for each Project component, as well as the budget for Project
activities for 1991. It was also agreed that the Government would
(a) each year prepare Project-related work programs and budgets
(detailed by Project Components and implementing agencies); (b) submit
them not later than September 30 of each year to IDA for review and
approval; and (c) execute these work programs as approved by IDA.
Appointment of all members of the SDAD Secretariat would be a condition
of Credit effectiveness.
3.42   The total base cost of project management is estimated at
US$360,800 (equivalent).
Proiect Implementation
3.43   Strengthening of Social Policy and Planning.  The Planning
Ministry would be responsible for implementation and coordination of
this component. The Ministry's Department of Statistics (DSGEE) would
be responsible for implementing the household surveys. An advisor, who
is financed under the French technical assistance program and is
currently working in the DSGEE, would support the DSGEE in the
management of this component. The DSGEE would also be supported by four



- 23 -
man-months of short-term technical assistance to aid in the sampling,
the use of data input software, the conception of questionnaires, and to
assist the analysis team of the priority survey. The Planning
Ministry's Social Development Policy Unit (SDPU) would be responsible
for management of the SDA program of studies and the beneficiary
assessment; synthesis of sectoral social policies; and preparation of
policy papers which would take into account the findings of the studies
and surveys and lessons from implementing specific action plans in order
to recommend policy reforms and replicable and sustainable investment
projects. These findings would be submitted to the Interministerial
Committee following the annual SDAD workshops gathering all parties
concerned, including NGOs, to discuss issues and conclusions and to make
recommendations.
3.44   SupDort to Women.  The Department for the Promotion of Women
(DPF) of the Ministry of Health and Social Affairs (MSPAS) would
implement this component of the SDAD Project. Approximately 6 person-
months of short-term consultants would be used to support the
preparation of an action plan for female education and the family code.
The already-existing interministerial task force on women (ONC) would
continue its role of coordination between the DPF (which would have
primarily a strategic and monitoring role) antd the line ministries
(which carry the principal responsibility for integrating women's
concerns into their everyday activities). The DPF would be responsible
for implementing the program of sensitization of the population with
respect to women's legal status and, in collaboration with the
Directorate of Informal Education of the Ministry of Education, the
girls' education program.
3.45 Accelerated Teacher Training Program. This component of the
SDAD Project would be coordinated by the Pedagogy and Teacher Training
Directorate of the Ministry of Education and implemented through the
CPRs (Regional Pedagogy Centers).  Implementation would be carried out
using existing personnel of the Ministry of Education, at the five
existing regional training centers. After initial classroom and in-
class training, each successful trainee would receive direct on-the-job
supervision and direction from a more experienced teacher. Inspectors
andlor teaching advisors (conseillers nddagogipues) would formally
supervise and visit each new teacher at least three times a year. Five
person-months of internationally recruited specialists and six months of
locally recruited consultants would be used to evaluate the training
program.
3.46   Training of Proiect Personnel.  Training of Project personnel
would be implemented through each component of the SDAD Project to help
the Government to mainstream the incorporation of social considerations
into overall program and policy design by improving human resource
capacity and permitting the cadres associated with the SDAD Project to
acquire the expertise necessary to successfully implement the Project.
Training would cover four areas: (i) improved sensitization and
information exchange in order to build an improved understanding of the
process of adjustment and the rationale and development of economic
decisions taken under adjustment, including the process of incorporating
social considerations into adjustment and development policy-making;
(ii) macro-economic and sectoral policy synthesis and analysis; (iii)
the elaboration and execution of specific social programs and policies;
and (iv) surveys and statistics. Training would take two principal



- 24 -
formss (a) participation in African regional training programs organized
by the Bank's SDA Unit, that will bring together African professionals
from many countries, and (b) national training activities which respond
to the specific needs generated by the SDAD Project in CAR. Costs for
training are included in the relevant components.
3.47   A Project Launching Workshop would be organized with the
participation of Bank staff soon after Credit effectiveness, to review
with the Governnent and other organizations concerned with the Project
its objectives, design, and first year work program. Throughout the
life of the Project, Bank staff would advise on the content of the
program of socio-economic studies, and on the design and operations of
the household surveys and the analysis of their results.
3.48   Status of Project Preparation.  Since the appraisal mission
(June, 1990), the following actions have been taken by the Governments
(a)     Creation of the Interministerial Committee for the
coordination of the Social Dimensions of Adjustment and
Development Program by Arretd number 452 of October 26,
1990. A first meeting was held in February 1991.
(b)     Preparation of the Arrete creating the Users' Group and the
organization of the ECAM; and signing of the service
contract with OIC International for the implementation of
the feasibility study on training centers for unemployed
rural youths.
(c)     Creation of the Interministerial Committees on the primary
education of girls, the professional training of women, and
the elaboration of a Family Code; meeting of the Committee
Against Illiteracy; elaboration of a new organigram for the
Department of Women's Affairs; and reorganization of the
'Interministerial Task Force on Women (ONC)" into four
operational sectors.
(d)     Commencement of activities for the accelerated teacher
training component. In January 1991, the first 250 trainees
began their training under PPF financing.
D. Project Costs and Financing
3.49   Costs.  The base costs of the Project, including taxes but
before contingencies, over the four-year period IDA FY92-FY95, are
estimated at approximately US$6.7 million (equivalent). Total Project
costs, including physical and price contingencies but excluding taxes,
are estimated to amount to approximately US$7.1 million. Physical
contingencies of 10 percent for goods and services are included, except
for the allocations for technical assistance, training, and seminars for
which physical contingencies are 5 percent, and for personnel and
studies, for which no physical contingencies were included. Price
contingencies (again for all components except the studies program)
assume (a) domestic inflation of 4 percent p.a. (which is the Bank's
April, 1990 forecast for the Manufactured Unit Value [MUVI index for



- 25 -
France for the period 1990-95), and (b) international inflation of 4
percent per annum. Taxes are estimated at US$536,800 (equivalent), of
which US$304,400 are import duties (see Annex 7, page 2) and US$232,400
other taxes.
3.50   The following table shows Project cost estimates by component.
Costs by disbursement categories and detailed Project cost estimates for
each component are shown in Annex 7.
Proiect Cost Summary
(including contingencies, net of tax)
Component                               Cost (USS thousand)
Social Policy and Planning
National Information System                  3,433.8
Studies Program                                767.0
Beneficiary Assessment                         263.4
Policy Design                                  428.7
Sub-total                              4,892.0
Women in Development
Institutional Strengthening                    458.7
Family Code                                    160.4
Preparation of Action Plans
for Female and Adult Education               135.7
Sub-total                                754.8
Teacher Training                                  1,070.2
Project Management                                  402.7
TOTAL PROJECT COSTS               7,120.6
3.51   Financing Plan.  The IDA Credit would amount to SDR 5.6 million
(US$6.5 million equivalent), or 91.3 percent of Project costs. The
Government's contribution (8.7X) would amount to US$0.6 million
equivalent, and would cover the costs of permanent Government personnel
assigned to the Project (1.42), and the costs of trainees' stipends for
the second, on-the-job, half of the two-year teacher training program
(7.4%).



- 26 -
3.52   Recurrent Cost Implications.  Because of the nature of Project
activities, their long-term recurrent cost implications would be
relatively limited after three years. Annex 8 provides an estimation of
the incremental cost effect of the Project over a ten year period.
Incremental recurrent costs are estimated to be about US$125,000
equivalent per year after Project completion, which represents about
0.07 percent of the Government's recurrent budget for 1990 (US$185.8
million equivalent). The IDA Credit would increase the CAR's debt
service burden by about US$50,000 equivalent per year after Project
completion. This represents about 0.28 percent of CAR's servicing of
external debt in 1990 (US$17.7 million equivalent).
3.53   The key objective of the SDAD Project is to provide assistance
to the Government to incorporate the social dimensions of adjustment and
development into its economic and development planning processes,
particularly within the Planning Ministry. While this may well involve
some reorganization of the Planning Ministry which may have some limited
budgetary implications, it will be the task of the SDAD Secretariat, in
collaboration with the Interministerial SDAD Committee and the SDPU, to
define the organization, the work program, and in particular, the
resources needed to achieve this end.
3.54   The WID component is not expected to have significant recurrent
cost implications. Thc principal objectives of this component are to
produce an action pJAn for women's education and a draft Family Code.
The continuation of these activities would take place as part of the
regular work of the Ministries concerned.
3.55   The Accelerated Teacher Training Program would end after two
years. Even under conservative estimates, the hiring of trainees would
not represent additional requirements on the Government's budget because
they would fill vacancies included in the budget. Indeed, the new
trainees would usually cost less than the former occupants of these
positions, because they would lack seniority (see Annex 5).
3.56   The one component of the Project which does have significant
recurrent cost implications is the establishment of the National
Information System. The priority survey would become the basic data
collection operation of this system and would be repeated every two
years. The recurrent cost of this operation, including preparation,
field operation, data processing, analysis, and publication is about
US$250,000 (equivalent) per survey, which would need to be included in
the budget from 1996 on.
3.57   During Project implementation the IDA Credit would finance
incremental recurrent costs as follows (see para. 3.65):
95?     for Social Policy and Planning until December 31, 1994;
702     for Social Policy and Planning thereafter; and
852      for the WID and teacher training components throughout the
Project period.
The share of incremental recurrent costs for the Social Policy and
Planning component financed under the IDA Credit would decline in the
fourth year because the Government would finance a share of the Priority
Survey in that year (see para. 3.10). The potential benefits of this
component would not be fully realized unless the Priority Survey is



- 27 -
continued on a regular basis after completion of the Project. However,
the Government does not currently have the means to finance these
incremental costs and it is unrealistic to expect the Government to be
able to finance more than a share of such costs following Project
completion. It is expected that the Priority Survey would continue to
be carried out under a subsequent project, financed either by IDA or by
another donor. There is no need for incremental recurrent costs for the
other two components to be financed on a declining basis because such
costs would not continue after Project completion.
E. Proiect Procurement and Disbursement
3.58   Procurement.  Goods financed by the IDA Credit, would, to the
extent practical, be grouped to encourage competitive bidding.
Eligible local manufacturers would be allowed a 152 margin of preference
in bid evaluation. Contracts for the procurement of vehicles (4x4),
computers and mobylettes aggregating at a value of US$0.8 million would
be procured through International Competitive Bidding (ICB).
Procurement of these goods would be prepared on an annual basis and done
through grouped bidding packages to allow for ICB whenever possible. To
ensure fast delivery for project kick-off, three vehicles (light) and
part of the equipment' including furniture, aggregated at US$ 190,000,
would be procured under LCB procedures which have been reviewed and ara
acceptable to the Bank. Civil works for the rehabilitation of existing
offices of the DPF and statistical antennas of the DGSEE are too small
and scattered geographically to be suitable for ICB procedures;
therefore, contracts for this rehabilitation aggregating US$100,000,
should be procured by LCB procedures acceptable to Bank. Contracts for
small equipment and office supplies, aggregated at US$80,000, would be
procured on the basis of prudent shopping, requiring quotations from at
least three reputable suppliers. Incremental recurrent costs for
vehicle maintenance and fuel, offices expenses, and other miscellaneous
items for the project would follow procedures acceptable to the Bank.
Consultants and technical assistants financed by IDA would be recruited
in accordance with bank guidelines under agreed terms of reference.
IDA-financed contracts for goods above a threshold of 150,000 would be
subject to the Bank's prior review of procurement procedures, resulting
in review by the Bank of 702 of procurement of goods. Rehabilitation
packages above US$ 50,000 should be subject to the Bank's prior review,
thus covering about 70X of the total works financed by the IDA.
3.59   The Ministry of Economy, Planning and International Cooperation
is the principal implementing agency responsible for all project
components. The project management unit, DSAD Secretariat, directly
attached to the Ministry of Economy, Planning and Cooperation would
implement the procurement and disbursement of the project. The
Secretariat would be staffed by three nationals. Given that the new
staff are unlikely to have prior experience in Bank procurement
procedures, an in-country workshop in procurement would be offered by a
Bank expert. A consultant would be retained to provide assistance in
the preparation of bidding documents and project kick off.
3.60   The borrower's procurement regulations and procedures have
recently been reviewed by Bank staff. They have been found acceptable
for all methods proposed under the Project except for LCB where the Bank



- 28 -
has same reservations including advertising enforcement and provisions
excluding foreign firms from bidding for contracts under approximately
US$ 330,000. Therefore LCB documents should be approved by the Bank.
3.61   P&icurement information will be collected and recorded as
followss
(a) comprehensive quarterly reports to the Bank by the Project Unit
indicating:
(i) revised cost estimates for individual contracts and
the total project including best estimates of physical
and price contingency allowances;
(ii) revised timing of procurement actions, including
advertising, bidding, contract award, and completion for
individual contracts; and
(b) a completion report by the borrower within three months of the
Credit's closing date.
3.62   Procurement arrangements are summartzed in the following table:
PROO.R8K4T ARRAtISE   e
(II mlloRn           *)
Procurement Meth od
Project Ele_nt                                   P u       n-   -
Ica            LCB           OTH0            N             TOrAL
1. ClVIL WcS
1.1 Rehabilitation OPf                                0.                                           0.1S
i3PF OffI Cos                                                                                 0
Statiaticel Antennae
2.1 Vohicleo                           0 71           0.09                                          0.80
4x4, light                       (0C71)         (0.09)                                       (08 0)
2.2 Equp=nt                            0 20           0.10           0.0O                           0.ae
utar  furn;t.,             (0.20)         (0 10)                                        (0.80)
8. CONYJLTAN        b/
8.1 Studies/(uperwieisetn                                            10                             1.60)
( 1.60O)                      (1.60)
8.2 Training/eeminare                                                0.80                           0.80
5.M4ISCELLAN4EUS                                                         (0.60)                        (0-.0)
6.1 Incremental   laries c/                                                         2.44            2.44
(1.50)         (1.80)
8.2 Incermental recurrent caste                                                      1.84           1.84
related to maint  nence                                                       (1.20)         (1.20)
8.8 PPP  efinncin                                                                   0.86            0.86
(0.86)         (0.86)
0.:9 1)        0.834          2.:28          4.:14           7.67,O
rTOAL                                      (0.91)         (o0.4)         (2.20)         (8 06)         (6.S)
NtE: Piguree in parenthece   are the respective amount financed by IDA Credit.
a/ Oiven the size of the project, all elements are procured under the fineneing of eDA and the Government.
b/ Individual conguwtants would carry out a number of studies and aupervie the kick-off of project ceiponentm.
A consulting firm would prepare the annual project audit report throuah the project.
c/ Salaries include those of local ataff hired by the project and of Governent staff working on the project.



- 29 -
3.63  The Procurement Implementation Schedule is as follows:
bWtDOTAT30 6WU.
Pro-      Project Yeer     Total
project. lement PTl-nt
CtY,i4,Vf cCl@.       311   XX               rr
1. CSVIL W08(
1.1 R bi llitation OfP  0,08  0.07              0. iS 
WFP Offices          xixuXXusXXXX999
Statistical Antenna.
2. S
2.1 proqual/Did/jAsrd-
2.2 Vehicle.             0.e  0.19  0.08          0.0    ICJL^CS
4x4, light. sebyl*tte.  3X3333333    1x13s  3333333
2.8 Itipsant.            0.22  0.18    0.0os     0.88     ICI8L08
Voatputmr. furnit..  333333333233333333333333
S. CONWLTA1CIES
8.1 Studiesj/uporvision  0.68  0.68  0.29  0.19  1.60     OTHE
8.2 Training/aesnur.     0.22  .1?  0. 12  0.1    0.6 0tm
8.1 Incremental onlarle.  1.04  0.87  O.8  0. 4S  2.44    A
8.2 lncrttntal recu rrent c,ts
relae to mintenan t
Equipmnt             0.05  0.05  0.06  0.06   0.2    NA
Vehicles              0.0o  0.07  0.0?  0.07  0.27     NA
Cnl;in-               0.18  0.19  0.2  0.2    0.79
otbher                0.02  0.02  0*.0  0.02  0.08    Nk
.8  PPF refinancing      0.8                     0.86    14N
8.49  1.79  1.9 10      7.0?
TOTAL                   (2.4)    (1.7)    (1.)    (1)  (6.80)
ItSE: PFiures In opaenthem. are t rooe.ctivw a_aut fflaqed by DA Cedit.
3.64   Disbursement.  In order to facilitate Project implementation, a
Special Account would be established in US dollars in a commercial bank
on terms and conditions satisfactory to IDA. The SDAD Secretariat would
make withdrawals from the special account to finance IDA's sht.r of
eligible Project expenditures. An allocation of US$300,000 would be
deposited into the special account after Credit effectiveness and upon
receipt of a withdrawal application. Monthly requests for replenishment
of the Special Account would be submitted by the SDAD Secretariat. Each
replenishment request would be accompanied by copies of the bank
statements from the commercial bank holding the Special Account.
Applications would also be accompanied by full supporting documentation
or certified statements of expenditures (SOEs) for all eligible Project
expenditures. Full contract documentation would be required for all
eligible expenditures except for contracts of less than US$10,000
equivalent. Detailed contract, expenditures and disbursement
documentation would be retained by the SDAD Secretariat and made
available for inspection by periodic follow-up missions carried out by
IDA. Should any disbursements be made from the Special Account which
are not acceptable to IDA, the Government wc Id deposit the
corresponding amount in the account.
3.65   It is estimated that the proposed IDA Credit would be disbursed
over a period of six years, compared to a regional disbursement profile
of eight years. This shorter disbursement period is justified by the
nature and timing of Project Activities. These activities have been



- 30 -
budgeted for a period of four years; the disbursement period thus
reflects slippage of 50 percent. However the accelerated teacher
training component would be completed by July 1992 and work (other than
IEC activities) on the action plan for female education and the family
code would be completed before 1994. The remaining project activities
would largely be of such nature (stuc.,.es and surveys) that financing
could be stopped without losing the benefit of sunk costs. Year-by-year
disbursements of the Credit are estimated as follows:
- - - - - - - - IDA Fiscal Year - - - - - - - - - -
FY92     FY93    FY94       FY95     FY96     FY97
- - - - - - - -  (US$ million) - - - - - - - - - -
Annual           0.9      1.4       1.2       1.1      1.0       0.9
Cumulative       0.9      2.3       3.5      4.6       5.6       6.5
3.66   The Credit would be disbursed on the basis of categories
summarized below.
Allocation and Disbursement of the IDA Credit
Proposed IDA
Allocation       X of expenditures
Cateaorv                   (SDR thousand)    financed by IDA
Consultant services,                1,650                    100
studies, training, and
seminars
Civil works                           100                     95
Vehicles and equipment                 475                    70
Incremental recurrent
Costs a/
(a) for Social                        800               95170 b/
Policy and
Planning
(b) for the rest of                 1,190                     85
the Project
PPF refinancing                       610
Unallocated                            775
TOTAL                               5,600
a/ Incremental recurrent costs include maintenance of equipment and
vehicles, fuel, publications, and salaries of contracted employees.
b/ 95S until December 31, 1994 and 70? thereafter.



- 31 -
F. Accounts. Audit. Reporting and Mid-term Review
3.67 Accounts and Audit. The Government, through the SDAD Secretariat, vould
maintain separate accounts for all Project expenditures. During negotiations, it
was agreed that the accounts and statements of expenditure would be audited each
year by external auditors acceptable to IDA and that the audit reports would be
submitted to IDA not later than four months following the end of the Government's
fiscal year, and would certify that the funds were used for the purposes for
which they were provided. Audit costs have been included in the Project budget.
3.68 Reporting. The SDAD Secretariat would prepare semi-annual reports, as of
June 30 and December 31 of each year, describing the progress of all components
of the Project, problems encountered, solutions adopted, use of funds and the
program of work for the following semester. The Government would submit these to
IDA not later than two months after the end of each semester. Each report would
include copies of the reports that the SDAD Secretariat had received from
agencies implementing sub-Projects, again highlighting problems encountered and
solutions adopted (see also para. 3.61). In addition, when requesting
replenishment of the Special Account, the Government would submit reports on the
number, names, functions, and cost of staff paid out of the IDA Credit. During
negotiations the Government agreed to submit (i) semi-annual reports for review
by IDA on Project implementation and expenditure; and (ii) a Project completion
report within six months of the Credit closing date.
3.69 Hid-term Review. Not later than October 31, 1993, IDA would conduct with
the Government a mid-term Project implementation review to: (a) monitor progress
and performance in carrying out the Project; (b) discuss and agree on (i) the
strategy for the integration of the social dimensions of adjustment and
development into the work program of the Planning Ministry, (ii) the draft family
code and plans for its implementation, (iii) proposed implementation measures for
the action plan for female education, and (iv) implications of the evaluation of
the accelerated teacher training program; and (c) exchange information among
staff responsible for Project implementation and propose coordinated solutions to
any current issues. Not later than four weeks prior to this review, the
Government would furnish to IDA for its review and comments a report including:
(a) an evaluation of progress and performance achieved in Project implementation
by the Borrower, and (b) a draft implementation program to be carried out until
the completion of the Project. Promptly after completing the mid-term review,
the Government would carry out the recommendations arising out of this review as
agreed between the Government and IDA.  Durina negotiations it was agreed that
the Government would, by October 31, 1993, carry out a mid-term review with IDA
to assess the progress achieved in the execution of the Project and would
promptly implement any measures required as a result of this review to further
the objectives of the Project.
IV.    BENEFITS AND RISKS
4.1   Benefits.  The Project would (i) provide the Government with a solid
baseline of social indicators, allow the identification of poor and vulnerable
target groups, and give first indications of the responsiveness of households to
adjustment measures; (ii) pursue a program of socio-economic studies that would
support the introduction of poverty considerations into macroeconomic and
development policy and project design, prepare new action programs, and develop



- 32 -
the human capacity necessary to assure sustainability and implementation of these
activities; (iii) promote the participation of women in development by
strengthening women's legal rights, improving the education of women, and
ensuring that economic and social programs take the concerns of women into
account, and (iv) alleviate the temporary shortage of primary school teachers
caused by the civil service reform.
4.2   Risks.  The Project's main risks relate to the weak institutional capacity
of the Government and the multi-sectoral nature of the Project. Measures to
mitigate these risks includes (i) the setting up within the Planning Ministry of
an SDAD Secretariat with full-time staff to coordinate Project activities,
support Project implementation and review, and ensure the smooth functioning of
Project financing, procurement and disbursement; (ii) providing for the
formulation and monitoring of social policy by an inter-ministerial committee and
the Social Development Policy Unit within. the Planning Ministry; (iii)
decentralizing tasks to line implementation units, which would be appropriately
strengthened; (iv) the provision of substantial training in each component of the
Project, and (v) the use of short-term and 'xisting technical assistance to
support the Government in its implementation of the priority actions and in the
development of the national information system.
V.    AGREEMENTS AND RECOMMENDATION
a.l   The following actions were conditions of negotiations:
(a)    publication of the arrftt establishing the National Information System
and its organization as well as the users' group (paragraph 3.25);
(b)    transmittal to IDA of the arrat4 formalizing the establishment of the
accelerated teacher training program (paragraph 3.36).
5.2   During negotiations, agreement was reached on the following matters:
(a)    that the Government would (i) submit for IDA's approval, no later than
December 31, 1992, a strategy for the integration of the social
dimensions of adjustment and development into the work program of
Planning Ministry; and (ii) start to implement this strategy not later
than December 31, 1993 (paragraph 3.19);
(b)    that the Government would, until completion of the Project, maintain
under terms of reference and with membership acceptable to IDA, the
Interministerial SDAD Committee (paragraph 3.24);
(c)    that the Government would take appropriate measures to ensure that the
SDAD Secretariat is staffed on a full-time basis by a Project Manager
and an assistant whose terms of reference, qualifications and
experience would be acceptable to IDA (paragraph 3.20);
(d)    that the Government would (i) by September 30 of each year submit to
IDA for approval the annual program of socio-economic studies to be
carried out during the following calendar year, including terms of
reference and schedules, and (ii) promptly implement the results and
recommendations of these studies as they will have been agreed upon
with IDA (paragraph 3.13);
(e)    that the Government would, not later than September 30, 1993 complete
drafting the Family Code and soon thereafter submit the draft to IDA
for review and comments prior to its enactment (paragraph 3.29);



- 33 -
(f)    that the Government would carry out by June 30, 1992, the studies
under the WID component in accordance with the terms of reference
acceptable to IDA (paragraph 3.30);
(g)    that the Government would ti) not later than December 31, 1992 submit
to IDA for review and comments an action plan for improving women's
and adult education, and (ii) not later than December 31, 1993
implement this action plan taking into account IDA's views (paragraph
3.30);
(h)    detailed implementation plans for eaeh component as well as the budget
for Project activities for 1991, and that the Government would (a)
each year prepare Project-related work programs and budgets (detailed
by Project Components and implementing agencies); (b) submit them not
later than September 30 of each year to IDA for review and approval;
and (c) execute these work programs as approved by IDA (paragraph
3.41);
(i)    that the Government would (a) carry out the accelerated teacher
training program until June 30, 1992; (b) carry out an assessment of
the results achieved in the execution of this program and submit it to
IDA by October 31, 1992 for its review and comments; and (c) employ
the trainees certified under the program in accordance with terms and
conditions of employment satisfactory to IDA (see paragraph 3.36);
(j)    that the Government would submit (i) semi-annual reports for review by
IDA on Project implementation and expenditure; and (ii) a Project
completion report within six months of the Credit closing date
(paragraph 3.68);
(k)    that an annual audit of all Project accounts would be carried out by
an independent auditor, acceptable to IDA; submission of annual audit
reports to IDA for review not later than four months after the end of
the fiscal year, including certification the funds were used for the
purposes for which they were provided (paragraph 3.67); and
(1)    that the Government would, by October 31, 1993, carry out a mid-term
review with IDA to assess the progress achieved in the execution of
the Project and would promptly implement any measures required as a
result of this review to further the objectives of the Project
(paragraph 3.69).
5.3   The following would be a conditioA if effectivenesst
(a)    appointment of all members of the SDAD Secretariat
(paragraph 3.A1).
5.4   Recommendation.  On the terms and conditions proposed, the Project is
suitable for financing with an IDA Credit of SDR 5.6 million (US$6.5 million
equivalent).



- 34 -
ANNEX 1
Page 1 of 4
CENTRAL AFRICAN REPUBLIC
SOCIAL DIMENSIONS OF ADJUSTMENT AND DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
EXCERPTS FROM THE LETTER OF DEVELOPMENT POLICY FOR A THIRD S.A.P.
PART VII. Human Resources Development
The development of human resources is not only a primary means of
achieving the objectives of the Structural Adjustment Program, it is
also the essential aim of the program. Accordingly, the Government has
committed itself to a number of actions in this regard.  First, a
strategy for development of the education sector been defined and is
supported by the IDA-financed Third Education Project. Second, a health
sector strategy is being prepared in collaboration with experts from IDA
and other donors. Third, the Government intends to increase non-salary
current expenditures in the health and education sectors, as was done in
the 1990 Finance Law, on an annual basis.
Education. The Government has been following a series of policies
aimed at rehabilitation of the education system since 1981. Strategic
priorities were identified and set in place under the 1986-90 Five Year
Plan. These have received support from various multilateral and
bilateral donors and the Government has also made a significant
contribution through allocation to this sector of a quarter of its
budgetary resources. However these efforts do not seem to have yielded
satisfactory results so far. On analysis, it becomes clear that
development of the education system is confronted by a number of
obstacles. Under SAL III, the Government is resolved to strengthen the
education system through the following measures:
-     rehabilitation and strengthening of fundamental education in the
five Prefectures not yet covered and strengthening of secondary
and tertiary scientific education and vocational training;
-     diversification of the University structures and making them more
professionally responsive to national skill needs;
-     implementation of the various staffing plans for the sector.  To
make good the existing shortage of staff, the Government intends
tos
Increase recruitment of 'teacher students' from ENI in
Dambari and ENS in Bangui;
put in place the accelerated training project for Primary I,
Primary I1 scientific and technical and Secondary level
teachers through the recruitment of unemployed graduates;



- 35 -
ANNEX 1
Page I of 4
-     ezplore the possibility of retraining teachers who have been
redeployed for professional reasons as a result of the
staffing plans i this retraining would be applicable only to
those who had not opted for voluntary departure compensation
within a specified time frame;
_     adoption in June 1990 and application in time for the new academic
year of new regulations for grants quotas which is in conformity
with budgetary allocations and reflects socio-economlc development
priorities.
Health. The fundamental aim of the Government's health policy is
to protect, restore and improve the population's health and ensure the
social development of the entire nation. In light of the
epidemiological situation of the country and of the structural,
institutional and financial constraints in the sector, the Government,
as part of SAL III, has defined a health sector policy whose fundamental
aim is to strengthen primary health care in response to the real needs
of the community. The main themes of this policy ares
-     decentralization and multi-sectoral coordination through the
establishment of Regional and Prefecture-level Committees for
primary health care responsible for definition of social and
health micro-plans which will serve as the basis for formulating
the national health development plant
-     application of a cost recovery policy to ensure participation of
the population in meeting the cost of health care;
-     streamlining of medical supply and distribution systems to
guarantee the permanent availability of essential medications at
least cost for all health services;
-     reorganization of the Ministry of Health both at the central and
field levels, strengthening of the management system and the
standardization of the roles, responsibilities and functions of
the various health service structures;
-     reallocation of operating budgets in favor of preventive medicine
and ruzal zones;
-     strengthening and better allocation of staff to meet urgent
sectoral needs more efficiently.



- 36 -
ANNEX 1
Page 3 of 4
PART VIII. The Social Dimensions of Adiustment
In order to assure that the social dimensions of development and
of the structural adjustment program are completely incorporated in
economic and social policy, the Government intends to organize its
efforts along the following two principal lines:
-     the integration of social indicators in the analysis of
macroeconomic and social policies; and
-     the definition and implementation of social action programs.
I.    Social Indicators in Policy Analysis.  The formulation of sectoral
and social macro-economic policy will be refined in five ways:
-     development of an information and statistical system to provide
for policy formulation;
-     training of a group of users of this information;
-     a series of socioeconomic studies to increase understanding of how
macroeconomic and sector level decisions translate into changes in
the standard of living of households, in particular the most
disadvantaged households, including:
3     a study to determine the poverty threshold and to categorize
underprivileged groups;
-     a labor market study to evaluate potential supply and define
training activities;
-     enhancement and promotion of national expertise to provide more
useful input concerning domestic realities in policy formulation
and to ensure greater sustainability of proposed actions;
-     identification of those priority expenditures and services which
can not be further reduced and definition of budgeting procedures.
II.   Definint and Implementing Social Action Programs.  The social
action programs will have two objectives:
-     promotion of equitable growth to cushion the effects of adjustment
measures and development policies on the social sectors and
provide support for implementation of training activities which
correspond to employment possibilities;
-     promotion of underprivileged group participation throughs
-     strengthening and widening the scope of community
development efforts;



- 37 -
ANNEX 1
Page 4 of 4
-     support for NGOs.
-     establishment of a micro-enterprises promotion fund;
-     priority recruitment of teachers to make good the gaps left
by implementation of the PDVA and the gradual implementation
of the staffing plan for the Ministry of Education;
-     training and employment of underprivileged rural youths
-     an action plan in favor of women and youth to increase their
contribution to economic growth.
In the framework of developing this policy, a Comamittee for
Monitoring the Social Dimensions of Adjustment will be established and a
national seminar organized to improve the capacity of the population to
take account of the social dimensions of adjustment.



- 38 -
ANNEX 2
Page 1 of 10
CENTRAL AFRICAN REPUBLIC
SOCIAL DIMENSIONS OF ADJUSSMENT AND DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
SOCIAL POLICY AND PLANNING
National Information System
1.    The principal objective of the statistical component of the $DAD project
is to reinforce the Government's capacity to formulate and implement socio-
economic policies to alleviate poverty within the context of adjustment and
development programs. To do this, a system of household-level surveys would
be put in place to obtain the information required tos assess poverty;
identify vulnerable and target groups; and monitor the effects of
macroeconomic and sectoral policies. The SDAD project would support the
efforts of the Statistical Directorate (DSGEE) within the Planning Ministry
(MEPSCI) by developing and implementing a set of household surveys.
2.    This support comes at an opportune time given that the activities of the
DSGEE have been strengthened to improve its macroeconomic information base.
It is currently publishing an annual statistical book, statistical bulletins
three times a year, and, since April 1990, a monthly statistical bulletin.
The recent implementation of a National Census (1988) has permitted the
development of a team of trained and experienced enumerators and data
processors who will be available once their work is completed on the census in
a few months. The census will also provide a solid basis for designing the
sample for the SDAD surveys. Concurrently with the census, a survey called
the 'Fichier National des Villages" (FINAVI) was executed. This permanent
system of observations on villages, which brings together geographic,
demographic, economic, social, and cultural information, would be adapted to
provide the basis for the community surveys.
3.    The Government intends to improve the quality and coverage of its
macroeconomic and sectoral data bys expanding statistical coverage throughout
the country; revising the price index; using the human resource capacity
developed by the Census; and obtaining and integrating appropriate socio-
economic data into its macroeconomic and sectoral planning. The SDAD project
would strongly support these objectives.
4.    Program of Surveys.  The survey program, the Central African Household
Survey (ECAM), would be carried out by the DSGEE and would be based on
priority, integrated and community surveys developed by SD& Unit in the Africa
Region of the World Bank:
Priority Survey - This short and rapid survey's goal is to allow quick
identification of vulnerable households and provide the Government with
a preliminary profile of poverty in the CAR. It would be undertaken in
two phases, the first in Bangui and the second throughout the rest of
the country, in the first year of the project. Once an integrated



- 39 -
ANNEX 2
Page 2 of 10
survey is implemented during the second and third year of project, a
priority survey would be implemented in the last year of project
implementation, and then repeated annually, to monitor the evolution of
household welfare over time and to measure the impact of specific
measures which are undertaken by the Government.
Community Survel - The community survey's goal is to furnish the
Government with intermediate level information on prices, markets,
access to and quality of social services, local institutions and
infrastructures; i.e., on the conduits through which Government
macroeconomic and sectoral policies affect households. This survey
would be undertaken in parallel to the priority survey. During the
first year of the project, the community survey would complete and
finalize the FINAVI survey. In the later years, this survey would be
modified to elicit other information needed to understand the macro-
micro linkages between policy and household welfare.
Integrated Survey - The goal of the integrated survey is to provide more
detailed information on the economic and social situation of households
and allow a more profound analysis of the causes of the types of poverty
revealed by the priority survey. This would provide the basis for a
thorough Poverty Profile which would help to redefine the key indicators
used in the priority survey. The integrated survey would be carried out
during the second and third year of the project and could be modified to
allow the DSGEE to revise its price index weights.
5.    In addition to the surveys, these measures would assure the translation
of social information into policy and program designt
-     A user's group would be created by the DSGEE to bring together the
primary statistical services which produce and consume social data
(e.g., the Ministries of Health, Education, and Rural
Development). The goal of the group would be to determine the
nature of information to be collected, assure no unnecessary
duplication and orient analysis of the data collected to respond
to the needs of policy makers. The Charge de Mission of the DSGEE
would be the Secretary General for the group.
-     The Social Development Policy Unit (SDPU) would be strengthened to
aid in this process through the production of an annual ^Social
Situations paper which would summarize the evolution of the
country's social and poverty situation over the last year. The
SDPU would organize annual seminars and workshops gathering
concerned parties (including NGOS) to discuss social issues,
arrive at conclusions, and make recommendations for discussion at
the SDAD Interministerial meetings.
6.    An ECAM Central Unit would be established and managed by the National
Director of the ECAM, who is the DGSEE ChargE de Mission, and would be
composed of a National Director, a Technical Committee, a Technical Director,



- 40 -
ANNEX 2
Page 3 of 10
four teams and two regional sub-units. The Technical Coumittee would consist
of the National Director, the Technical Director, the three Directors of the
DSGEE services, and the Technical Advisor from the French Cooperation
Authority. The primary task of this Committee would be to assure the smooth
execution of the work, assist the Technical Director in the choice of
methodologies, and participate in the supervision of field operations.
7.    The Technical Director would be responsible for the conception, data
collection and processing, and analysis of the surveys, and would supervise
four core teams, for methodology and analysis, data collection, data
processing, and management, and two regional sub-units (Antennes).
-     The methodology and analysis team would be responsible for
adapting the ECAM work program, drawing the sample, elaborating
the questionnaires and survey guidelines, adapting and developing
the analysis plans and detai°.ed tables to be produced from the
data base, and producing the Statistical Abstract. It would
include one economist-stat; tician, and two statisticians,
recruited by the project.
-     The data collection team would be responsible for  recruiting and
training the field staff, and organizing and supervising
implementation of the survey. It would include one statistician
and an assistant. During field operation this team would include
10 field teams. Each field team would be composed ofs
- 1 supervisor,
- 3 enumerators,
- 1 driver, and
- 1 data entry operator.
Each team would require a 4x4 vehicle, bicycles for the
enumeration in the cities, and survey equipment. Two
supplementary teams (without vehicles) would be hired as
relief/replacement resources.
-     The data processing team would be responsible for adapting
the software for data entry and verification, training the
data processors, overseeing the data processing, and
creating the national household data base. It would include
a computer specialist and a statistician specializing in
data processing. This team would supervise the work of the
field team data entry operators.
-     The management team would be responsible for managing ECAM
expenditures, procuring personnel, furniture and vehicles in
close collaboration with the SDAD Secretariat. This team
would be trained within the management unit of the Economic
Management Support Project.
The two regional sub-units, located in Bouar and Bangassou, would serve as the
anchor of the survey teams during integrated survey field operations.



- 41 -
ANNEX 2
Page 4 of 10
8.    Analysis.  The data collected by the SCAM would focus ont demography,
education, health, employment, housing and other facilities, migration,
agricultural enterprises (including livestock and fisheries), non-famn
enterprises, household expenditures, income by source, assets and
anthropometrice. The analysis of the ECAM data would be based on the Analysis
Plans developed by SDA Unit in the African Region of the World Bank.



- 42-                            ANNEX 2
Page SQot 10
DUi
MZ4STEU DE L*CONIMOI, DU PLAN
DES STATISTIQUtS ES DS LA COOPIRATION I?N TIONALE
tdu lan.  *Statqus St de to
a~_ -
IW_
lSatlV-  WS ato  ttZw
1SSIPL  aIUu        ,       I      Divis an
*  xso dI1"OvSa                     dNS0           e la
mistollSt.60                                     Statistique
ctt              t1t                          et des Etudes
@~~~~~~"J                      S         RIOM1       g Economieus
~~~141 M  



SoIAL Ot151s  IF  JUSITX  N  VELIPIT PocT
ECU WVE   JCT  ACIRYZMRES
Ib3jr Activity                  Tie"#l              Beqopsiblo Asmcy            Eqxpcted 1utput
ECU
(a) Arroto stbliebl  EC  ao" Ue   Were m.gtlteto..e            EPCI - ROSEE           Pubicatie. of the Ar"Ao
Ueer'o CeamItte4                  Aprtl 1l
(b) betel lod dosipa o ECAM          July 1s"1                 NE                     Detailed worlk pogrm of ECAl
ECUl Cmte l Unit
Deer'. CenIstt.,
Priority Servoy I
(a) prqor.aery Activities            VWy 100 - 5". 11          Ka Cootre l Uit        Imtlomire, s_Ip-, maml,
Veer's C_aitto.        stat hued swt treime,
Dote entry progr.m daa
Vethinol. mNd ferait.r.e purobee
(b) 1ield Opereti.m                  PON   ry - May  WI2      ECUI CeItrl limit      lle-eoaloi iqgetgoamait. fto of II
() Do" Proeeig                       Mbtrb - J.. 1to          C II Cestral lit       Sloio -e.ommic te i_bo
(4) ilaweood Ate first eely.i*       July t1                  ECU CI tral Ulimt      St*titlii Abetract
(o) prousatetiem of Vte Statitcal   July 1I1o                  SW     cretriat        SAD Ammal _lohobeP nspwe
(f) FIl date proolna                 Octobe 10011             ECUI Ceatrol lumit     FtNl!t Stetilatka Abetreg 
be) Ameememt en poverty              July 21 - Ot. 101    SW                         Povety profIie



Intograted Survey
(a) Preparatory Activities             Jun  1992 - Jan. 1998    ECAU Centrol Unit         Questionnar, s*mple. samueI.n
User,s Comittes         Staff hired *nd trained.
Data entry program designed.
(b) Field Operations                   Feb. 1998 - Jan. IS4      ECAM Contral Unit       Household questionnaire fulIlfIlled
Regional sub-unite
(c) Dota Processing                    Feb. 1998 - Feb. 104      ECAM Central Unit        Socto-ecnomic data bae
(cd) First set of statistical tables    Septembr 199             ECAM Control Unit       First Report
(a) Household data first analysis      April 1994                ECAM Central Unit       Statistical Abstract
(f) Presentation at tbe Statistical    (April 1994)              SDAD Secretariat        SDAD Annual Workshop Report
Abstrct 
(g) Aussesmnt on poverty               April 1994 - nov. 104    SOPU                     Povorty ProfilI
Community Survey
(a) Preparatory Activitlis             April 1904 - Aug.1994     ECAM Central Unit       Quetionnalre, saople, manuls,
User's Comittee         Staff bired  nd trained,
NOSEE/FIAVI             Data ontry prorm designd,
(b) Field Opatiotn                    Sep. 194 - Ouc. 1994       ECU Centrol Unit        C_mnity quetionairett Iullfilled
00
(c) Date Processing                    Oct. 1994 - Jan. 1996    ECUM Central Unit        Socie-econcic data ba s
Price reportingat sysem 
o z
Co_unity data first anlysis        February 1996             ECAM Central Unit       Statistical Abstract
(d) Proemtation of tho Statistical    (Febrary 195              SOAD Secretariat         51AD Anel Workshop Reort
Abtract



- 45 -                                      ANNISX 2
Page 8 of 10
I
.   _~~~~~~~~~~~~~6
_    _
'   i.   =      3   _0 
8.6
_    _4_          _  
ii        i       y - a   C
1 g !33.  



-  32  -
for less than 5 years to 15 percent for assets held over 20 years).26/
In some cases and in periods of inflation, the capital gains tax can raise
the real effective tax rate to over 100 percent. A further disincentive is
the use of historic cost as a basis for calculating depreciation, as
stipulated by the tax code. In a situation where asset prices rise rapidly
due to exchange rate adjustments, profits (and taxes) are inflated, and
eventually firms will have difficulty replacing their assets. The lack of
general carryover of operating losses would deter investment particularly
in ventures that expect returns in the longer term or face more than
average risks. High capital gains taxes would also deter firms from
engaging in mergers and acquisitions which are badly needed for
rationalization of the manufacturing sector, including the divestiture of
SOEs. In the present situation where many firms in the industry are
operating at low levels of capacity utilization with run down plant and
equipment and high production costs, mergers and sales to consolidate the
industry can help. The high tax on capital gains and dividends will also
deter equity financing; at present rewards of successful ventures are
largely taxed away, and investors are likely to choose a safer outlet .or
their funcds (e.g., tax-exempt government bonds or foreign currency
holdings).
3.36      All dcmestic earnings of foreign companies and individuals are
subject to the same taxes as for Ghanaians except for the Selective Alien
Employment Tax for each expatriate employed (¢.500,000 each year) unless
exempted by the GIC. There is a minimum tax of 35 percent on total income
of foreign businesses. Ghana has currently no active double taxation
agreements with investor countries.
3.37      Suggestions for Reform.  The Government is currently reviewing
investment taxation in order to identify the variety of taxes that fall on
investment income and increase the tax wedges on different types of
projects, and has sought assistance from the IMF.27/ For revisions of
the tax system, the following changes should be considered in order to
stimulate investment and minimize distortions in the allocation of
investment:
(i) Reduction in company income tax burden through a combination of
lower tax rates (from the current 45 to about 30 percent with ing.ediate
effect for at least manufacturing, agriculture, construction, real estate
and exports, and in a phased manner for other sectors currently subject to
50 percent rate) and an increase in capital allowances across-the-board.
Raising of allowances granted at the time of investment would be of
particular benefit to investors, by reducing the uncertainty regarding the
present value of tax obligations. To avoid distortion in investment
26/  Gains are computed on the basis of the price received from the asset
less the purchase price and allowable deductions. The free initial
allowance was increased and the rate structure was altered in the 1990
budget. Although the tax has not been shifted to an inflation
adjustment basis, the previous treatment of capital allowances in the
calculation of the capital gains tax is to be discontinued.
27/ See IMF, Ghana: Revitalizing the Private Sector Through Capital
Income Tax Reform, February 1990.



_  2  £   g          2
uhf   I   ggflf  j  H,I
liii 1 fT liii II!
lit  I   I    i11'  U:
[I
I             'Ii-
'p
  4.    4.                     1
[I
'liii    I
iii
I. i'*
hut,,, II I Ill ii
' r  r' in  r  r r
I                        mR
I.            Ii
- -           Pu
'p.       II
i                    it
.'X5X2                     3
II1    I5
-'V            S.,
liii t I III 1111
:Ii
'I  £         -  I  '
0       -  S
0*   -  iI             III
Pjj   I           if
ii
*
'p
013001 *S'd
?XWW               - -



- 48 -
ANNEX 3
Page 1 of 2
CENTRAL AFRICAN REPUBLIC
SOCIAL DIMENSIONS OF ADJUSTMENT AND DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
BENEFICIARY ASSESSMENT
1.    Beneficiary assessments are qualitative surveys directed towards
operational ends, to bring an awareness of the cultures of the peoples of a
country into both national planning and sectoral work. In CAR, beneficiary
assessment would provide inputs in two principle areas, the development of
core public expenditure programs, particularly as regards health and primary
education, and the women in development component of the SDAD Project,
especially concerning the attendance of girls at primary school and the
development of a family law. It is expected that insights and information
gleaned from this work would also be useful to Bank-supported sectoral
activities in health and education; the former in preparation and the latter
in the ongoing Education Rehabilitation and Development Project.
2.    The beneficiary assessment would be conducted under the supervision of a
steering committee composed of representatives of the three ministries
concerned (Planning, Education, and Health and Social Affairs), the UNDP, and
the World Bank, and an Assessment Director. This group would participate in
the formulation of interview and participant observer guides, the review of
the sampling, and the selection of team personnel. There would be a formal
progress review on the basis of a brief progress report mid-way through the
field work and verbal briefings to the committee by the assessment Director on
a monthly basis.
3.    The assessment should take six months, as follows:
-     1 month of preparation, of which,
2 weeks of training of the team, and
2 weeks for a field test;
-     3 months of field work;
-     1 month of data tabulation; and
-     1 month of final report writing.
4.    Conversational int 'rviews would be conducted around preselected topics
deemed important to Ministry personnel with representative samples of the key
ethnic groups in the country (tentatively: Sara, Coula, Yakoma, Banda, and
Baya). In addition, all interviewers would live In villages and conduct
intensive participant observation for a contextual complement to the more
quantifiable interviews.
S.    The team would be composed of 18 persons, to be divided into siz field
teams of three each, five for the five ethnic regions of the interior and the
other team for the poorer neighborhoods of Bangui. Team members could be
selected from the Community Development Department (rural and urban) of the
Social Affairs Secretariat of the M$istry of Health and Social Affairs, the



- 49 -
ANNEX 3
Page 2 of 2
research and evaluation divisions of the Ministries of Health and Education,
the Peace Corps (which has expressed an interest and is well viewed in the
CAR), NGOs, private research institutes, and the University.
6.    The sample covered would be selected along the followlng lines: in rural
areas each interviewer would live in one village and visit five other villages
in the same sub-region. Thus, the 15 interviewers should cover 90 villages.
If each village is of an average population size of 300, or 60 households, and
interviews are conducted in 12 households per village (202), 1,080 rural
households would be interviewed. In Bangul, three neighborhoods would be
covered. 120 households per neighborhood or 360 urban households, making a
total of 1440 households interviewed in 93 camiunities of the country.
7.    Once program activities have comaenced, beneficiary assessments may be
conducted at key points over time as a complement to the Priority Survey to
provide feedback to project managers and policy makers on the reactions of
beneficiaries to planned interventions.



- 50 -
ANNEX 4
Page 1 of 8
CENTRAL AFRICAN REPUBLIC
SOCIAL DIMENSIONS OF ADJUSTMENT AND DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
WOMEN IN DEVELOPMENT
I. Background
1.    Women constitute more than half the adult population of the Central
African Republic. They contribute significantly to CAR's economic and social
development, though in ways that are not captured in national accounts
statistics. They tend, therefore, to be largely *invisible", often
overlooked, undervalued, or taken for granted. Women dominate agriculture, as
they constitute close to 57 pei:ent of the agricultural labor force.  Their
produactive activity in agricult4re is largely limited to the non-cash
subsistence sector, where they have a preponderant role in foodcrop
production. Women retain the traditional responsibilities for child rearing
and the welfare of the family; they are responsible for processing foodcrops,
preparing food, and have a heavy workload of domestic tasks, including the
time-consuming burdens of fetching fuelwood and water. Their significant,
though largely unmeasured, participation in the informal sector benefits the
economy and represents a potential source of higher efficiency and
productivity growth.
2.    In the absence of detailed survey data, there is little reliable
information about the contribution of women to national or household income;
even where data are available, these are not usually disaggregated by gender.
However, since the bulk of women's work is outside the cash economy, their
contribution is probably low, at least as measured in conventional terms.
This in turn leavea women with a lesser share in the disposal of household
assets and less control over the pattern of domestic expenditures.
3.    The contribution of women to CAR's economic and social development is
made in the face of severe cultural, institutional, physical, and economic
constraints. Women are 1.5 times more likely to be illiterate as adults than
men (illeteracy rate is 81 percent for women against 52 percent for men),
while scarcely half of primary school-age girls are enrolled in school,
compared with 81 percent of boys. Lack of access to adequate health care,
especially Maternal and Child Health (MCH) services, is reflected in continued
high levels of maternal mortality (8 per 1000 live births) and poor health In
general, exacerbated by repeated pregnancies and heavy work burdens, which
also limit opportunities for engaging in economically productive activities.
Women are at a particular disadvantage with respect to their legal status, as
laws are often discriminatory, poorly adapted to their needs, inconsistent or
in conflict with customary practice, or simply not applied.



- 51 -
AMX 4
Page 2 of 8
4.    The key constraints limiting women's productivity and realization of
their potential contribution to CAR's economic and social development ares (a)
women's low level of literacy and education; (b) women's low access to and the
poor quality of basic health services, especially MCH services; (c) the
ambiguity and uncertainty of women's legal status; (d) the severe burden of
household and farming chores; (e) the lack of access to productive assets,
notably credit. To these must be added the fact that traditional male
attitudes toward the role and place of women in society also constitute an
impediment to expanding and improving women's productive potential and
earnings capacity. Underlying any efforts to address these constraints is
therefore the need to ensure that men and women in CAR are convinced that
gender equality in society is in their best interest and that of their
children.
It. Government Policy and Institutional Framework
5.    In recent years the Government has taken important initiatives to
address the problems facing women in CAR and to promote integration of women
into the country's economic and social development. A series of seminars held
in 1981 and 1985 laid the foundation for initiating institutional reform and
identified key sectors of activity and operational priorities. The Department
for the Promotion of Women (DPF) was established in the Ministry of Health and
Social Affairs (MSPAS), initially with the task of monitoring female training
and women's outreach centers in both rural and urban areas. With technical
and financial assistance from UNFPA and UNICEF, the Government established a
documentation center, conducted initial research on the role and socio-
economic conditions of women in CAR, created an Interdepartmental Task Force
on Women (ONC) in 1987 to ensure coordination between the DPI and other
agencies, and devoted a seminar in 1988 to articulating a National Policy for
the Promotion of Women (NPPW), which was subsequently adopted by the Council
of Ministers in 1989. The DPF is currently responsible, with UNDP and UNICEF
support, for disseminating the NPPW and preparing an action program to
translate the policy goals into tangible projects and programs.
6.    The NPPW demonstrates that the Government is keenly aware of the
constraints facing women in CAR, of the loss to society and the economy
resulting from failure to address them, and the importance of strong political
commitment to integrating women effectively into the development process.
Though the NPPW does not seek to articulate a comprehensive women's promotion
policy, as, for example, there is very little discussion of health concerns,
it does provide a valuable basis for orienting and prioritizing Women in
Development (VID) actions. The NPPY places particular emphasis on the
pervasive educational and legal constraints facing women, as indicated In
para. 4 above, and calls for focussed research and analysis of these
constraints, leading to concrete actions, such as preparation and adoption of
a family code, to alleviate them.
7.    The NPPW pays particular attention to the uncertain legal status of
women in CAR, an issue which has also been the focus of attention of the Union
Democratique des Femmes Centrafricaines (UDFC), the Central African women's



- 52 -
ANNEX 4
Page 3 of 8
association, supported by the country's sole political party. Problems of
ambiguity and inconsistency in legal texts, of conflicts of laws, i.e.,
between modern law and customary practice, and non-application of lava (even
if they are responsive to women's concerns), all contribute to uncertainty and
insecurity for women with respect to their legal status.   These problems are
particularly apparent in the area of family law, which has not been codified
in modern law, resulting in the co-existence of dualistic and contradictory
systems, especially as concerns marriage, inheritance and divorce. Though
efforts to draft a family code began in the mid-1960s, the Government
reactivated the process in 1989, through the NPPW. when it appointed new
members to the drafting committee that had been established. The civil status
registration system, which constitutes the foundation for individual and
family law, is being reorganized to provide an adequate basis for the legal
reform.
8.    Given the importance of education to human capital development, the MPPW
also stresses the need to improve female literacy and girls' education. The
IPIW identified the low school attendance rate of girls as one of the major
obstacles to effective integration of women into development, and recommended
that further studies be undertaken to prepare an action plan to expand
education for women. Three key areas were identified: (i) improvement of
girls' enrollment in primary and secondary schools, including reduction of
dropouts; (ii) reorientation of female vocational training to correspond to
labor market demand; and (iii) improvement of adult literacy programs. To
take particular account of the multisectoral nature of this work, the
Government has set up three technical groupss two interministerial committees,
one to prepare and monitor the program to increase female school enrollments,
and one to secure improvements in female vocational training; and an ad hoc
committee to ensure improvement in the fight against illiteracy. The main
task of these committees will be to supervise the Ministry of National
Education (MEN), the Ministry of Labor and the DPF in carrying out preparatory
studies and in defining and adopting the action plan, and finalizing TORs.
9.    Just as important in the CAR context, though, is that the NPPW stresses
the institutional constraints facing women, and proposes a series of measures
to build institutional capacity to address them. An in-depth assessment of
DPI's role and capacity was carried out with UNPPA assistance, in the light of
which the NPPW proposed that the DPF's mission be reoriented toward research
and the provision of policy and methodological guidance on gender issues,
monitoring and evaluation of sectoral operations from a gender perspective,
and training and information activities. This recognizes the need for
strategic policy focus and operational guidance, while facilitating the
longer-term task of providing for effective mainstreaming of gender concerns
within operating ministries and agencies. At the same time, ONC, which
constitutes the liaison between the DPI and other Government bodies working on
issues affecting women, has been reorganized along sectoral lines, with four
divisions covering rural development; healths law and informationt and
employment, trade and industry.



- 53 -
ANNEX 4
Page 4 of 8
10.   UNDP, and UNFPA are continuing to provide capacity-building assistance
to DPF and ONC, as well as to other agencies involved in promoting women's
concerns, in a framework that is closely coordinated with the assistance
proposed under this component of the SDAD Project. Specifically, to support
the institutional reorientations proposed in the NPPW, UNDP and UNFPA would
provide DPF with light equipment, vehicles, and technical assistance. In
parallel. other Bank-supported operations, benefiting from the analysis
carried out through the NPPW, are helping to address some of the particular
constraints affecting womens health constraints are being addressed through
the planned Health Sector Adjustment Operation, which includes micro-level
health plans for provision of MCH and support to two NGOs, Association
Centrafricaine pour le Bien-Etre Familial (ACABEF) and Education Maitrise a la
F6condit4 (EMW), in the delivery of services in family planning and nutrition.
Constraints affecting women's access to financial resources are being
addressed through the recently [approved) Enterprise Rehabilitation and
Development Project, notably its pilot micro-enterprise scheme which has
ailocated 66 percent of credit to female entrepreneurs. Preparation of the
action plan for women's education will be closely coordinated with the Bank's
education sector work and would be implemented through the next education
sector operation (FY94).
III. The WID Component
A.    Objectives
11.   The principal objective of the WID component is to strengthen Government
institutional capacity to address gender-based constraints facing women in
CAR, and to enhance the contribution of women to the country's social and
economic development. Specifically, it aims to build up the capacity of the
DPF to provide policy direction and operational guidance to line ministries as
they integrate gender concerns into their operations, while at the same time
laying a solid foundation for addressing the key legal and educational
constraints affecting women in CAR highlighted in the NPPW. Taking account of
the complexity of the issues involved, and given the prevailing traditional
attitudes toward women's abilities and socio-economic role, the component also
aims to support Government efforts to further develop the NPPW, and to
sensitize both men and women to the benefits of enhancing women's role in
social and economic development.
B.    Description
12.   The component would include the following activitiess (i) institutional
strengthening of DPF in the areas of policy direction, coordination and
research; (ii) assistance in drafting and adopting a Central African family
code, as well as in review and updating of legal texts affecting women; and
(iii) preparation of an action plan to strengthen female literacy and
education, based on gender-sensitive studies of the determinants of school
enrollments, the causes of high dropout rates, measures to improve the



- 54 -
ANNEX 4
Page 5 of a
relevance of vocational training for women, and improvement of adult literacy
programs.
ti) Institutional Strengthening of DPP
13.   To strengthen the institutional capacity of DPP, the component will
finances (i) the services of a statisticianlsystem analyst for 12 months and a
training specialist for 12 months: (ii) 4 months of consulting services to the
Directorate of DP?; (iii) training and seminars, covering management, project
evaluation, archive management, and information, coomunication and education;
(iv) one microcomputer and other offices equipment; and (v) costs of
rehabilitation of existing office of the Directorate and that of the
documentation center of the DPI; and (vi) incremental operating costs. IDA
support to DPF has been defined in conjunction with, and is complementary to,
a US$250,000 program of capacity-building assistance being provided to the DP?
by UNFPA and UNDP.
(ii) Preparation of a Family Code and Review of Legal Texts
14.   The Government has outlined a process for defining and implementing a
family code requiring four interrelated actions: (i) drafting; (ii) review;
(iii) enactment; and (iv) implementation/enforcement. The critical drafting
aspect of the process will aim to address the following requirements: (a)
ensuring technical soundness (e.g., addressing problems of conflicts of law,
and avoiding inconsistencies with the Constitution, international conventions
ratified by CAR, and other codes); (b) establishing the rationale for the
code to aid in application and enforcement; (c) identifying the relationships
between the new code and economic, social, and political realities, so as to
discern the function and likely consequences of the code; and (d) ensuring the
relevance of the new code as determined by the intended beneficiaries.
15.   The technical task of drafting the code will be undertaken by the
members of the drafting committee, comprising eight magistrates and two
officials of MSPAS. They will draw on other areas of expertise, such as legal
scholars, experts in customary law, anthropologists, as well as women's groups
and legislators, in preparing the draft code. Key actions to be undertaken by
the drafting committee ares (i) identification of customary law and practice,
based on a survey and inventory of customary practices which will be
undertaken with UNDP and UNFPA financing in late 1991; (ii) articulation of
the new code (including provisions for sanctions) taking account of the
historical and cultural context and compatibility with customary practices;
and (iii) identification of relevant pragmatic models which demonstrate the
efficacy and advantages of the reforms contained in the code. The component
will finance a study tour for three members of the drafting committee to other
African countries where family codes have been enacted (Congo, Burkina Paso,
and Togo), in order to learn from the experience of these countries.
16.   The review process will aim to overcome anticipated resistance to the
application of and compliance with the new code through broad participation
and education activities from the inception of the process. It will involve



- 55 -
ANNEX 4
Page 6 of 8
not only the formal judicial system but also local coauunities, experts in
customary law, the legislature, and women's groups. It will require
assessment and integration of local community reactions to the proposed
reforms, as well as workshops with representatives from the judiciary and
legal profession, the legislature, customary law experts, women's groups and
NGOs. It is expected that drafting and review will require several iterations
and revisions, prior to submission of a final text for enactment. The
component will finance the organization of a seminar at the national level to
review and revise the draft text, while beneficiary assessments are undertaken
to ensure relevance to the needs of intended beneficiaries. In parallel, UNDP
and UNFPA will finance the review process at the regional/comiunity level.
17.   Dissemination of information on the legal reform and women's rights is a
key factor for effective drafting and review of the family code, as well as
for its application and enforcement. From the outset, therefore, intensive
sensitization campaigns on women's role, economic contribution, and legal
rights are an indispensable underpinning to the reform process, especially as
this involves changes in attitudes and expectations. Information-Education-
Coumunication (IEC) campaigns would therefore be launched, with component
support, throughout the process. The DPF, and more specifically its Women's
Training Division, would be responsible for implementing the IEC program.
18.   The phases of enactment and implementation/enforcement will also require
the involvement of women's groups, the court system, administrative bodies,
and legal support groups, as well as the legislature itself. Key actions
required will be: (i) at the enactment stage, the identification of ways to
ensure that the family code is perceived as authoritative, and assessment of
the time element in making the code effective, to minimize resistance; and
(ii), at the implementation stage, training of enforcement agents, positive
and negative sanctions to support implementation of the code,
education/sensitization of women, and local communities in the provisions of
the code, and support to women in the exercise of their rights under the code.
(iii) Action Plan to Improve Female Literacy and Education
19.   The action plan will be prepared by the Ministry of National Education,
in collaboration with the DPF and the Ministry of Labor, once four preparatory
studies have been completed, and following a national seminar to review their
findings and recommendations. The studies ares (i) analysis of causes of low
female enrollment in primary schools -- this study has begun, under terms of
reference acceptable to IDA, with financing from UNICEF, and should be
completed by August 1991; (ii) a study of the high drop-out rate in secondary
schools with an examination of possible corrective measures; (iii) a review of
existing vocational training for women and its responsiveness to labor market
demand; and (iv) a study of adult literacy programs targeted at women, and of
the needs of beneficiaries of such programs. Studies (il) and (iii) will be
carried out by the Ministry of National Education in collaboration with the
Ministry of Labor. The adult literacy study will be carried out by the
Directorate of Nonformal Education (DENF) under the supervision of the
Ministry of National Education, which has overall responsibility for these



- 56 -
ANNEX 4
Page 7 of 8
programs. It is intended that in this area the action plan would provide for
an initial pilot literacy program to be implemented through the national
education system, leading to subsequent broader regional coverage. The action
plan would also set out the content of literacy and supervisor training
programs, along with methodologies for evaluation and follow-up.
20.   To help carry out these studies and to develop the action plan, the
component will finance: (i) 5 months of local and 3 months of international
consultants. including travel and field missions, to help carry out the
studies relating to dropouts, vocational training, and adult literacy, which
would also draw on the household surveys and beneficiary assessments conducted
under the SDAD project; (ii) organization of a national seminar by the DPF to
discuss study conclusions and to outline the content of the action plan; (iii)
IEC and sensitization campaigns organized by MEN and DPF to disseminate
information on the importance and benefits of increasing female education.



CENTRAL AFRICAN REPUBLIC - WOMEN IN DEVELOPMENT
Key Activities
Major Activity                               Timetable                           Responsible Agency         Expeeted Output
1. Institutional Strengtning
(a) adoption of new orgpnIzational         draft chart to be submitted         Secrettry of State for    reorientation of WPF's mandate
structure of OPF                       to Government (Jan. 1991)           Social Affairs             towrrds more strategic function
(b) tralning of 6 staff abroad             training to start in Feb. 1902      Directorate of women's    production of 6 qualitfiod persons
for 8 to 4 months                   offaire (OPF)              In m       nt, project evaluation,
tr ining, A re_rch.
(e) in-country training of 10 staff        training to start in May 1199       TA- local consultant       production of 10 quallted Staf
for 12 month                                                   In statcecal ofttare peckaw _ ad
inforation system.
2. Logal trsmwor
(a) adoption of now system for             rorpanization of civil status      Ministry of Justieo         efficent n ystm for status
registration of eivil status           registrotion system (Jan. 1901)                                rgistration
(b) lventory of customary practiceo      survey on customry pratice          Mlinistry of Justice        production nd dscuswslon of draft
to start on 4th quate.r of 1991                                on customary ptrsctles in CAR
(e) adoption of a fmi ly code             draft of tamily cod  (Sept. 193)  Ministry of Justlco/         enactment of family code (De. 1904)
Directrate of whoono
affairs (OAP)
(d) sensitization of key target           sensitization c   lpgns on          APf                        change In target groupe' attitudes
roupS                                  women's rights (199Q, 190.
1994 and 1905)
S. Improvement of women's eduaetion
(a) adoption of action plan               study on high dropout rate          Ministry of Education      rcoemeondations A strategy to reduc
In seondary schools (Jun  1992)                               dropout rate in secondary schools
study on girles  voational         Ministry of Education/      recoemndations   strategy to reoriete
training  Jun 1992)                Ministry of Labor          voational trg to meet labor
market requirmt
study on adIt literacy             Dtrectorat  of adult       rco_ememations A stratogy for sultable
pregrm targeted at  nliterac  (DENF)                          aIt literacy  ogram for wgom  in
(June 1M)                                                     rural an  urban ares 
action plan on womeni's
education (Doc. 193M)
OD z
(b) smnitization of key target            esoitization caigns  on             AP                         chang  In target groups  attltudes      0 m
groups                                 lmortanc of girls edcation                                                                             . v
(1992, 1998 ad 1994)                                                                                  as 



- 58 -
ANNEX 5
Page X of A
CENTRAL APRICAN REPUBLIC
SOCIAL DIMENSIONS OF ADJUSTMENT AND DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
EMERGENCY ACCELERATED TEACHER TRAINING PROJECT
1.    The Current Situation.  Primary school enrollments have expanded
at an average of about 4 percent per year since 1987. Fiscal
constraints have limited the ability of the Government to increas. the
primary teacher force to respond to this expansion. At present, the
national student/teacher ratio in primary education stands at 70/1. The
situation is likely to worsen as natural wastage from the system occurs
and as demand for schooling increases as a result of demographic
pressure. Through a combination of deaths, retirements and normal
departures, and assuming the current student/teacher ratio of 70/1, a
deficit of some 250 teachers is expected between 1990-92. The National
Teacher Training College in Bambari is responsible for initial training
of primary school teachers, but its output capacity is limited to 25
teachers per year. Its two-year training program is considered costly
and somewhat removed from the realities of the classroom. Trainees are
secondary school graduates which are accepted at the college on the
basis of the number of places available.
2.    Realizing the need to address this situation, the Government has
requested IDA support to implement an emergency accelerated training
program under its Social Dimensions of Adjustment and Development
Project to overcome the expected deficit, and improve the relevance of
the training program to respond to classroom needs. The emergency
program would provide training and employment on a contractual basis to
250 trainees at the country's five regional pedagogical centers
(including increasing the output capacity of the National Teacher
Training Center at Bambari) under a system of dual formal training and
application of pedagogical tools to the classroom. The program will
have a duration of two years. The program is to be considered a pilot
exercise, which is to be evaluated and amended, as necessary, at the end
of the two year period for possible adoption as a permanent, national
training program of primary education teachers financed by the
Government. The implementation of the accelerated program would be
consistent with the objectives of the ongloing Third Education Project
(Credit 1863-CAR), which aims at improving the quality of primary
education.
3.    Objectives.  The objectives of the emergency accelerated training
program are to enable the Government to: (i) take immediate measures to
train and hire new teachers to prevent a further deterioration of
student/teacher ratios, (ii) improve the relevance of primary teacher
training programs, and (iii) reduce the costs of formal primary teacher
training through a system of dual formal training and immediate
application of acquired pedagogical tools to the classroom.



- 59 -
ANNEX 5
Page 2 of 4
4.    The Emertency Accelerated Trainina Program. Given the country's
limited employment capacity in the modern economy, a large number of
university graduates are finding little or no possibility for
employment. The accelerated teacher training program has selected among
a large number of students which have at least two years of university
studies, a qualification which is well beyond present requirements for
entrance at the National Teacher Training College, and which will
facilitate this intensite, hands-on type of training.
5.    The training program would take place at the five regional
pedagogical centers (Bambari, Bongassou, Berberati, Bossangoa, and the
CNFC in Bangui) with 50 students at each center, and would utilize a
system of theoretical and practical on-the-job training. With the
exception of the CNPC in Bangui, which provides initial primary teacher
ttaining, the remaining centers are being used almost exclussively for
in-service primary teacher training under financing by the Third
Education Project (Credit 1863-CAR), and as such, the centers are
underutilized. All centers have an adequate physical and pedagogical
capacity to handle the program. The program will be executed in 1991-
1992. The first year of training consists of five months intensive
training that alternates more traditional training in the regional
centers with more practical training obtained through observation and
sensitization internships antd then four months of responsibility in the
classroom student-teaching. The trainees will be formally evaluated at
the end of the first year of training. Three types of internships would
complement the more traditional training at the regional centers during
the Zirst year of training:
(i)   An initial se nsitization internship (of approximately
one week) would take place where the teacher trainee
would Le assigned to a school and once there would
move from class to class and observe classroom life,
student-teacher interaction, and the operation of the
school. The trainee would also use this opportunity
to talk with the students, teachers, the school
director, and parents of students to become more
familiar with the teaching environment from various
perspectives. This would enable the trainee to place
the training program, especially the more theoretical
aspects, within the proper context.
(ii) After initial training, the teacher trainee would then
be placed in a school for practical guided internships
in which the trainee is placed in a class under the
guidance of a competent teacher to practice what (s)he
has been learning. In this double teaching" the
trainee would receive feedback from the teacher on
performance and effectiveness.
(iii) The final type of internship, which would cover a total of
four months during the first year, would be practice
internships where the trainee would be placed under the
direction of a school director and would take full



- 60 -
ANNEX 5
Page 3 of 4
responsibility for a class. The trainees would be placed
either in a class where the teacher is undergoing retraining
or in a class which has been coupled with another due to
lack of teachers. During these internshipe of at least a
month, the teacher trainee would be visited a least twice by
the teacher from the regional center who would observe the
trainee's progress, provide on-site training, and answer the
trainee's questions. During the first year of training, the
teacher trainees would receive a total of four months of
practice internships (in either two one-month and one two-
month periods or in four one-month periods). Each one of
these internships would be prefaced by several days of
double teaching with the current teacher of the class.
6.    Because of the strong emphasis placed on practical on-the-job
training, these trainees would be hired by the Government as primary
school teachers during the second year of their training, under a one
year contract. They would be fully responsible for classes, where they
would take either vacant posts or take the place of a teacher being
retrained under the Third Education Project. During this second year,
the new teachers would continue to receive strong and systematic
training, both in the classroom where they are teaching and in the form
of periodic short-term seminars at the regional training centers. Their
performance will be fully evaluated at the end of the second year and
would be the basis for being accepted into the civil service. The
entire program will be fully evaluated at the end of the two years and
changes and improvements recommended, as to enable the Government to
adopt it as a national program.
7.    Output.  The training program would enable the Central African
Republic to meet the expected deficit of primary school teachers for the
period 1990192 while providing the newly trained primary school teachers
with more relevant training and experience. The emergency program goes
a long way in preventing a further deterioration in the quality of
primary education, it does not, however, take into account future losses
due to attrition, and growth in primary school enrollments due to
demographic realities. The full benefit of the program will only be
achieved after it has been evaluated and adopted to train future primary
education teachers. This program has been designed, however, to enable
the Government to take emergency short-term action to reduce its deficit
of primary school teachers to relieve constraints caused by this deficit
on its current retraining efforts, giving the Government the time it
needs to develop and reinforce its teacher training capacity with the
aid of the Third Education Project to adequately meet the future needs
of its education system.
8.    The project would cover the training costs (CFAP 35,000
Imonth/trainee for a period of nine months) during their first year of
training; initial seminars to inform teachers at the central and
regional levels of the new training course and yearly workshops to
discuss the program; and costs of trainers to supervise the trainees
during their internships in the classroom. The Government would cover
the salaries of the trainees as teachers under a one year contract. The



- 61 -
ANNEX 5
Page 4 of 4
project would finance the costs of evaluating the trainees at the end of
their first year of training and at the end of the second year of
training as a basis for hiring the new teachers as permanent teaching
staff. Finally, the entire program would be evaluated for purposes of
introducing changes and or improvements, to enable the Government to
continue with this approach.
9.    Budgetary Implications.  Even under conservative estimates this
program vould not add additional budgetary requirements to the
Governments budget because the cost of absorbing the new trainees is
less than what the Government saves each year through losses of more
senior primary school teachers due to natural attrition and other
causes. Budget implications are as follows: Expected wage savings
during the 1991-92 period due to death and attrition would be of the
order of ClAP 319.5 million. This takes into consideration the relative
seniority of the teachers leaving the system. The costs to the
Government of hiring the new teachers under contract beginning in 1992
would be of the order of ClAP 166.2 million, or a net saving of CFAP
153.3 million.
10. Coordination and Management. The Ministry of Primary, Secondary,
and Technical Education would be the executing agency for implementing
the accelerated training program which would be carried out by the
National In-Service Training Center and the regional pedagogical
centers. The Director of the National In-Service Training Center would
be responsible for coordinating the program in close collaboration with
the Director of the Third Education Project. le would be assisted by
two educators who would be devoted full-time to the implementation of
the accelerated teacher training program.



- 62 -
ANNEX 6
Page 1 of 2
CENTRAL AFRICAN REPUBLIC
SOCIAL DIMENSIONS OF ADJUSTMENT AND DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
SUPERVISION PLAN
1.          Bank Supervision Input into Key Activities.  The staff input
indicated in the table below is in addition to regular supervision needs
for the review of progress reports, procurement actions, correspondence,
etc. (estimated for this project to require 6 staff weeks during the
first project year, 4 staff weeks per year during the two following
project years, and 3 staff weeks per year thereafter).
2.          Borrowers's Contribution to Sugervision.
(a)   Progress Reports are to be submitteds
31)      describing the progress of all components of the
Project, problems encountered, solutions
adopted, use of funds, and the program of work
for the following semester;
(ii)      at the end of June and December of each year;
(iii)      by the SDAD Secretariat in the Planning Ministry
until such time as the functions of the
Secretariat are assumed by other divisions of
the Planning Ministry, after which by the
division to which this task will be assigned.
(b)   Project monitoring and coordination will be the
responsibility of the SDAD Secretariat until such time as
the functions of the Secretariat are assumed by other
divisions of the Planning Ministry, after which they will be
the responsibility of the division to which this task will
be assigned. Review meetings with the participation of the
various project agencies will be held at least quarterly.
These meeting will be chaired by the Project Manager.
(c)   The SDAD Secretariat or whatever agency assumes these
functions will be responsible for coordinating arrangements
for Bank supervision missions, and for providing information
required by missions.
(d)   Mission briefing meetings on arrival, and wrap-up meetings
will normally be chaired by the Project Manager with the
participation of representatives of the project agencies.



- 63 -
AJI3 6
-Page 2 of 2
Bank Supervision Input Into IKey Activities
(n*Je/et)                                                 Iapew.d Skill Neelrmet    Stf Int  Ctaf-
Actlv)tp                            W_.                           -)
0/li   smacipalon Nimio  (Project Lauench        2tna.st                                .0
Proueme_nt                            1.0
ml-0we1        Raw;*. of 0tailed Plow for:
(a) rahabu ittion ofd0     d 8 wStatiati                                       1.0
Cd) !t,adba for  o'.
edwce4ion ~ ~       ~      emmio
1/ti         Sinpereisin. tNi_i_                       Neeapaaa                              2.0
(to reviatart-up. A * iplowntation of   VW                                     2.0
orpae  ational orrang.onfta)             Satiaicae                              S.0
Bneficiary A.se..
8/01          upeewi.1ea I Itmi                        StiotlaIca 
(s.tlatisca. rev&m of Olen foer inteprted 
surver)
4/t2         Review of Pln fore:
(a) aKtion #ian fore ommia                 am                                  1.5
education
cb) fe";ily ewee
(c) bid document foe
rehabilitation (1.0)                                                     -_*5.T
1/98          so .ei.o   Mosiem                                                              2..0
1/110|Si                                               _      *                              2.0
*a) Drwop    fot Iot                     StafSWtica                            8.0
tnteration atratay)
«b) *;It and *plan. foe'
; ple_natln;                        WIn                                   8.0
Cc) t pelentatio  ammre
for lctio  action plan ;
Ci) ipitions o etion                     Edctiona 
1    _|-| Ft_|<_     IW_XtID                                4~~~~~~~~~.0
of training prosram)
MTh   bpF e,laion Miami...                            i"e      t nD                          4.0
FY9          Thr_ sewidio  Mimelgon                   =ltimntjAlD                            4.0
FM           Tha              $1etoMome (liclding oe  lfnammntAW                             4.0
to prepare P0)                           Stetiatic.                           I#.+



- 64 -
ANNEX 7
CENTRAL AFRICAN REPUBLIC
SOCIAL DIMENSIONS OF ADJUSTMENT AND DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
COST ESTIMATES
Page
Summary Table ...#.................1
Imported Goods  ..........................2
Social Policy and Planning - Policy Design  ....................... 3
Social Policy and Planning - National Information System  ....     4
Social Policy and Planning - Beneficiary Assessment  .......7......  7
Social Policy and Planning - Study Program  ....................... 8
Women in Development - Studies on Girls' Education ................ 9
Women in Development - Adult Literacy Study      . ............ 10
Women in Development - Preparation of an Action Plan.........  11
Women in Development - Preparnition of Family Code         .    . 12
Women in Development - Institutional Strengthening ............... 13
Accelerated Teacher Training Program - Primary School Teachets ... 15
Project Management Unit ......       ..........     ..     ...... 16



SUMMY TABLE
(in usa thousands)
Phystel         Price
Social              Emer9ncy                           Contingencies    Contingencies
Policy   Women In    Teacher    Project                         ------------------------
& Panning  Development   Training Managemnnt      Total       S      Amount    X      Amount
I. DZKESTMENT COSTS
A. Consultoat Services
1. Lc¢al Conultant            2.1       80.6         0.0       11.5      114.1      6.0X       6.7  10.13       11.6
2. Foreign Consultant       808.0       181.7       11.8      126.1       572.6     C.OS      28.0  11.5X       05.6
8. Studie                   707.0        0.0         0.0        0.0       787.0     O.OX       0.0  0.03         0.0
Sub-total                    1,142.1      162.1        11.0      18.6    1,458.7       2.4S      84.8  5.83       77.2
. TrJealmoiSmtlnere            846.8      184.0        82.7        0.0      518.9      5.03      25.0  12.7X      66.2
C. Civil Works                 115.4       11.5        0.0         0.0      126.9    10.03       12.?  10.0S      12.6
G. Equipmet and Vehicles
1. EquIp., Furo., Sooks     211.4      40.5          0.0       87.0      819.7    10.03       82.0 10.13       82.4
2. Vehicles                 57.1        75.0         0.0       25.2      679.4    10.0%       67.9  9.0X       60.9
Sub-totel                      701.5      148.6        0.0        08.0      99.0    10.03        09.0  9.83       98.8
Total DIESTENWT COSTS        2,006.8      452.1       44.5       200.6    8,098.6      5.6X     172.0  8.03      240.8
U.   AWAIT COsT
Operating Cete
1. Euipmet Usatoesce        146.2      1U.5          142       18.8      172.7    10.0X       17.8  16.1%      26.1
2. Vehicle Malitance        191.0       16.9         0.0        7.5      210.8    10.03       21.6  15.83      8J.0
a Foel/ae.l                 509.0       80.8         0.0         .6      602.9    10.03X      02.9 16.23       96.4
4. Publicatlon                4.0        2.8         0.0        0.0        0.8    10.OX        0.0 15.13        1.0
5. covenment Pereonnel      186.0      126.6       489.2        0.0      001.7      0.03       0.0  9.7%       77.0
S. Rcrultod Personel      1,182.1        9.7       461.6       06.9    1,700.8      O.OX       0.0 12.13      205.1
7. Other                      1.5        7.1        0.0        82.8       00.9    10.03        0.1 14.90        9.1
ToUl MEC1RIT COSTS           2,250.7      224.8      951.9       160.2    8,57.0       8.03     100.5 12.6%      447.4
Tota 1LSSELIHE COSTS         4,647.0      076.4      006.4       800.0    6,680.6     4.2%      261.1 10.4%      096.8
Physlcal Costlnge!cis       220.1       89.1         2.8       19.5      201.1      O.OX
Price Coetingence           409.6       00.7        71.4       44.1      696.8      4.50      81.4
Tax"s                      (48.7)      (61.4)       0.0       (21.7)    (580.0)    9.1%      (40.0)
Total PROJECT COSTS          4,802.9      764.0    1,070.2       402.7    7,120.0     8.7x      268.0  9.03      696.0
Foreln Exchang            2,767.6      809.6        14.4      281.2    8,892.8      6.6X     22m.4                               
-9x



- 66 -                            A
Page 2 of 16
In CPA Fromm.
QUMTIIY              TOTAL     VALUE          IroR  oUTY
1991    10      1004    19           (0N CIA)          (000 CPA)
1. Vehicles (4x4)             1J       2       0        0      15  112,500          5,525.0
2. Vehicles (light)            8       0        0       0       S   18,500           6,10.0
S. c _spwb. K S106             a       £       0        0 o          12,262           619.1
4. coputer PC S06              1       1        0       0       2    4,715            285.0
S. Pier  eon cSt.)                     4        0       0       7    8,674            198.7
6. Printer (loser)             1       0        0       0       1    1,200             0.0
7. Compuer software.           8       0        0       0       8    2,"0             127.5
0. Typwriter.                  6       8        0       0       S    2,86           1,513.4
0. Radio (eission/rsop.)       1       2        0       0       8    4,500           2,064.0
10. Von                        0       6        0       0       6       800            75.0
1.8 Sgt                        0       2       0        0       2    2,400           1,200.0
12. Dip Swich frcomputor       1       0       0        0       1        10             0.5
18. Stlb IIzero                8       1        0       0       4    $,6o0            1M0.$
14. Duplicaor.                 2       0        0       0       2    2,30            1,668.0
16. Photocopi-e                2       8       0        0       5    7,200           5,682.0
la. Airconditionsee            9       0       0        0       9    6,00            4,221.0
17.C oprocosoro                1       0       0        0       1      425             21.$
13. Book-binde                 S       U       26       0      58S   60                 64.6
10. Calculator.              s0       11       12       0      U        300          5U0.0
20. Heigh  _mmrmat             0      20        0       0      20       500           80.0
21. Slea               o      20                0       0      20       Soo            8.O
22. Rain coat.                s0      10       10       0      s0    1,260           1,080.6
2S. Drtocase                  s0       0        0       0      80      M8              23.4
25. Mobylottee                 1       5        2       0       8    2,400             88.0
26. Bicytcle                  15       0        0       0      15    1,020            147.9
TOTAL DW   OUTY (CPA)                                                               79,15U.
TOTAL IW       DuTY  SS)                                                                04.4
Sac. Rate a 260
*/ net of phystcal an price continencis



ANNEX 7
- 67 -                                 Page 3 of 16
caSiesMtt 852m tat
prongiageft co*s.. I   0e. Pje
UFf ~ ~    ~     ~    ~     U
6u|tI               UWI, Cas                  WI
" 91                                             L"# l  iron     t_tl
t.  SW lW  cotS
A. IUifbt
C_    *tt 1*                0    6    0    1 *g                11O  7    0.0    0.6   188F
b.a o_  _ t.)          1    0    0    0    1        66.10        2.4    0.0    0.1    2.6
Chas                            o    0    o    *         14.0       0.0    0.1    0.0    0.1
T"Wrlite1                0    0     0    1       27.50        1.0    0.0    0.7    1.7
tl   t    .1  o.*    1.4   104
ft. tic OM kgb.es Tug.        I               a     4    1170.40      214.6    0.0    0.0  214.0
TOW  DIUNTv  COT                                                          281.0    0.0    1.4   meJ
t1. 1501T cam
A. Go" Pftlsesel
Setae'p/l..mlt. Cu/u)      0    0    6    6   14       "1UO.0       0.0      .     0.0 U6.0
EsS.u/sI.t    . (u/u)      4    4    6    0   14  7       0.0O0     0.0   I0.    0.    10.
8.I.rw/Oinqngb Cu/u)       *    *    0    0   24        110.0       0.0      .     0.0   M6.6
. 7teel  (0.0   3.7    0.0   0.T
3. Ceate.lo (ar)
ge3ommit C (u/ )          It   12   12   12   46        10.0        0.0   U.    O.0   884.
8eel.1isIt (am            12   12   It  1U   46         U.O0        0.0   U1.,   0.0   W.
$-Ot.ty (e h)             12   12   U    1U   46         70.0       0.0   14.7    0.0   14.7
S.    eaTtet                                                             0.0            0.0
coupee                          * 1        * 1    4     20.00       8.      1.6    0.0    6.4
T rti                      1    1    1          4 *8.OO             0.8    0.2    0.0    0.4
th  ofett.i<; t            1                               A 1    1    4  .0  8.  1.7    0.0    Cs4
SIC. *$                    1    1    1    1    4        2t0.00       1.0    1.     0.0    4.6
C.m~  _P                   1    1    1    1    4        250.0        1.6    3.0    0.0    4.0
.. i_  i                             1    1^i"/iSl*  1    4  i0.°       _      _       _.8
Yates iICIitt COSTS                                                        10.6    6.1    0.0  13.-
TOUI nosaw-                                                   ma    - 
Tete                                                                  S241.7  1.0    1.4  480.1
UVit Co   $60it w 110.0* - Vlimm slead   U 1650.0  l/0/MM1 I7 tM



ANNEX 7
- 68 -                                     Page 4 of 16
cWUL AICA wUUC
3eele Otinma.I.o  .9 Adjum6m   80, .pft@j.
Table 2.l    rle  co" hUdm6.m
* ~~~~~~~~Wbtt. lie.b *elist*j1. . *w_- P3113)
Table        & Viomise                    PSIIS)
01 i C M VW,
Sceebde. of T'rue tact.Ce.mt
QUWIt Cent                 UV
62    66    64    so Tota4         "-Os  ".anch       t L.l   .s.   Total
1~~~~~~~~~~~~._ .................... _.__.............. ... ...... ...... _._ ._ ____
I. D3W1tT UIST2
A. 6,m.:Sagmia
Co._ter PC 606              0     4      0     0      4      702.45      11.6    0.0    0.,  1*3.
eadle(a(laig./recm oles)    0      2     0     0      2     223.00       16.1    0.0    O.t   21.0
P.1.4.' (6po.. wet.)        0     2      0     0      2      621."        4.7    0.0    0.2    4.9
Otff Ik.dm                  0     6      0     0      *       60.00       0.0    2.3    0.0    2.3
Clhoi                       0    20      0     0    20        14.00       0.0    1.    0.0    1.3
botatalvum                  0     6      0     0      6       ".00        0.0    2.4    0.0    2.4
$ef5.re do" v     in#       0     2      0     0      2      420.00       3.6    0.0    0.2    4.0
Vta                         0     *      0     0      6       02.60       1.4    0.0    0.4    1.6
Typwrit"                    0     2      0     0      2      247.60       1.4    0.0    0.0    2.3
SII.                        0     2      0     0      2     1600.00      11.3    0.0    t.7   17.0
Sub-Total                                                                 60.3    *.0   14.6   70.7
6l. Suhabtl tha ./CW.
Adkabi. Sevsr               0      1     0     0      1     7500.00      "..    0.0    1.6   #6.3
Slbabhiltatihn  Saii        1     0         0  0      I    1 .0          64.9    0.0    3.4   66.
Sulbi I%.   gam             O      1     0     0      1       00.0       33.6    0.0    1.6      .
Sub-7.4.1                                                         131.7 0  1 0  a0.0    6.6   3.
c. sw nt_t em_t
C       PC                  1     0      0     0a           SM3.T7       10.6    0.0    0.6   11.6
C.put  PCIM6 1              1      1           0      2     2062."       16.4    0.0    0.0  1S.$
ti   (_            .)       1      1     0     0      2      531.60       6.3    0.0    0.3    6.6
PtA  (LO)                   1     0      0     0      1     1260.00       6.4    0.0    0.3    6.7
Dig, mita fled e * mgso    1     0      0     0      1       10.60       0.0    0.0    0.0    0.0
StabUiltw                   2     0      0     0      2     1044.73       9.0    0.0    0.6    0.6
lIt.                        I     0      0     0      1     326.00        6.2    0.0    6.6   14.6
Petoewia.            1     0     0      0     1      2443.60      6.1    0.0    6.0   11.1
SuiIe(.mi_id_t/teaumai.)    1     0      0     0      1     22.00         7.2    0.0    6.1   10.4
Off IeO sms                10     0      0     0    10        80.00       0.0    3.6    0.0    $6.
Cho  P                     20     0      0     0    20        14.00       0.0    1.3    0.0    1.3
hotahetwa                   3     0      0     0      S       5.00        0.0    1.2    0.0    1.2
ACAtemr_tlo  ItC           6     0      0     0             762.36      12.9    0.0    6.    21.0
304108re dmbe a?lysm        1     0      0     0      1     16.00 .9    0.0    0.0    7.0
C-_eeamw                    1     0      0     0      1      446.2        1.9    0.0    0.1    2.0
1I1-bleder                  1     0      0     0      1      60.62        1.7    0.0    0.6    2.3
Tj,pinelWta                 1     0      0     0      1      636.60       1.7    0.0    1.1    2.9
Stb-otal                                                                  3 .9    6.0  t7.6  130.$
a. 3ew7 qleme
rOeIofe.m                  so     0      0     0    60        #.40        7.2    0.0    6.6   12.6
Solar c Ie,ltr.            60    1o    1o      0    6o        11.U        2.6    0.0    1.7    4.3
Neigt  ma.m.tet             0    20      0     0    20        41.00       2.4    0.0    1.5    $.9
Sceh (10f6,0t)             20     0      0     0    20        41.00       2.3    0.0    1.4    3.7
Iathpa.t.bmat, t            0o   1o   1o       0    so        20.39       6.9    0.0    4.6   10.7
3gb-tO4                                                                   20.3    0.0   16.0   36.3
s.  i.t.em
VehI@le (4x4)              t0     0      0     0    10    10666.00      339.6    0.0  15.6  496.6
Vehicle (I;et ln)           1     0      0     0      1     666l.00      20.4    0.0    9.3   29.7
Vhoiel (4.4)                1      1     0     0      2    10636.00      69.3    0.0   31.6  101.1
slevcihe                   1      0      0     0    1C        77.01       4.0    0.0    0.7    6.8
WobyvlIO                    0      3     0     0      2      342.00       2.6    0.0    0.4    -.2
-Ttl                                                                     437.0     0.0  1.       4.6
f. tr tmlO
ftwl. dulsp  few           1      1     0     0      2      6l0.00       4.4    0.0    0.0    4.4
*           *Irfur          1      1     0     0      2      60.00        7.1    0.0    0.0    7.1
*    Suhala. (o/d)         do    so      0     0   120        40.00      21.2    0.0    0.0   21.2
O tap.eas eiqf  *s1                1     0     0      2      560.60       4.4    0.0    0.0    4.4
*           clefs.r.        1     1      0     0      2       00.00       7.1    0.0    0.0    7.1
*       _ . ( 14)          40    60      0     0   120        40.00      21.2    0.0    0.0   21.2
0     I     1      0     $       6lO.0       S.6    0.0    0.0    6.6
*          alefsre          1      1     1     0      a      no.00       10.6    0.0    0.0   10.6
*     ub. (/ld)            6o    60    so      0   1go        40.00      32.4    0.0    0.0   32.4
7,001.2 9m 2-1                     1     °     0      3      600.00       6.4    0.0    0.0    4.6
*          Alerle           2      I     0     0      3      600.00      10.$    0.0    0.0   10.5
*          _ -em. (old)   120   06       0     0   10        40.00      31.6    0.0    0.0   31.6
3*b-Totel                                                                168.9    0.0    0.0  16S.0



ANNEX 7
- 69-                                                    Page 50Of16
0. Wellool    nr.I                                      1      4      111110.011   11.1    6..       *.o    U.
Samqple din'wI fee(34          1     41      1      *    to         *1.0        41.?1    0.0      0,0    4.1.
V*4eI       " 1er 0             I       1     0       6       1,111.0      11.4     0.0     0.0   11.41
48I. 64)        4             24      0      O        44.110      28.?      0.0     0.0    U.
42  42  o  o   84        01.00       88?      0.0      0.0   88.?
*     *I.6r            2~~~         ~~     ~~     ~ ~~~ a  0  0  4  760.00  118.61    0.0  0.0   I11.6
*whee. (14)      48     4       0      0     DO        44.110       16.?1    0.0     0.0   16.?
COMp..eeleoa Iewe (mid)        S     42      *      *     64        6100         U.?     0.0      *.0   88.?
*         A~~~~~~4I fOtO                                4       78000        18       0   0.0        1.
*  ,ilsle. (.14)     ~~~ ~~~4t    480  *    9      6        44.1         18.?     0.0     0.0   16.?
011'.,11 4"IYSl  t0Sf (aId)   41    42       0            6          1100       881.?I    0.0     0.0   88.7
*                          1~~~~~Pe    2  0     0       4       76.00        18.60    0.0     0.0   18.6
*      ube. (old)      46    48       0      *      so        44.10       it.7?    0.0     0.0   is.?
lurwpq Uethede. 80.6          41     42      0      0     64        81.00       88.?    0.0       0l0   88.?
aIrfare          2      1      0      0      4       760.0        I8.6I    0.0      0.0   p6.4
*          .~~~~~~~W o(o/4)  481    48   0      0     to           to1       16.?7    0.0     0.0   16.7
Swb-TnteB                                                   8~~~~~~~~~        ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~481.011    0.0  0.0  866.6
Prb.r.Sv.,.:fese. (elm)  4  ~~ ~ ~~4  0   0       a       7MA.0         0.0      .1     0      2.
I. gpr.surv.foee. (a/rn)       6      a      0      0      6       760.00        0.0    16.      0.0   26.7
Com.Sqry.: fame. (.10)         4      4      0      a      6       7`60.100      0.0   216.5      0.0   80.6
Sub-?ote I                                                   ~~~~ ~~~~~~~~~ ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~0.0   81. 7  0.0   62.?
7.1.1 ZV1STwIT COSTS                                                                  1271.6  100.4  261,.6  168.6
II. REcI*1Tw COSTS
A. C;;;;1,e~(o.
Teshe. OIer(rn/u)             Is     it    12    12s      4        2110.00       0.0   62.6       0.0   62.6
III make. Anslysist(eiu)      12    12    12    I2    48           1100.00       0.0   411.0      0.0   421.0
ITS SOWW.Aa.lysiot(o/*)       12t    1  12  Is is    418           160.00        0.0   88.0       0.0   U8.
ITS wthll. Aneyl~elt(4/0)     12    Is    It       is    46        160.00        0.0   88.0      0.0   $8.0
4comes.                       Is,0.la.(l) 1  it    it  11          160.00        0.0   33.0    0.0   88.01
ITS date getMerifs (rn/a)     12    12    is       12    46        140.00        0.0   886       0.0   38.0
Aseleteat etatiet. (rn/0)     12    12      1  12 is                76.00        0.0    16.7     0.0    16.7
Driver (a/rn)                 11    12    it       12    48         41.00        0.0     6.0     0.0      6.0
Sos?setry (afa)               I2    12    12       12    48         70.00        0.0    14.7     0.0   14.?
Attendat (31.)                12     It    12      12    48          0.00        0.0     0.8     0.0    0.8
ITS Uuageeeew (o/e)           is     12    12      12s    4        160.00        0.0    88.6     0.0   8811.6
Maseengrnr 6eeg.enau(Olslr)    0      *     12    i2    so          86.0         0.0     4.?     0.0     4.7
AtUsclant (a/a)                0      0     12    12    80          88.00        0.0     4.7     0.0      4.?
tTS Deoer (elmr)               0      6     12     12    80        160.00        0.0   nl.o      @.0   21.
Mgaeege so"?r (rn/a)           0      6     1t    12    so          88.00        0.0     4.7     0.0      4.?
Attendant Swerl (a/rn)         0      6     12     i2    80         66.00        0.0     4.7      0.0     4.?
CompVtor .ta.I,.t (a/rn)      12     12    1s    12    48          100.00        0.0   88.0       0.0   88.0
=aae (W/.)                    12     12    it      Is    46        160.00        0.0   16.1.6     0.0   31.5
Se retr  (a/a)             is     12    12    12s      4         70.00        0.0    14.7     0.0   14.?
Drliver (rn/rn)               12     12    12      12    48         41.00        0.0      6.0     0.0   10.011
uaaeger (rn/rn)       12~~~~~~i    12    12    12    46      88.00        0.0     7.3     0.0     7.8
Sub.-Total                                                                        0.0  4481.6    0.0  448.0
S.P*ro. refrult. (tamper.)
$%po-'ewoer  (n/rn)           so     88    13s     so    314        60.00        0.0  111.4       0.0  111.4
Enumerators (rn/a)           1SO    too    30     28     6421       00.00        0.0  21110.611    0.0  160.6
Octe entry Cpe.. Ce/a)        go     as   181    48   24            60.00        0.0   66.       0.0    U.?
Drivers (rn/r)                26     as    1812    as    M6         40.00        0.0   08.        0.0   68.4
Sub-T'oteI                                                                        0.0  611.4      0.0  611.4
C. SupeVIelee
Matiornel       s Olae(a/4)   is     40    to      to    106        10.00        0.0      4.6     0.0     4.6
0 )raecur (a/d)               26     40     to     80    106        10.00        0.0      4,0     0.0     4.6
Sireetor (aid)                21     40     10     80    106        10.00        0.0     4.0      0.0     4.6
OIr.cter (a/d)                26     40    80    to   1M            10.00        0.0      4.0     0.0     4.0
Teokelcel edviger (0/d)       40    100     40     40    120        10.00        0.0      0.0     0.0     6.6
TaoMiaeetl Sie      Po (n/d)  so     16    40      40    126        10.00        0.0      6.6     0.0     6.5
v.140. Unit (./4)             10     10    10    10    40           10.00         0.0     1.7    0.0      1.7
Iaf.r.bese uait (o/d)          0     261     0     26     so        10.00        0.0      2.2     0.0     2.2
Date, gethimelg sols(o/d)     00    100    so      60    260        10.00         0.0   10.0    0.0   10.6
S"4  Cooudine.AMit (o/d)      i6    16    16       16    60         10.00         0.0     2.0     0.0     1.6
Sub-Tel1110                                                                       0.0    60.6      0.0   60.6
0. Government  renl
fltiloel Oiatr3e                                          4       400.00         0.0    41.0    0.0   41.0
Sireeter ."at&.eit (31.)      4      4      4      4     10       160.00         0.0   10.6    0.0   10.6
Olreet.etet/dingr. (314)  ~~~4  4    4      4      10       160.00        0.0   10.6    0.0   10.6
0)reeter atet/eeeA. Ce/B)  ~~4  4    4      4      10       160.00        0.0   10.6    0.0   10.6
unit chist (31.)               8      S      8      8      12      100.00         0.0     6.21    0.0     6.2
unit Chief (a/e)               S      8      8      8      12       100.00        0.0     6.2     0.0     6.2
unit chief (a/a)               8      8      8      8      12       100.00        0.0     6.1     0.0     6.2
Units Chlef (o/e)              S      8      8       8     12       100.00        0.0     6.1     0.0     6.1
V.11 Chief (a/rn)              8      8          3  8      i1       100.00        0.0     6.1     0.0     6.1
Aseeat. satstlet  (rn/a)       8      8      8       8     12        76.00        0.0     8.6     0.0    8.6
Leelet. Steitet  (111/a1)      8      8      a       a     it        76.00        0.0     8.0     0.0     8.0
Leelet. 8861.1. (o/rn)         8      6      a       S     12        715.00       0.0    81.01    0.0    6.6
$11e6111tti A.e.t (a/a)        8      a      a       8     12        68.0,        0.0     6.4     0.0    8.4
SeeteAgent (31.)          S          8      3         12I      6".00         0.0    61.4     0.0     8.4
steltietc Agent (31.)                        a       8     12        68.1100      0.0    81.4     0.0    6.4
Sub-Tetel                                                    ~~~~~~~~~~ ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~0.0   111.7  0.0  121.



-70-                                           ANNEX 7
Page 6 of 16
caguI  *PC                          a            1      4      no.00          .1    ,,,    0.0    ,1,
c_~sW         U  *c  _                    6 ,          6 *    20  *0.00      5.1    4.,    0.0    7.o
P'teWv (lames au4 1_7                    7      7    3         16.00        4.0    *._    0.0   10.1
I4_   a      1      1 z   4        Mall O..    1.2               0.0    1.9
I     g      I     I      S        86*  *   as.00  0.6    o.    @.o    a.3
u     I      2     i               61.00       0.0    1.8    0.0 ..2
Otot     g  m.               t      a      a     a              W 0.,        a.     6.4    0.0    g0.e
t      s1tow                 *      *     4      4    t         4.70         1.4    1.1    0.0 °     .6
Pt                           a J          a      a    i2       1o0.o0        S.?    5.6    0.0    6.2
t1"me                        1      a     a      a      4      800.00        1.5    S.1    0.0    6.6
0   d  ltbee1pmma            1      1     1      I      6      no.oo         *.C    5.    0.0    *.
C    _o  eIts,               5      0     0      0      4      10.00        1.24    6.0    0.0    s.,
OtCw6  'welles              18     1     1       5      *      uO.          uoo   aa.s    0.0   ".111
14bt ul                                                                    100.0   56.6    0.0  15.?
P. veblel. UeInteaseee
WSiuelde (4s.)              is    is    is    it    40          0.00       1".    56.4    0.0  156.?
V66l*l-  stae"e)             2      1     2      1      S O.00              16.1    6.9    0.0   13.1
SlqeIes                     o0   00    s0    so   10            ".00        t1.?    5.0    0.0   16.?
Slepi"m                     sO    *0    so    sO   Ito           6.0         1.6    1.4    0.0    3.0
0eels vehicleg,            NO    M60   UO    M0  1400            ".16      436.6    0.0  140.3  001.0
no0   o0   #0 n     60  1400        t1.36       P.S     0.0   S1.1  11.4
tdFl                                                 tB.   ".t   "0~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~.$   W.A
Trotl N[S? Cost                                                                   1101O  115.1  1S6A0.341.
rdkl oir  an                                                 ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~easona Monca   *90-lm GOMa
16.  15.7  "4.1  P3.$
VitS Cese lsgeled bp 100.0 -vale.. "edau by 100.0  6/16/156   14:3e



-71-                                         ANNEX 7
CO.,L m       t ,ca                    Page 7 of 16
Oloio0 _     of djuwm    * Sol. Poo
pE.joIt  atIlmo
coot Table    Co
r*|* $. V  COMio     1.. .
quaa,It,| us; Coot                     use
_ -                                  _
To"l oward0    0                     0      00Toal cam*.uoi  Lca   Ta...  ToI
I.    -         COST
A. Wobble
Vehlel (4.4)              0      I     OI                  066..00      618     0.0     t.1    1.1
-.e.    _ .     .,,.   . _
Total IWvISIWY       1                                     so                  8.08   0.0    0.0   51.5
tU. hEC~UITI CUTS
A. C.att.uls (e/m)
lOoto  ('i)              6      8     a      a    ii       800.00      0.0   10.6    0.0   10.6
tas L054  (s/n           00  )        16    16    10       206.00       0.0   8.0    0.0    0.
t~Vie.srs (0/)           00    80      0     0   ISO       116.00       0.0  101.1    0.0  101.1
Swtw (s )                        a     8      8    16        0.00       0.0    8.9    0.0    6.9
Sub-Total                                                                0.0  206.4    0.0  106.4
S. £q.tm
so    les                 I      0     0      0 o           850.oo      0.?    .1    0.0    1.0
C. Vehitle mbetssa.ao
selasiwe "eI,l* 4*4              1     1 S          4       i0.00       11.C    0.0    8.5   11.4
Oaole                   10t60  f20   "S0  2100  "to          0.24       r.6    1.9    0.0    0.4
-    -      -oo   -01-
SubtC Totl                                                              10.0    1.0    8.=   24.0
Toetal                                                                      66.1  206.8   20i.0  265.6
halt Ceut Sualo  b 1000.0 - Vaue i celot b 1000.0 6{/16/00   10:48



ANNEX: 7
-72-                                     Page 8 of 16
cN1m-  1Co"  IWWIm"
S..I.I0ImI    r iiu aat    o.,.saw    Pc.i.i
PwJ ~~~~~~~tmk eq 'rut lolC"
pc.Jat C ~    110t 1 CO"                V
t..*,b,.             .
cPau
*tebsn   f?0I 1*dl t.Ce.
W~ ~  UUl W    U  es     ~     g      Pt.      AitU5         T
I. 2     C  CT
A. @01mg' studigs            0    1    I    1    a    06000.00         UC.O0  575.0    0.0  M76.0
s. OIc- facoib1I1t, q%4       1    0    0    0    1       44e0@00       0.5    8.5    0.0   17.0
t*tU  ItlWt  CUT                                                        306.6  808.m    0.0  707.O
I.t.t                                                                 368.M      "J5.-    0.0  T7.0
Unit Coes Segled by 1000.0 - Velu. sae i   10110.0 S/1=1  10t48



ANNEX 7
Page 9 Of 16
CURIM. A60CM %~ULC
So lelOmaeleas of &Iajoamt a so...... 00.jas
TibI?. Uns.  P..j.t Cat Latlasto
0.v.lI... (soudi, on Gils,, edsatla)
gtal led cot Table
CPAP
Spt.sbwm of Totalo Reel.Co".t
01atlep             unit Cogt                  us$
I. ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~~~t*                                U*W CCUTS
nt         so   es Tsu        ft-u      p such   1.0      Ton       *ofjo
D .  _M M   Cut....... ... .... ....... ......... ............... ...........  ........
A. irl*,e' c  VA
Le. Cs.I few *             6      0    0    0             2.00         0.0    4.0    0.0    4.0
best'. Coot tos (days)            0    0    0             0 *1.00     10.2    0.0    0.0   10.2
*              cItfate     1I0r0    0    1               70.00        8.4    0.0    0.0    8.4
e                ssI      so      0    0    0   tO        44.20         .     0.0    C.0    r.7
10.8    4.0    0.0   24.
S. Voe.tlo .Tc._utlo
Bgat,. Con. ton (de)    to    0    0    0   to            01.00       10.2    0.0    0.0   10.2
*              *i$.,        I    0    0    0    1        1`0.00        8.4    0.0    0.0    8.4
*              subst1"     80    0    0    0   80         44.20        6.?    0.0    0.0    *.t
LenI  Com.:fs  (ds)        2      0    0    a    to       22.00        0.0    2.5    0.0    2.6
Sb-l                                                                     .8    2.6    0.0      .
T"a  Z TMw   CCtS                                                            U.        .4    0.0   46.1
U. 10W1 COUTS
A. ilelatryf Ldusetlo
Cher" de eitoe;o            2    a    0    0    2        400.0         0.0    2.6    0.0    2.6
Chtae  ew.is                I    0    0    0    1         100.00       0.0    0.4    0.0    0.4
Toehaole6es                 8    0    0    0    8          76.00       0.0    0.0    0.0    0.0
sorery                      1    0    0    0              40.00        0.0    0.2    0.0    0.2
Sulf-etal                                                               0.0    4.0    0.0    4.0
6. MItI     of Labeo
Toshaiebaa                  2    0    0    0    2          76.00       0.0    0.6    0.0    0.6
Ttl MCT   Cost                                                                0.0    4.6    0.0    4.6
Ttat                                                                       86.?   12.0    0.0   60.7
UiIt Coaft Sealed by 1000.0 - Vaiveeeselald by 1000.0 5/16/1001  10:8?l



_  74                                           ANNEX  7
Page 10 of 16
CUgThA4 *83CM WWLCe
Prjc co" tes ic
OIm..iaeo .1 Ade   (*"I' ilOew.. Prftet)
tiabe.._ tin     il_*t Estlateei5raQ eti)
CFAP
*    1ee&d., of tala Ifa.l.Coat.
b.lty,v           UlIt Co"t                   U
9 _ 95   94            .      ~ ...n~ ,oa Y,        ,  .         ..
Ol   so   96 T."             "-1    F.Esch  #.oc* I       Z To;;yo 
1.  tw o    COS
A. Feasbility  l%                                                            .
Looi onet. t" ad   20    0    0    0                      21.                   .4    0.0    2.4
inAral  ooam"It. f*e       2    0    0    0   25           0.8        0.0     0.0    0.0    0.0
*             subs.       s0    0    0    0   s0o          0. 1       0.0     0.0    0.0    0.0
*             AIr fAI      1    0    0    0    1         760000      8.4      0.0    0.0    2.4
Loal trips subs.         106    0    0    0   108          5.00       0.0    2.3    0.0    2.t
T?eeb",t. *J Iweo""              0    0    0    6        100.00       0.0    3.S    0.0    8.5
Sub.-Ttl                                                                .4     6.      0.0   11.5
YOW  DEvw  cWT                                                                8.4    *.1    0.0   11.
It. NcWm_w Cmo
A. @ovanat" Posa.l
Director  8W  (t/a)        I    0    0    O       1      250.00        0.0     1.0    0.0    1.0
Cltw e 4. *Vico (*/.)      S    0    0    0    s         100.00        0.0     1.2    0.0    :..
Tooc"lolaIa  (.1.)         3    0    0    0    3          75.00        0.0    0.9    0.0      0.§
Sub-t"o r                                                               0.0    3.2    0.0       8.2
YOUa$ NECUNTm  COSTI0.                                                                8.2    0.0    8.2
_  _       _
Total                                                                       8.4   11.8    0.0   14.0
Un;t C .icI   by 1000.0 - Vl o"alad b1 1000.0 S/16/lifi  14:86



- 75                                           ANNEX  7
Page 11 of 16
CITARL APWCM RWUSLIC
Socil Oimnasione of AJsuatAt a t Ouelv . Proj ct
Preojet Coe  Eati-ot
Table 9.awa to  eveI.nt (Pp_ tactioa0e of an Atioa Plan)
Deatiled Coat Tabla
CPAF
Or ekdoue Of Total, Incl.Cent.
OuaNtity              Un it Coat                   SS
92   93   94   96 TOec          92-96    f. Esxt   Local   T.     Totl
s. !wsne4T COSTS
A. National Sminae
Confae. rem                   3    0    0    0       3       26.00        0.0    0.3    0.0    0.O
Paptici. p<s5er;ja          90    0    0    0    90           6.00        0.0     1.9    0.0    1.9
*            Trnspoert      sO     0    0    0    s0         10.00        0.0    1.4    0.0       1.4
Partic. Banui:svbs. (e/d)    e0    0    0    0   00           2.00        0.0    0.1    0.0       0.5
Cue t 4e-akar  (t/d)         6    0    0    0        6       20.00        0.0    0.4    0.0    0.4
Logiat;c*                    I    0    0    0        1      400.00        0.0    1.7    0.0    1.7
Sab-TotAl                                                                  0.0    0.44    0        0.4
9. Elabor. of action ploa
Loc consult. f*a_ a/d        0    21     0    0    20        22.00        0.0    2.0    0.0    2.0
Intern. coaul. (a/0)         0    20    0    0    26         91.00       10.0    0.0    0.0   10.0
*            auXe            O    JO Obe.  0    s0    0    0    30  4420    0    G.0    0.0    *.0
*           airfao           0     1    0    0       1      700.00        3.6     0.0    0.0    8.5
Sub-Total                                                                 20 1    2.6    0.0   22.1
C. IEC/girla'eduetioa
XEC/audie wViual eqip.       0    0      1    0      1    1000.00         0.0     4.9    0.0    4.9
ZEC/didactic natepr,al       0    0      1    1    2       160.00         0.0   14.3    0.0   14.8
Sensitizati.a taure: subs    0    0           00 60  100      6.00        0.0     8.0     0.0    .$O
Tranasport allowance         0    0      1    1    2        000.00        0.0     7.6    0.0      7.0
Sub-Total                                                                  O.0   30.7      0.0 °   0.7
Total IN STUT   COSTS                                                            20.1   39.0      0.0   30.7
t. RECURRENT COSTS
A. ZECt quigamet1.
Audio-visuat 0q&0pmat        0     1    1    1    3         100.00        0.0     1.5    0.0      *.6
. Coveneon_t pareoaael
Choprg.  ciaion N.E (a/r)    I    0    0    0        1      400.00        0.0     1.6    0.0    1.0
Technician, d.E (a/a)        2    0    0    0        2       75.00        0.0     0.0    0.0    0.0
Sacatacy 4.S (E/W)           1    0    0    0        1       40.00        0.0     0.2     0.0    0.2
Techni. V. Labor (a/a)       1    0    0    0        1       75.00        0.0     0.3     0.0    0.8
IEC aemei aI,t OPF (m/u)     S     4    4    0    11         00.00        0.0     3.8    0.0    3.0
ZEC aesistant OPF (a/u)      4     3    a    0    10         60.00        0.0     2.0    0.0    2.6
Sub-Total                                                                  0.0     91   -0.0    -.1
Total RECU3VET COST                                                               0.0   10.0    0.0   10.0
- -_
TO"l                                                                         ^20.1   60.2    0.0   70.3
Unait Coats Sccled by 1000.0 - Vetwu  awal  by 1000.0  6/18/10   14:30



ANNEX 7
-  76-                                      Page 12 of 16
CSeWMAL ARIfdCA"   L Xl e   Pojast
:rojeat Cot  tasti e
Table It. Usm_   I o0svel.ot (pp"Wartlo o# fe illy cod)
oi ild Cos Tble,
CPA,
0e_ieo of teXll 1"cl.Cost.
Uuatlty                 Unit CoUt
9*    9O            26 so  Toul    92-U      FEaxc    i ol  tonea   TotlI
,....._____…
1. tWVrESTT COSTS                                                                        -----------
a. Elatseatloe P_Ceode(EFC)
Lee Ce:L9*.Eu,.t (e/d)    St    St    26         0    180       23.0         0.0   14.5    0.0   14.5
Stuip trip.ubs.(./4d)pgf    l0      0      0     0    SO        20.00       0.0    5.2    0.0    5.2
*             rieFtre        4      0      0     0      4      460.00       0.0    7.2    0.0    7.6
SIbTOtaI                                                                     0.0   27.5    0.0   27.3
6. tto onai Sm,*oe
Loistice                     0      1      0      0     1      400.00       0.0    1.6    0.0    1.O
Partic. grew. :ob. (aId)     0            0      0    so       20.00       0.0    8.4    0.0    8.4
*           Trensport        0    s6       0     0    as        10.60       0.0    1.6    0.0    1.0
P.,tle. S*1Wl euba. (s/d)     0   200      0      0   200        2.00       0.0    1.6    0.0   1.
Cst ptor  u                                            t(o/4)  0    1  0  0    1  20.00  0.0    1.4    0.0    1.4
COO. room rental             0      S      0     0      6       2t.00       0.0    0.0    0.0    0.6
Sub-Totl                                                                     0.0   10.     0.0   10.6
C. EEC  1 _lemant
Audio-vigal  eul~eant        0      1      0      0     1    20.00          0.0    9.0    0.0    0.0
Oied.titc materiele          0      0      1      1     2    1600.O          0.0            0.0   14.8
Sub-Total                                                                    0.0-   26.      0.0   18.8
D C r ssaItilueato tours
pertcipaent: perdim          0      0   600   600  1200          6.00       0.0   26.0    0.0   26.6
Trensort a lowence           0      0      1      1     2    1000.00        0.0    9.6    0.0 °.6
Sub-Tetl                                                                      0.0    U.2    0.0    W.2
Toatl EEITW11T CostS                                                                0.0   26.6    0.0    11.6
1I. RIECIWUI COSTS
A. liC  ug|mmt
Audio-vieual  ulpmat         0      0      1      1     2      100.00       0.0    1.0    0.0    1.0
S. Oevermnt pore"one
waiateat. (m/I)              4      8    10    10    80        850.00       0.0   46.0    0.0   4.6
p; r.toe DPF (a/ )           0      1      2      2     6       90.00        0.0    2.0    0.0    2.0
staff Of (i/a)       1              2      2      2     7       76.00       0.0    2.8    0.0    2.8
-EC apsallet OPV(*/*)        0      8      t     S    1s        P0.00       0.0    4.7    0.0    4.7
EUEC aguatait (a/O)          0      8      0     6    16        60.00       0.0    4.0    0.0    4.0
Sub-Tout                                                                     0.0      .6    0.0   260
Total REC1 ST COSTS                                                                 0 0     o.6   o0o .    o.0
Totel                                                                            0.0  160.4    0.0  160.4



- 77                                       ANNEX  7
Page 13 of 16
Cm'ThAL AFRICAN tW~UC
Soeoal Oiman,ione of Adju001"t & OiDlog. Project
Project Cost etimate.
Toele S. Oe_n In Developent (1natitutlONal Streqtisenll)
eti led Cost Table
erftedoen of Totale Inel.Cent.
Qunt ity                Unnit Cost                 USe
92    9J    94       6   totl       92-9      F.Each  Le&   Taxes  UotZl
I.~ ~ ~ ~~~~~~------- -iEi cos            --------~~--------   ------- - -   ------------ - -------- - -
1. INESTVMET COSTS
A. Olrctien Prmeo. fe_inin-
Light VOticla                 0      1     0      0      1      ¢631.00       21.2    0.0    0.7   80.9
Typ.rit.r(OlOctPOnic)         0      1     0      0      1       627.00        1.0    0.0    1.2    8.0
Typeariter(ftlefl ettre;ic)   0      0      1     0      1       247.50        0.7    0.0    0.6    1.2
Pk*tocopier                   0      1     0      0      1      1400.00        1.0    2.0    0.J    0.6
laxpt. consult. :fe  (0id)    70     0     0      t2  1U0         91.00       u.7    0.0    0.0   6.7
*              airfare        I     0      0      1      2       7J0.00       7.2    0.0    0.0    7.2
*      subml. (a/d)           0    90      0    so  10           44.20      80.0    0.0    O.Q   30.6
Tra;ning(.enage.) Airtore     1      0     0      0      1       220.00        1.0    0.0    0.0    1.0
Trainino subs-.(/d)          g0     0      0      0    90         10.00       7.0    0.0    0.0    7.0
Training faa                  I           0      0      1       400.00        1.7    0.0    0.0    1.7
Offic. raho6ilitstion         1      0     0      0      1      $000.400      12.9    0.0    0.?   18.6
Sub-Total                                                                     141.7    2.0   12.4   1.7
S. Training Unit
Calculatoer            0      1     0      0      1        66.00        0.2    0.0    0.1    0.8
*     Taparecorder            0      1     0      0      1        49.00       0.2    0.0    0.1    0.2
TA Lec Cono:feo (/d)          0      6     6      0    12         20.00       0.0    1.1    0.0    1.1
Stwdyp stript Sdub.(m/d)     21      0     0      0    21        1U.00         1.6    0.0    0.0    1.6
*          Trontoort          1      0     0      0      1       460.00       1.9    0.0    0.0    1.0
mobyletta                     0      1     0      0      1       800.00       0.5    0.4    0.2    1.4
Sub-Total                                                                       4.0    1.6    0.4    0.6
C. Document. a R9 reUrch. Untt
Computer PC    efts.r.        0      0      1     0      1      2416.00       11.8    0.0    0.6   11.6
Printer (Epean copet-)       0      0      1     0      1       625.00        2.6    0.0    0.1      2.6
* Stabilizer                  0     0      1      0      1      1044".7       4.,    0.0    0.2    5.1
Calculates                   0      0     2      0      2        66.00       0.4    0.0    0.8    0.0
* Office frnit.               0      1     0      0      1       100.00       0.0    0.3    0.0    0.6
Coputer urniture             0      1     0      0      1       100.00       0.0    0.5    0.0    0.11
* Aircoedltieatl              0      1     0      0      1      1160.00       8.8    0.0    2.2    5.6
Lec Cou,:Stat.ilCee   (cia)  0      4     4      4    12         22.00       0.0    1.2    0.0       1.,
Training doce. fae            0      1     0      0      1       400.00       1.6    0.0    0.0    1.6
Trainlig doc... tratnpoct     0      1     0      0      1       220.00        1.0    0.0    0.0      1.0
Training sube. (m/d)          0    s0      0      0    90        1.00        7.8    0.0    0.0    7.8
Mobylette                     0      1      1     1      J       J42.00       4.4    0.0    0.6    5.0
Sub-Total                                                                      80.5    2.2    4.0   48.0
0t. Ootntatio n Centr
E*ip: Clcuier                 0            1      0      2        0.00        0.4    0.0    0.2    0.0
office furniture           0      1     0      0      1       100.00       0.0    0.6    0.0    0.6
* Sool-blndar                 0    26    25       0    60         18.86       2.4    0.0    O.6    8.2
* Piotocopier                 0      1     0      0      1      2164.00       6.0    0.0    1.8   11.0
*  InaS card boesl            0     ti     0      0      6         5.00       0.0    0.1    0.0    0.1
a iibrary sholwe.            0      4      0      0      4       800.00       0.0     5.t    0.0      *.t
Rebilitation                  1      0     0      0      1      80.00         16.1    0.0    0.5    16.0
Trg.Ooueenteliat  Oeas       0      1     10     0      1       40.00        1.9    0.0    0.0    1.6
a~   Subeic (das)            90    90      0      0    00         16.00       7.8    0.0      0.0   t7.
a          Tr.(e)            0       1     0      0      I        MO.         1.0    0.0    0.0    1.0
Magnet.ecp.IV               0      0      1      0      1      6W.0          1.0 2   0.0    1.8    8.1
Sub-Total                                                 ~~~~~~~~~ ~~~~~~~~~~~~86.4    6.1    9.6   51.2
ei   l. Coeod. Uit.                                                                     0.0      0       .
uipmentl CalOulato            0      1     0      0..1    0.
Vuhicla (444)        ~~~0    1      0      0     1    10685.00        8.8    0.0   16.2   51.11
Trg. lp,oja4a:f4 s                   0     0      0      1       400.00        1.    0.0    0.0    1.7
C    Subao.(id)fo            I0      0     0             0        1.0          70     0.0    0.0    7.0
s Tena.                    1      0            0      1       220.00        1,0    0.0    0.0    1.0
Meb~~~lette ~~~0             1      1      0     2       8.41.00       2.9    0.0    0.4    8.8
Tasrsc.dto                    0      0      1     0      1        P7.76       0.2    0.0    0.1    0.8
T"QPGG*fd*P                                             ~~~~~~~~~~~48.8    0.0   16.6   66.1
Sub-Total
Total IIWIS1T COSTS ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~217.0  12.5  41.1 821.



7ANNEX 7
Page 14 of 16
II. AICST¢ COSTS
A. Oir. Prews*le Peini..
A.  l  sII I 0it v.o  .      0      1      1      1     8       600.00        2.S    4.4    0.0    1.4
fuel/CI floo                 0   100  1400  1400  4100            0.81       5.6    0.0    1.4    7.0
Typ..riter(el1tr ec)        a      1      1      1     a        40.00       0.2    0.4    0.0    0.6
Typariter(w. *eIctre.)       0      0      1      1     2        25.00       0.1    0.1    0.0    0.2
0%scoptot                  0      1      1      1     3        10.00       0.8    0.4    0.0    0.7
Sub-Total                                                                     0.2    5.4    1.4   16.0
. Tr;einq Unit
off;c. *mppmeliC    ttm      a      1      I     1      4       800.00       4.5    1.2    0.0    1.6
Weseten.: meb:lette          0      1      1      1     8        29.00       0.2    0.8    0.0    0.4
Cee iwIS eib08    is"   Sao                                       0.87 l.eO 9        0.0    1.4    7.2
Sub-Total                                                                    10.1    1.4    1.4   18.4
C. DO.me.et.tleo  U0t
goint.*eec.: Cepqater        1      1      1      1     4       200.00       1.5    2.8    0.0    *.8
*       p.te.Pl"W            1      1      1     1      4        60.00       0.4    0.6    0.0    1.0
*       StebiI I I           1      1      1     1      4        00.00       0.6    0.2    0.0    1.2
*       A;reeditio           1      1      1     1      4       100.00       0.8    1.2    0.0    1.9
Office Sieplies              1      1      1      1     4       850.00       5.4    1.8    0.0    6.7
C ePacr eqll                 1      1      1      1     4       210.00       1.6    1.0    0.0    4.0
pubilectio  taist.            1     1      I      t     4       1l0.00       0.0    2.       0.0    2.°0
webylette                    0      8      8      8     *        29.00       0.$    0.       0.0    1.81
Geeeiiu  for lIsylett        0  1260  1800  18O   810             0.57       5.6    0.0    1.4    7.2
Sub-Tetl                                                                      16.1   10.2    1.4   80.0
0. Doumentation Center0.                                                                            0      .
kiUte"a"*e: Pphetepler       0      1      1      1     a       100.00       0.6    0.0    0.0    1.
Office _"pI1_seAe            1      1      1      1     4       800.00       4.5    1.2    0.0    1.6
Purcbee  of dde_arns          1     1      1      1     4       800.00       0.0    5.6    0.0    t.-
WaI,te. _.gteet..TF          1      1      1      1     4        00.00       0.5    O.T    0.0    1.2
Sub-Total                                                                     6.7    5.0    0.0   14.2
E. Supervw./Eval.Ceoed. Unit
office SuplisCe"             1      1      1      1     4       260.00       4.0    1.0    0.0    *.0
u-i1ue. Vehicle (4.4)        0      1      1     1      8       tiO.00       4.7    7.1    0.0   11.6
t*el/ae.lis                1960  2000  20    2100  6100           0.24       0.0    5.a    8.1    0.4
Let.tripe: Subs. Ma"pre      0    s0 o          90   860          6.00       0.0    7.6    0.0    7.9
*     SSub. driver          60    00    90    i0   860            2.00       0.0    8.1    0.0    8.1
7i"ette:malst.sence          0      1      2     2      5        29.00       0.8    0.4    0.0    0.7
Creolin for MobylOtte        0   1260  180  l80   olo10          0.40       5.t    0.0    1.3    7.7
Sub-Totl                                                                     14.3   25.0    5.0   46.5
F,  ovenamet  remosel
Olr eete 0P  ( /-)          9      6      6     t    27         00.00       0.0   10.t    0.0   10.5
Driver (a/t)                 9      6      6     6    27         80.00       0.0    S.       0.0    8.5
Secrewries(0/8)              9      0      6     6    27         40.00       0.0    4.7    0.0    4.7
Chl*f.Ooc~.URlt(w/*)         a      6      6     a    is         f0.O0       0.0    7.4    0.0    7.4
Secrtry (ate)                8      6      6     6    21         40.00       0.0    8.7    0.0    8.7
Chief Tein;aig Ulit(a/h)     4      7      I      7    2i        60.00       0.0    6.t    0.0    1.1
Chief Treiniog Csse(*/*      4      7      7     7    21         70.00       0.0    7.7    0.0    7.7
Chief Docum.Ceater (s/a)     10    10    10    10    40          60.00       0.0   14.0    0.0   14.0
Chief Mm. fvol. Cooed.       2      a      8     a    I1         60.00       0.0    8.0    0.0    8.0
Sw.qery We/a)                2      a      a     8    11         40.00       0.o    1.9    0.0    1.0
Driver (a/a)                 2      S      *     i    11         t0.00       0.0    1.6    0.0    1.5
$-Totl                                                                        0.0    7.6      0     67.6
Total AICURt13    COSTS                                                             59.8  116.0    0.8  1U7.1
ote)l                                                                           8.2  181.5   51.4  510.1
Unit Cooe Scald by 1000.0 - VIi_ selad by 1000.0 6/16/1001  10:86



- 79 -
ANNEX 7
Page 15 of 16
WIIUAL APSICaN WLC
Soslal so._loos. of Adjutmoo a hvle*. Pr.J..t
Tabl 10.NIceg f04.Jec Cat Sutleete
tsbi* 10. His-Inw ot ww Tcaolawg Pr   *for Primary Scbeol Toro_a
ostl led Cot Table
CFPA
Sre'55d8o of Total. Zncl.Ct.
1.tltt               Wilt Co"U
a 9         l   Os Tota       6_4      P.gxcl  Loal  Tax..  Total
t. DWE_VIT Cult
A. Proem   lv.lloa(P)aal)
Et_. Co_It few (add)    0   is    0    0   1a            1.00       6.1    0.0    0.0    6.1
*           Alrfare        0    1    0    0    1        6.00        8.5    0.0    0.0    85
*         Subs$W.(m/d)    0   21    0    0   21         44.10       4.2    0.0    0.0    4.2
Sob-Total                                                           18.6    0.0    0.0  18.6
B. Pe". Evut. by tranl..
t*_er;t a11t o1ai          I    0    0    0    1    800.00          0.0   16.9    0.0   10.9
liaorials                  1    0    0    0    1    20.00           0.0   11.2    0.0   11.2
Sat-Total                                                            0.0   26.      0.0   26.1
C. valuaollen of trals..       1    0    0    0    1       ,180.00      0.0    5.6    0.0    5.0
0. Usbtp
castrl                     I    0    C    0    1       20.00        0.0    1.2    0.0    1.2
_. 1 1millsd               I    0    0    0    1        60.00       0.0    0.6    0.0    0.8
Cestrof m)                 I    0    0    0    1        70.00       0.0    1.2    0.0    1.2
_osatroltami (1PU)         I    0    0    0    1        60.00       0.0    0.8    0.0    0.8
S~-T.tt                                10.0    8.0    0.0    8.0
Tota DRS_IUT  COSTS                                                       U.6   86.6    0.0   6O.6
iI. Ulcal COST
A. Offito u IISlonU  .)         I    0    0    0    2       180.00       0.5    0.6    0.0    1.4
S. Csstatsl T _adws
$alarl.s/subsia. (tos.)    2tO    0    0    0  2tO     410.00       0.0  498.8    0.0  498.8
Salary/_a1t.   U)        10     a    6    0  860       460.00       0.0  498.8    0.0  404.8
Sub-TOMal                                                            0.0 °66.6    0.0  66.6
C. Tesbse talasr(ha)           10    0    0    0   10       no.00        0.0   2.7    0.0   ".7
Totel MaUEAW COST                                                          0.5  1010.1    0.0 1016.6
Total                                                                   14.4 101.6   0.0  10.2
u1ni Costs sealed kw 10.0 - Values scled y 100.0  1/8/161O  16a5



- 80 -                                                   ANNEX 7
CM.         O                               Pc Page  16 of 16
1SI66ioa  of AdJUStau% A 0*0.Ioe. Pr.ect
Project Ct   i1-
Ta1b   . Pr.jet VW          umit
Do" I I 4 Cot t.b.
CFO
Sr4eskdsu of met.l zecl.ce.t
_ity~~~~U I" t CeX                        usti
____________________'___=                                       ,S'
1. NVUSIW  COST      …………
A.  glimt.             9116r ti
Commsee * saft"re           I    a    0    0    1    264o.0           12.7    0.0    0.6   13.5
PtIb  w                     1    0    0    0    1        54.00         2.4    0.0    0.1    2.1
st4b{i  I0                                  0    1       611.00       2.3    0.0    0.1    2.9
photeceplar                 I    0    0    0    1    286.20            6.0    0.0    4.6   10.6
Colecvltor Co .telr)       1    0    0    0    1         62.60       0.2    0.0    0.1    0.4
T199FiteW                   1    0    0    0    1        700.10        1.9    0.0    1.8    8.2
Off. fureIt.: veskchair,    4    0    0    0    4        100.00       0.0    1.6    0.0    1.O
*     cabln"       1    0    0    0    1          5.00       0.0    0.4    0.0    0.4
*       SblooIwe            I    0    0    0    1         65.00       0.0    0.4    0.0    0.4
C    _mpute, furniture      I    0    0    0    1        1CO.00        0.0    0.6    0.0    0.5
toos                        2    0    0    o    2         46.2        0.8    0.0    0.1    0.4
Tolephon                    1    0    0    0    1        276.41        0.6    0.0    0.4   I.
Aircoeditit.                2    0    0    0    2        781.50        4.     0.0    2.8    6.6
Sob-To"i                                           .~.-3 -W.-
S.                                                                       81.6    8.0   10.0   44.5
ight Vehicle                I    0    0    0    1    6101.00          20.4    0.0    0.8   26.7
C. £exptriate Co"toulte
Few (a/d)                  26   26   26   26  104         91.00       4J.5    0.0    0.0   48.5
Subsistenc  (m/d)          20   26   26   26  104         4420        21.1    0.0    0.0   21.1
AIrfar                      I    I    I    1    4        760.00       14.8    0.0    0.0   14.8
sw~~~~-Twta 1 ~~~~~~~76.9    0.0    0.0   76.9
0. Locl Conbsltant(efs)          I    I    1    1    4        75.00        0.0   18.6    0.0   186S
E. Project Auditing              1    1    1    1    4    1600.00         71.      0.0     0 0    7 1.
ToeI NBESTWIT coSTS                                                         202.4    6.    t9.8  286.6
U. aOUWr COSTS
A. tEqipmnt Usiatence
Computer                    1    1    1    1    4        261.00       4       1.1    0.0    1.4
Pri"t r                     1                1    4       52.00       0.S    0.2    0.0    1.0
Stabilier                   1    *    l    1    4         62.00        1.0    0.2    0.0    1.2
Photocoier                  1    1    1    1    4        .90.00        2.8    0.7    0.0    8.1
Tymritar                    1    1    1    1    4         '8.00       0.7    0.2    0.0    0.6
Other office equip st       I    I    I    1    4         29.00       0.2    0.8    0.0    0.6
Office supples              1    1    1    1    *        250.00        1.9    2.9    0.0    4.6
Sub-Taotl                                                               17     66      001-7.8 
6. Vehicle mglnteencem
Lidht wotle                 1    1    1            4     468.00               1.9    0.0    0.4
C. Fu.l/0eol e"
Ligh tVf1                                          4     62ti00        O      0.0    2.4    1.0
0. 0th.0. Oo. A Minta
Ilcterictty                 1    1    1    1       4    1060.00        0.0 I20.       0.0   20.6
Water         1    1    1    1    4        8~~~~~~~~~~00.00  0.0    5.6    0.0    5.6
Cm;eicCtiflS  Telephope    1  tt  t             l  4O  40.00           0.0    9.2    0.0    9.2
otae1  1 4 240.00  0.0    4.6    0.0    4.6
Sub-Tote I                                           ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~0.0   40.4    0.0   40.4
S&b-TeXtj__ 
E. iR.ctor P(s/rn)            1    12     4    0   26       500.00       0.0   59.8    0.0   59.8
AitatDirector     (rna)       12 1                 6      200          0.0   28.7    0.0   28.7
Assist atol merry(e/m)     12   12    4           2       150.00       0.0   17.6              .
ADrive  (a/a)WY  (010)     12   12    4    0   26          50.00       0.0    5.9    0.0    5.9
Sub-Total                                                               0.0  106.5    0.0  106.6
Tota NICUI. COSTS26.6  16.                                                                  .4  166.9
Total                                                  ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~281.2  171.5   21.7  424.4
Unit Costs Scled by 1000.0   vaWolvesscled by 1000.061691146



CENTRAL AFRICAN REPUBLIC
SOCIAL DIMENSIONS OF ADJUSTMENT AND DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
ESTIMATED GOVERNMENT CASH FLOW
(USS millions equivalent)
1991  199   199   1994  1996  1991 1907  19    19   2000  2001
OUTFLOW                                 ---
Projet
Social Policy & Planning        0.9   1.6   1.8   1.1   0.0   0.1   0.1   0.1   0.1   0.1   0.1
Wme  in oIn   logawt            0.1   0.2   0.2   0.2   0.1   0.0   0.0   0.0   0.0   0.0   0.0
Teacher Training                0.5   0.6   0.0   0.0   0.0   0.0   0.0   0.0   0.0   0.0   0.0
Project Management              0.1   0.1   0.1   0.1   0.0   0.0   0.0   0.0   0.0   0.0   0.0
(I1e salaries of current staff)  (0.8) (0.3) (0.1) (0.1) (0.0)  0.0   0.0   0.0   0.0   0.0   0.0
(low tese)                     (0.1) (0.2) (0.1) (0.1) (0.0)  0.0   0.0   0.0   0.0   0.0   0.0
Total*                          1.2   2.0   1.4   1.1   0.6   0.1   0.1   0.1   0.1   0.1   0.1                       o
Servlcing of IDA Credit         0.0   0.0   0.0   0.0   0.0   0.1   0.1   0.1   0.1   0.1   0.1
TOTAL OUTFLOW                   1.2   2.0   1.4   1.2   0.7   0.2   0.2   0.2   0.2   0.2   0.2
DWLOU
tIA Credit                     0.6   1.2   1.8   1.2   1.1   1.0   0.6   0.0   0.0   0.0   0.0
INcEMBITAL COSTS               0.7   0.9   0.1   0.0  (0.4) (0.8) (0.8)  0.2   0.2   0.2   0.2
o m
v ox



- 82 -
ANNEX 9
Page 1 of 1
CENTRAL AFRICAN REPUBLIC
SOCIAL DIMENSIONS OF ADJUSTMENT AND DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
TIMETABLE OF KEY PROJECT EVENTS
Identification mission               November 1989
Preparation mission                  March 1990
Appraisal mission                    July 1990
Post-Appraisal mission               February 1991
Negotiations                         May 1991
Board presentation                   June 1991
Planned date of effectiveness        September 1991



- 83 -
ANNEX 10
Page 1 of 1
CENTRAL AFRICAN REPUBLIC
SOCIAL DIMENSIONS OF ADJUSTMENT AND DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
DOCUMENTS IN THE PROJECT FILE
1.    "Poverty Alleviation in Central African Republic, Coatmtry Assessment Paper
and Policy Issues' (SDA - Country Assessment Paper).
2.    Plani-Stats,  Societe  d'Etudes  Economiques  et  Statistiques  'Building
Statistical System in Central African Republic'. November 1990.
3.    Presentation du Fichier National des Villages (FINAVI).
4.    Secretariat  d'Etat  au  Plan.  aux  Statistiques  et  &  la  Cooperation
Internationale 'Lettre Mensuelle de la Statistique' November 1990.
S.    Minist6re de l'Economie,  des Finances, du Plan et de la Cooperation
Intermationale (Central African Republic) 'Bulletin Trimestriel de la
Statistique*, February 1991.
6.    Ministbre de l'Economie,  des Finances, du Plan et de la Cooperation
Internationale (Central African Republic) 'Annuaire Statistique 1989',
October 1990.
7.    Decret No. 89.146, 'Portant Organisation du Secretariat de l'Etat au Plan,
aux Statistiques et & la Cooperation Internationale et fixant lee
Attributions du Secretaire d'Etat".
8.    Secretariat d'Etat charge du Plan, de la Statistique et de la Cooperation
Internationale 'Programme de Travail'. Central African Republic 1990-91.
9.    "kecensement GEnEral de la Population'.  Central African Republic 1988.
10.   Ministere de l'Economie, des Finances, du Plan, et de la Cooperation
Internationale, Division des Statistiques & des Etudes Economiques 'Etude
sur le Secteur Informel".
11.   Universit6,   Paris  V.  Rene  Descartes,   Sciences  Humaines-Sorbonne
(Koulaninga Abel) 'L'Education Chez les Pygmees de Centrafrique'.



NIGER                                                                                                                                   24-
'o* _   r--S, /    -                                             -A F RIC A                                                                                CENTRAL AFRICAN REPUBUC
C H A D               S U  A N                                                                                                      REPUBLUE CENTRRICAINE
N I rG e R I A                                                                                                             IRAO         %           zr i. ..  <$ f  g  ..... °i<S '\SOCIAL DIMENSIONS OF ADJUSTMENT
('I,               /< \_v Bt                                                             a J                                              AND DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
N~~~~~~~~
*                                                \                                                          .              _      < < . ) 0 / <  ,   't fl \ .... \ PROJET DES DIMENSIONS SOCIALES DE
/-92      JA         CENTRAL                                                J                                                               L'AJUSTEMENT ET DU DEVELOPPEMENT
) CAMERON  5.       AFRICAN REPUBLIC c
-r - ,|                              A    fZAIRE                                                                                            - - - 0k kOCOS f  -0Nk!t
OF                                                                                                                                               Mrk  kk/
CONGO                           I            -GAN.A     V                             (V                                                             NrWkOT.OAOL M5T
8~~~~1                                                                             \.                                                                            C*1H \ A  D  _.i 0 EV  S  ')482 --ear5c5We5  WrVrru5a
-~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~  I.  N~ ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~f Roboi                                -9c1
CAMEROON    /.                          MrPQoflOO                                                                                                           '1
l Ov                 =          04            9        <         X   2    X    '5  U D A N
OU HAUTR
*OSSANGOA   Boe                                                                                                         u    
3           SOZOUM   *.             s     ~     .o 3'
IBU                                                                                                  .2~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~1.
BOU                                                                                                                                     jerk.,              -b..~~-b
'  °'° j  PEOPLE'S  REP                                           20~~~~~~~~~~~~~~0 250 30
C AMEROON   s  /~ff5 OF/ TH   OG                                                              IOtES'            '       '         sN4~fii5d^U>
2~ ~~~~              j     --                                         o           so-oo20rrelursglSrow                                                          r"         r.
.0%MPKO ~                           Ovfl                  A'V.i0    ogloITO 
BOAU~~~~~K,
IV G2MNGUI
BERBERAT  (                                                                            BARdat
4.                                                                                                                                                                                          V
PEOPLE'S REPi0                                 50     100    750    200    250    300
CAMEROON            'b /    OF THE  CONGO                                                    KILOMTERS                                     715,00)0*- OO W"          0
F-sc  C00,-050  'WV .t,natj  f te Lk Ie Owdlne eton(I-W   do 
/   ~~~~~051                           100         ISO          200             V* of0oa0 W W." -"t 00000100M005F- RcoWMIO5*-W xow,l
a /~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~= MIlEaS 0,4
lEA /                                      ~~~~~~~~~~~~~20'                                           24-



